05-06-2021||Other||Take doctors off administrative duties, deploy MBAs instead, says Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that doctors in the state should be posted only on medical duty and not for administrative or management tasks.Instead, youths with MBA (management education) degrees should be given the opportunity for these management/administrative jobs, he said at a Covid review meeting here.He also said the state would need more vaccinators as the government planned to enhance vaccination by two to three-folds in July.He announced that partial corona curfew would be eased in Bulandshahr and Bareilly as well from Monday as the number of active Covid cases in these two districts, too, had dipped below 600 each. With this, the number of districts where corona curfew has been eased has gone up to 67. The state has 75 districts.About administrative work, he said, “Doctors must immediately be relieved of administrative or management tasks in hospitals and offices of the health department and deployed for medical work. For management work, according to the requirement, youths with MBA should be given the opportunity.”As for vaccination, he said, “The target of June is to vaccinate one crore people and we are looking to enhance it by two to three-folds in July. Students at nursing colleges must be trained as vaccinators. Begin the training programme from the next week.”“The (active) cases have gone below 600 in Bareilly and Bulandshahr. From Monday, curfew will be relaxed there too after the ongoing weekend curfew (Saturday-Sunday) ends,” Yogi said.He added that night curfew and weekend curfew should be enforced strictly and evenly statewide.About Covid numbers, Yogi said that the state currently had 19,438 active cases and the recovery rate was 97.6%. In the past 24 hours, a total of 1,092 fresh Covid cases were recorded across UP. He announced that the state so far had administered 1.98 crore Covid vaccine doses. In the past 24 hours, 4.01 lakh doses were administered. From Monday separate booths for women, too, will be operated, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/take-doctors-off-administrative-duties-deploy-mbas-instead-says-yogi-adityanath-101622916745210.html
05-06-2021||Noida||Recruitment exam racket: Two more held in Noida||Noida: Two men associated with a gang providing scribes for writing government competitive examinations in place of real candidates were arrested on Saturday. With this, 15 members of the gang have been arrested since November last year when the recruitment exam racket was busted, police said. The suspects were identified as Ankit and Shourya Sharma, both residents of Faridabad. The duo was nabbed from Sector 62 following a tip-off, police said. On November 28 last year, nine people, including two Delhi Police constables, had been nabbed by the Noida police for running the gang. The racket had been busted after an exam centre in Noida’s Sector 62 had informed police about the fraud. Four members of the gang were nabbed later while the alleged mastermind, Ravi Kumar, an inspector with the income tax department, had obtained a stay order from court for his arrest. His nephew, Dinesh, was also arrested in the case. The gang would charge their clients lakhs of rupees to have impersonators appear for exams, police said.Police officials said that when Dinesh wanted to alter documents to get one of the scribes in the exam hall, he had Ankit forge and print them. Meanwhile, Shourya was introduced to Dinesh through Ravi and he was responsible for introducing any potential candidate to the gang. “It was a huge operation. There are at least four other members of the gang who have been identified, and efforts are on to nab them,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1. The suspects were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the UP Public Examinations (Prevention of Unfair Means) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/recruitment-exam-racket-two-more-held-in-noida-101622916685172.html
05-06-2021||Noida||Thunderstorm, light rains likely in Noida||Noida: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast thunderstorms accompanied with strong winds up to 40 to 50 kilometre per hour (kmph) over the next 24 to 48 hours during the evenings in the Noida and Greater Noida area. The daytime temperatures, however, will likely remain warm.According to weather analysts, the phenomenon of thunderstorm activity during pre-monsoon or summer season usually happens during this time of the year where the high mercury simmers the region during afternoon hours but by evening, it quickly cools the area down with light rain showers or cool breezes of easterly winds.Weather experts said it’s the high daytime temperatures itself which cause light rains, leading to pleasant weather later in the day.“The day temperature will remain high and may cross the 40 degrees Celsius mark, but during the evening, this will cool down quickly, possibly for the next two days. The reason is that the higher temperatures meet the moist, pre-monsoon winds, leading to formation of temporary convective clouds. There is a western disturbance too these days, and the cumulative effect leads to thunderstorm and light rain activity. This is a weather phenomenon that happens over smaller regions of around 200 square kms,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. A western disturbance is a moisture-laden wind that originates from the Mediterranean Sea, which is responsible for snow in the northern Indian states.“Going by the radar images, there are convective clouds over the Noida and Greater Noida area, which could lead to light rains over this region, accompanied with strong winds during the evening hours,” Srivastava added. Noida received an average rainfall of 1.5mm between Thursday night and Friday morning. On Friday, Noida’s maximum and minimum temperature was recorded at 38.8 °C and 23.7 °C, respectively, against 38.2 °C and 27.8 °C a day earlier. At the Safdarjung observatory, considered the average for the region, the maximum and minimum temperature was recorded at 39.1 °C and 23.4 °C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/thunderstorm-light-rains-likely-in-noida-101622916625808.html
05-06-2021||Noida||Family alleges dacoity in Greater Noida home; cops doubt claim||Greater Noida: A Greater Noida family has alleged that a group of armed men barged into their home in the early hours of Saturday and looted them at gunpoint in Kheda Mohamdabad Rabupura village. The police, however, said they were doubtful of their claims.The suspects fled with cash and valuables worth over ₹13 lakh, the family alleged.The complainant, Megh Singh, a farmer, alleged that he and his wife and two children – aged 12 and nine years – were sleeping when eight criminals attacked them around 1am on Saturday. “Some of the criminals stood guard while three of them held us at gunpoint. They demanded the keys to the safe. When we refused, they tied our hands and legs and bundled us in a room, where they held us at gunpoint. They broke the safe and stole gold and silver jewellery worth ₹13 lakh,” he alleged. The suspects also fled with ₹25,000 cash, he added. Police officers, meanwhile, said they were informed five hours after the incident. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said while the alleged incident took place at 1am, the family gave them a call at 6am. “The police team, forensic experts and a dog squad reached the spot for investigation. We questioned the family and found some discrepancies in their statements. They had no injury marks on their hands or bodies. Besides, the forensic team found a countrymade gun and ten live cartridges from the same safe. We are investigating the matter to see if this was a case of dacoity or theft. Two teams have been formed to solve the case,” he said. A case has been registered against unknown persons under Section 392 (robbery) of IPC at the Rabupura police station, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/family-alleges-dacoity-in-greater-noida-home-cops-doubt-claim-101622916625180.html
05-06-2021||Noida||Active cases decline in Ghaziabad, relaxation soon from partial curfew||Ghaziabad: The number of active Covid-19 cases fell below the 600-mark in Ghaziabad district on Saturday, as per realtime figures of the state Covid portal. Officials said that the partial curfew may be lifted from Monday if the district continues to have less than 600 active cases on Sunday. According to the state Covid portal, the active cases for Ghaziabad stood at 573 till 9pm on Saturday, while the neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar district had 623 such cases. As per UP government’s directions issued on May 30, a district needs below 600 active cases for getting relaxations from the partial corona curfew which is in prevalence from the night of April 30. “The number of active cases on the portal has come down below 600 and it is likely that cases will further decline. So, ongoing restrictions may ease down soon. But people will have to observe strict adherence to Covid protocols,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The officials of GB Nagar district administration said that they have chalked out a plan once the restrictions get lifted. “With the figure of active cases going down, we expect that restrictions will be eased from Monday onwards. We have planned that markets will open up from 7am to 7pm. The industries and business establishments will follow all Covid protocols, while the educational institutions will remain closed. We have also decided that clubs, swimming pools and gyms will remain closed,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. The state portal shows the realtime figures of new cases, discharges, deaths, and accordingly the number of active cases. It shows dynamic figures which may change as per entry of fresh cases as well as deaths and discharges, the officials said. The figures from 6am today to 6am the next day are compiled and reflected in the state Covid bulletin of the next day. According to the state daily bulletin released on Saturday, Ghaziabad has 631 active cases while GB Nagar has 610 active cases. Meanwhile, the Ghaziabad CMO said that with constant decline in cases, the occupancy of beds in various hospitals has also declined considerably. According to figures of the district health department, the overall bed occupancy on May 1 was 2,725 out of total 3,262 Covid beds in the district. The occupancy figure was 100% for all the 759 ICU beds on May 1. However, the latest figures of June 4 show that the only 840 beds (about 24.64% of total beds) were occupied, registering a decline of 59% since May 1. Likewise, the overall ICU bed occupancy also declined to 34% with 267 of 785 ICU beds occupied in the district. “The overall bed availability has improved considerably, considering decline in active cases. With cases declining fast, it is expected that partial curfew will be lifted soon. But, when it opens, it is time for utmost precautions. So, effective enforcement is must,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/active-cases-decline-in-ghaziabad-relaxation-soon-from-partial-curfew-101622916505060.html
05-06-2021||Noida||As Ghaziabad plans paediatric ICUs, staff shortage looms large||Ghaziabad: Amid the efforts to set up paediatric intensive care units (PICUs) at different health-care facilities by June 20, the district health officials said that they are facing a shortage of specialist doctors and paramedical staff to operate the children’s wards. The health department has planned for about 300 PICU beds across the district, the officials said. While 10 PICU beds have come up at the Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital, another 50-bed dedicated facility for children will come up at a private hospital on the Delhi-Meerut Road. “We have set up a 10-bed PICU facility at our hospital. But we face a shortage of specialists. We have two paediatricians while a demand has been raised for three more. We have also asked the district chief medical officer for one technician and three nurses for the operation of the PICU,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar hospital. As per the recent directions of the UP government, ICUs should come up for children by June 20 to deal with any likely third wave of Covid-19. The government officials have estimated that a 10-bed PICU requires a team of 34 staff members, including paediatricians, nurses, physiotherapists and technicians. The officials of the district health department said that they tried to hire some staff on contractual basis but only few candidates arrived for an interview. “For the Sanjay Nagar hospital, we have also raised a demand for 12 OT technicians and three critical care technicians for the PICU ward. We have written to the National Health Mission (UP) about our requirements,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. “We have put on hold the creation of 20 PICU beds at District Women’ Hospital for now, while a gap analysis has been done for the proposed 50-bed paediatric facility at a private hospital on the Delhi-Meerut Road and the requirements sent to NHM (UP),” said Gupta. The gap analysis for the Delhi-Meerut Road facility was conducted on various parameters, including equipment, manpower and requirement of consumables, among others. The health department plans to acquire the private hospital, which will be operated as the city’s first dedicated child hospital,” the officials said. The analysis has found that the hospital requires at least two anaesthetists and 18 trained ICU nurses, besides equipment like oxygen cylinders, high-flow nasal cannula, BiPap machines and universal ventilators. According to the officials, 30 PICU beds, along with 50 isolation beds for children, are also complete at the government-acquired Santosh Medical College. “Besides, 20 more PICU beds are proposed at Santosh Medical College. So, the tally at the medical college will be 100 as directed by the government,” the CMO said.  Gupta also said that we have asked some private hospitals to reserve 10% of their beds for children.The UP government has already directed that at least 100 PICU/NICU (new-natal ICU) beds should come up at all medical colleges and another set of 25-30 PICU/NICU beds are to be created at district hospitals. Experts said that initiating PICUs is not a simple job as it requires roping in specialists, highly trained staff, variety of equipment and consumables. “The IMA is also waiting for certain modules from the UP government about the PICUs, and thereafter we will help government staff get training. About converting the 50-bed hospital at Meerut Road into a paediatric hospital, we estimate that considering all requirements, it will take another couple of months for making it operational,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/as-ghaziabad-plans-paediatric-icus-staff-shortage-looms-large-101622916445067.html
05-06-2021||Other||Medical exams: Students must submit Covid negative report before exams, says HC||The Bombay high court (HC) on Saturday gave a nod to conduct an offline examination of medical students in the state, slated from June 10. However, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay HC has also directed the Maharashtra University of Health Science (MUHS) to issue advisory asking medical students to produce an RT-PCR negative report along with their hall ticket at the examination centre on June 10. The court further said that before their subsequent paper (on June 15) students be asked to submit a negative rapid antigen test report. Responding to a PIL filed by HERD Educational and Medical Research Foundation, a Nagpur-based NGO and a physiotherapy student Nitesh Dhanraj Tantarpale, justice Avinash Gharote said that if the report is found positive, the examinee would not be allowed to write the paper. The single-judge bench, however, refused to give any interim relief and stay to MUHS’s winter 2020 (offline) examination for undergraduate students. The PIL sought online examinations or vaccination for nearly 40,000 undergraduates before giving the semester exams spread across 20 days and 173 centres. After the court order, the petitioner’s advocate Rahul Bhangde submitted that the students should be tested before the examination. Appearing for MUHS, Advocate Abhijit Deshpande argued that due to paucity of time, they wouldn’t be able to carry out the exercise of informing students. As an option, he suggested an upper limit for students to get the test done independently. Earlier, the MUHS strongly opposed the petition claiming that physical examinations were conducted last year as well. Deshpande pointed out that students were informed well in advance about offline tests. Two phases of the Winter-2020 examination are already complete, and the third phase will begin on June 10. Even the question papers have been dispatched to 173 examination centres and standard operating procedure (SOP) to sanitise the examination centres have been prepared and sent to all stakeholders. Questioning the locus of the petitioners, MUHS counsel also stated that only one student had come forward for the court’s intervention and wondered as to how medical students afraid of Covid-19 would treat patients. The HC also observed that there was a shortage of vaccines and questioned the fate of citizens if the would-be doctors were afraid of disease. The bench also favoured those students who should get their tests done and ordered RT-PCR negative report as a condition precedent to appear for the June 10 examination. The matter will now be heard by the regular division bench on June 14. Some students happy, others disappointedWhile students who wanted the exams to be conducted without any further postponement are happy with the court’s decision, several others took to social media platforms to share their displeasure.“RT-PCR test before the first paper is good, but what if a student contracts the virus after the exam begins? If a student manages to complete two out of the total papers, will they have to reappear for all exams again? Or will there be any different rules? The government needs to clarify all such issues,” said Brijesh Sutaria, parent of a medical student.Several student groups, including the Maharashtra Students Welfare Association, were hoping for offline exams this year, but the court’s decision has led to disappointment. “Colleges are assuring that social distancing will be maintained in exam halls, but what about hostels? Most of us will end up sharing rooms with three other students, making it easier for the virus to spread,” said a student.Usually scheduled to take place in the month of December-January, the second and third-year MBBS, BDS, and other paramedical and certificate course exams were postponed thrice this year due to rising Covid-19 cases recorded across the state. From January this year, to February the exams were then scheduled to take place in April. However, due to the second wave of Covid-19 gripping the nation, these exams were once again postponed to finally take place in physical mode between June 10 and 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-exams-students-must-submit-covid-negative-report-before-exams-says-hc-101622915544945.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Insurance firm employee siphons off ₹8cr, booked||The Marine Drive police have booked an assistant manager of leading public sector general insurer, United India Insurance Company Limited, for allegedly siphoning off ₹8.09 crore from the company’s accounts. The accused purportedly diverted the money into his seven personal accounts with the help of other accomplices.The accused, Khushel Singh, was posted at the Churchgate office of the insurance company and was looking after accounting in the corporate cell. As per the complaint submitted by Jaideep S Sinha, 56, deputy general manager at the company, on May 21, the company’s principal office in Chennai received a communication from a private bank’s Mumbai office informing them about irregularities linked to their current account.When the complainant’s company carried out a preliminary inquiry into the irregularities, it was found that assistant manager Singh had diverted some funds from the company’s account to around seven bank accounts held by him in a personal capacity. Inquiry revealed that between November 13, 2020, to April 23, 2021, the accused had in all siphoned off ₹80,998,795 in 21 unauthorised transactions. The money was diverted to Singh’s seven accounts in Mumbai and Jaipur, states the first information report (FIR).The inquiry has also revealed that Singh has also diverted funds to some other individuals. Details of these people are being obtained, said a police officer. The police have booked Singh under sections 409 (Criminal breach of trust by a public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.“If money is found in the said accounts of Singh, they would be frozen and later the funds would be shown as recovery in the case. We are also checking how Singh managed to dodge the audit system of the company ensuring unauthorised transactions go undetected,” said an officer from Marine Drive police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-insurance-firm-employee-siphons-off-8cr-booked-101622915365607.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Mangrove cell to move Bombay HC for removal of excess mangroves in Thane Creek||Officials in the state forest department’s mangrove cell are currently drafting a writ petition, to be submitted to the Bombay high court (HC) in the next week or so, seeking permission for removal of excess mangrove trees in Thane Creek within the boundary of the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary (TCFS).Though officials did not specify the exact area affected by new mangrove growth or the number of trees that need removal, they said that only those mangroves that have come up after 2015 — when TCFS was declared a protected area under the Indian Wildlife Act — will be removed.There are at least 12 different species of mangroves and mangrove associates found in the Thane Creek, but most of the “excess” growth is that of one dominant species — Avicenna marina — which could pose a threat to the overall biodiversity. However, the removed saplings will be replanted elsewhere after being sent to a nursery.“Removal of the excess mangroves is necessary to ensure that there is room enough for flamingos and other wader birds within the sanctuary. Monitoring and management of mangroves is also a tenet under the management plan that we have prepared for TCFS. We have yet to work out the area affected, but if the court asks then of course it will be provided. The petition should be filed soon,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forest (mangrove cell).Stalin D, director of NGO Vanashakti, said such a step is imperative. “The overgrowth should be removed at the earliest. It has taken a lot of effort to get the sanctuary declared in the first place, and if we want to the keep the environment conducive for flamingos and other wader birds, we need to manage it effectively. Growth of excess mangroves also impacts fishermen and the navigability of the channel.”According to a 2005 HC order issued in response to a petition filed by the Bombay Environment Action Group (BEAG) in 2004, all construction and removal of mangrove areas require permission from HC directly, and multiple user agencies (including MMRDA, maritime board, fisheries department, among others) have from time to time filed writ petitions to execute various projects.However, Debi Goenka, former member of BEAG, and second appellant in the 2004 petition leading to HC’s orders, disagreed with these developments. “The Mangrove Foundation was set up to protect mangroves. Surely, the priority should be to stop the flow of silt and desilting, and not cutting mangroves that have grown on the mud flats. Indiscriminate quarrying in Navi Mumbai and construction activities in the catchment area of Thane creek are the real issues, as are the constantly expanding waste dumps in Bhandup, Deonar and Kanjurmarg. It may also behoove the mangrove foundation to examine how the tidal flows into Thane creek have been impacted by construction activities, which could help plan better management steps than simply removing mangroves which in turn support their own ecosystems.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mangrove-cell-to-move-bombay-hc-for-removal-of-excess-mangroves-in-thane-creek-101622915364905.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||New tech of inflatable hangars poised to take off in Indian aircraft maintenance industry||In February, just before the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, India’s infrastructure major GMR Group announced setting up of Asia’s first inflatable hangar at its Hyderabad airport, bringing a new dimension to aircraft and engine maintenance and repair in the country. The introduction of this cost-effective technology, which is in use by some aviation companies in Europe and Middle East Gulf, assumes importance given that India is set to expand both its aircraft fleet and aviation infrastructure with hundreds of airports over the next few years. Some of which will require aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) as well.The government has, over the past four years, made various announcements to construct or revive around 150 airports, including some airstrips in the country. Also, amid the government’s efforts to make the country an MRO hub, new ventures have also been reportedly announced by multiple players including Boeing, Airbus, Hindustan Aeronautics and Pratt & Whitney for setting up repair facilities in India.According to aviation industry estimates, hangars, which are used to protect the aircraft from bad weather and direct sunlight during MRO processes, are an important part of India’s USD 1.7 billion MRO business. However, it takes a considerable amount of time to source an available hangar to undertake unscheduled repairs. On the contrary, an inflatable hangar is cost-effective, reduces downtime and cost as compared to building a conventional hangar, while at the same time catering to all the functionality, safety features and structural stability of the conventional hangar.Inflatable hangar is formed by low pressure tubes aligned parallel to each other forming a “rib-cage” structure. A permanent structure, just like any other conventional one, inflatable hangars are for use in all-weather structures made from PVC fabric having a life span of over 15 years.These hangars, which vary in size, can be used as a one-to-one alternative for conventional hangars, explains Ashok Gopinath, chief executive officer (CEO) GMR Aero Technic that brought the inflatable hangar technology to the country.“It is a cost-effective option which can shorten the time of construction. As a part of airport infrastructure, it can be used to provide line, ad-hoc and base maintenance checks on the aircraft,” he said.The inflatable hangar is designed to withstand wind speeds up to 158.4 kilometres per hour (kmph) and can handle temperatures from -30 degrees Celsius to +70 degrees Celsius, thereby creating an alternative for conventional solid metal hangars that are both expensive and time consuming to build.A conventional single-aisle aircraft hangar, at present, requires an investment of around ₹50 crore and takes over 18 months to construct. An inflatable hangar, on the other hand, can be installed in about three to four months at less than one-fourth the cost, around ₹12 crore, which includes lighting, fire-fighting, ventilation, doors etc.GMR Group’s one-bay narrow-body inflatable hangar is designed to accommodate one Boeing 737 or Airbus A320 series aircraft.At present, the country has 19 conventional hangars belonging to national carrier Air India’s subsidiary Air India Engineering Services Ltd (AIESL), GMR Aero Technic and Air Works India spread across different states. Around 3,344sqmt area is required to accommodate one narrow-body aircraft in a hangar around 7,000sqmt for a wide-body aircraft.As per industry experts, of the total MRO cost of an air operator fleet, engine maintenance cost accounts for 45%, component maintenance 25%, airframe and other costs account for 35%. According to aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri, India currently has around 700 commercial aircraft and will need 1,750-2,100 aircraft in the next 20 years. However, according to Boeing’s latest market outlook, India will need more than 2,200 new jets valued at nearly $320 billion over the next 20 years. “There is a tremendous scope for such hangars as many new airports will come up in India. Moreover, it is an ideal solution for operators and MROs for the regional connectivity scheme,” says Pulak Sen, founder and secretary general, MRO Association of India. “It is a useful technology in an MRO operation that can be used to park an aircraft for routine maintenance.” As building a conventional hangar takes around 18 months and allotting hangar space by an airport operator is a time consuming exercise, it is better to have an inflatable hangar installed at a fractional cost and time, Sen said.The cost of these hangars vary depending on the size. There are smaller ones, which can accommodate only one helicopter or a small aircraft to the largest one which can accommodate up to three Boeing 777s.“With awareness of such an option in India, these hangars can be deployed in bigger numbers going forward. However, only time will tell how the Indian market accepts this new technology,” said Sen. Echoing similar views, Gopinath said, “In the future, it (higher adoption of the technology by MRO operators in the country) depends on the demand and feasibility. If authorities are seeking for more permanent structures, they may opt for conventional hangars.”However, few upcoming airports are likely to consider inflatable hangars to make available immediate hangarage to their airline customers for the aircraft on ground, Gopinath said.“These hangars may be deployed at off-line or remote stations for smaller checks and quick turn-around of aircraft. They can also be in addition to normal hangars to take care of additional work loads, which an MRO may get,” said HR Jagannath, former CEO of AIESL.“But the main issue with inflatable hangar is the location where they are to be deployed. It should have access to the airport runway so that aircraft can come into the hangar. Mostly such hangars are deployed at accident sites, where extensive repairs to the aircraft can be carried out,” he added. European aviation major Airbus has been using portable inflatable hangers for many years to perform aircraft repairs at difficult or remote locations as a temporary measure and finds their transportability to be useful.“With the ongoing major growth of aviation in India, it is critical that airlines have access to world-class maintenance facilities within the borders,” Airbus said in a statement to HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-tech-of-inflatable-hangars-poised-to-take-off-in-indian-aircraft-maintenance-industry-101622915304922.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro trains up by 30% from Monday; 140 trains to operate in a day||Mumbai Metro train services will be increased by 30% from Monday.From the present operational 104 trains, the services will be increased to 140 in a day. The frequency of Metro trains will also increase to 10 minutes during peak hours and 15 minutes during non-peak hours.Before coronavirus, Mumbai Metro One operated 400 train services on weekdays between Ghatkopar and Versova railway stations.The operational hours of the Metro trains have also been extended by one hour. The first train from Versova to Ghatkopar will operate at 6.50am and the last train from Ghatkopar to Versova station will be at 10.15pm.“With recent relaxation, there is an increase in movement of essential commuters. To ensure better social distancing from coming Monday, we will be increasing Metro service frequency,” said a statement from Mumbai Metro One.Mumbai Metro One train services were opened for the public on October 19, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-metro-trains-up-by-30-from-monday-140-trains-to-operate-in-a-day-101622915245546.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||No pre-arrest bail to cop booked for sexual abuse of colleague||Mumbai sessions court recently refused pre-arrest bail to an assistant police inspector (API) from Dongri police station who was booked after a female colleague lodged a rape case against him.The 30-year-old woman police officer alleged that API Sandip Pise, 32, had promised to marry her and raped her repeatedly between January 2014 and April 2021. She also claimed that since she was from a lower caste, Pise’s mother Alka, 50, and his brother Sagar, 30, got him married elsewhere and that they assaulted her and her relatives when they went to talk to them.The accused claimed that their relationship was consensual and they ended their relationship long ago. According to Pise, he lost contact with informant since few years. However, the informant would occasionally contact the applicant as a friend to share her issues.The court after hearing both the sides said, “Whether the physical relation between applicant and informant was consensual or whether it was forcible is the fact which needs to be investigated in this case and for effective investigation of said fact, according to me, custodial interrogation of applicant is necessary in this case.”As per the case registered with Dongri police, the complainant had joined the police force in 2013 and was posted at Dongri police station. Pise was also posted there and as a temporary staying arrangement, the senior inspector had given them accommodation in police quarters where the woman stayed in one room and male officers including Pise stayed in the room opposite hers.It is alleged that, Pise tried to get close to her and when she objected, he proposed. The woman later agreed to marry him. The complainant claimed that Pise later raped her repeatedly by promising to marry her. She claimed she recently learnt from another police officer that Pise had married a woman on March 15, following which she filed a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-pre-arrest-bail-to-cop-booked-for-sexual-abuse-of-colleague-101622915246135.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Forming government with Ajit Pawar was a mistake, says Devendra Fadnavis||Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said he committed a mistake by forming a short-lived government of three-days with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar in November 2019. He, however, said he does not regret it because he thought the move was right at the time. “It would have been better had we not attempted to form the government with Ajit Pawar. But at that point of time I thought it was the right decision,” Fadnavis said while speaking at an online programme organised by Marathi daily Loksatta on Friday. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Shiv Sena alliance won enough seats to win majority in the state in the 2019 Assembly elections. However, the two parties could not form the government due to their disagreement over sharing chief ministership. The Sena staked its claim on the top job in the government, but the BJP refused to accept its demand for chief ministership by rotation. Following this, Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray started talking to NCP chief Sharad Pawar, which later led to formation of the Sena-NCP-Congress coalition in Maharashtra. However, while the three parties were working out a power-sharing deal, Fadnavis shocked the three parties when he hurriedly took oath as CM along with NCP’s Ajit Pawar as deputy CM. While the BJP claimed that the NCP had joined hands with it, Sharad Pawar denied the same and said that his nephew had turned rebel with a few party MLAs. The three parties closed ranks and in next two days, senior Pawar managed to get all rebel MLAs including Ajit back to the party. Fadnavis was left with no option but to tender resignation instead of making an attempt to prove majority on the floor of the Assembly. Later, Ajit was made deputy CM in the Thackeray-led government. “When you are stabbed in the back (by Sena by not forming the government with the BJP), you have to stay alive in politics. And to stay alive, you have to do whatever is needed to be done. So it was an attempt to give a befitting reply,”Fadnavis remarked as he sought to justify the move. He also said his image was dented among BJP supporters because of the move. Fadnavis was interacting in an online programme organised by Marathi daily Loksatta on Friday. CM Thackeray also participated in the interaction on the same platform on Saturday.Thackeray said the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government comprising of the Sena, NCP and Congress will complete its term. “We had cordial relationship with BJP leaders from previous generations. The Sena never wanted to part ways with the BJP. We have now joined hands with the Congress and NCP and will continue to work together in the interest of the people. We are working together honestly and there would not be problem in completing the term,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/forming-government-with-ajit-pawar-was-a-mistake-says-devendra-fadnavis-101622915244972.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Local trains in Mumbai will not be opened for women, general public yet: BMC||While several restrictions in Mumbai and most cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) are set to be relaxed by the Maharashtra government from Monday, the wait for the general public to resume travel to the workplace by suburban trains will be longer. Only the frontline staff and those working in the essential sectors would be allowed to travel by local trains. Though the state government has allowed all women commuter to travel by trains, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ruled it out.Local train services for the general public were suspended for the second time on April 15 in a bid to control the spread of coronavirus in the city.The Maharashtra government in its unlock order under BreakTheChain on Saturday early morning had stated that essential service employees, people travelling for medical purposes and women commuters could be allowed to travel by the local trains. Mumbai that comes under level three of the unlock order, could permit women commuters along with essential care workers to travel.However, the state government then clarified the decision on allowing women commuters to travel by local trains would be taken by the BMC, which is the local authority to handle the pandemic.Further, the BMC’s decision on local trains would apply to the entire MMR, the government said. Though Mumbai suburban train network is spread across the MMR, the majority of it falls in Mumbai city.“In case of travel by local trains, respective DMAs (Disaster Management Authority) has been given authority to impose further restrictions on the travel for level 1,2 and 3. It is specifically directed that any further restrictions that might be imposed by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai under these rules on the travel by local trains, will hold for the entire MMR region. It is also informed that if any other DMA wishes to impose any different restrictions on travel by local trains in the MMR region, they must do so in consultation with MCGM. This is to ensure that these restrictions can be imposed smoothly throughout the journey that may be taken by passengers,’’ said a clarification issued by Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, disaster management, relief and rehabilitation department.The BMC, however, on Saturday evening issued a notification stating women commuters will not be allowed to travel by local trains and employees working in essential care services, people travelling for medical purposes will only be allowed to commute.Passenger associations have objected to not permitting women commuters. “This is an extremely wrong step by the BMC. If offices and shops are opening up then they should allow passengers to commute by local trains. Women commuters should have been allowed to travel first and then other passengers in restricted timings. BMC should look into this immediately or else citizens will again have to travel three to four hours to reach their destination.” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.Meanwhile, Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport(BEST) will not be allowing passengers to travel on full seating capacity in the BEST buses from Monday. No standing passenger will be allowed to commute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/local-trains-in-mumbai-will-not-be-opened-for-women-general-public-yet-bmc-101622915064976.html
05-06-2021||Other||Aligarh hooch tragedy : Cops make public announcement to alert villagers against unclaimed liquor||In view of rising number of deaths in last week’s hooch tragedy in Aligarh, the district police are now making public announcements warning villagers not to consume liquor from unclaimed bottles found near canals and remote areas of the district. The step was taken following deaths of 5 labourers, who had consumed spurious liquor recovered from a canal in Aligarh on Thursday. On Friday too, unclaimed liquor bottles were traced from a canal in Akarabad in Aligarh by a labourer who died after consuming the illicit liquor. As per rough estimates, so far over 100 people have died in the last week’s hooch tragedy. It is believed that those who possess the spurious liquor are now dumping them in remote places and canals to avoid police action.“We have asked the public to inform the police at 112 about such liquor bottles. Vigil has been enhanced near canals and villages nearby to them. The police officials in nearby districts of Etah, Kasganj and Mathura have also been alerted and the irrigation department has also been urged to remain vigilant,” said SSP Aligarh Kalanidhi Nathani. He said 17 cases have been registered and 40 accused sent to jail after being booked under Goonda/Gangster Act. Also, their illegal properties are being demolished. The reward on absconding accused Rishi Sharma has been increased to ₹75,000. “Six police teams have been constituted and raids are being conducted at suspected spots in Haryana, Delhi, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan to nab those absconding and linked with hooch tragedy. We have arrested Neeraj Chaudhary who is carrying a reward of ₹25,000 and is brother-in-law of jailed liquor mafia Anil Chaudhary,” he said. On Saturday, the Upper Ganga Canal passing through Aligarh was searched for such bottles, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aligarh-hooch-tragedy-cops-make-public-announcement-to-alert-villagers-against-unclaimed-liquor-101622915004911.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Badlapur CBSE school calls for Class 12 practical exams, parents demand cancellation||Days after the Union government announced the decision to scrap Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 theory exams, a school in Badlapur received flak for scheduling practical exams starting Sunday (June 6) for the Class 12 students. Late Saturday, almost 85% of the Class 12 batch from the school decided to not attend exams starting Sunday.While the school said practical exams have to be taken for Class 12 students, especially, since theory exams have been scrapped, parents feel the situation is still not safe for students to attend physical classes or exams.“No other school in and around Navi Mumbai is conducting practical exams at present, then why is this school so insistent? Students who are currently in quarantine or recovering from Covid-19 are a worried lot, and so are the rest, who are afraid of contracting the virus during exams,” said a parent of a student studying at Poddar Brio International School in Badlapur. He added that with no official word from CBSE officials, many parents are feeling unsure about the need for the exams to be held in the current scenario.These practical exams were originally scheduled to take place in April and May but had to be postponed due to the high number of Covid-19 cases across the city and country. “With no theory exams in place, students’ practical exam marks will have to be considered and for that, we are conducting these exams. Students’ safety is our priority and all safety measures will be in place during the exams,” said Rashmi Singh, principal of the school.Singh further added that the school, situated in a ‘green zone’ has already got permission from the local collector’s office to hold physical exams for their students in batches. Parents, however, are finding the situation ambiguous. “As per the original schedule, all schools have to upload the practical exam marks of class 12 students by June 11, and therefore, the school is hurrying into the exams. Instead, they should approach the examinations authority and demand for an extension in deadline,” said another parent. Mahesh Dharmadhikari, the CBSE regional head, Pune, told HT that conducting practical exams is a decision left on individual schools. “Schools can’t force the parents, but whoever is willing, a school can hold practical exams for them. In case students can’t appear for exams due to medical reasons, schools will have to make arrangements in the future,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaibadlapur-cbse-school-calls-for-class-12-practical-exams-parents-demand-cancellation-101622914884916.html
05-06-2021||Other||Sero-sampling begins in 40 districts of UP||LUCKNOW: Sero-sampling to assess the development of antibodies in people began in 40 districts of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday. In the remaining 35 districts, samples will be collected from June 9. “The collection of blood samples has begun in 40 districts and in 35 districts the work will be done from June 9. We aim to collect about 62,000 samples from across the 75 districts,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical and health, in a press conference on Saturday. In Lucknow, 49 teams collected 450 samples from 18 places in the district. Samples were collected from different areas, including Chinhat, Kakori, Malihabad, Nazirabad and Aishbagh. “Results of the sero-survey will help know the development of antibodies in people . They would also help in preparing for the probable third wave,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. Earlier in September 2020, the state health department had conducted serological survey in 11 districts in the state, including Meerut, Lucknow, Kanpur, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Kaushambi, Prayagraj, Moradabad, Ghaziabad, Baghpat and Agra.. The result of the then conducted sero-sampling suggested about one in five of 16,000 people tested showed the prevalence of antibodies against the Sars-Cov-2 pathogen that causes the Covid-19 disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/serosampling-begins-in-40-districts-of-up-101622914344867.html
05-06-2021||Other||Tankers transporting methyl alcohol to carry poison sign||LUCKNOW: Now tankers transporting methyl alcohol would carry legal warnings about the toxic substance s well as poison signs in bold white letters on both sides of the vehicle. The decision has been taken after the Aligarh hooch tragedy, in which the unofficial death toll is several times higher than the official one. “Production, storage and sale of methyl alcohol would be closely monitored and the tanks and containers of methyl alcohol would be clearly marked,” said Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, additional chief secretary, excise. “Whenever alcohol is sold secretly by the driver or cleaner from the tankers at dhabas and Illicit liquor is manufactured from this alcohol , it can result in hooch tragedy,” Bhoosreddy said, explaining the reasons behind the decision. The department has also issued a toll-free number - 18001805331 - to inform people regarding illicit liquor. A WhatsApp number 9454466019 has also been issued by excise department on which information can be given. “Prompt action shall be taken on such information,” the official said. “The tankers shall be properly sealed to ensure that methyl alcohol can’t be stolen. The tanker shall be dispatched only after this is confirmed,” he said adding a strict vigil would be maintained on the use of methyl alcohol to prevent deaths due to illicit liquor. The official said strict action would be taken against any unlicensed unit found producing methyl alcohol in any district. “Accountability would be fixed and in case of death due to consumption of illicit liquor made from methyl alcohol, the officers and employees of the units that were tasked with checking this would be held responsible and strict action would be initiated against them,” the official said. Gangster Act and NSA shall be invoked against those found involved in illicit liquor manufacture and trade. The additional chief secretary has also appealed to the general public o not buy liquor from illegal sources. “Such liquor may be made of methyl alcohol or denatured spirit, which can cause loss of vision and death. We have given instructions to all those concerned to issue warnings in electronic media and newspapers and to spread the above information widely by distributing hand bills among the common people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tankers-transporting-methyl-alcohol-to-carry-poison-sign-101622914164830.html
05-06-2021||Other||People get free saplings on roads and with food booked online, courtesy Lko police||LUCKNOW On the occasion of World Environment Day, the Lucknow Police Commissionerate on Saturday came up with a novel idea to gifting free saplings to people ordering doorstep delivery of food by collaborating with different restaurants and online services. Moreover, the police officials gifted saplings to people on the road who were strictly following corona protocols like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), central, Chiranjeev Nath Sinha got the idea to observe World Environment Day during corona times. “We decided to gift saplings to promote tree plantation among people, considering the need to improve the world around us during this corona outbreak,” said Sinha, who was recently appointed as new ambassador for Lucknow Zoo due to his love and care for wildlife. Sinha said saplings were distributed at over 500 homes where different restaurants and online services delivered food throughout the day. For this purpose, the police tied up with famous and renowned food outlets and two online delivery services to deliver a sapling as a surprise gift to each of their customers who had booked online food. “We formally inaugurated the initiative by distributing saplings to people wearing masks and maintaining social distancing on Shahnajaf Road. People enjoyed it as they had not expected this lovely gift from the police,” he said. Sinha was recently recognized by PETA (People for ethical Treatment of Animals), India, for his service to wild animals during last year’s lockdown. The officer, with help of his team, has regularly been distributing food and water to wild animals in Lucknow Zoo and other parts of the state capital since the corona outbreak last year. Meanwhile, Lucknow Commissioner of Police (CP) Dhruv Kant Thakur planted a sapling at Reserve Police Lines to promote tree plantation among police personnel and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/people-get-free-saplings-on-roads-and-with-food-booked-online-courtesy-lko-police-101622913924867.html
05-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka clocks 13,800 new Covid-19 cases, 365 deaths in last 24 hours||Karnataka has reported 13,800 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 365 deaths thereby taking the total infected and fatalities so far to 26,83,314 and 31,260 respectively, the health department said on Saturday.The state has 2,68,275 active cases whereas the total number of people discharged stood at 23,83,758 with the recovery of 25,346 people. The tally of infections in Bengaluru Urban district remained the highest in the State with 2,686 infections and 206 fatalities.Bengaluru has so far reported 11,80,182 infections and 14,688 deaths. There were 1,24,807 active cases. Mysuru district remained as the second major Covid-19 hot spot with 1,155 infections and 22 fatalities.According to the health bulletin, there were 847 in Belagavi, 714 in Dakshina Kannada, 710 in Shivamogga, 695 in Tumakuru, 568 in Hassan, 562 in Mandya, 552 in Udupi, and 529 in Davangere.Infections were reported in other districts as well and they include Dharwad, Ballari, Bagalkote, Bengaluru Rural, Chitradurga, Chikkaballapura, Kodagu, Kolar, Koppal, Uttara Kannada, and Vijayapura.The department said there were 18 deaths in Belagavi, 10 in Kolar, nine in Ballari and Shivamogga, eight each in Bengaluru Rural, Dakshina Kannada, Dharwad, and Hassan.Deaths were reported in 17 other districts. There were zero fatalities in Bagalkote, Yadgir, and Chikkamagaluru. As many as 1,42,291 tests were done today and they included 1,00,254 using RT-PCR and other methods.So far, 3.04 crore tests have been done cumulatively, the department said. As of Saturday, 1.50 crore people were inoculated in the State, comprising first and second dose of vaccine. The positivity rate for the day was 9.69% and the case fatality rate 2.64%, the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-clocks-13-800-new-covid-19-cases-365-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101622913232893.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Teams will be deployed to ensure liquor shops follow Covid protocols, says official||Teams will be deployed to ensure that all Covid-related protocols are followed and a close watch will be maintained on the liquor shops which are set to to reopen after a gap of over one and half months on Monday, officials said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced various relaxations including opening of markets, malls and standalone shops in Delhi from Monday.The liquor vends in many parts of the city had witnessed huge crowds minutes after the lockdown was announced by the chief minister on April.The ongoing lockdown imposed since April 19 has been extended further to June 16.The Delhi government in a clarification said liquor stores in the city will open on odd-even basis from 10 AM to 8 PM. "We will keep watch on the situation as liquor shops open on Monday. Teams will be deployed to ensure that all COVID-related protocols are followed," said a senior government official.The revenue services in districts like registry of properties will also resume from Monday.The alcoholic beverages industry has welcomed reopening of liquor shops in Delhi, saying it was vital for revenue generation."I feel there should be more clarity on the odd-even rule since there are standalone shops. But the first thing is reopening the shops and the ease of availability to the customers.""I'd also say the instructions should be made clear to all the shops about social distancing and other guidelines," said Vinod Giri, director general of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies.Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA) has in its order directed that all Covid-appropriate behaviour, including use of face mask and social distancing, should be maintained at all the malls, markets, market complexes, standalone shops, and neighbourhood shops.If the norms of Covid-appropriate behaviour are not maintained by any shop, then it will be liable to be closed and its owner may face prosecution under relevant laws, the order has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-teams-will-be-deployed-to-ensure-liquor-shops-follow-covid-protocols-says-official-101622913447998.html
05-06-2021||Other||Online exam system on the anvil for technical education students in UP||The Uttar Pradesh technical education department is working on a project to develop a system of online examinations for students of technical education across the state. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting with officials in this regard.Secretary (technical education) Alok Kumar said AKTU (Abdul Kalam Technical University) vice chancellor prof Vinay Kumar Pathak, HBTU (Harcourt Butler Technical University) vice chancellor prof Samsher and other heads of prominent institutes met on Friday to explore the possibility of conducting online examinations for technical education.Pathak said, “We have to make use of artificial intelligence and machine learning-based online platforms for conducting exams. Currently, Common Admission Test (CAT), Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) are being held under controlled proctoring that means candidates are required to reach an exam centre and write their exam.”“Due to Covid-19, people are putting up at distant places. We need online proctored exam to ensure that sanctity of the test is duly maintained. There is a lot of software available in India and abroad,” he said.“We need to develop such a tool that functions in different bandwidths. The software has to be compatible for different devices and different operating system platforms. We should have a project monitoring unit that develops indigenous software to meet our requirements,” he suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/online-exam-system-on-the-anvil-for-technical-education-students-in-up-101622913624923.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana's Covid-19 tally climbs to 761,637; 723 new cases seen||Haryana reported 59 Covid-19 deaths and 723 fresh positive cases on Saturday, taking the number of fatalities and cases to 8,664 and 761,637 respectively.According to the health department, the latest deaths include five each in Bhiwani, Rewari and Hisar and four each in the districts of Panipat, Sirsa, Jhajjar and Jind. Hisar reported the highest cases at 75, followed by Yamunanagar (67) and Panchkula (66). The total number of active cases in the state was 9,974 and the number of recoveries was 742,999.The recovery rate was 97.55 percent. The cumulative positivity rate was 8.26 percent, the health bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-s-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-761-637-723-new-cases-seen-101622912533606.html
05-06-2021||Other||Active Covid-19 cases fall below 20,000 in UP after two months||After a gap of two months, the active Covid-19 cases (number of patients under treatment) across Uttar Pradesh fell below the 20,000-mark on Saturday, according to official data.Besides, 34 of the state’s 75 districts reported below 10 fresh cases on the day. Two districts (Banda and Kanpur Dehat) recorded zero fresh cases.On April 4, there were 19,738 active cases in the state and the number had gone up to 22,820 the next day.“There are 19,438 active cases in the state at present of which 11,178 are in home isolation,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (medical health and family welfare) at a press conference. Lucknow has 1121 active cases.During the day, the state reported 1092 fresh cases and 120 deaths. With this, the total Covid case count in UP reached 16,97,352 and the death toll went up to 21,151.“The number of active cases has fallen by 93.75% as compared with April 30 when there were 3,10,783 active cases in the state,” said Prasad.The state’s overall case positivity rate was now 3.3% and the 24-hour positivity rate was 0.4%, he said. The recovery rate in the state is 97.6% and 5,10,32,967 samples have been tested till now.Uttar Pradesh had reported 38,055 fresh cases on April 24, the highest in one day, while over 300 deaths were recorded in one day during the second wave.Despite the dip in the daily and the active case count now, doctors sounded a note of caution.“Even if there is one active Covid case, full precaution is needed. This is because the multiplication of patients in case of virus does not happen mathematically, which is 2, 4, 8 and 16, but it goes geometrically — 2, 4, 16, 72, 200,” said Prof Kauser Usman, head of the department of geriatric medicine at King George’s Medical University (KGMU).“The threat from a probable third wave is knocking where children are most vulnerable. We should not forget children are not being vaccinated and they have not even developed immunity against the virus,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.“As young people in the house move out for work, even the slightest mistake by them can bring infection into the house, which may be risky for children and the elderly,” said Dr Shukla.The fall in cases comes at a time when government hospitals have resumed OPD (outpatient department) and admission services as beds in hospitals are becoming vacant with reduction in Covid-19 cases. Nevertheless, intensive care unit (ICU) beds have over 85% occupancy.Sero-sampling has begun across the state with the aim to collect over 61,500 samples by June 11 to analyse the development of anti-bodies among UP residents.On the other hand, a large number of black fungus (mucormycosis) patients are admitted in hospitals and shortage of amphotericin B injections is troubling patients in private hospitals. The state has reported over 700 black fungus cases of which over 300 are in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/active-covid-19-cases-fall-below-20-000-in-up-after-two-months-101622913144791.html
05-06-2021||Other||Key meeting called on June 7 to decide marks formula for UP Board class 10, 12 students||The Uttar Pradesh secondary education department will hold a crucial meeting of officials at the district level via video link on June 7 to work out the modalities and formula on the basis of which marks will be awarded to UP Board’s class 10 and 12 students, said additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla on Saturday.The meeting has been called after the state government cancelled the UP Board class 10 and 12 examinations due to the Covid-19 situation.Representatives of government schools, unaided schools and private schools, various organisations, along with parents, have also been asked to give their suggestions via email on the official email address of the UP Board of Secondary Education.The decision to hold the June 7 meeting was taken on Saturday during a discussion at the secondary education directorate in Lucknow. The discussion was chaired by Shukla and attended by other senior officials.A formula was earlier proposed on how UP Board class 10 and 12 marks are likely to be calculated. There’s a possibility that some changes could be made in this proposed formula.While announcing the decision to cancel the class 12 UP board examinations, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on June 3 had said it had been decided to promote class 10 and 12 students.A committee was formed under additional chief secretary (secondary education) to come up with recommendations on the basis of which formula would be finalised to award marks to students, said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/key-meeting-called-on-june-7-to-decide-marks-formula-for-up-board-class-10-12-students-101622912784729.html
05-06-2021||Lucknow||President, PM, other top leaders greet Yogi on his birthday||President Ram Nath Kovind, vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh, other union ministers, governors, chief ministers of various states, saints and top opposition leaders across the country greeted Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on his birthday on Saturday.While PM Modi and home minister Shah called up Yogi to wish him, several other top leaders, including defence minister Rajnath Singh and other union ministers, took to Twitter to greet the chief minister.“Besides them, a large number of saints from Ayodhya, Mathura and Varanasi, among other places, sent their blessings for the chief minister,” UP’s director (information) Shishir said.The prominent Opposition leaders who wished Yogi Adityanath included Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Mayawati, both former UP chief ministers.Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, Bihar governor Phagu Chauhan, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev, state BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal, the party’s national vice-president and UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh and several UP ministers also wished Adityanath. Former UP governor Ram Naik also greeted Yogi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/presidentpm-other-top-leaders-greet-yogi-on-his-birthday-101622912424739.html
05-06-2021||Other||UP govt sets 300-million sapling plantation target||The Uttar Pradesh government has set a target of planting 30 crore (300 million) saplings during the Van Mahotsav (afforestation festival) beginning in the first week of July this year.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath made the announcement on the occasion of World Environment Day on Saturday as he planted a sapling on the premises of his official residence in the morning.“The Van Mahotsav programme will begin in the first week of July and we have set a target of planting 30 crore saplings…. In 2017, the state ran an extensive plantation drive statewide with a target of five crore saplings. Then in 2018 and 2019, the state planted 11 crore and 22 crore saplings. Last year, despite the Covid pandemic, the state could plant more than 25 crore saplings,” he said.Last year, the state government had also tasked the forest department with running a campaign to conserve trees that are more than 100 years’ old and an extensive programme with the same objective will be carried out further, he added.The chief minister also said: “Tree plantation should not just be a formal programme. Rather, the programme should lay emphasis on the plantation of traditional trees that are known to play an important role in protecting and conserving the environment. Peepal (sacred fig), bargad (banyan), Pakad (white fig), desi aam (indigenous mango), and other medicinal trees should be planted during the drive.”Yogi asked the forest department, all government departments, institutions, village panchayats, nagar panchayats, and the public at large to join the movement.Greeting the people on the occasion, he said: “We are safe till the environment is safe… We will have to strike a balance between nature and the environment, that’s our moral responsibility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-govt-sets-300-million-sapling-plantation-target-101622912124768.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Southwest Monsoon enters Maharashtra, city to receive rainfall until June 7||As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Southwest Monsoon has entered southern part of Maharashtra on Saturday. Pune on Saturday again reported rainfall of 3mm in Shivajinagar and 34.1mm in Lohegaon. Pune has all features of Monsoon as of Saturday. “On June 6, Pune is likely to see the onset of monsoon. As of Saturday, Pune received two days of consecutive rainfall. Winds were predominantly westerly and clouds are typical monsoon types. If adjacent areas get rainfall the northern limit of Monsoon can pass through Pune. However, from June 7 until June 11, the rainfall activity over the state will reduce,” said Kashyapi. As per IMD, cloudy weather with rainfall towards the evening will continue in Pune city until June 7. On Saturday, Pune reported a day temperature at 31.1 degree Celsius and night temperature at 21 degree Celsius. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said that as of Saturday, there is an offshore trough, that is extended low pressure area from south Maharashtra to south Kerala coast “At the same time there is one upper air circulation adjacent to the Konkan and Goa coast. Because of these two weather systems, the southern part of Maharashtra is getting continuous rainfall for the last 48 hours. So now monsoon is active now over Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli and Solapur district,” said Kashyapi. He added that by June 6, Monsoon may advance in some more parts of Maharashtra. “Monsoon will be active by June 6 over the southern part of Konkan and Goa, Central Maharashtra and parts of Marathwada as well. After that from June 7, the rainfall activity over Maharashtra will reduce,” said Kashyapi. He further noted that along the west coast, the monsoon has advanced more quickly than predicted whereas on the east coast side, the advancement is not much as of now. The northern limit of monsoon passes through the Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) passes through Harnai, Solapur, Raichur, Karnool, Tirupati and Cuddalore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/southwest-monsoon-enters-maharashtra-city-to-receive-rainfall-until-june-7-101622909364490.html
05-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to promote wetlands as tourism, water sports hubs||Uttar Pradesh plans to promote major wetlands in the state as tourism, educational, recreation and water sports hubs. These include eight sites designated as wetlands of international importance (Ramsar Sites). UP has the maximum number of Ramsar sites among the 42 in India and Punjab, with six sites, is next to UP. The eight wetlands of international importance in UP are: Upper Ganga river (Bulandshahr), Sarsai Nawar Jheel (Etawah), Saman Bird Sanctuary (Mainpuri), Sandi Bird Sanctuary (Hardoi), Samaspur Bird Sanctuary (Rae Bareli), Parvati Arga Bird Sanctuary (Gonda), Nawabganj Bird Sanctuary (Unnao), and Sur Sarovar (Agra). “Due to the efforts of the forest and environment departments of UP, so many of our wetlands have been designated as wetlands of international importance. The first site to get this status was the Upper Ganga river in 2005 and till 2019 this was the only Ramsar site in UP. Six other sites got this status in 2019 while another one was added to the list in 2020,” said a senior officer of UP forest department. “We are according these sites more importance than national parks as these are rich in biodiversity. The wetlands are home to many plants (terrestrial and aquatic) and animals (terrestrial, aquatic, amphibians, reptiles, birds, insects). The state government also plans to develop them as destinations for nature lovers and tourists,” he said. The development plan includes the construction of roads for easy accessibility, boarding and lodging facilities, movement around the area, recreational activities like boating and water sports and online facilities, said a senior forest department official. “The sites will be developed under the financial collaboration of the central and the state governments (the central government will bear 60% of the cost and the balance will be borne by the state government). Most of the project proposals have been sent to the central government,” said the official. “It’s difficult to comment on the timeline for the project because of the interruptions due to the Covid pandemic. But these sites should be developed in a couple of years. Otherwise, most of the sites are still very attractive for tourists and nature lovers,” he added. 8 UP Wetlands of International Importance Sur Sarovar, the latest one to be designated as a Ramsar site in UP, is also known as Keetham Lake. A man-made reservoir, originally created to supply water to Agra. With a rich eco-system, the wetland is a refuge for resident and migratory birds, and more than 60 species of fish. The site is important for bird species that migrate on the central Asian flyway, with over 30,000 water birds known to visit the reservoir annually. Upper Ganga River (Brijghat to Narora Stretch) in Bulandshahr is a shallow river stretch of the Ganges with intermittent small stretches of deep-water pools. The river provides a habitat for Ganges River Dolphin, Gharial, Crocodile, six species of turtles, otters, 82 species of fish and over 100 species of birds. This river stretch holds importance for thousands of pilgrims and is used for holy dips for spiritual purification. Sarsai Nawar Jheel is a permanent marsh in Etawah. It is an example of co-habitation of humans and wildlife. Farming practices play roles in sustaining the water bird habitats. Sarus Cranes flock to this region. The wetland is also a site of spiritual and religious significance with the nearby Hajari Mahadev temple visited by thousands of pilgrims every year. Sandi Bird Sanctuary is a freshwater marsh in Hardoi. Rich in aquatic plants, the site provides a productive habitat for waterfowl with over 40,000 individuals counted in 2018. It is home to over 1% of the South Asian populations of common teal (Anas crecca), Red-Crested Pochard (Netta rufina) and Ferruginous Duck (Aythya nyroca). The wetland is a popular recreational and tourism destination and supports farmers as a source of livestock fodder. Samaspur Bird Sanctuary in Rae Bareli is a perennial lowland marsh. Annual counts regularly find more than 75,000 birds, with over 250 resident and migrant species. The sanctuary harbours threatened species such as the endangered Egyptian Vulture and Pallas’s Fish Eagle, and more than 1% of the South Asian population of the vulnerable Common Pochard. At least 46 freshwater fish species use the wetland. Saman Bird Sanctuary in Mainpuri is a seasonal oxbow lake (U-shaped). It provides refuge to over 50,000 water birds (187 bird species have been recorded) and is particularly important as a wintering site for many migrants including the Greylag Goose, with over 1% of the South Asian population present during winter. Vulnerable species including Sarus Crane and Greater Spotted Eagle are also found here. Parvati Arga Bird Sanctuary in Gonda is a combination of two oxbow lakes. It offers exceptional habitats for water birds, providing both roosting and breeding sites with over 1,00,000 birds documented in annual counts. The sanctuary is a refuge for some of India’s threatened vulture species: the critically endangered White Rumped Vulture and Indian Vulture, and the endangered Egyptian Vulture have all been recorded. Some ancient temples around the lakes are of religious significance and encourage tourism. Nawabganj Bird Sanctuary in Unnao is a shallow marshland. Monsoon rains feed this diverse wetland while the Sharda Canal supplies additional water. The sanctuary supports recreation and tourism activities as well as local biodiversity. It is a haven for birds, with 25,000 water birds regularly recorded and 220 resident and migratory species documented. Among these are globally threatened species including the endangered Egyptian Vulture and Pallas’s Fish Eagle. Protection and afforestation measures have helped increase the overall diversity of wildlife, with golden jackal and jungle cat now present here. WHAT ARE RAMSAR SITES? A Ramsar site is a wetland site designated to be of international importance under the Ramsar convention The Convention on Wetlands is an intergovernmental treaty that provides the framework for the conservation and wise use of wetlands and their resources. The Convention was adopted in the Iranian city of Ramsar in 1971 and came into force in 1975. Since then, almost 90% of UN member states, from all the world’s geographic regions, have acceded to become “Contracting Parties”. The Convention’s mission is “the conservation and wise use of all wetlands through local and national actions and international cooperation, as a contribution towards achieving sustainable development throughout the world”. (Source: Ramsar website)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-to-promote-wetlands-as-tourism-water-sports-hubs-101622909304602.html
05-06-2021||Pune||FYJC admission only after Class 12 result pattern is declared: Samant||Despite the cancellation of the Class 12 exams for state board, admission for courses like Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Commerce (BCom) and Bachelor of Science (BSc) will be decided only after the result pattern for Class 12 is declared, said Uday Samant, minister for higher and technical education. He was interacting with the media on Saturday at the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP). “For technical courses, CET will be held by the end of July or August first week. This exam, like last year, will be conducted online. We will be increasing the centres twice this time for the examination,” said Samant. He further added that in case a CET is taken, it will be based on the syllabus of the state board. While talking about this academic year, Samant further added that all professional courses this year will continue to be online. “Offline lectures or practicals are not feasible as a precaution for the third wave. All courses will continue online. The online system for higher and technical education is functioning and so the structure is ready,” said Samant. While talking about the fee concession in colleges for students, Samant said that the Fee Regulation Authority (FRA) will decide on the same. “FRA will be formed, and the decision will be taken. If CET is held for courses like BA and BCom, the students will not need to pay any fee as they have already paid for the Class 12 examination fee,” said Samant. While talking about the teachers’ recruitment, Samant said that new teachers will be recruited. “As the process of recruitment of teachers needs 11 to 12 months, the teachers will be joining for the next academic year that is 2022-2023,” said the minister. Samant further said that a divisional office for Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University (YCMOU) will be starting in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. “A second campus of CoEP in Chikhali was also given allocation of ₹25 crore. The groundbreaking ceremony for the same will be done very soon. We want to give CoEP the status of state Institute of Technology status which will be comparable to IITs,” said Samant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fyjc-admission-only-after-class-12-result-pattern-is-declared-samant-101622909244637.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||'Never wanted to be the CM': Uddhav opens up on BJP-Sena rift in Maharashtra||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday opened up on several issues concerning his political career, Maharashtra's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic in an online session with Marathi daily Loksatta, news agency PTI reported."I was never politically inclined. I came into politics to help my father. A pandemic after 100 years happens during my tenure as CM. I have never shied away from responsibility. I am doing what I can to the best of my ability," he said."If people who voted for me do not survive the COVID- 19 pandemic, what is the use of power," he said."Acting with lust for power amid COVID-19 will lead to anarchy," he said in a veiled attack on the BJP.On Sena's previous alliance with the BJP, Uddhav said there was a trust deficit in the relations after the demise of BJP leaders Pramod Mahajan and Gopinath Munde."The BJP is now Delhi-centric. In an alliance, there has to be openness to air differences and resolve them. My new allies (NCP and Congress) treat me with respect. The MVA is an alliance where we had differences, so we are more open now," he said.There were reports of disagreements between the various stakeholders of the MVA government over easing of Covid-19 restrictions in the state, but deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar told reporters on Saturday that even though the government has been formed by multiple parties, the word of the chief minister is final.“There is no disagreement in the MVA government. We are in constant discussion over the unlocking and there is no confusion. The CM is also constantly conversing with the people over social media. We might be a multi-party government but the word of Thackeray as the head of state is final.” Pawar told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/never-wanted-to-be-the-cm-uddhav-opens-up-on-bjp-sena-rift-in-maharashtra-101622907947195.html
05-06-2021||Other||Over 2k kids infected in Jamshedpur so far||A total of 2,114 children below 14 years of age have been infected with coronavirus in Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) since its outbreak last year, while only one has died during the period, according to an analysis of the district health bulletin. This is significant as Jharkhand was preparing for the probable third wave of Covid-19 which is was likely to affect those below 14 years the most.  As per official statistics of Jamshedpur , the state's second worst hit district by the pandemic after capital city Ranchi, of the total children infected, 1,180 were male and the rest female. Tata Steel medical advisor Dr Rajan Chaudhry on Saturday said 110 infected children below the age of 14 years were treated at Tata Main Hospital (TMH) till date, of which only one child died due to comorbidities. “Covid-19 is feared to affect children most in its third wave because there’s no vaccine for them as yet,” said Dr Chaudhry. According to officials, there are about 4 lakh children below 14 years of age in East Singhbhum. As per an Indian Academy of Paediatricians (IAP) estimate, Jamshedpur presently has 70 child specialists, 195 normal beds and 19 ventilators. This translates into one normal bed for every 2,052 children, one doctor per 5,715 children and one ventilator per 21,053 children.IAP-Jamshedpur president Dr Mintu Akhouri Sinha said the resource gap was so huge that it’s not possible to reduce it in the near future. “The best option is optimum use of available resources and minimise requirement of hospitalisation and ICU beds. Early detection of cases through Rapid Antigen Test, as RT-PCR results take longer, and immediate treatment, preferably in home isolation,” Dr Akhouri said.He said IAP has submitted a detailed road map paper to prepare for the probable third wave to the district health department. “We have advised to set up isolation centres at community buildings and schools for Covid-19 positive children with their mothers in every village, training of ANMs, sahiyas and sevikas so that they provide preliminary treatment in villages,” said Dr Akhouri.The district administration has already set up a 50-bed ICU at Jamshedpur Sadar Hospital, while all block hospitals have been asked to set up 30-bed ICUs, said civil surgeon Dr AK Lal . “Another 59-bed ICU for children will be functional at MGMMCH within next few days apart from the existing NICU and paediatric ICU (PICU). TMH and other big private hospitals have been asked to set up separate 200-300-bed children wards where mothers can stay with sick children ,” he said.Besides, process was on to identify suitable space for a new PICU and NICU in the district as per state government’s directions, the civil surgeon said. Meanwhile, West Singhbhum health department nodal officer Sachindra Kumar Baraik said they were setting up a 40-bed PICU at Chaibasa Sadar Hospital (CSH). The district has reported 231 children below 14 years testing Covid-19 positive between May 2020 and April 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-2k-kids-infected-in-jamshedpur-so-far-101622907324344.html
05-06-2021||Patna||Raids in jails Mobile phones, chargers, drugs seized from inmates; 3 wardens axed||A coordinated pre-dawn swoop on two dozen jails across the state on Saturday led to a huge haul of mobile phones, narcotics and cash from inmates and suspension of at least three prison officials, besides initiation of action against a few others.Some of the jails raided are Beur jail in Patna and jails at Gopalganj, Bhagalpur, Motihari, Saran, Muzaffarpur, Buxar and Ara. The raids were conducted under the supervision of the respective district magistrates and superintendents of police. Inspector general (Prison) Mithilesh Mishra said the department identifying the culprits and FIRs being lodged in police stations concerned in this connection.Beur jail administration recovered five mobile phones and three chargers, besides knives, khaini and other materials. These items are prohibited as many prisoners threaten other inmates by using them. There were also instances when the prisoners committed suicide with the help of sharp objects. “Following the recovery, Beur jail administration suspended three wardens and issued a show-cause against four, including deputy superintendent (administration), head warder, head warder on duty and warder Priya Kumari,” said jail superintendent Jitendra Kumar. In Motihari central jail, the administration recovered contrabands, SIM card, pen drive and mobile phones. At the same time, raids were also conducted at Khudiram Bose Central Jail in Muzaffarpur under the leadership of SSP Jayant Kant. The raid lasted for about four hours. However, the police did not find banned items in this raid. SSP Jayant Kant said that the raid was conducted on the instructions of the home department. The prisoners of Buxar Central Jail were still asleep when the team of officers reached there. The police did not find anything particularly objectionable in the raid, which lasted for about three hours. Reports from Gaya central jail, Siwan, Nawada, Biharsharif, Lakhisarai, Begusarai, Saran and Munger district jails, the administrations have recovered incriminating materials. Guilty jail officials will be subjected to disciplinary action on account of their laxity that led to the entry of the items inside the jail premises. “FIRs are being lodged against the prisoners found in possession of the banned articles, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/raids-in-jails-mobile-phones-chargers-drugs-seized-from-inmates-3-wardens-axed-101622906904366.html
05-06-2021||Other||Niti Aayog ranking: Under fire, JD(U) renews demand for special status to Bihar||PATNAThe recent ranking of Bihar by Niti Aayog as the worst performer among all states in sustainable development goals has set off a heated war of words among political parties in the state, with the ruling Janata Dal (United) renewing its pitch for a special status for Bihar, a demand which could put stress with its ties to the BJP, also a part of the ruling alliance in the state. On Saturday, JD(U)’s national general secretary K C Tyagi said that according special status to Bihar, a long- pending demand of the party, is the only way to ensure industrial progress and urbanisation as it would attract investors to the state and set up factories and commercial establishments because of tax incentives. “We have been raising the demand for special status to Bihar before both UP A and NDA governments at the Centre. The Niti Aayog report has pointed to various shortcomings. But why hasn’t it given suggestions for its remedy? After bifurcation of Bihar in 2000, power plants, industries, coal mines and tourist spots went to Jharkhand. Despite that, Bihar has progressed by registering 10.5% growth in state gross domestic product, which is higher than national GDP,” he said. Asked if the fresh demand of special status to Bihar was a new strategy to put pressure at the Centre, Tyagi said it was not the case. “We feel it is time Bihar gets special status so that it takes bigger strides in development and become an industrial state as like Maharashtra and Gujarat. All states in eastern India, be it Assam, West Bengal, Odisha, Jharkhand and Bihar need stimulus to improve their social and economic indexes,” he said. The Niti Aayog, in its latest report on sustainable development goals (SDG) index where states and union territories are evaluated on various parameters like health, education, gender, economic growth, climate change, among others, has ranked Bihar as the worst performing state. The report has given ammunition to the Opposition parties, especially the main opposition party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) led by former chief minister Lalu Prasad. “Bihar’s ranking at the bottom is the result of the relentless efforts of the 16 years of the BJP-JD(U) and negative politics. Those prejudiced people who have been harping on jungle raj rhetoric are now silent and hiding, The state is ruined but these people would never allow social economic justice,” Prasad tweeted. In another tweet, he wrote, “Nitish is full of negativity. He closed down several health centres opened during my tenure as chief minister of Bihar and converted them into ghost houses and various school buildings have turned into garages. It is only because of this that Bihar has ranked the top from the bottom in the NITI Aayog report. The so-called double engine (government) has turned into trouble engine.”His son and leader of Opposition in the state, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, tweeted, “Bihar has been placed at the bottom for the third consecutive year. This sums up the 16 years of BJP-Nitish rule’s progress on paper.” Congress MLC Premchand Mishra the ranking has put a question on the tall claims of the government about taking big initiatives in economic progress and eradication of poverty. “The chief minister should explain as why the Niti Aayog does not find any substantial progress in state’s social and economic indices despite a budget outlay of ₹2 lakh crore. It signifies that all development claims are on paper and apparently a large sum of budget outlay is being pilfered. The chief minister and the entire cabinet should either prove the SDG report as false or else resign by taking moral responsibility for Bihar being ranked among worst performing state,” Mishra said. JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan hit back. “Well now Lalu Yadav is talking of Niti Aayog. He forgot his tenure when people of India were only talking about the crimes in Bihar. If Bihar had special status, the situation would have been different. For this situation, RJD and Congress are responsible.” BJP leader and spokesperson Ajit Choudhary said, “Now Lalu Yadav has no work to do, so he is giving unnecessary ‘gyan’. I think he forgot his regime when his uneducated wife became the chief minister of Bihar. What happened at that time?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/niti-aayog-ranking-under-fire-jd-u-renews-demand-for-special-status-to-bihar-101622906844413.html
05-06-2021||Other||Bodies in Ganga bring back focus on electric crematoria||PATNAThe sight of partially decomposed and bloated bodies floating in river Ganga in Buxar last month, which led to a nationwide outrage, has once again turned the spotlight on the need for more electric crematoria in the state, especially for towns situated along the banks of Ganga. There are 11 electric crematoria in the state. Of these, six are in Patna district — Bans Ghat-2, Gulbi Ghat-2, Khajekalan-1 and Mokama-1) — besides one each in Sonepur, Bhagalpur, Munger, Purnia and Hajipur. Two of them, at Hajipur and Mokama, are out of order. Buxar has none. District magistrate (DM) Aman Samir said the administration has been pursuing the matter. “Proposal for installation of an electric crematorium was sent to the urban development department six months back,” he said.In 2018, the Patna High Court had directed the state government to construct at least one electric crematorium in each of the 38 districts, but they are yet to see light of day.In the absence of an electric crematorium or earmarked cremation grounds, poor families often find the expenses of traditional method of cremation too high and prefer the “Jal Samadhi” for the dead by immersing the body in the river, residents at Buxar said.Vikas Chandra, a Patna-based social activist, said there’s been the demand for this facility in all the 38 districts of the state. “Steps in this direction were initiated by the government in 2018, but things are still half-way. The electric crematoria at Samariya Ghat in Begusarai, Gaya and Gopalganj are still under construction,” he said.To add to the problem, there are many districts located along the Ganga where there is no earmarked space for cremation. For instance, in Buxar, Muktidhaam is the only earmarked cremation ground. “Things become difficult during rainy season. It gets inundated by river water and people have no option but to dump bodies in river water,” says Shiv Prakash Rai , a Buxar resident, adding that people from four districts, Buxar, Sasaram, Kaimur and Bhojpur turn up to perform last rites at Muktidhaam, which is believed to be sacred. “A cost-effective electric crematorium would have proved to be very useful for many families,” he says. Rai’s view was endorsed by Rachna Patil, district magistrate of Munger, a town also situated along the Ganga bank. “It can be very effective in curbing pollution. Munger is also located along the Ganga river. But the good thing is it already has an electric crematorium,” she said. The silver liningThe only solace is that after the bodies were found in Ganga, subsequent studies have not found any adverse noticeable changes in water quality. “Surprisingly, no variation has been noticed in the quality of water in Ganga after the bodies were found. We have started weekly monitoring of water samples from the river. In fact, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has directed us to monitor water quality on weekly basis and check the water quality on bacteriological parameters as well as on conventional parameters,” said S Chandrashekhar, member secretary, Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB).The conventional parameters of pH, colour, biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) in water are being monitored on weekly basis and not much difference has been observed in water quality, he said.Earlier, this monitoring was done fortnightly. The CPCB has also emphasized the need for Covid virus analysis of the water by National Chemical Laboratory in Pune, which has recently established protocol for testing Covid-19 virus in sewage. Recently, a team of experts from Indian Institute of Toxicology Research, Lucknow, also visited Buxar for the collection of samples. “Samples have been sent to Pune for tests. We are waiting for its report,” said Chandrashekhar.Ajay Yadav, former state convener of the Ganga Samagra, an NGO working to keep Ganga clean, said, “Dumping of bodies in the river needs to be stopped. There should be proper arrangements of cremation at every place.”Rajiv Ranjan, an environmentalist, said traditional method of cremation is very expensive in any case. “A huge amount of wood is needed for the cremation. It generally costs one nearly ₹5,000 while the use of electric crematorium costs hardly ₹350,” he said. “Besides, there’s no need of felling so many trees,” he said.State of cremationsElectric crematoria There are 12 electric crematoria in the state. Of these, six are in Patna district and one each in Muzaffarpur, Sonepur, Bhagalpur, Munger, Purnia and Hajipur. High Court orderIn 2018, the Patna High Court had directed the state government to construct at least one electric crematorium in each of the 38 districts, but they are still a far cry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bodies-in-ganga-bring-back-focus-on-electric-crematoria-101622906784306.html
05-06-2021||Gurugram||Three villages in Nuh manage to keep coronavirus at bay||Amid the surge and fall in Covid-19 cases since last year when the coronavirus pandemic broke out, three of 443 villages in Nuh district have remained free from the infection so far. Not a single case of Covid-19 has been recorded among the 40,000 population that live in 10,000 households across these villages, officials familiar with the matter said.Sampling and random testing of more than 1,000 residents in the villages of Jharokheda, Andhaki and Patakpur were done last year as well as this year, with all samples testing negative, according to officials.Nuh deputy commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata credited the villagers and health teams for following Covid-appropriate behaviour and regular monitoring. He said that visitors were banned since last year and those travelling outside were mandated to quarantine for 14 days upon their return. “We have report cards of all the 443 villages in the district. Around 55 villages have fewer than or up to five cases. But, these three villages have not reported even a single case to date. These villages are mainly from remote parts of the district,” he said.Shabbir Ahmad, the sarpanch of Jharokheda village, said that the 4,500-odd villagers have managed to stay protected by maintaining social distancing and regular sanitising of the common areas. “We are completely dependent on our own farming and no outsourcing of goods was done since last April. We are growing vegetables and are ensuring that villagers do not step out of the village. We are not allowing relatives or outsiders to enter. People who were working outside majorly worked from home and those who were in private jobs and other cities were not allowed unless they carried negative reports. Also, quarantine in farms was set up for those stepping out in case of emergencies,” he said.The district administration has been surveying the villages regularly to assess residents’ health.The villages have small grocery shops and the products brought in from markets and warehouses were sanitised and kept in the open for a day before starting sales, said officials.Mahendar Singh, the sarpanch of Andhaki village, said that they have been growing vegetables, grains and other daily essentials to avoid contact with outsiders. This year, the villagers grew tomatoes, brinjal, pumpkins, onions, garlic and other vegetables. “For dairy products, those who do not have any means were given milk and buttermilk by their neighbours so that they do not have to buy from outside. We have many who work as drivers in our village. They lived in the fields and regular testing was done to check if they were infected,” he said.Andhaki has a population of 2,500 people, including children.Khadgata termed this as a success story of the villages. “These model villages kept strict vigil, followed Covid-appropriate behaviour and ensured all the families wore face masks and areas were sanitized regularly. The administration regularly supplied sanitisers and face masks to them and a weekly report was taken from the sarpanch on the supply,” he said.A common rule followed by these villages was to restrict outsiders, minimise the import of goods that subsequently led to healthier diets. All children were asked to wash their hands regularly and soaps were distributed, said officials.Chaudhary Samsuddin Khan, the sarpanch of Patakpur village which has a population of 28,000 villagers, said that they did not allow children and senior citizens at community events. Regular health camps were organised and timely vaccination was done. “Even officials from the district administration and health workers entering the village were asked to undergo sanitisation during both waves. If there was an emergency, then the villager was kept in farm quarantine, with food delivered to them and other arrangements being taken care of by the panchayat for seven days,” he said.Khan said that all roads were blocked by the panchayat and no vehicles were allowed in the village, with parking allowed a kilometre away. Also, health workers were not allowed to enter the village after 4pm, he said.In Gurugram district, at least 13 of the 156 villages have been successful in keeping Covid-19 at bay, according to an ongoing door-to-door survey in rural blocks. Not a single positive case has been detected in these villages since May 15, according to the Gurugram administration data. “Out of the 73 villages in Pataudi block, 48 in Farrukhnagar, and 35 in Sohna, seven, four and two villages, respectively, did not report any Covid-19 case,” said Narendra Sarwan, district development and panchayat officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-villages-in-nuh-manage-to-keep-coronavirus-at-bay-101622905524246.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM launches revamped Mission Tandarust||Exhorting the people to make Punjab clean, green and pollution-free under the revamped Mission Tandarust, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday emphasised the need to develop synergy among all line departments to achieve the desired goals for safer and cleaner environment.The chief minister, who virtually launched the statewide mission on World Environment Day with a slew of development projects worth ₹115 crore, introduced 10 sub-missions spearheaded by separate departments. These sub-missions are Safe Food, Clean Water, Green Punjab, Road Safety, Nutrition, Waste Management, Khedo Punjab, Healthy Soil, Clean Air and Preventive Health.Besides launching a mobile app for the revamped mission, Capt digitally laid the foundation stone of various projects, including sewage treatment plants at Fazilka and Amritsar, dump site remediation at Jalandhar, Ajnala-Goraya and Garhdiwala, and green area development under flyovers and seven parks at Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-launches-revamped-mission-tandarust-101622904564955.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds below 20,000 new cases for 7th straight day; 863 fresh cases in Mumbai||Maharashtra on Saturday continued to see a decline in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 13,659 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 5,819,224, according to the state health department’s bulletin. This is the seventh consecutive day that the daily cases remained below the 20,000-mark. Saturday’s case count is 493 less than that of Friday’s when 14,152 people tested positive for the viral disease.As many as 300 people died while 21,776 recovered in the western state in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll and total recoveries to 99,512 and 5,528,834 respectively, the health department’s bulletin also showed. The recovery rate has climbed to 95.01 per cent and the cumulative figures of active cases have come down to 188,027.The state capital Mumbai, on the other hand, saw 863 cases and 29 deaths in the last 24 hours. The caseload has now climbed to 709,857 including 14,951 deaths. On Friday, 968 cases and 24 more deaths were seen in Mumbai.Also Read| Maharashtra to bring in 5-level unlock plan from Monday: Rules explainedAs the overall Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra has been improving due to the imposition of lockdown-like restrictions since mid-April this year, all cities and districts will be now placed under a five-level unlock plan from June 7 onwards.These five levels of the unlock plan will be based on the Covid-19 positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds in cities and districts. Those areas with less than 5 per cent positivity rate and 25 per cent occupancy of oxygen beds will come under level one. There will be no restrictions in Level 1 areas and several relaxations will be given.Also Read| Maharashtra govt to keep data of kids who get multisystem condition after CovidHowever, those areas with more than 20 per cent positivity rate and over 75 per cent occupancy of oxygen beds will come under level five. Cities and districts in this level will see the strictest curbs and only essential services including shops selling essential items will be allowed to function.Meanwhile, nearly 23.7 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease so far of which 18,940,778 have received the first dose while 4,727,545 have received both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-adds-below-20-000-new-cases-for-7th-straight-day-mumbai-sees-863-new-cases-101622901967983.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Three killed in isolated accidents in Pune in two days||Three people were killed in three separate accidents in Warje, Solapur road, and Hadapsar area of Pune within two days. A 48-year-old woman riding pillion with her husband on a motorbike was killed after a car rammed into them along Pune Solapur highway stretch passing through Uruli Kanchan area of Pune at 6am on Friday. The deceased woman was identified as Lata Pandurang Dudhal, a resident of Shivnagar in Fursungi railway line. A complaint in the matter was lodged by her husband Pandhurang Dudhla (53). This incident happened 10 hours after another man riding pillion with his friend on a scooter was killed after being hit by a car. The deceased man was identified as Chandu Satan Disle (56), a resident of Satavnagar in Handewadi road area of Hadapsar. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Nilesh Pol (33) with whom the now-deceased man was riding near Kalepadal railway gate around 8pm. Disle’s death happened two hours before another accident after a pedestrian was killed due to a two-wheeler rider’s negligence. The accident claimed the life of Shitalraj Vishwas Patil (36), a resident of Karvenagar in Pune. The booked rider was identified as Akshay Dhumal (21), a resident of Mohammadwadi area of Hadapsar. Dhumal was booked for losing his balance and ramming into Patil around 6pm on Saturday along Mumbai-Bangalore highway stretch that passes through Chandani chowk area. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Lonikalbhor, Wanowrie, and Warje police station respectively. While the accused car drivers in the Lonikalbhor and Wanowrie cases are yet to be identified, the two-wheeler rider booked in Warje Malwadi case is undergoing treatment for injuries he sustained in the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-killed-in-isolated-accidents-in-pune-in-two-days-101622903844158.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Army jawan sent to five-day police custody, minor undergoes surgery||The eight-year-old girl, who was allegedly thrown out of a moving train by a serving Indian Army jawan after she raised an alarm about sexual assault, has undergone a surgery in Pune after two more fractures were detected in her legs, according to Sadanand Wayse-Patil, superintendent of police, Government Railway Police (GRP), Pune. “The parents were not happy with the treatment she was getting at Satara Civil hospital. Two more fractures were detected in her right leg. So, we tried to get her to a private hospital. However, since that did not work out, we took her to the military hospital, Wanowrie, Pune. She has undergone surgery and is recovering,” said SP Wayse-Patil. An email seeking a statement about the child’s medical condition has been sent by Hindustan Times to the defence PRO. A response to that email is awaited. The child’s father, a retired Indian Navy staffer, her mother, and two sisters have been provided accommodation by the police in Wanowrie, according to SP Vayse-Patil. Meanwhile, the arrested man has been remanded to police custody until June 8 on Thursday by a local court. In the case registered against him, the police have invoked sections for kidnapping, murder, sexual assault, and attempted murder, according to police sub inspector Rupali Ubale of GRP Pune who is investigating the case. The arrested man was identified as Prabhu Malappa Uphar (33) posted in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh and a native of Sugmadhur village in Belgaum, Karnataka. He was caught by the railway police in Bhusawal area of Pune district on Tuesday afternoon. “He was headed back to the place of his posting after finishing his leave. We have informed his family and the Army officials in Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh where he was posted and heading,” said PSI Ubale. As per the girl’s statement, he took her to the train toilet while she was asleep and tried to sexually assault her while she was still fast asleep. During the assault, she woke up and raised an alarm. The man allegedly told her that he is taking her to her parents and after coming out of the toilet, threw her out of the train, according to the complaint. The girl was found lying near the railway tracks in Lonand, Satara. “He is not co-operating in the investigation or eating anything. However, we have started going to the states and places where the other passengers alighted the train and recording their statements,” said SP Vayse-Patil. A case under Sections 364 (kidnapping for murder), 376 (sexual assault), 376(ab) (rape of woman under the age of 12), 307 (attempted murder) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4, 8, 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was registered at GRP police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/army-jawan-sent-to-five-day-police-custody-minor-undergoes-surgery-101622903724190.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Builder shot at by unidentified assailants near Chandni Chowk||A sub-contractor from Pune was shot at by four unidentified bike-borne men in Chandani Chowk area of Pune on Saturday morning. The incident happened near Dukkar Khind area around 9:30am. The assailants allegedly fired over four rounds at him. The builder, who escaped without an injury from the attack, was identified as Ravindra Sakharam Sangude (41). The police are on a lookout for the four men who sped towards Katraj area of Pune. “He does plot work and is a sub-contractor for road works. There are no suspects yet,” said senior police inspector Shankar Khatke of Warje Malwadi police station. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Arms Act is being registered at Warje Malwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/builder-shot-at-by-unidentified-assailants-near-chandni-chowk-101622903664091.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Covid norms flouted as Punekars throng city markets, roads on weekend||PUNE Even though non-essential shops were closed on the weekend, huge crowds were seen in the city, and peth areas, on Saturday, till 2pm as many ventured out for shopping.State government order clearly stated that non-essential shops will remain close over the weekend, but there was confusion among many shop keepers.“I went out to take a mobile cover, I did not realise, non-essential shops will be closed. I managed to get a mobile cover from the shop which was functioning partially (keeping half shutter open) at Navi peth,” said Gaurav Deshmukh, a city resident.At Kasba peth, many were seen without face masks and flouting social distancing norms.Manish Gaware, who has a milk shop said, “Since last week more people come out for morning walks and even for purchasing milk and other essentials. Earlier one member of the family used to come out, now the entire family is out for shopping even for essential items.”The situation was not much different at Paud phata.“Crowd is more than last weekend. After 3pm we will take action against people who venture out without any valid reason,” said, Tulsiram Gawari, traffic police who was on duty at Paud Phata.At Baner, many grocery shops continued to operate while maintaining social distancing norms.“Home deliveries orders have gone down and people have started visiting our shops like normal days,” said Sunder Sunish from Mamta Super Market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-norms-flouted-as-punekars-throng-city-markets-roads-on-weekend-101622903544065.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt gives ₹1 crore financial aid to deceased Covid-19 warrior's kin||Delhi government on Saturday provided financial assistance of ₹1 crore to the family of late "Corona warrior" Deep Chand, a Deputy Assistant of Rajiv Gandhi Hospital Corona Ward, who lost his life during Corona service.Deep Chand got infected while on duty.While offering aid to the family of Deep Chand, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said he has given one crore rupees to the family of Corona Warrior, who succumbed to the disease."I pray to God to give courage to the whole family. It is also a matter of pride that without caring about his life, he kept serving the people," said Jain.On the shortage of vaccines in Delhi, Jain said the central government has done this deliberately. The central government takes half of the vaccines and then gives 25 per cent to the state government and 25 per cent to the private bodies.Jain said, "Delhi government is giving the vaccines free of cost, but we do not have the vaccines. Those who are investing money, only they are getting it. It is wrong."The minister said that it is only the central government that is giving these hospitals the vaccine at different prices, some are giving doses at ₹600, while some are giving doses at ₹1,000, the same vaccine is being found at different rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-gives-rs-1-crore-financial-aid-to-deceased-covid-19-warrior-s-kin-101622902891307.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrests criminal from UP for murder in national capital||The Delhi Police has arrested a criminal from Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly killing a woman in the national capital over a monetary dispute, officials said on Saturday.Chetan Pandey, a resident of Palam Colony, was involved in more than 100 incidents of snatching and robbery in Delhi and Uttarakhand, police said.Pandey killed Jyoti outside her house in southwest Delhi’s Sagarpur area on May 5 after she refused to return the money that she had borrowed from him and also ignored his repeated phone calls, police said.Complainant Sabran Kaur, a resident of Main Sagarpur, reported that she received a call from her nephew, Veer (12), who informed her that two people had shot his mother, Jyoti, police said.When Kaur reached the spot, she found the duo including Pandey with pistols in their hands and Jyoti’s body on the ground. They pointed the weapon towards Kaur and threatened her of dire consequences if she revealed their identities before fleeing, the complainant told police.On May 7 at around 12.30pm, police managed to trace the accused and while trying to arrest them, the duo attacked the cops and Pandey managed to escape.However, his companion and co-accused, Rahul, a resident of Najafgarh, received a bullet injury and was apprehended.With the help of technical surveillance, police traced Pandey to Kinoni village in Muzaffarnagar, Uttar Pradesh, a senior police officer said."Police rushed to Kinoni village and nabbed the accused after a brief scuffle when he was going towards Haridwar to meet one of his relatives," Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said.During interrogation, the accused disclosed that he used to commit snatching with his associates. He was arrested but came out of jail in February 2021 and started snatching in Sagarpur and Palam areas, police said.On the day of the incident, he along with his associate went to Jyoti’s home where she started quarreling with them, following which they opened fire, police said.After the incident, he fled to Rudrapur in Uttarakhand where his girlfriend lives. Later, he went to Uttar Pradesh from where he was arrested, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-arrests-criminal-from-up-for-murder-in-national-capital-101622902729597.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Building permission department orders relocation of three labour camps||In the wake of some major wall collapse incidents involving fatalities in the city, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) building permissions department has order shifting of three labour camps to safer places on grounds of safety and issued notices for carrying out wall repairs at four places in the city. According to the engineering department officials, the places are located in Ahmednagar road and Kharadi areas of the city. The department officials carried out a survey of 300 spots during the months of April and May which led to the revelation that the three labour spots need to be shifted and four places needed wall repairs on a priority basis. Superintendent engineer (building permission) department Rajendra Raut said that during the survey we found that four spots had weak walls and directions were issued for their repairs and at the same time three labour camps have been asked to be shifted for safety and security. “Notices have been issued and we are closely monitoring the situation as we are already into monsoon season. The survey started in April and continued till May where various discrepancies were detected and action is being taken in the larger interests of citizen safety,” he said. The PMC also carried out demolition of 33 old and dilapidated wadas as part of its safe monsoon for citizens’ initiative. According to Raut, demolition is being done to those structure which were completely dilapidated and needed urgent action. According to the building permissions department, there are many old ‘wadas’ in the central suburbs of Pune. In the last one month, PMC has demolished 33 wadas. According to the officials , there are 211 wadas that could be dangerous if not repaired immediately, of which 150 places have been repaired. Notices have been issued to 115 wada owners till date. The Bombay High Court in 2020 directed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to file an affidavit stating the reasons and details of frequent collapse of retaining walls by various developers, causing injuries and fatalities of construction workers and other person, in the last three years. The court also asked the civic body to explain whether it has taken steps to ensure already-constructed walls were built as per safety standards. A division bench of Justice S J Kathawalla and Justice R I Chagla had, on September 8, passed directions while hearing through videoconference three pleas filed by AlconGroup, a real estate firm which had challenged the stop-work notices issued by the PMC following the Kondhwawall collapse in June 2019. On June 29, a 60-feet-high wall of a residential complex in Kondhwa had collapsed on some tin sheds, killing 17labourers, including children, who were working on the construction site and living there temporarily. On July 2, six construction workers were killed in their sleep and four others injured when a boundary wall collapsed and buried their shanties in Pune’s Ambegaon due to incessant rains. The FIRs were lodged in both the case and currently the matter is in the court. An offence was lodged at Kondhwa police station under IPC sections 304(culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 34 (common intention) where in the two builders — identified as Vivek Agarwal (32) and his brother Vipul (32)were arrested late on June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/building-permission-department-orders-relocation-of-three-labour-camps-101622903304143.html
05-06-2021||Pune||PM Modi launches ethanol dispensing stations in Pune||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched through a video conference three E100 ethanol dispensing stations in Pune under a pilot project on the occasion of World Environment Day. One of the ethanol dispensing stations has come up at Samgamwadi petrol pump, another at Chowisawadi village and third at Wesley road. During the event, Modi said that last year, oil companies spent ₹21,000 crore on ethanol procurement. Besides helping the environment, the focus on ethanol is also leaving a positive impact on the lives of farmers. Modi said that ethanol has become one of the major priorities of 21st century India. He added that the focus on ethanol is having a better impact on the environment as well as on the lives of farmers. The Prime Minister also said that the government has resolved to meet the target of 20 per cent ethanol blending in petrol by 2025. Earlier, the resolve was to achieve the target by 2030 which is now preponed by five years. He added that till 2014, on an average, only 1.5 percent of ethanol could be blended in India which has now reached about 8.5 percent. In 2013-14, about 38 crore litres of ethanol were purchased in the country which has now grown to more than 320 crore litres. Modi further added saying a large part of this eightfold increase in ethanol procurement has benefitted the sugarcane farmers of the country During the event, the PM interacted with a farmer from Pune who shared his experience of organic farming and the use of biofuel in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pm-modi-launches-ethanol-dispensing-stations-in-pune-101622903244061.html
05-06-2021||Pune||BJP’s office bearer demands audit of digging work after opposition raises alarm||From the last few days, Pune city is witnessing pre-monsoon showers which are showing road resentment at work reality. Until now, opposition parties are highlighting substandard and incomplete digging work. The ruling party-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) office bearer demanded an audit of the work and filed cases against contractors for not completing work in time. Sandeep Khardekar is a BJP Pune city spokesperson and also founder of the Creative foundation and his wife Manjusha is party corporator and representing Karvenagar area. He has written a letter to PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar and attached some photographs which are showing incomplete work and damaged service lines. Khardekar said, “I visited different places in the Karvenagar area, and I found that most of the work is incomplete one. In Girija Shankar Vihar and K52 area, the contractors have not completed work and it has damaged service lines such telephone and water lines. It has not restored yet and residents are facing a problem.” He has also raised the point of deadline of complete work and actual permission of digging roads for laying service lines and actual digging work and demanded an audit of work. Local corporator Manjusha Khardekar said, “The work is going on at snail’s pace. The digging work is also carried out. We are following up the issue with PMC officials to complete work. But they are giving excuses of rain and shortage of workers. In our areas, pre-monsoon nullah cleaning work is also going on and it is not also over.” On the other hand, Prashant Jagtap, Pune city president of Nationalist Congress party (NCP) and corporator made allegations on the BJP. He said, “After the monsoon is over, the PMC takes major development work related to laying down water, drainage lines and laying underground cables. The deadline to complete work is May 15. After that, the PMC carries out restoration work and pre-monsoon work which are supposed to be completed as per the deadline of May 31 every year.” He further added, “In a poll-bound year, BJP sanctioned ₹400 to ₹500 crore work of water and drainage department and allowed digging permission to private cable companies for their financial interest which is delaying pre-monsoon work and people have to face problems of incomplete work across the city.” Meanwhile, additional municipal commissioner Kunal Khemanar has issued an order to the road department and zonal commissioners to carry out inspection of work and audit the contractor work which should be completed before monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjps-office-bearer-demands-audit-of-digging-work-after-opposition-raises-alarm-101622903184126.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi University to set up centre to revive state’s ecology||The Punjabi University has decided to set up a centre for revival of ecology in the state at its campus in Patiala.Vice-chancellor Prof Arvind made the announcement on World Environment Day on Saturday. He said the centre aims at multi-institutional and multi-dimensional research so that required efforts can be made to preserve the ecosystem in Punjab.“The centre will have a component of rural entrepreneurship, which will be responsible for the eco-restoration of Punjab’s Malwa belt,” he said. On the occasion, the department of zoology and environmental sciences organised a webinar on the theme “Ecosystem Restoration: Reimagine, Recreate and Restore”. Prof Mewa Singh of the University of Mysore was the keynote speaker. He stressed on the importance of conservation in the Indian context, especially the management of forest and urban wildlife species. Environmentalist Baba Sewa Singh talked about the role of coexistence, with all species being interdependent on each other. Punjab Pollution Control Board chairman SS Marwaha raised the alarm regarding the disposal of PPE kits during the Covid-19 outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-university-to-set-up-centre-to-revive-state-s-ecology-101622901744524.html
05-06-2021||Kolkata||One person, one post: Mamata Banerjee chalks up new decree for Trinamool Congress||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has chalked up a new rule for the Trinamool Congress (TMC), wherein a member of the party will be allowed to hold only one party post at any given time, TMC sources informed Hindustan Times Bangla. The development was confirmed by party leader Partha Chatterjee at a press meet in Kolkata on Saturday, where he also announced a series of reshuffles in party positions. He also announced that Mamata's nephew Abhishek Banerjee, who earlier held the post of the Trinamool Youth Congress president, has now been appointed as the party's national general secretary."Our party chief Mamata Banerjee has nominated MP Abhishek Banerjee as the all-India general secretary of the TMC," Chatterjee said, following two crucial meetings earlier in the day. Abhishek Banerjee will be replacing party leader Subrata Bakshi as the national general secretary.Also Read: Mamata's nephew Abhishek Banerjee appointed as Trinamool general secretaryOf course, the new rule could also mean that Mamata Banerjee would have to give up either one of the posts she currently occupies -- that of the chief minister of West Bengal or the Trinamool Congress supremo -- since she herself occupies two of these posts, HT Bangla reported.Partha Chatterjee, a former state minister, also announced other appointments to party posts. Trinamool leader Kunal Ghosh has been appointed as the party's state general secretary, while Abhishek's earlier post, that of the president of the Trinamool Youth Congress, went to TMC leader and actor Saayoni Ghosh.Trinamool Congress was reported to have faced a personnel crisis in the run-up to the West Bengal legislative assembly elections earlier this year. While several turncoat leaders, including Mamata's close aide Suvendu Adhikari, abandoned the party to join the BJP shortly before the elections, many other leaders were seen grabbing on to at least two party posts. This led to the building up of resentment among longtime party workers. According to TMC sources, Mamata's new rule, when enforced, is meant to address this issue of resentment and is expected to lead to better intra-party governance, keeping the administration and party leadership separate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/one-person-one-post-mamata-banerjee-chalks-up-new-decree-for-trinamool-congress-101622899675036.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD chief Badal to meet Punjab guv, seek dismissal of state govt over 'vaccine profiteering'||Mounting a sharp attack on the Congress government in Punjab over an alleged "vaccine profiteering scam", Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday accused it of "trying to make money at the cost of people" in the situation created by Covid-19 and demanded its dismissal.Badal today said that he will meet Punjab Governor VP Singh Badnore to demand the dismissal of the Congress government.The SAD leader said if needed, his party would approach the court for probe into the decision to sell vaccines to private hospitals. Badal had earlier demanded High Court-monitored probe in the alleged scam. Following uproar and backlash, Punjab government on Saturday withdrew its order providing "one-time limited vaccine doses to 18-44 age group population through private hospitals"."We are going to meet the Governor. We are going to approach the Court that this scam needs to be examined. All decision-makers need to be prosecuted and I would urge the Governor to dismiss this government," Badal said.The former Punjab deputy chief minister told ANI that officials, ministers or the chief minister, "no one can't wash their hands off from the scam".Badal also accused the state government of giving a false number of Covid-19 deaths. "While the official count of deaths is 15000, the unofficial figure would be between 50,000 to 60,000. The Chief Minister should cut down on other expenditures and go from village to village, town to town to get everyone vaccinated," he said.Badal slammed Punjab health minister BS Sidhu for his remarks that he the SAD leader had got "vaccine worth ₹62,000 administered" after he tested positive for Covid-19.Badal said he is disgusted at the remarks of the minister."He needs to be sacked immediately. A case should be registered against him for big financial scam of profiteering from vaccines which were being given to private people," the SAD leader said."He (Sidhu) may mock because he knows the ground realities," Badal said, adding that vaccines were being provided "at a hefty amount" in Punjab."I have been raising this issue. private hospitals charging in lakhs. There is no oxygen available and the government isn't doing anything. How can he mock?" he asked.The MP from Ferozepur also expressed his disappointment at the Centre's handling of Covid-19 situation, saying people had faced shortage of oxygen, medicines and vaccines."Government of India has completely failed in dealing with the second wave of Covid-19. And I don't think they have any plan to tackle the third wave as well. The Centre should learn from western countries how they handled Covid-19. Everyone wants to take financial advantage of the situation," Badal alleged.He said Covid-19 situation "is quite grim" especially in the rural areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-chief-badal-hits-out-at-punjab-govt-over-vaccine-profiteering-101622899037049.html
05-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 478 new Covid-19 cases, 13 fresh fatalities||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 3,40,408 on Saturday as 478 more people tested positive for the infection, while 13 fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 5,034, a health bulletin said.East Singbhum district reported the highest number of new cases at 102, followed by Dhanbad (43) and Simdega (42).Ranchi and East Singbhum districts registered the highest number of fresh fatalities at three each.Jharkhand now has 6,832 active Covid-19 cases, while 3,28,542 people have recovered from the disease to date, including 1,170 in the last 24 hours.The recovery rate among the coronavirus patients in the state has improved to 96.51 per cent, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-478-new-covid-19-cases-13-fresh-fatalities-101622898735075.html
05-06-2021||Bangalore||1,784 Covid-19 patients caught black fungus in Karnataka, 62 recovered||As many as 1,784 cases of mucormycosis (also known as 'black fungus') have till now been reported in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients in Karnataka, said state health minister Dr. K Sudhakar on Saturday, adding that 62 patients have recovered from the disease so far. Karnataka has reported a recent surge in cases of mucormycosis, a disease that happens due to a fungus called mucormycetes which can enter the body through breathing or skin injuries.Mucormycosis, or black fungus, is a rare but serious type of fungal infection that requires medication or removal surgery. It is being reported among people who have recovered from Covid-19, as the virus potentially weakens the body’s immune response. The rate is much higher among those with diabetes or those who have taken steroids during Covid-19 treatment.Also Read: Black fungus cases cross 200 mark in Chandigarh hospitalsReporting the number of cases of black fungus infection, the Karnataka health minister provided some vital details regarding the state government's means to tackle the disease. "So far, we have received 18,650 vials of Amphotericin B," he said, talking about the key anti-fungal drug used in the treatment of mucormycosis.The Karnataka state government is also considering including black fungus treatment under the 'Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka' scheme.Also Read: Amphotericin-B: States race against time to procure mucormycosis drugBlack fungus can be fatal if left untreated and requires several vials of Amphotericin-B to be administered to the patient, according to doctors. Treatment protocol says that when mucormycosis infects the nose, sinus, or palate, doctors will administer a 5mg dose of Amphotericin B per kilogram (kg) of body weight. For example, if a person weighs 60kgs, he would require 300mg of the dose. Each vial has 50mg of the drug. Hence, a patient suffering from the disease will require six vials which costs ₹60,000 on a daily basis. If the infection reaches the brain, doctors have to administer 8-10mg per kilogram of the patient’s body weight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/1784-covid-19-patients-caught-black-fungus-in-karnataka-62-recovered-101622896884350.html
05-06-2021||Bhopal||World Environment Day: Need building permission, plant a tree, says MP CM||Planting a tree will be mandatory to get permission from civic bodies in Madhya Pradesh for construction of buildings, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Saturday on the occasion of World Environment Day.Addressing an event online to mark the day, the CM said the tree can be planted near one's home, or parks, schools, panchayat bhawans etc."In MP, building permission will be given on the mandatory clause that a tree be planted, even for constructing a house. Plant a tree near your home, or park, schools, panchayat bhawan etc," he said."This clause will be mandatory even if a house is being built under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/world-environment-day-need-building-permission-plant-a-tree-says-mp-cm-101622897475563.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro announces plan to resume services, train frequency to be normal from June 9||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Saturday announced that Metro services in the national capital would be opened for the general public with only 50 per cent seating capacity from Monday, June 7. “In the wake of revised guidelines issued today by the Govt. of NCT of Delhi; on the extension of Curfew in Delhi for the containment of Covid-19, the Delhi Metro services will be resumed for general public from 7th June 2021 with 50% seating capacity only,” DMRC said in a tweet.DMRC Services UpdateIn the wake of revised guidelines issued today by the Govt. of NCT of Delhi; on the extension of Curfew in Delhi for the containment of Covid-19, the Delhi Metro services will be resumed for general public from 7th June 2021 with 50% seating capacity only.“On Monday, only half of the available trains will be inducted into service with a frequency ranging from approx. 5 to 15 min on different Lines,” it said in a subsequent tweet.Earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a slew of relaxations in the lockdown and said that the Delhi Metro will begin its services from Monday.Also read | Delhi eases lockdown rules. What will open from MondayWhat changes from June 7 ?Delhi Metro would operate with only 50 per cent of the seating capacity in its trains from Monday. Also, only half of the available trains would be inducted into the service on the day. The frequency of trains on Monday would range from 5 minutes to 15 minutes on different lines, the DMRC said.However, the number of trains would be increased to full strength “in a graded manner” by Wednesday following which the services would be operated at normal frequency, which was available before the lockdown.Advisory to passengersThe DMRC also asked all passengers to plan their daily commute by allocating some extra time to accommodate the 50 per cent seating capacity inside the trains and also to ensure social distancing. “In order to ensure social distancing and compliance to 50% seating inside trains, public is also advised to take extra time for their daily commute and exhibit Covid appropriate behaviour outside the stations also while waiting for their turn to enter the station,” it tweeted on Saturday.In order to ensure social distancing and compliance to 50% seating inside trains, public is also advised to take extra time for their daily commute and exhibit Covid appropriate behaviour outside the stations also while waiting for their turn to enter the station.Watch | ‘Markets to open on odd-even basis; metro to run at 50 % capacity: Delhi CMIt also stressed the need for Covid appropriate behaviour inside and outside the metro stations, as the services would resume on Monday.“Entry at stations will continue to be regulated through identified gates as was the practice earlier. DMRC is also writing to authorities for maintenance of law & order outside stations to handle the extra rush as services resume from Monday in the ongoing pandemic scenario,” the DMRC said in another tweet.Meanwhile, the national capital recorded 414 new infections of the coronavirus disease on the day, as 60 people lost their lives to the infection, a health department bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-announces-plan-to-resume-services-train-frequency-to-be-normal-from-june-9-101622895805225.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt asks pvt hospitals to return vaccine stock after Centre's criticism||Amid severe criticism from the Centre and Shiromani Akali Dal for allegedly selling Covid vaccines to private hospitals at higher prices, the Punjab government on Friday instructed the private hospitals to return the remaining available stock.The development comes after Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu while responding to allegations by the opposition about Covid-19 vaccines being sold to private hospitals by the state government for profit, assured that he will definitely initiate an inquiry. The minister on Saturday stated that private hospitals have been instructed to return all vaccine doses available to them.Sidhu along with the Nodal office for Vaccination of the state, Vikas Garg held a press conference and, "Total 42,000 doses of covid vaccine have been allotted to private hospitals and only 600 doses inoculated. We have instructed private hospitals to return all vaccine doses available to them, and the doses they have used has to be returned once they got supplies from manufacturers. We will refund the amount deposited by the private hospitals."Punjab government also issued a withdrawal order yesterday which said, "The order of providing one-time limited vaccine doses to 18-44 years age group population through private hospital has not been taken in the right spirit is hereby withdrawn."Earlier Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal had raised the issue in Chandigarh on Thursday. He had said, "The covid vaccine is available but the Punjab govt is selling it to private hospitals. Punjab govt is getting vaccines at ₹400 but selling them to private hospitals at ₹1060. And private hospitals is administering vaccine on higher prices."SAD President S Sukhbir Singh Badal will hold a two-hour dharna at the residence of Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on June 7 to demand his resignation and a CBI inquiry into the unethical and illegal sale of Covid vaccine, informed party leader Daljit Singh Cheema.He stated that all MLAs, Ex MLAs and District Presidents will join the sit-in demonstration."We demand the resignation of Punjab Health Minister regarding this matter of which he wasn't aware of. We also demand an inquiry of this matter. Our senior leadership along with Sukhbir Singh Badal will hold protest for 2 hours at his house in Mohali and will demand his resignation and if he doesn't resign then we will request the Governor to dismiss him, it is the biggest scam of Punjab," said the leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-asks-pvt-hospitals-to-return-vaccine-stock-after-centre-s-criticism-101622891599810.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Oxygen storage capacity, genome labs: How Delhi will prep to deal with Covid-19 peak of 37,000 cases a day||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday his government is preparing to deal with a potential third wave of Covid-19 as he also announced a partial easing of the ongoing lockdown in the Capital. Delhi is also preparing for oxygen storage capacity and will set up genome sequencing labs to study coronavirus variants, Kejriwal said in a virtual press conference.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader said a paediatric task force will be set up to decide the number of beds, ICU facilities and other equipment needed for children, who experts apprehend are likely to be affected in the third wave. A team of experts and doctors will prescribe useful medicines and a buffer stock of Covid medicines will be created, he said. They will also recommend the Delhi government from time to time about which medicines work and avoid panic and rumours among people.Also read | Delhi eases lockdown rules. What will open from Monday"We are making arrangements considering a peak of 37,000 cases in mind… A storage capacity of 420 tonnes of oxygen is being created. Indraprastha Gas Limited has been asked to set up a plant to produce 150 tonnes of oxygen,” Kejriwal said. “Twenty-five oxygen tankers are being brought and 64 small oxygen plants are being established. Buffer stocks of potential medicines will be made,” he added.Also watch | ‘Markets to open on odd-even basis; Metro to run at 50% capacity: Delhi CMIts peak was 28,395 Covid-19 cases on April 20. Hospitals in Delhi struggled to provide oxygen cylinders and beds to Covid-19 patients as infections surged but the wave began subsiding from the middle of May.Also read | E-commerce services to resume in Delhi, starting June 7The Delhi chief minister also said the AAP-led government will set up the two genome sequencing labs at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital and the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences to determine the coronavirus variant that led to a surge in cases in the city.Also read | Govt, private offices can open in Delhi: CM Arvind KejriwalDelhi on Saturday recorded 414 fresh Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate dropped further to 0.5 per cent. On Friday, Delhi recorded 523 Covid-19 cases and 50 deaths while the positivity rate stood at 0.68 per cent, according to health departments bulletin. The infection rate, which reached 36 per cent in the last week of April, has fallen below 1 per cent, it showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-storage-capacity-genome-labs-how-delhi-will-tackle-next-covid-peak-101622890666532.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi's daily Covid-19 tally declines further with 414 new cases, positivity rate comes down to 0.53%||Delhi on Saturday witnessed a further dip in the number of new cases reported in a day, as 414 people contracted the coronavirus disease and 60 people succumbed, according to the health department’s bulletin. The new additions took the coronavirus caseload of the Capital to 1,428,863 and the death toll to 24,557, the bulletin showed.The fall in the new infections comes after the Capital on Friday reported 523 Covid-19 cases and as many as 50 deaths. Delhi's health bulletin on Saturday also showed there was a slight respite as the case positivity rate fell as low as 0.53 per cent. The positivity rate hiked to 0.68 per cent on Friday from 0.61 per cent a day before.Also read: Oxygen storage capacity, genome labs. How Delhi will tackle next Covid peakThe number of active cases in Delhi also saw a major decrease, as it currently stands at 6,731 in contrast to the previous day's count of 8,060. More than 1,600 people recovered from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, as per the health bulletin.In the last 24 hours, 77,694 samples were tested for the coronavirus disease in Delhi. Of the tests conducted in the last day, more than 55,000 were RTPCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests, while 22,059 rapid antigen tests were done to identify the viral infection load in the national capital, according to the health department's dashboardThe case fatality rate of Delhi, however, saw a marginal increase from 1.71 per cent to 1.72 per cent on Saturday, as the number of fatalities reported in the last 24 hours rose by 10.Noting the declining trend in the positivity rate in the Capital, the Delhi government, earlier in the day, announced partials relaxations for the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown. The government decided to resume Metro services at 50 per cent seating capacity, reopen markets, malls on an odd-even basis on alternate days and liquor shops from Monday, June 7. However, the Covid curfew has been extended for another week to break the chain of transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-tally-declines-further-with-414-new-cases-positivity-rate-comes-down-to-053-101622890294791.html
05-06-2021||Other||Tutor held for sexually abusing a student in Bharatpur||A 32-year-old tutor was on Saturday arrested for disrobing and inappropriately touching his nine-year-old student in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur a day earlier.Manish Sharma, a local police officer, said they have booked the tutor under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) and sent the girl for medical examination and recorded her statement before a magistrate.The accused, who fled the area after the matter came to light, was later arrested and presented before a court, which sent him in judicial custody, Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tutor-held-for-sexually-abusing-a-student-in-bharatpur-101622889564043.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Liquor stores to open on odd-even basis, restaurants to remain closed: Delhi govt clarifies on Covid relaxations||The Delhi government on Saturday issued a clarification about the relaxations issued during the ongoing lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The government said that liquor shops in the national capital will open on an odd-even basis from Monday, June 7, according to the clarifications. Restaurants and bars, even if they are in markets and shopping malls, will continue to remain closed. Gymnasiums, spas, salons, parlours and cinema halls will also not open. However, revenue services such as registries can operate during the unlock process in the national capital.Also Read| Delhi unlocks: Metro to be back on track from MondayEarlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the relaxations for some sectors amid the ongoing lockdown, which was first imposed on April 19 when Delhi was seeing its worst health crisis and was recording 23,000-28,000 Covid-19 cases daily. “Lockdown will continue with more relaxation in other activities,” Kejriwal said while addressing a press briefing.Markets and shopping malls will open on an odd-even basis from 10am to 8pm from June 7, Delhi Metro will operate at 50 per cent of its capacity and private and government offices will be allowed to reopen with 50 per cent attendance, Kejriwal said during the briefing and suggested that people employed in private offices should prefer working from home (WFH).Also Read| Delhi eases lockdown rules. What will open from MondayThe unlock process first started on May 31, where labourers working in factories and construction sites were allowed to resume work after six long weeks. According to the Delhi government, labourers come under the weakest economic sections and needed to work.Delhi has so far recorded 1,428,863 Covid-19 cases and 24,557 deaths due to the coronavirus disease. On Saturday, the daily tally in the national capital declined further with 414 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the health department’s bulletin. The number of people who have recovered is nearing 1.4 million, while active cases have declined to 6,731.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/liquor-stores-in-delhi-to-open-on-odd-even-basis-restaurants-to-remain-closed-101622887938866.html
05-06-2021||Patna||‘Bihar ranks top from the bottom’: Lalu Prasad Yadav hits out at Nitish Kumar over state's Niti Aayog SDG Index ranking||Bihar former chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav hit out at the Nitish Kumar led-state government over Bihar’s ranking in the Niti Aayog Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) index 2020-21. Yadav blamed Nitish Kumar and the Bharatiya Janata Party’s efforts and negative politics of 16 years for the reason for Bihar’s low rankings.“As a result of Nitish-BJP’s 16 years of relentless efforts and negative politics Bihar ranks top from the bottom,” Yadav tweeted on Saturday.“The ones who used to cry about the alleged jungle raj have lost their tongue and are now hiding. Bihar can be annihilated but they cannot tolerate socio-economic justice,” he added.The NITI Aayog SDG index evaluates the progress of states and Union Territories on the basis of various parameters like health, education, economic growth, institutions, gender, climate change, and environment. In the latest index, released on Thursday, Kerala retained the top rank with a score of 75, while Bihar was declared to be the worst-performing state with a low score of 52.Yadav further hit out at the ‘double engine’ coalition government of Janata Dal (United) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state, accusing Kumar of closing down health care centres opened during his tenure, and turning them into ghost houses. “It is only because of this that Bihar has ranked the top from the bottom in the NITI Ayog report,” he added."The so-called double engine (government) has turned into a trouble engine," the Rashtriya Janata Dal president tweeted in Hindi.The current leader of the opposition, RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav too hit out at the state government over the low rankings."Bihar has been placed at the bottom for the third consecutive year. This sums up the 16-year BJP-Nitish rule's progress on paper," Tejashwi tweeted.JD(U) leader and spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan accepted the Niti Ayog rankings and told PTI that Bihar’s condition would have been better if the state had received special state status during the RJD and Congress regime.“Yes, I accept but if Bihar had special status then the situation of Bihar would have been different and for this situation of Bihar RJD and Congress are responsible." PTI said quoting Ranjan.Ranjan also hit out at Yadav, alleging that during his tenure all discussions about Bihar revolved only around crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-ranks-top-from-the-bottom-lalu-prasad-yadav-hits-out-at-nitish-kumar-over-state-s-ranking-in-niti-aayog-sdg-index-101622888288488.html
05-06-2021||Noida||Two arrested in UP for stealing data from finance firm, diverting customers' EMI||Uttar Pradesh police of Noida sector-58 have arrested two people for stealing data from a finance company and then diverting the Equated monthly installments (EMIs) of customers to their personal accounts.The two accused, residents of Bihar, on the pretext of being representatives of Rhino Finance Private Limited obtained Equated monthly installments (EMIs) of customers and deposited them into their own accounts, said Ranvijay Singh, Additional Commissioner of Police(ADCP) Gautam Budh Nagar."We have arrested two people and recovered computers and their accessories, along with ATM cards and several mobile phones. They used to call customers from the database of the finance company and thereafter collect their EMIs from them," the ADCP told ANI.The accused named in the case are Rahul and Guddu Kumar, who were arrested from Uttam Nagar in Delhi."After verification, it has been confirmed that they have been doing transactions of huge amounts of money," said Singh.The police have seized several items of the two accused which include 1 printer, 8 CPUs, 8 monitors, 6 keyboards, 4 mouse, 1 WiFi connector, 10 mobile phones, 12 ATM cards, 2 visiting cards, their ID cards, and a checkbook among some other things."We will soon arrest their accomplices," the ADCP assured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-arrested-in-up-for-stealing-data-from-finance-firm-diverting-customers-emi-101622884087809.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi high court bars entities from misusing 'Khadi' brand in beauty pageants||Private entities involved in organising beauty pageants and other business activities by illegally using the brand name "Khadi" of Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) have been restrained by the Delhi High Court from carrying out any "misleading" activities in the name of Khadi.The Noida-based 'Khadi Design Council of India' (KDCI) and 'Miss India Khadi Foundation' (MIKF) were accused by the KVIC of fraudulently using the brand name and deceiving people.In an ex-parte order, the high court said the names of the two entities were "deceptively similar" to the KVIC's trademark 'Khadi' and hence, amounted to a violation of the trademark.The high court also directed the defendants -- 'Khadi Design Council of India', 'Miss India Khadi Foundation' and its self-proclaimed CEO Ankush Anami -- to take down all their social media accounts on Instagram, YouTube, and Facebook under the tradename 'Khadi Design Council of India' and 'Miss India Khadi'.It also ordered taking down infringing content from their websites -- www.missindiskhadi.in and www.kdci.org -- and an e-commerce portal www.paridhaanam.com run by Anami -- that is analogous to KVIC's e-portal.The high court accepted the arguments of the KVIC that the defendants' websites and social media pages have been scripted and structured in a manner that gives the impression that they are the same as the KVIC or they are part of a government body providing the same services as the Khadi India."The same demonstrates the serious bad faith on part of the defendants and their intention to mislead the consumers and ride on the plaintiff's goodwill," the KVIC alleged.The KVIC alleged that the private entities were planning and advertising two events titled 'Miss India Khadi' and 'National Khadi Designers Awards, 2019' in Goa from December 19 to 22, 2020, and thus creating a false impression that the events are organized by the KVIC.Further, the defendant KDCI was duping people by promising 'Khadi Certification' to fashion designers and charging ₹2,000 per head in lieu of that and they also claimed to be associated with KVIC's Prime Minister's Employment Generation Program (PMEGP) on their website www.missindiakhadi.in which contained a hyperlink to the KVIC's PMEGP page.Taking note of KVIC's contention, Justice Sanjeev Narula said, "The plaintiff (KVIC) has established a prima facie case in its favour... An irreparable loss would be caused to the plaintiff, i.e. KVIC in case an ex-parte interim injunction is not granted.""Accordingly, till the next date of hearing, the defendants are restrained manufacturing, advertising or providing any kind of goods or services under the trademark 'Khadi'... Further, the defendants are directed to take down their Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube pages under the mark tradename 'Khadi Design Council of India' and 'Miss India Khadi', and the infringing content from their websites being www.paridhaanam.com, www.kdci.org and www.missindiakhadi.in," the judge said in the recent order.KVIC Chairman Vinai Kumar Saxena welcomed the court order saying this would deter individuals and firms from illegally using brand name Khadi and luring people on false promises."The activities of 'Khadi Design Council of India' and 'Miss India Khadi' is a clear case of duping people using the name of 'Khadi'. These entities have no connection or affiliation with Khadi at all. Those who have been duped must seek a refund and lodge a complaint against these fraud entities," Saxena said.It is pertinent to mention that KVIC, in recent times, has won several cases against violation of its trademark 'Khadi'.An arbitration tribunal in Delhi last month had said that 'Khadi' was not a generic name to be used by private individuals or firms while permanently restraining an individual from using the brand name 'Khadi'.In March this year, the Delhi High Court had also restrained a firm from using the brand name Khadi and the charkha symbol to sell its products under the name "IWEARKHADI".The KVIC in the last few years has acted tough against such violators. So far, the KVIC has issued legal notices to over 1,000 private firms, including Fabindia, for misusing its brand name and selling products under the name of Khadi.The KVIC has sought damages to the tune of ₹500 crore from Fabindia which is pending before the Mumbai High Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-bars-entities-from-misusing-khadi-brand-in-beauty-pageants-101622883705343.html
05-06-2021||Other||Odia Dalit rapper’s Oxford dream inches closer to reality due to crowdfunding||27-year-old Odia Dalit student’s dream to study at Oxford University is now closer to reality after a fundraising effort to finance his course fees met with an unprecedented response, HT has learnt. Sumit Turuk from Maoist-affected Narayanpatna block of Koraput district in Odisha was selected by St Anthony’s College of UK’s Oxford University to pursue an M.Sc programme in Modern South Asian Studies. “I reach out to you because I have run out of options to pay for this opportunity. The total sum of course fees, college community charge and college deposit come to 26240 pound sterling, equivalent to 27,13,480 Indian Rupees. I have to submit a financial declaration for the same by June 30, 2021. As the fees have been raised, I am now also hoping to work part-time to secure my living expenses and other costs, but I would appreciate having a headstart on this. Any contribution will help, and I sincerely thank you if you can spread this campaign, move it through your networks or help in any other way,” he posted on the fundraising site.The programme is a 12-month master’s degree course offered jointly by the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies and the Faculty of Oriental Studies. It involves the students to study the South Asian region, its rich history and its complex present-day societies from several disciplinary and analytical perspectives, culminating in a 12,000-word thesis.The son of a school teacher and an auxiliary nurse midwife in Koraput district, Turuk could probably never have been able to pay the course fees at St Anthony’s College in Oxford University. Goaded by his friends from Delhi’s Jawaharlal Nehru University, where e pursued his MA in Spanish language, Turuk took to Milaap.org, a fundraising website to crowdfund his course fees and realise his dream.The Odisha government initially assured him of contributing to his course fees but couldn’t as the degree was his second Masters.The crowdfunding amount included visa costs of £348, international health surcharge of £475 for one year, living expenses of £17000, emergency expenses including rent insurance or £1000 and round-trip airfare of £700. The course starts in October.On Twitter, several people ran a hashtag #Sendsumittooxford appealing to people to donate for the cause. “This is urgent! Sumeet is one most brilliant young scholar from Dalit community. He has secured admission in Oxford but is unable to join the course due to fund shortage. We need to come together and secure his admission,” posted one Twitter.Another user tweeted, “Please note that 28 lakh covers just the tuition fee. Oxford is an expensive city & living expenses can be hard to manage. Donate generously!”The response was overwhelming and beyond Turuk’s expectations. Within 3-4 hours of posting his appeal on the website, he received help worth ₹37 lakh, more than what he asked for. “I never thought people would reach out and help so quickly. I thought I may raise some money through crowdfunding in 15 days. But this was too quick,” Turuk said. He is now aiming to raise ₹47 lakh to cover the high living expenses in Oxford.His mother, Bharati Bag, an ANM working in Koraput, said she is too happy for her son’s achievements. “He has always been studious since childhood and started reading books at the age of 3,” she said.Turuk said at Oxford University, he plans to pursue research on caste in central universities in India. “I want to chart the trajectory of Dalit-Bahujan students and their anti-caste political engagements starting from the Ambedkar Students Association in Hyderabad Central University in the 90s, formation of the Birsa Ambedkar Phule Students Association in Jawaharlal Nehru University in 2014, to Rohith Vemula movement in 2016. I want to pioneer a topic of research that is vital to understand and has never been done before,” he said. “I want to study the impact of this trajectory on the shift, like discussions around caste among young students and university campuses, through the digital media boom and large anti-caste political mobilizations in recent years,” he added.The 27-year-old has been quite active on social media talking about the realities of caste discrimination in higher education. He has travelled across the country attending around 100 events sensitizing young college and university students.Since 2016, he has been an active rapper under the name Sumeet Samos. His first hip-hop single “Ladai Seekh Le” (Learn to Resist) was released in 2018. Most of his writings and songs are about SC/ST students, Savarna oppression, Ambedkar-Phule ideology, manual scavenging, caste discrimination and atrocities against Dalits. His student activism, advocacy and community-building against caste was featured in Princeton University’s Lewis Centre for Arts. He has also written for several newspapers and news websites. Between 2018 and 2020, he worked with French Radio Live (Paris) as a presenter and worked as a performing artist in various theatres of France. In 2019 he was featured among one of the 15 youths to watch out for the decade by the Times of India.Turuk said his goal is to create networks and support systems through advocacy groups and by policy intervention through the SC/ST departments in every state to make higher education more accessible to SC/ST students, particularly those from rural areas.Narayanpatna, from where Turuk hails, has been the epicentre of Maoist activities since mid-2000 in Odisha when the local tribals under an organisation named Chasi Mulia Adivasi Sangh started a movement to drive the moneylenders and landlords who had usurped tribal lands. With tribal forming 82 per cent of the Narayanpatna population, it has been among the most underdeveloped areas of Odisha.Between 2006 and 2008, CMAS chased away upper caste landlords and distributed around 3000 acres of land among the landless poor tribals. However, Maoists later supported the Sangh leading to a violent confrontation between CMAS activists led by Nachika Linga police. The crisis boiled over after there were series of landmine explosions targetting police and police stations in which tribals and policemen were killed. In 2012, the erstwhile Biju Janata Dal MLA Jhina Hikaka was abducted by Maoists and then released after prolonged negotiations. The state police brought the area under its control a few years later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odia-dalit-rapper-s-oxford-dream-inches-closer-to-reality-due-to-crowdfunding-101622883503533.html
05-06-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt issues licence for Amphotericin-B production in state||The Madhya Pradesh government has issued a licence to a Jabalpur-based company to manufacture Amphotericin-B, a key anti-fungal drug used in the treatment of black fungus or mucormycosis, an official said.The Food and Drug Controller of Madhya Pradesh issued the licence to Revacure Lifesciences, a private sector company in Umaria-Dungaria industrial area of Jabalpur district, on May 31, which is valid till December 22 this year, a government release said.The manufacturing of Amphotericin-B injection in Jabalpur will benefit Mahakaushal, Vindhya and Bundelkhand regions of the state as this drug will be available easily to the patients suffering from black fungus disease at a relatively low cost, it said.The government said this is the second company in the state to be given the licence for Amphotericin-B production.Earlier, Indore-based Modern Laboratories had received the licence.Meanwhile, state Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday claimed that there is no scarcity of Amphotericin-B injections in the state.A consignment of 12,240 injections arrived at Indore on Friday and around 17,000 more injections will be available after two days, he said.At present, there are 1,005 active cases of black fungus in the state, he said.There are 235 such patients in Bhopal, 428 in Indore, 116 in Jabalpur, 40 in Sagar, 85 in Ujjain, 52 in Gwalior, 31 in Rewa, 15 in Dewas, two in Ratlam and one in Burhanpur, the chief minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-govt-issues-licence-for-amphotericin-b-production-in-state-101622882987295.html
05-06-2021||Kolkata||Owners happy with Mamata Banerjee's decision to allow restaurants to open for 3 hours||Owners of restaurants and cafes are happy with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's decision to allow restaurants to open for three hours and are waiting for the official notification to start business even for limited hours amid Covid-19 restrictions.The owner of iconic Peter Cat and Mocambo in Park Street area, Nitin Kothari told PTI he is happy with the announcement and ready to open the premises of Mocambo from where both the restaurants can function."As the window of three hours is a bit small, we have decided to only open Mocambo where both the platter of Peter Cat and Mocambo will be served in separate enclosures of the same property," Kothari said.This means the unique Chello Kebab delicacy of Peter Cat will be served in the premises of Mocambo famed for Mixed Meat Rissoto, Chicken Pavlograd and Lamb meat preparations."However we are happy with the announcement as it will mark a new beginning after closure of the restaurants for over a month since May 1," he said.Kothari said the restaurant staff of two outlets situated on two sides of the road will be put up for work at the Mocambo outlet and all were being vaccinated.Hotel and Restaurant Association of Eastern India President Sudesh Poddar said "we are happy with the three hour window from 5 pm to 8 pm and all the fine dining restaurants and bars will open following the norms once the state issues the formal notification in this regard.""We will be opening with 50 per cent of the seating capacity adhering to all Covid-19 safety protocols once the notification comes," Poddar, also the owner of Manthan Restaurant, said.Asked if the three hour window is not short, he said "Kolkata is the first city in the country where the state government allowing the restaurants to function in restricted capacity even for three hours. If the coronavirus cases substantially go down we hope the government will allow us to open for more hours."The owner of Chowman, Oudh 1590 and Chapter 2 restaurant chains Debaditya Chaudhury said "it is a great news for the food and beverages industry but I personally don't think there will be much sales since the dine-in timing is only from 5-8 pm which is not the appropriate time for dinner.""We will still keep our restaurants open and maintain all the necessary protocols starting from QR code menu to staff hygiene etc," he said, adding they were waiting for the official notification from the government to open.With the Covid-19 situation improving in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced that restaurants will be allowed to open for three hours in the evening, provided people working there are vaccinatedThe eateries can be opened after the ongoing Covid- related restrictions come to an end on June 15, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/owners-happy-with-mamata-banerjee-s-decision-to-allow-restaurants-to-open-for-3-hours-101622882688365.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi unlocks: Metro to be back on track from Monday||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced a partial easing of rules during the ongoing lockdown and announced the resumption Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) services at half of its seating capacity from Monday, June 7. Kejriwal said it is time to bring the economy back on track gradually after the intense battle with the second wave of coronavirus pandemic.Metro services and all the other relaxations will begin from 5am on Monday. The Delhi Metro was shut for over five months last year during the nationwide lockdown as part of the state government’s measures to curb the rapid spread of the coronavirus infection. The lockdown, which came into effect on April 20, initially exempted some groups and allowed them to use the Delhi Metro. As the Aam Aadmi Party-led government tightened restrictions, this too changed from May 10 onwards.Also read| Govt, private offices can open in Delhi: CM Arvind Kejriwal"In the wake of extension of curfew in Delhi for the containment of Covid-19 by the Govt. of NCT of Delhi, the Delhi Metro services on all its Lines shall also remain suspended till further notice. Please keep following our social media channels for further updates," DMRC tweeted on May 16.Various other restrictions imposed since April to contain the spread of the raging second wave of Covid-19 in the national capital have also been relaxed. All malls, markets and market complexes have been allowed to open between 10am to 8pm on an odd-even basis, depending on their numbers, which implies that only 50 per cent of the shops will be open.Movement of the owners, employees and workers of the shops of all malls, markets and market complexes will be allowed only the production of a valid ID card issued by the employer or the firm. Similarly, delivery of all type of goods through e-commerce will also be allowed on the production of the valid ID.Also read: E-commerce services to resume in Delhi, starting June 7The curfew, which was supposed to end on Monday, has been further extended for another week.Delhi on Friday reported 523 new Covid-19 cases and 50 fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the health department’s bulletin. The Covid positivity rate of the Capital, which is less than 1 per cent, marginally hiked to 0.68 per cent from 0.61 per cent a day ago, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-unlocks-metro-to-be-back-on-track-from-monday-101622878902119.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Govt, private offices can open in Delhi: CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday both government and private offices can open in the city, as he announced relaxations for several other sectors to further unlock the Covid-19 induced lockdown, which came into effect on April 19.Also Read: Markets in Delhi to open on odd-even basis from Monday, Metro to run at 50% capacity, announces CM Kejriwal“The lockdown will continue but some more sectors will be allowed to open,” Kejriwal said in a virtual press conference.” Government offices will function at 100% capacity for Group-A officers and 50% for officers below Group-A, the chief minister said. He also said those rendering essential services will work at 100% capacity, adding that the heads of department (HoDs) will determine what constitutes “essential services.”Also Read: Delhi eases lockdown rules. What will open from MondayPrivate offices, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor said, will be allowed to work with 50% workforce but added it would be better if work from home is the preferred method of working. “Private offices should try to stagger their timings,” Kejriwal also said.Also Read: E-commerce services to resume in Delhi, starting June 7Opening of malls and markets from 10am-8pm on an odd-even basis and those of standalone shops on all days, Delhi Metro services at 50% capacity were among other exemptions announced by the Delhi chief minister who also said status quo shall be maintained on all other activities. Construction work and factories were the first two sectors to be exempted from the lockdown and resumed operations from May 31.In the last 24 hours, Kejriwal said, the Capital saw around 400 fresh Covid-19 infections – down from 523 a day ago—with a positivity rate of 0.5%. As of June 4, Delhi’s Covid-19 tally stood at 1,428,449 including 1,395,892 recoveries, 24,497 active cases and 8,060 active cases, as per the latest health department bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-private-offices-can-open-in-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101622881352963.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||E-commerce services to resume in Delhi, starting June 7||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced the resumption of e-commerce services in the national capital as the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are now falling steadily.Online delivery for all non-essential items was restricted in Delhi since April 19, when the city imposed the lockdown to curb the rapidly spreading virus. The chief minister also allowed markets, malls to resume their business. However, they will have to follow odd-even guidelines. Delhi Metro can also begin its operations with a 50% capacity, as per the announcement."If the situation remains under control after the resumption of these activities, more will be allowed in coming weeks," Kejriwal said via video conferencing. The new guidelines will come into effect from Monday.Delhi was reeling under the devastating wave of Covid-19 that crumbled the already gasping healthcare system and led to severe shortage of beds and key medicines like Remdesivir and Fabiflu.Also Read | Delhi eases lockdown rules. What will open from MondayIn one of the bleakest moments, the crematoriums also ran out of space to bury the dead as fatalities rose to record levels.Over the last few weeks, the situation in Delhi has improved significantly and the city's positivity rate has come down to 0.5%. At the time of the peak, it soared to more than 36% on April 22.With cases now falling significantly, the Delhi government is now preparing for the possible third wave. "Delhi is prepared to combat the next wave of Covid-19," he said while announcing the steps taken by the government."We have set up a paediatric task force," he announced, referring to concerns that the children may be more at risk of catching a virus in the third wave."With an expected third wave of Covid-19, 420 tonnes of oxygen storage capacity is being prepared. We have also spoken to Indraprastha Gas Limited to produce 150 tonnes of oxygen," he also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ecommerce-services-to-resume-in-delhi-starting-june-7-101622880952275.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to bring in 5-level unlock plan from Monday: Rules explained||Maharashtra has announced a five-level unlock plan beginning Monday, June 7, which will be based on Covid-19 positivity rate and the availability of hospital beds with oxygen in the state. The new order was issued late on Friday after a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority a day before.The relaxations have been extended on the basis of the level or categories. While Level 1 areas have no restrictions, Level 5 will have strictest curbs with only essential services and shops allowed. None of the districts fall in Level 5, while nine are in Level 1. Cities and districts in Maharashtra with less than 5 per cent positivity rate and less than 25 per cent occupancy of oxygen beds will come under Level 1. Areas with less than 5 per cent positivity rate and 25 per cent to 30 per cent oxygen bed occupancy will be under Level 2. The Level 3 areas are the ones with 5 per cent to 10 per cent positivity rate or more than 40 per cent oxygen bed occupancy, while those with positivity rate between 10 per cent and 20 per cent or more than 60 per cent oxygen bed occupancy have been put in Level 4. Areas with more than 20 per cent positivity rate and more than 75 per cent of oxygen beds occupied will be under Level 5.The situation will be assessed every Thursday by the Public Health Department, according to the guidelines.Level 1Shops selling both essential and non-essential items, malls, theatres, restaurants and public places for outdoor activities will be open. Private and government offices, funerals, marriages, gyms and salons will also be allowed to function regularly. Locals trains will function regularly. There won’t be any restrictions barring inter-district travel from the areas under Level 5. There are 18 districts, including Ahmednagar, Dhule, Gadchiroli, Jalgaon, Jalna, Latur, Nanded, Yavatmal, that come under this level. Also read | Resume local train services in Mumbai for general public, passenger assns demandLevel 2Theatres, multiplexes, malls, gyms and restaurants can operate at 50 per cent of their capacity, while social and cultural gatherings will be allowed at the half of capacity of the venue. Use of local trains will be restricted with exemption for medical and essential reasons.Level 3Mumbai and most of its neighbouring cities like Thane, Kalyan-Dombivali and Navi Mumbai come under Level 3. These areas will continue to be under curfew after 5pm every day. Essential shops can operate will 4pm on all days and non-essential shops and establishments can now open till 4pm on weekdays. Malls and theatres will remain closed but salons, spas and beauty parlours have been allowed to operate with 50 per cent of their capacity. Restaurants will only be allowed 50 per cent capacity till 4pm on weekdays. Public places for outdoor activities will only be open from 5am to 9am. Local trains have been opened up for women commuters and commuters in a few essential services and medical sector.Also read | Conduct medical exams online, students urge Maharashtra govtAll private offices will only be allowed to function with 50 per cent capacity till 4pm on working days. However, local authorities can put restrictions on operations of private offices. Only 50 people will be permitted at wedding and 20 at funerals. Construction will be permitted but either with only onsite labourers, or they must leave by 4pm. Social, cultural, entertainment events and political and election meetings have been allowed with 50 per cent of the capacity of the venue in Level 3 areas.Level 4Palghar, Pune (Rural), Raigad, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg and Beed come under this category. Only essential shops will be allowed to open till 4pm on all days and pickup and home delivery for restaurants will also be allowed. Private offices of only 'exempted category' will be allowed, while government offices can operate at 25 per cent of their capacity. Weddings may only have 25 people and funerals 20.Also read | Maharashtra govt caps rate for black fungus treatment at private hospitalsLevel 5Areas under Level 5 will follow nearly a complete lockdown situation. Essential shops will be open till 4pm and only home delivery for restaurants will be allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-bring-in-5-level-unlock-plan-from-monday-rules-explained-101622879112587.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi eases lockdown rules. What will open from Monday||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced further relaxations in lockdown rules from Monday, June 7, as the national capital has witnessed a dip in the number of daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Kejriwal, while addressing a press conference, also announced several steps to deal with the possible third wave of the coronavirus pandemic.“If the coronavirus situation remains under control after resumption of these activities, more will be allowed in coming weeks,” Kejriwal said during the virtual press conference.What's opening in Delhi?1. Markets and malls being opened on odd-even basis between 10am to 8pm2. Services of Delhi Metro will resume with 50 per cent capacity3. Standalone shops will be allowed to open on all days4. Private offices can function with 50 per cent of their strength but work from home or staggered timing has been advised5. In government offices, all Group A officers will work while only 50 per cent staff of other categories will attend office6. E-commerce services can resume7. Status quo to be maintained on all other activities||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-eases-lockdown-rules-what-will-open-from-monday-101622878569810.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra 5-level Covid curbs: Gyms, salons, restaurants allowed to open with conditions||Maharashtra government on Friday announced the lifting of the Covid-19 curbs in the state and said it will put districts and cities under five levels from Monday, June 7. As per the state government's order, the restrictions imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19 will be lifted based on the weekly positivity rate and the occupancy of oxygen beds.Level-1 areas refer to cities and districts with less than 5 per cent positivity rate and less than 25 per cent occupancy of the oxygen beds. Level-2 areas are cities and districts with less than 5 per cent positivity rate and 25-30 per cent bed occupancy. Areas with 5-10 per cent positivity rate or more than 40 per cent oxygen beds occupancy are categorized as level 3. Areas with 10-20 per cent positivity and more than 60 per cent bed occupancy are termed as level-4. Areas with more than 20 per cent positivity and over 75 per cent oxygen bed occupancy are level-5.Also read: Level-wise unlocking from Monday as Maharashtra govt eases Covid-19 lockdown curbsFor better monitoring, each municipal unit and district is categorised as a separate administrative unit. Five levels of restrictions have been designated for different classes and categories of activities.Restaurants, gyms and salons will operate in the state in the following ways:Restaurants in areas under Level 2 will be allowed to open dining-in facilities at 50 per cent of their capacity. Under Level-3, dining-in at 50 per cent capacity only till 4pm on weekdays, after that only take away, home delivery allowed. In Level 4, only parcel, take away and home delivery has been allowed, while in Level 5 only home delivery allowed.Gyms, salons, beauty centres, spas and wellness centres can operate regularly in Level 1 areas. They can operate with 50 per cent capacity and only via appointments in Level 2 areas. In areas categorised as Level 3, these establishments have been allowed to function at 50 per cent capacity and only appointment and without air conditioners. In Level 4 areas, these establishments can function at 50 per cent capacity on an appointment basis and only for vaccinated individuals but without AC. In Level 5 areas, these establishments have not been allowed to be resume services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-5-level-covid-curbs-gyms-salon-restaurants-operations-to-resume-101622875329693.html
05-06-2021||City||Markets in Delhi to open on odd-even basis from Monday, Metro to run at 50% capacity, announces CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday the lockdown, imposed since April 19 to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), will continue in the national capital but announced some relaxations. Kejriwal said local markets can open in the national capital on an odd and even basis from 10am to 8pm. Malls can also resume their business but will be required to follow the same guidelines. Standalone shops can open all days.Private offices will be allowed to function with 50% staff. Group A staff of government offices will be allowed to function with 100% and group B with 50% staff, Kejriwal added.Services of the Delhi Metro will also resume with 50% capacity, according to the chief minister.Also Read | Delhi eases lockdown rules. What will open from Monday"If the situation remains under control after resumption of these activities, more will be allowed in coming weeks," Kejriwal said via video conferencing. The new guidelines will come into from Monday.On preparations for the possible third wave of the pandemic, the chief minister said that Delhi is prepared to combat the next wave of Covid-19. "We have set up a paediatric task force," he announced referring to concerns that the children may be more at risk of catching a virus in the third wave."With an expected third wave of Covid-19, 420 tonnes of oxygen storage capacity is being prepared. We have also spoken to Indraprastha Gas Limited to produce 150 tonnes of oxygen," CM Kejriwal said.Kejriwal also announced that two genome sequencing labs will be set up in Delhi for detection of new variants, if there would be any. "A team of doctors and experts will be set up to examine the demand of medicines to tackle panic and the WhatsApp forwards of medicines ," Kejriwal said.Delhi witnessed the catastrophic wave of Covid-19, beginning from April last week and continued till the end of May. During this, it saw an exponential rise in the daily Covid-19 cases which led to swamped hospitals and crematoriums running out of space to bury the dead.People were struggling to secure an oxygen bed for their family members, while key medicines like Remdesivir, fabiflu, all went out of stock at most pharmacies.Over the last few days, the Covid-19 situation in Delhi has improved significantly and the number of daily cases has come down to below the 1,000-mark. It neared 30,000 at the time of the peak of the second wave. It recorded 28,395 cases on April 20 and a positivity rate of more than 36% on April 22.In view of the dip in daily infections, the Delhi government began the unlocking process last week, and allowed manufacturing and construction activities.Over the last 24-hours, Delhi reported about 400 Covid-19 cases while positivity rate is around 0.5 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/markets-in-delhi-to-open-on-odd-even-basis-from-monday-metro-to-run-at-50-capacity-announces-cm-kejriwal-101622875829869.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Level-wise unlocking from Monday as Maharashtra govt eases Covid-19 lockdown curbs||In its move to unlock the lockdown imposed during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government has allowed most of the activities with some restrictions in parts of the state. The government has proposed level-wise categorisation of areas and regions to facilitate unlocking.“The orders and classification of the areas are more pragmatic. This fixes the responsibility on local administrations - district collectors or municipal corporations – to reduce the spread of the virus and augment infrastructure,” said an official requesting anonymity.Instead of passing a blanket order for the entire state, the state government has divided the districts and cities into five categories to begin the process of unlocking under its ‘break the chain’ initiative.The unlocking has been based on the test positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy in areas by dividing them into 5 categories. Mumbai and most of the cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) fall in the category or level -3 under which the opening up of the activities can begin from Monday.The cities and districts with less than 5% positivity rate and less than 25% occupancy of the oxygen beds come under ‘level 1’, while the areas with less than 5% positivity and 25 to 30% oxygen bed occupancy are termed as ‘level-2’ areas. The ‘level-3’ areas the ones with a 5 to 10% positivity rate or more than 40% oxygen bed occupancy, while the areas with positivity between 10 and 20% or more than 60% oxygen bed occupancy have been put under ‘level 4’. The areas with more than 20% positivity rate and over 75% oxygen beds occupied have been put in the ‘level 5’ category.Also read: Tamil Nadu extends lockdown till June 14 with conditionsThe new order issued by relief and rehabilitation secretary Aseem Kumar Gupta late on Friday night, after the decision in the State Disaster Management Authority meeting on Thursday, comes into force from Monday, May 7.The relaxations from the lockdown have been extended based on the levels or categories mentioned above. The level-1 areas have no restrictions, while level-5 will have the strictest curbs with only essential services and shops allowed to operate.None of the state districts falls in level-5, while 9 districts are in level-1, with will no restriction at all.Mumbai and most of its neighbouring cities like Thane, Kalyan-Dombivali, Navi Mumbai fall in the level-3 category with most activities allowed. Barring theatres, multiplexes, malls and auditoriums, all other activities for these level-3 areas have been allowed with restrictions.Local trains have been opened up for women commuters, apart from the commuters in a few essential services and the medical sector. Essential shops will operate till 4 pm on all days, while non-essential shops and establishments can now operate till 4 pm on weekdays. Restaurants can operate till 4 pm on weekdays while public and private offices can work with 50% of their staff till 4 pm.However, the local authorities can put restrictions on the operation of private offices. The level-3 areas, however, will continue to have a curfew after 5 pm every day. Salons, spas and beauty parlours have been allowed to operate with 50% of their capacity.Social, cultural, entertainment events and political/election meetings have been allowed with 50% capacity of the venue in level-3 areas. The number of allowed attendees has been increased to 50 for wedding events in these areas, the notification stated.Eleven municipal corporations with more than 1 million population - Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Nashik, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Aurangabad, Vasai-Virar, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, Solapur and Kalyan-Dombivali - have been treated as a separate unit from their respective districts and will be judged on their positivity and bed occupancy rate to ascertain their category. This will enable cities like Vasai-Virar or Pune to have their upgraded level and get more relaxations comparing the districts they fall in.Also read: Delhi to see further relaxation in Covid lockdown? CM Kejriwal to announce todayDistricts like Ahmednagar, Dhule, Gadchiroli, Jalgaon, Jalna, Latur, Nanded, Yvatmal are in level-1, while the districts like Palghar, Pune (rural), Raigad, Sangli, Satara, Sindhudurg, Beed are in level-4.Level-1 areas would not carry any restrictions barring the inter-district travel from the areas with level-5 demarcation. In level-2 areas theatre, multiplexes, malls and restaurants can operate at 50% capacity, while social, cultural gatherings will be at the half of capacity of the venue. In level-4 areas, only essential shops will be allowed to be open till 4 pm for all days, while restaurants can operate takeaway services. Government and private offices will be allowed to operate at 25% capacity.Elaborating on its idea of linking the unlocking with the consumption of oxygen, the notification stated, “The state’s daily production of medical oxygen is 1,200 metric tonnes which can cater to maximum 60,000 patients with the need of the O2. If the number of patients ranged between 35,000 and 45,000, no part shall be below level-3 and no part be below level 4 if it’s more than 50,000 patients. Currently, the oxygen bed occupancy is less than 35,000 patients and thus the oxygen trigger mentioned above does not get operated. In such a scenario, the local level authorities are empowered to decide the level of restrictions they fall under.”Maharashtra has reported less than 20,000 daily cases over the past week, after reporting a daily caseload of more than 50,000 cases at the beginning of May. The state had 196,894 active cases as of Friday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/levelwise-unlocking-from-monday-as-maharashtra-govt-eases-covid-19-lockdown-curbs-101622875763272.html
05-06-2021||Kolkata||Central team to arrive in Bengal tomorrow to review damage caused by cyclone Yaas||A seven-member central team will arrive in West Bengal on a three-day visit to make an on-spot assessment of the damage caused by cyclone Yaas, a senior official said on Saturday.The inter-ministerial team headed by SK Shahi, joint secretary in the ministry of home affairs, will take stock of the situation in South 24 Parganas district upon its arrival on Sunday, and Purba Medinipur the day after, he said.It is scheduled to complete its assessment in three days and leave for Delhi on June 9, the official said."After reaching Bengal on Sunday morning, the team will head to the affected areas of South 24 Parganas district. There, it will hold a meeting with officials."On Monday, the central team will be visiting Digha and Mandarmani in Purba Medinipur, where officials will give a presentation on the damage caused by Yaas," he said.According to government sources, the inter-ministerial team is also likely to hold a meeting with finance department officials during its three-day visit.Cyclone Yaas struck the coastal belts of Odisha and Bengal on May 26, dumping rain, flooding homes, and leaving behind a trail of destruction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/central-team-to-arrive-in-bengal-to-review-damage-caused-by-cyclone-yaas-101622874604800.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi to see further relaxation in Covid-19 lockdown? CM Kejriwal to announce today||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday will address the media and is likely to announce further relaxations in the lockdown, imposed to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The national capital has been under lockdown since April 19. It was announced to curb the Covid-19 spread which spread rapidly during the second wave. Over the last few days, the situation has improved significantly and the number of daily cases has come down to below the 1,000-mark. It neared 30,000 at the time of the peak of the second wave. It recorded 28,395 cases on April 20 and a positivity rate of more than 36% on April 22.Last week, the government began the unlocking process and allowed manufacturing and construction activities in Delhi. This week, it is expected to allow markets and other activities from June 7, news agency PTI reported quoting officials. "In the un-lockdown process, our priority will be the weakest economic sections. So, we will start with labourers, especially migrant labourers. Most of them are engaged either in the construction sector or in factories," Kejriwal said in a video press briefing streamed live on May 28.The chief minister also said that currently, "there is no shortage of hospital beds, ICU beds and oxygen. So, we have to start the un-lockdown process. We should ensure that we don’t land in a position in which people survive Covid-19 but die of poverty." The current restrictions will end at 5am on June 7.On Friday, the city recorded 523 fresh Covid-19 cases and 50 fatalities. The positivity rate stood at 0.68%, according to the daily bulletin by the health department.Kejriwal held meetings with a panel of experts to discuss preparations for the possible third wave on Friday. A 13-member committee was constituted by the Delhi government on May 27 to prepare an action plan for a possible third wave of Covid-19 in the country. The panel is tasked with assessing the current status and projected requirements of the health infrastructure such as hospitals, oxygen plants and drug supplies in the city.The government has also set up another eight-member expert panel to devise a strategy for mitigation and management of the third wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-see-further-relaxation-in-covid-19-lockdown-cm-kejriwal-to-announce-today-101622872597436.html
05-06-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh govt to auction 16 iron ore, limestone mines in next 2-3 months||The Chhattisgarh government is planning to auction 16 new blocks of iron ore and limestone in the next two to three months, a press release issued by the state government stated.The move was announced on Friday during a virtual meeting of Union Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel was also present during the meeting.During the meeting, the chief minister also requested Joshi to amend the Centre’s order to make the district collector the ex-officio chairman of the District Mineral Foundation (DMF).The Union minister appreciated the state government for proactively taking steps on the direction of the Centre to bring more mines into auctions, the release stated.It further added that the priority of the Centre is to allocate mines through the auctioning process. Under this, Chhattisgarh has been preparing to auction 16 new blocks of iron ore and limestone in the next 2-3 months under the first phase, the release stated.The Union minister said Chhattisgarh is the first state in the country to auction mine blocks as per the direction of the Government of India.In a series of tweets, Joshi said, “Following up on mining reforms, had a meeting with CM of Chhattisgarh, Shri @bhupeshbaghel ji. Deliberated on several ongoing issues pertaining to coal and mineral mining in the state. Government is working with state administration to facilitate early operationalisation of auctioned mines.”In another tweet, he said, “Hon’’ble CM has assured to auction more than 16 blocks over the next 2 months. These will be from long-standing blocked mines that have reserves of 1,192 MT worth nearly ₹1.9 lakh crore.”Emphasising the promotion of iron-ore based industrialisation in Bastar, chief minister Baghel urged Joshi to reserve Bailadila iron ore deposit No. 1 (Dantewada district) in favour of Chhattisgarh Mineral Development Corporation (CMDC).Baghel said industrialisation can prove to be a better tool to eliminate Naxalism from the Bastar region, the Union minister assured the CM of taking necessary initiatives in this direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-govt-to-auction-16-iron-ore-limestone-mines-in-next-2-3-months-101622870964819.html
05-06-2021||Other||Khattar arrives ahead of schedule in Karnal amid farmer calls for protest||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar arrived in Karnal one and half hours ahead of schedule to plant a tree on the World Environment Day as hundreds of police personnel were deployed and roads were blocked with barricades amid farmer protest calls.He was scheduled to plant the tree at 10 am but arrived at 8:30 am for the plantation. The district administration did not make any official announcement about the visit. But the information was leaked, and farmer leaders began circulating messages on social media asking farmers to assemble at Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza for the protest.Khattar said the protests can be held peacefully but nobody will be allowed to disturb law and order. He said he has also appealed to farmer leaders to hold peaceful protests. Khattar said the district administration barricaded the roads and deployed a heavy police force ahead of his visit to Karnal for security.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav insisted Khattar’s visit was advanced due to the rain forecast.Jagdip Singh Aulakh, a local leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), said they came to know that the chief minister will visit Karnal on Saturday and asked farmers to oppose it.BKU has played a key role in ongoing protests against three farm laws passed last year.Officials said Khattar, who has earlier faced protests by farmers, did not want any confrontation in Karnal and that is why he decided to advance his visit.Farmer organisations in Haryana are separately holding protests at district headquarters and plan to burn the copies of the farm laws.Farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni planned to court arrests in Tohana on Saturday in support of the farmers booked and arrested for allegedly blocking the way of lawmaker Devender Singh Babli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/khattar-arrives-ahead-of-schedule-in-karnal-amid-farmer-calls-for-protest-101622870902960.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Former Himachal minister, BJP leader Narendra Bragta passes away at PGI||Former Himachal Pradesh horticulture minister and state BJP chief whip Narendra Bragta, 69, died of post-Covid complications at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, on Saturday morning. He is survived by his wife Pushpa and sons Chetan and Dhruv. Chetan broke the news on Twitter and said that his father had been undergoing treatment at PGI for the last two weeks. He appealed to supporters to exercise restraint during this difficult time for the family by observing the Covid-19 protocol. Also read: India’s daily Covid cases fall to 120,529, active cases dip to over 1.5 millionChief minister Jai Ram Thakur described his death as a colossal loss. BJP chief Jagat Prakash Nadda and former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal, his son and Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur, state party chief Suresh Kashyap Former chief parliamentary secretary Rohit Thakur also condoled his death. Strengthened apple marketing infrastructure A popular leader of Himachal Pradesh’s apple belt, Bragta was horticulture minister twice from 1998-2002 and from 2008-12. He largely contributed towards strengthening the marketing infrastructure in the apple-growing regions of the state and remained vocal in the assembly on issues related to horticulture. Bragta was elected to the state assembly in 1998 from Shimla constituency and re-elected in 2007 from Jubbal-Kotkhai. He was minister of state for horticulture (independent charge) from 1998-02 and horticulture, technical education and health minister from 2007-12. He was re-elected to the Vidhan Sabha for the third time in December 2017 and nominated chairman, public sector undertakings; member, rules and library; and member, amenities committees. Bragta was appointed chief whip of the BJP and given cabinet rank status. Started political leader as student leader Born on September 15, 1952, in Shimla, Bragta was general secretary of the boys’ parliament at DAV School, Shimla, in 1969 and was vice-president of the Students Central Association at SDB College, Shimla, in 1971. He did his post-graduation in political science from Himachal Pradesh University and went on to become a member of the HP University Court in 1973. He was a member of the Board for Fruit Support Price in 1988 and on the HPMC (Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing Corporation) Board in 1990. Bragta was elected president of the Janata Yuva Morcha from 1978-82. He led the Fruit Growers Association in Shimla district and the HP Kisan Morcha before becoming the BJP state general secretary and executive member and the national Kisan Morcha secretary from 1994-96.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-himachal-minister-bjp-leader-narendra-bragta-passes-away-at-pgi-101622870843382.html
05-06-2021||Other||7 Covid-19 variants behind second wave surge in Varanasi region: Study||A joint genome sequencing study by scientists of a multidisciplinary research unit at Banaras Hindu University (BHU) in Varanasi, and CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, revealed that seven major variants of coronavirus disease wreaked havoc in Varanasi and adjoining districts during the second wave of the pandemic.“We started working on the project in April. Our team, including Dr SP Mishra, Dr Deepa Devdas, Dr Priyonil Basu and Dr Chetan Sahni collected samples from Varanasi city and rural areas of Chandauli, Sonbhadra, Jaunpur and Bhadohi mostly in April. The team at CCMB sequenced these samples and found out that there were at least seven major variants circulating in the region. One hundred thirty samples were sequenced in this study,” said head, multidisciplinary research unit, BHU, professor Royana Singh, who led the team of researchers.“Among the variants of concern (VoC), the most predominant variant we found in our study was B.1.617. This variant was also reported to be one of the major drivers of the second Covid wave in India,” Prof Singh added.Also read: Alpha to Delta switch behind city’s 4th waveSingh said professor Gyaneshwar Chaubey of the department of zoology, BHU, was of immense help to them during their study.“Just as in most of India, the B.1.617.2 variant (aka Delta variant) was the most common among the samples we studied. They were found among 36% of the total samples. Other VoCs such as the B.1.351, detected in South Africa for the first time, was also found in this area,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, advisor, CCMB.“This study confirms yet again that the Delta variant is the most widespread coronavirus variant in the country right now. But at the same time, we must keep an eye on other emerging variants in the country to prevent another unprecedented surge in Covid cases,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-covid-19-variants-behind-second-wave-surge-in-varanasi-region-study-101622867362722.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC dismisses 5G plea, fines Juhi Chawla and 2 others||The Delhi high court on Friday came down heavily on actor Juhi Chawla and two other complainants for filing a plea against the installation of 5G wireless network in the country, and issued a fine of ₹20 lakh for a “defective” suit aimed at “gaining publicity”.The high court, irked by repeated disruptions in the previous June 2 hearing, also pulled up Chawla for posting the link for the court’s digital proceeding on social media and said that the plaintiffs “abused and misused the process of law”.“…plaintiffs have filed the suit to gain publicity which is clear from the fact that plaintiff no 1 (Chawla) circulated the video conferencing link of this court on her social media accounts, which resulted in repeated disruptions of court proceedings,” Justice JR Midha said, dismissing the plea.On Wednesday, the online hearing of the Delhi high court was interrupted three times by a user who sang songs from Chawla’s hit movies in the ’90s. Justice Midha then directed court officials to bar the user from the video conference and directed authorities to identify the disrupter and issue a contempt notice. The actor-environmentalist has posted the link for the video conference a day before on her Twitter account encouraging people to participate. Chawla and social workers Veeresh Malik and Teena Vachani moved the court on Monday, claiming that 5G technology can trigger serious, irreversible effect on humans with radiation and permanent damage to the natural ecosystems.According to the World Health Organization, no adverse health effect has been “causally linked with exposure to wireless technologies” despite several studies over the issue.The judge said that the plea was not maintainable as the plaintiffs had no knowledge about the issues of health risks that were being raised. The suit is “stuffed with unnecessary, scandalous, frivolous and vexatious averments”, justice Midha said, underscoring that the complainants should have first reached out to the government with their concerns before approaching the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hc-dismisses-5g-plea-fines-juhi-chawla-and-2-others-101622848957363.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Govt to set targets for Delhi’s Covid-19 infra||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday discussed setting targets and objectives in areas such as hospital beds, intensive care unit beds, medical oxygen management, and containment efforts, apart from ways to deal with a potential outbreak affecting children in two separate review meetings to prepare for a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections.Kejriwal chaired review meetings with the expert committee at 11am and with the preparations committee around 4pm. These panels were set up by the Delhi government on May 27.“By observing other countries, we have learnt that advance preparations are a must to tackle a potential third wave of the pandemic. In the light of these observations, I chaired a review meeting with the Delhi government’s experts committee and discussed several important issues,” Kejriwal’s office said in a tweet after the morning meeting.In another tweet, after the 4pm meeting, the chief minister’s office said, “After experts committee meeting, the CM met the preparations committee and had discussions on important issues such as oxygen management and ICU beds.”The CM’s office, however, did not share further details about the meetings.Both meetings were also attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain, and some senior government officials.One of the officials present in the meetings, who asked not to be named, said: “The discussions were largely on setting objective criteria for hospital beds, oxygen management, and what kind of containment efforts are needed for what level of new cases surfacing in Delhi. The committee will now look into developing these criteria with the help of models developed by IIT-Delhi.”The Delhi high court on May 28 asked the state government to implement the recommendations of a study by IIT-Delhi to streamline the oxygen supply chain in the Capital. The study was commissioned by the Delhi government on a suggestion by the court on May 5.Another official present in Friday’s meetings said: “There were also discussions on paediatric cases and the preparations that would be needed to handle potential outbreak of Covid-19 in children.”A third senior government official said, “The government is focusing on the large-scale local production of face masks suitable for children, identifying hospitals suitable for increasing oxygen beds and ICUs for children, a special training programme for nurses engaged in paediatric wards, and designing focused mass awareness programmes.”As far as oxygen is concerned, said the third official, the government has ordered five buffer tanks with a combined capacity of 271MT, and installations should be completed by June 10.The government has also procured 4,600 oxygen concentrators over the last two months, and 3,330 more of such devices are scheduled to be procured in the next two weeks, said the third official.“The government has also arranged over 3,700 additional oxygen cylinders of the D-type category in the last two months (such cylinders are used as backup supply in larger hospitals and serve as the main source of oxygen in smaller hospitals and nursing homes),” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-to-set-targets-for-delhi-s-covid-19-infra-101622846556108.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||June remains cool as rain, wind keep mercury down||Rainfall, coupled with a thunderstorm, lashed Delhi and parts of the National Capital Region (NCR) on Friday, with civic bodies reporting that over 90 trees had fallen across the city due to the strong winds.Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said a western disturbance over Jammu & Kashmir and a cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh resulted in the weather suddenly turning.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the high humidity levels in the national capital and comparatively higher daytime temperatures led to the rain.“The maximum temperatures at the Safdarjung and Palam weather observatories were nearly 40 degrees Celsius today (Friday). The humidity levels at the Palam observatory touched 93%. This was another reason that caused the rainfall,” Srivastava said, adding that a western disturbance passing over Jammu & Kashmir and a cyclonic circulation over Uttar Pradesh prompted the change of weather.IMD’s initial recordings show that the Safdarjung station received 3.2mm rainfall, Palam received 9.4mm rainfall and Lodi Road 1.6mm rainfall as of 5.30pm.Some areas around the Palam observatory also reported a hailstorm at around 6pm.The three municipalities (north, south and east Delhi municipal corporations) confirmed that Friday’s strong winds, with speeds of around 60 kilometres per hour, toppled more than 90 trees in areas such as Kalkaji, Nizamuddin West, Dilshad Garden, Greater Kailash, Uttam Nagar, among others.Western disturbances are cyclonic storms originating over the Mediterranean that affect the weather in north-west and north India.A cyclonic circulation is the swirling motion of winds caused by a low pressure area, which — when it pulls warm moist air — results in overcast conditions and rainfall.On Friday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered to be representative of the city, was 39.5°C, a notch below what is considered normal for this time of the year.The minimum temperature was one degree below normal at 26.1°C. The relative humidity recorded at the station was 64%.Though the mercury remained below the 40°C-mark, the “feel-like”temperature in Delhi was 42-43°C, due to the high humidity. According to IMD, the “feel-like” temperature of a region is how hot or cold the human body feels as opposed to the actual temperature recordings.At the Palam observatory, the day temperature was 38.4°C, three degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 26.2°C. The relative humidity recorded here at 5.30pm was 93%.Met officials said the wind speeds in Delhi, Gurugram, Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Noida went up to 60kmph in the evening.The IMD forecast said strong winds and rain were likely to continue till late Friday, but this was unlikely to reduce the temperature on Saturday.“The thunderstorm is likely to stay only till Friday. We are also seeing that there is a possibility of another spell of rain around June 11-12, but we will be able to confirm that when we are closer to the date,” Srivastava said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/june-remains-cool-as-rain-wind-keep-mercury-down-101622846352361.html
05-06-2021||Ranchi||Minors held for killing 6-yr-old over mangoes||Two minor sisters were on Friday arrested for allegedly murdering a six-year-old girl over a dispute on plucking mangoes in West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand, police said.“Both the sisters — aged 12 years and nine years — have been apprehended and a case has been registered under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of the Indian Penal Code. They have been booked on charges of strangulating a six-year-old girl from the neighbourhood in Pakuabera village on Thursday afternoon. The two girls have been sent to a remand home,” Praveen Kumar, Chakradharpur police station officer-in-charge, said.Police said it wasn’t immediately clear whether the deceased was plucking mangoes from the orchard that belonged to the family of the accused when they allegedly attacked her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/minors-held-for-killing-6-yr-old-over-mangoes-101622843862720.html
05-06-2021||Business||‘Apprehensive about constitution of panel’: Amit Mitra||Even as a group of ministers (GoM) is weighing the proposal of Goods and Services Tax (GST)-waiver on Covid-19 essentials such as vaccines, drugs, testing kits and ventilators, West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Friday expressed his apprehensions about the very constitution of the eight-member panel.In a letter to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Mitra asked her to record his “dissent” on various issues, including the constitution of the ministerial group: “I was surprised that the GoM of eight ministers did not include some of those who had cogently argued against the proposals of putting GST on Covid related materials. Now I can only hope that the GoM will demonstrate rationality and boldness at the face of a massive pandemic.”Sitharaman, who is also the chairperson of the apex federal body on the indirect tax, on May 29 announced an eight-member GoM under the convenorship of Meghalaya chief minister Conrad K Sangma. Other members of the group are—Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitinbhai Patel, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Goa transport minister Mauvin Godinho, Kerala finance minister KN Balagopal, Odisha finance minister Niranjan Pujari, Telangana finance minister T Harish Rao and UP finance minister Suresh Kr Khanna. The GoM is expected to submit its recommendations to the council on or before June 8. Union finance ministry did not respond to an email query on this matter.The council, at its 43rd meeting on May 28, decided to form a GoM to recommend duty exemptions on Covid essentials after some members opposed the proposed GST rates in the agenda. “An 18% GST on hand sanitizers was truly shocking, when all Governments are asking the common people to use hand sanitizers as the first line of defence against the dreaded virus... Similarly, GST was proposed on masks and PPEs used by crores of common people and lakhs of health professionals, respectively. Similar was the case of imposing GST on vaccines!,” Mitra said in the letter to Sitharaman on June 4. HT reviewed the letter.In the letter, Mitra raised five crucial other issues amidst raging second wave of pandemic and the impending third wave—raising borrowing limit of states from 4% to 5% of their gross state domestic product (GSDP), compensate states for their past revenue losses to the tune of ₹63,000 crore, revising compensation of 2021-22 to ₹2.13 lakh crore from ₹1.58 lakh crore, extend the compensation period for another five year beyond July 2022, and discuss the issue of bureaucrats overstepping the council’s decision-making, which was raised by the Punjab government.In a letter to Sitharaman on June 1, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said that committees of bureaucrats “could by no means act as an equivalent or substitute of the GSTC” [GST Council].||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business/apprehensive-about-constitution-of-panel-amit-mitra-101622842145831.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Captain digs in heels at meet over infighting||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh met the three-member committee headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge for his much-awaited one-on-one meeting on Friday, digging his heels in on questions raised by his detractors about his performance and style of functioning, according to people familiar with the matter.The chief minister had a nearly three-hour long meeting with the panel on the last day of the exercise in Delhi that saw nearly 150 party leaders, including present and ex-state unit presidents, ministers, MPs and other leaders voice their suggestions and grievances. He shared his government’s achievements, implementation of 85% poll commitments, his roadmap for meeting unfulfilled promises and report card of his ministers. Also read: Bajwa demands independent probe into sale of vaccine to pvt hospitalsThe committee, which has All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal as members, asked the chief minister about unfulfilled poll promises, his lack of accessibility and “over dependence” on the bureaucracy, and he responded to each point raised by party leaders. The chief minister also carried dossiers on dubious land deals and direct or indirect business interests of some party MLAs and other leaders in mining and liquor sectors, according to sources. The chief minister was to meet the panel at 11 am but reached 15, Gurdwara Rakabganj Road a few minutes before time and Rawat and Agarwal arrived after him. After the meeting, Amarinder said the meeting was a routine introspection for the elections that are six months away. “These are inner-party discussions and I do not propose to share them with you,” he told reporters. However, Rawat, who was more forthcoming, said the chief minister was asked about the challenges and problems faced by party leaders and his (CM’s) roadmap to deal with them before the polls. He said the committee also took up the sacrilege issue that was raised by several party leaders. “We can understand the sensitivity of their sentiments, and the CM understands it better than us. He (Capt) spoke about the administrative and legal steps being taken. I am hopeful that in the next days, results will be seen,” he said. On leadership change, the Punjab affairs in-charge also said no one talked about during the discussions with an alternative, adding that only the Congress president was authorised to speak on this. Though he refused to comment, there are indications that the party may appoint more than one deputy chief ministers, bringing former minister Sidhu back into the state cabinet and appoint a new state unit chief as part of the peace formula. Before they publicly hit out at each other, Amarinder was open to re-inducting Sidhu (as minister), who had quit the state cabinet in 2019, but was opposed to having him as the state unit president, a post that the cricketer-turned-politician was eyeing.Agarwal said the panel will submit its report to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a day or two. The two-time CM is learnt to be piqued with the central leadership for not putting a stop to relentless attacks by his detractors, particularly Sidhu.“It was suggested to Capt saab a few months ago that he should agree to appoint Sidhu and a Dalit leader as deputy CMs. At one stage, he agreed but then changed his mind and nothing happened. If this entire exercise (meetings) was for such adjustments, it wasn’t worth it because battle lines have been drawn and the infighting will get worse,” a senior state leader said, asking about the “real issues”. Another irritant, according to sources, is the feedback sought by the panel about the probable scenario in case of a change of guard in the state. “The panel did not seek this feedback on day one of the exercise but asked party MLAs about this on subsequent days,” a senior state leader said on condition of anonymity. The induction of the three rebel Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislators, including former leader of opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira, into the Congress minutes before Capt Amarinder left for Delhi in a helicopter is being seen as his way of showing that he is standing his ground. The AAP rebels, whose joining was deferred twice earlier, were to be inducted next week, but Amarinder went ahead without the presence of Rawat and Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/captain-digs-in-heels-at-meet-over-infighting-101622838319880.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Under flak, Punjab govt asks private hospitals to return vaccine stock||Facing flak from the Centre and state opposition parties for selling Covid vaccines to private hospitals at a premium, the Punjab government on Friday asked these facilities to return all the stock. The dramatic turnabout came after opposition parties – Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) –- slammed the Congress government for “selling” to private hospitals doses meant to be administered free. The Centre too wrote to the state government, seeking a clarification over reports that it had earned a profit by selling jabs. Union minister Prakash Javdekar also criticised the Punjab government’s decision. Hindustan Times was first to highlight how the vaccine, procured on state government rate of ₹400 per dose, was sold to private hospitals at the rate of ₹1,060 per dose. The private hospitals were further selling the dose at ₹1,560.After Punjab state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said he has ordered a probe into the allegations, the state government issued the new order, withdrawing “one-time” instructions to private hospitals to vaccinate people in the 18-45 years category. Now, the recalled vaccine doses will be administered free to this age group by the government, the minister said.“The order of providing one-time limited vaccine doses through private hospitals has not been taken in the right spirit and is hereby withdrawn. Further, it has been decided that the private hospitals should return forthwith all the vaccine doses available with them,” Vikas Garg, who is in charge of Punjab’s Covid vaccination programme, said in the order. Once they get their own direct supplies from the manufacturers, the private hospitals will also return to the state government the doses they have already used up. Private hospitals will now get direct supplies of vaccination from the manufacturers. The amount deposited by them in the “vaccine fund” will be refunded by the government. In letter to Punjab health department‘s principal secretary, Union health ministry additional secretary Vandana Gurnani said: “Prima facie, it’s a clear violation of liberalised pricing and accelerated national Covid-19 vaccination strategy. “As per this strategy, the private sector hospitals are directly procuring COVID-l9 vaccines from the vaccine manufacturers,” the letter said, seeking a clarification from the state. ”It’s a dangerous news... The state government wants to make a profit from the vaccination. What kind of government is this?” Javadekar told reporters in Delhi. He also targeted Rahul Gandhi on the issue, saying the Congress leader, instead of giving lectures to others, should first consider how to set things right in place in the state ruled by his party.Earlier, Balbir Sidhu said: “The vaccination procurement is done by officers who don’t belong to my department. Sometimes people take wrong decisions.” Sidhu, who is already upset with certain officers for not involving him in key decisions relating to the Covid management, also took up the matter with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Amarinder was apprised that how a decision taken by certain officers, had damaged the image of the government. The CM, it is learnt, asked Sidhu to take corrective measures immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/under-flak-punjab-govt-asks-private-hospitals-to-return-vaccine-stock-101622838021093.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Dalit youth’s death: Six farmers booked for thwarting Sampla’s bid to meet victim family||Six farmer union leaders were booked by Mansa police under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act after they didn’t let the chairperson of National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC), Vijay Sampla, enter Fafre Bhai Ke village on Friday. Sampla was scheduled to meet a Dalit family that had lost a 20-year-old member, Manpreet Singh, on May 23 allegedly because of police torture. A first information report (FIR) was lodged on Friday at Bhikhi police station against the villagers on the complaint of deceased’s uncle Diwan Singh. In his complaint, Diwan said Sampla wanted to meet the aggrieved mother and record statements of the family members. However, more than 200 villagers led by Sadhu Singh, Balam Singh, Jagtar Singh and three others named as accused blocked all entry points to the village to prevent Sampla from reaching the family, reads the complaint. Earlier on Friday, farmer leader Iqbal Singh told reporters that the village had passed a unanimous resolution to prevent Sampla from entering the village for he was a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader. Though Sampla avoided visiting the Fafre Bhai Ke village, he camped at Mansa city police lines and called the aggrieved family there. Sampla said the accused villagers interfered in the functioning of a constitutional institution. Sampla said a postmortem reported presented before the commission states that the deceased had 23 injuries. “The SHO should have been suspended earlier. Police probe will clear air on who all were involved in torturing Manpreet,” said Sampla. The NCSC chief directed Mansa deputy commissioner to releases an interim grant of ₹4.12 lakh under the victim compensation scheme by Tuesday and extend financial assistance to victim’s mother to construct a house on a plot owned by the family. Sampla said the deceased’s younger brother will be eligible for a government job at attaining adulthood. SHO booked, suspended Following the intervention of NCSC, the Mansa police booked the Budhlada station house officer (SHO) Surjan Singh under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC and SC/ST Act. Mansa SSP Surendra Lamba confirmed that Surjan Singh was placed under suspension and investigation is on. Following a petty quarrel with his neighbours in Budhlada, the police authorities summoned Manpreet to the police station on May 23 night. The aggrieved family alleged Manpreet was badly thrashed by the police and he died within hours of release from the custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dalit-youth-s-death-six-farmers-booked-for-thwarting-sampla-s-bid-to-meet-victim-family-101622837960043.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Breather for Punjab as Centre allows coal diversion to pvt thermal plants||A Union government’s June 3 directive allowing diversion of coal meant to run state-owned plants to private thermal plants can come as a breather for Punjab as it can bring down the power generation cost by up to 75 paise per unit. The state government has been consistently raising this demand before the central ministries concerned, besides taking up the matter with the Prime Minister. Punjab now has the flexibility to shift its coal linkage of state-owned plants to private thermal plants. The state-owned power plants have 90% of coal linkage of their generation capacity, while private thermal has 75%. Private thermal plants purchase coal from outside to meet the demand and high cost jacks up the power generation rate. Elated over the development, Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd. CMD A Venu Parsad said he has already asked officials to work out modalities and place an order for coal at the earliest. Parsad, who was pursuing the matter for about a year, said, “From coal, the savings will be around ₹300 crore, but the additional benefits such as the cut in the fixed cost will run into several hundred crores of rupees during implementation.” According to the Union government letter, the states can also use their aggregated linkage coal i.e. aggregated annual contract quantity (AACQ) in the power plants which were established through competitive bidding. The bids for Nabha Power Limited (NPL) and Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL) of 1,400MW 1,980MW capacity, respectively, were based on the Net Heat Rate and the power generated from such power plants is supplied to the state itself. However, the state government has also put a rider for implementation, as per which, during transfer of the linkage coal by the state, it may be ensured that these plants are more cost-efficient vis-à-vis the state-owned plants to save on power purchase cost. A PSPCL engineer said it’s a win-win situation for the government, independent power producers (IPPs), consumers and the PSPCL. “The state has surplus coal as the government-run plants remain idle for almost eight months a year. The PSPCL was vigorously raising the issue with the Centre since 2017. Once implemented, it will save at least 75 paise per unit of power production cost,” he said. Pertinently, not only the opposition Aam Aadmi Party, even the Congress leaders are raising a hue and cry over the PPAs with the private thermal plants which cost the government thousands of crores and the burden rests on the consumers. The Congress in its manifesto had promised to revise the PPAs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/breather-for-punjab-as-centre-allows-coal-diversion-to-pvt-thermal-plants-101622837720341.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Contractual teachers break barricades outside Singla’s house in Sangrur||Over hundred contractual teachers held a protest march and broke barricades seeking regularisation outside the residence of school education minister Vijay Inder Singla on Friday.The protesters assembled at the BSNL Park in Sangrur and marched towards the residence of the minister amid tight security. They broke barricades and tried to enter the ministers’ residence but were stopped by police.One of the protesters Gagan Abohar said around 14,000 teachers have been serving for the past 18 years for just ₹6,000 per month. The Congress had assured them regular jobs before the assembly elections, but nothing has been done so far, she added. “We are demanding monthly remuneration of ₹30,000 and regular jobs, but the government is asking us to clear tests for it,” she said.Davinder Singh, another protester, said they will intensify their protest. “The ministers are just rubber stamps and bureaucrats are making policies. We will oppose the Congress leaders in upcoming state assembly elections,” he added.Govt discriminating against teachers: SADChandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) condemned the Congress government for discriminating against teachers and forcing them to come to the streets and asked Singla not to behave in an arrogant and dictatorial manner and resolve the grievances of government school teachers immediately. In a statement, former minister Daljit Singh Cheema said it was shocking that during a time of pandemic when the teaching community’s role to shape the future generations was of utmost importance the Congress government was victimising them and refusing to consider any of their genuine demands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contractual-teachers-break-barricades-outside-singla-s-house-in-sangrur-101622837599420.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Khaira in HC again against ED’s fresh summons||Bholath MLA Sukhpal Singh Khaira has again approached the Punjab and Haryana high court against the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED’s) move to summon him afresh. The matter was taken up by the bench of justice Arun Palli and the hearing was deferred for June 9. Earlier, Khaira had moved the court against ED raids at his properties on March 9, 2021, in connection with a 2015 Fazilka drug smuggling case. Following this, he had moved the high court seeking quashing of ED’s probe. The fresh plea has been filed against ED’s move in which the agency intended to open his electronic devices such as phones. The ED had moved before agency’s adjudicating authority on April 4 seeking its permission for the same. The authority had issued show-cause notice to Khaira on April 12 asking him as to why the agency should not be allowed to examine his electronic devices. In the HC, Khaira says electronic devices can’t be allowed to be opened as it would amount to a breach of privacy. The agency has initiated these proceedings even as the entire probe is under the scrutiny of the high court, he argued in the HC. Following raids, ED had claimed that in 12 odd years ₹4.86 crore were deposited in his bank accounts but he declared only ₹99 lakh income to income tax department. The ED initiated a probe against Khaira, who joined Congress on Thursday, in a 2015 drug seizure case in which nine people were convicted in October 2017. In the same order, the trial court had summoned him as “additional accused”, a decision subsequently stayed by the Supreme Court. Khaira claims ED’s action was a case of “witch hunt” as he has been vocal against three farm laws enacted by Centre last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khaira-in-hc-again-against-ed-s-fresh-summons-101622837539406.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Private hospital starts vaccination drive in Kangra||A private Covid vaccination centre (CVC) at Fortis Hospital, Kangra, has started administering doses to the general public Friday onwards, a health official said. There are 39 private CVCs registered on the CoWIN portal in Himachal Pradesh and only Fortis Hospital has procured the vaccine so far.Director, National Health Mission, Dr Nipun Jindal said Fortis Hospital will be the first private facility in the state to vaccinate people and has fixed the rate of Covishield at ₹850 per dose. He said the beneficiaries of 18-45 age group may get themselves vaccinated at the private CVCs as well, after paying the due charges fixed by the institutions.He said Sanjeevani Jindal hospital at Kinnaur is another private CVC currently providing the vaccine. However, it is providing vaccination to only the employees of Jindal Hydro Power Project as industrial workplace CVC in the state.Active cases drop to below 10K-mark in HPHimachal Pradesh recorded 787 fresh Covid-19 infections on Friday taking the state’s tally to 1,93,924 while the death toll mounted to 3,244 after 27 patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 148 were reported in Kangra, 147 in Shimla, 138 in Mandi, 71 in Chamba, 68 in Hamirpur, 52 in Una, 50 in Solan, 39 in Sirmaur, 36 in Kullu, 20 in Bilaspur and 13 each in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti.Five fatalities each were reported in Kangra and Una, four in Sirmaur, three each in Bilaspur and Kullu, two each in Hamirpur and Mandi and one each in Shimla and Solan.The active cases in the state have come down below 10,000-mark in the state for the first time in over a month. Till Friday evening, there were 9,787 active cases left in the state.Recoveries reached 1,80,870 after 2,030 people recuperated.The recovery rate is now 93%.Meanwhile, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 44,268 infections. It is followed by Mandi with 25,849 cases and Shimla with 24,250 cases. Solan has 21,746 cases, Sirmaur 14,848, Hamirpur 13,774, Una 12,766, Bilaspur 12,150, Chamba 10,144 , Kullu 8,471, Kinnaur 3,045 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,613.Singha highlights problems faced by ASHAs Meanwhile, CPIM leader and Theog legislator Rakesh Singha has shot off a letter to chief minister Jai Ram Thakur highlighting the problems being faced by ASHAs, who have on the forefront of the battle against Covid-19.“Had this framework not been available already, the death toll from the pandemic could have been higher. They have contributed significantly in the prevention of epidemics, but they have their own problems which needed to be addressed,” wrote SinghaHe said ASHAs play a key role in prevention of epidemics and implementation of various government schemes and programmes.However, they are being given a very little honorarium, he wrote. The increase of ₹750 in the honorarium effective April 1, 2021, has also not been given yet which should be given immediately along with arrear, he said.“So, the government should consider and take immediate steps to regularise the services of ASHAs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/private-hospital-starts-vaccination-drive-in-kangra-101622837419902.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||76% of black fungus-infected patients in Punjab are above 45||Seventy-six percent of patients infected with mucormycosis, popularly known as black fungus, are above the age of 45 in Punjab. The state has not reported even a single confirmed case among minors, data available with the state health department shows.Till Friday morning, a total of 343 people were diagnosed with the fungal infection in Punjab, of which 261 are undergoing treatment in hospitals across the state, while 23 have been cured. Also, 49 of the 343 patients have died.According to the state health department, 84 of the total infected patients are in the age group of 18 to 44, while 132 are in the 45 to 60 age group. Also, 126 senior citizens in the 60+ age group were also found infected with the fungal infection in Punjab.Besides, a suspected patient has also been reported in Punjab in less than 18 age group category.Mucormycosis, a rare but serious fungal infection, can disfigure people even when it is not fatal. The infection can badly affect the sinus, eyes, lungs, jaws and teeth and sometimes brain of the patient. Health experts believe that Covid patients/survivors, who are not following the post-recovery instructions of the doctor, especially pertaining to blood sugar levels and intake of medicines, are more prone to the fungal infection.Hussan Lal, principal secretary, health, Punjab, said: “Most of the people infected in the state with mucormycosis are above the age of 45 as most of them are either diabetic or immunocompromised. Fungal infection is mostly attacking the diabetic patient and 45-plus age group is most vulnerable. Also, among the 49 deceased people, majority of them were above the age of 45 and were suffering from diabetes and had Covid-19 history.”A 14-year-old boy of Bathinda district is suspected to be suffering from mucormycosis and his samples have been sent for testing, the state health department said. The suspected patient does not have Covid-19 infection history and if found positive, required treatment will be given to him. His condition is said to be stable. State nodal officer for mucormycosis Dr Gagandeep Singh said: “In Punjab, 82% of the mucormycosis infected patients are either Covid-19 positive or they have recovered from the virus. Also, 85% of the mucormycosis patients had diabetes. People above the age of 45 have low immunity and when they contact Covid-19 infection, their immunity further lowers. Hence, a majority of mucormycosis cases are being detected in this category. Also, a majority of the 84 patients in 18-45 categories also had Covid-19 infection history.”“Punjab is having adequate drugs, including Amphotericin-B injection, which are used to treatment mucormycosis infected patients. Also, expert health team is monitoring the cases and drugs are being given to the patients, as advised by them”, he added. “People are advised to use washed face masks as used masks can increase the chances of fungal infection. Also, if any person, especially Covid-19 recovered or infected patients, is getting black nasal discharge or is having black spots in mouth or skin, or is having vision related problem, he/she should immediately contact the health department for timely detection and treatment,” Dr Gagandeep said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/76-of-black-fungus-infected-patients-in-punjab-are-above-45-101622837418954.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Operation Bluestar: 37 years on, no clarity on articles missing from Sikh Reference Library||Thirty-seven years since the Sikh Reference Library got destroyed in Operation Bluestar at the Golden Temple, confusion and ambiguities still prevail over the missing rare repository of manuscripts and other artifacts that were taken away by the army. Not only the Centre, the SGPC too has failed to come up with accurate details of the items that went missing and the ones returned by the Union government latter. And now, Punjab and Haryana high Court is hearing a petition filed last year by one Satinder Singh against the SGPC after former library director Anurag Singh questioned the integrity of the SGPC in preserving the rare repository. He claimed that the army had returned the items three months after the operation and the SGPC officials received them on September 29, 1984, but many items are missing from the library now. He also alleged that some of the rare ‘birs’ were sold. As the allegations sent the SGPC into a quandary, it set up a four-member committee of senior members to investigate the matter. When asked, the SGPC president Jagir Kaur did not reveal anything about the probe. An SGPC staffer said, “We are identifying lies in the allegations levelled by the petitioner. We are recording statements of the former SGPC staffers who have worked in the library.” He said the gurdwara body will challenge the allegations. SGPC member Kiranjot Kaur, who is a member of the probe panel, said, “We are studying the allegations levelled by the petitioner. We could not prepare a final report on this since there is a lot of confusion about the repository in the library. When we ask the retired employees of the library, they give different information.” “Actually, SGPC staff never knew of the importance of this library and it has never been their priority,” she said. “They (petitioner) have made an allegation that original ‘hukamnamas’ are missing from the library and only their photos are there. This is a lie because when we checked the record, we found that the library only had the photos. And the source of the photographs has been mentioned in the record properly. We are yet to carry out the investigation on other allegations,” she said, adding, “We are taking time because we need to bring out the truth.” Satinder said, “The SGPC has been constituting sub-committees since 2003. This is the third sub-committee. Where are the findings of the first two committees? Nobody knows.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/operation-bluestar-37-years-on-no-clarity-on-articles-missing-from-sikh-reference-library-101622837362161.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Erratic supply slows down vaccination drive in Majha||Erratic supply of doses from the state government has slowed down the vaccination drive in the Majha region comprising Amritsar, Gurdaspur, Pathankot and Tarn Taran districts.Health department officials say people are not visiting government centres as they are confused over vaccine availability. On Thursday, only 1,970 vaccine doses were administered to beneficiaries in Amritsar while other 4,261 were inoculated on Friday after the district received fresh stock of vaccine.“The vaccination pace had slowed down in Amritsar due to shortage but we are now getting the supply. Earlier, more than 8,000 beneficiaries were being inoculated daily but the count had dipped to 2,000 to 3,000. The number will improve once we get supply for inoculating the 18-45 age category,” said Amritsar assistant civil surgeon Dr Amarjit Singh. Only 21,746 beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group have been inoculated in Amritsar till now.On Friday, only 2,124 doses were administered in Tarn Taran, 1,848 in Gurdaspur and around 1,000 in Pathankot. “On an average, more than 6,000 people were being administered daily, but now the count has dipped to 1,500 to 3,000 in Gurdaspur. Due to vaccine shortage, we had to send back the beneficiaries and now they are confused over its availability,” said Gurdaspur immunisation officer Arvind Manchanda, adding that people are also not coming forward to take the jab as Covid-19 cases are declining in the past few days.In Tarn Taran, only 8,487 beneficiaries in the 18+ category have been inoculated so far, said immunisation officer Varinder Kaur. Situation is improving and villagers are also taking vaccine shots now. Also, vaccination camps are being set up for shopkeepers and vulnerable groups, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/erratic-supply-slows-down-vaccination-drive-in-majha-101622837299453.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Virus claims 34 lives in J&K, toll breaches 4,000 mark||With 34 new Covid-related deaths in J&K, the toll due to pandemic that began in March last year has crossed the 4,000 mark. On Friday, J&K also reported 1,723 fresh infections, taking the overall cases to 2, 97,602 and total fatalities to 4,026.Of the deaths in the UT, 13 were reported in Jammu division and 21 in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 1,124 are from Kashmir while 599 are from Jammu. The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Friday was 2,731. The active positive cases dropped to 29,615 from the highest ever of 52,848 on May 13.With the fresh recoveries, the recovery rate in J&K has gone up to 88.6%. Officials said that 49,415 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests reaching 8.9 million. With 303 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 177 in Baramulla, and 165 in Jammu district.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.17 lakh cases and 1,882 deaths of the total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-claims-34-lives-in-j-k-toll-breaches-4-000-mark-101622837180008.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bajwa demands independent probe into sale of vaccine to pvt hospitals||Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Friday demanded an independent and time-bound probe into sale of Covaxine to private hospitals. In a letter written to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Bajwa said the state government has earned a profit of ₹2.64 crores through sale of vaccine doses to private hospitals. “What was the purpose of this profit? As private hospitals are further selling the doses at ₹1,560 per dose, it is distressing that in the middle of the pandemic, there are those who wish to make money instead of protecting the health of the people. I urge to order an inquiry into this to know who is the architect of this callous policy,” said Bajwa.SAD seeks case against health ministerBATHINDA: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said a case should be registered against health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu for diverting vaccines meant for the common man to private institutions.The SAD chief, who was at Talwandi Sabo town in Bathinda to launch the second “vaccine sewa centre” established by the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC), sad Punjab government’s poor Covid management been exposed.He said this was pure loot and chief minister captain Amarinder Singh owes a public explanation.Sukhbir said if unwanted corporatisation of vaccine distribution is not stopped, the SAD would be forced to approach the courts for justice.Chugh demands registration of criminal case Chandigarh: BJP national general secretary Tarun Chugh slammed the Capt Amarinder Singh government for commercialising the sale of Covid vaccine at a time when Punjab had recorded the highest Covid mortality rate in the country.In a statement on Friday, he said a criminal case should to be registered against all those involved in the vaccine scam under which the doses provided by the Centre for the poor working class was sold on commercial rates to private hospitals, who in turn made huge money out of it.He said of the 1.14 lakh Covaxin vaccines Punjab received last month at the cost of ₹420 per dose, the state government sold 40,000 of them to over 20 private hospitals for ₹1,060 per dose and the private hospitals in turn charged ₹1,560 for it from people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bajwa-demands-independent-probe-into-sale-of-vaccine-to-pvt-hospitals-101622837178869.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Death audit prompts HP govt to change guidelines for Covid management||One the basis of death audit carried out in Himachal, the state clinical team has inferred that there was delayed presentation of Covid patients to the health facilities due to fear of quarantine, social stigma and taking common cold lightly. Also, there have been few instances of late referral. Director, National Health Mission, Dr Nipun Jindal, said keeping in view the above facts, it has been directed that comorbid patients will be admitted to dedicated Covid care centre (controlled comorbidities) and dedicated Covid health centre (uncontrolled comorbidities) with intense monitoring and early recognition of a dip in oxygen saturation and/or breathing problems.He said that in order to avoid exposure of comorbid patients during their routine hospital visits, it is advised that the comorbid and aged population should use the services of tele-consultation by e-sanjeevani OPD.“If such patients come to hospitals, they should be prescribed medicines for underlying comorbidities for at least three months,” he said.He said the Covid patients in home isolation should register themselves on Himachal Covid care app for regular follow up. These patients should be aware of the drugs like doses, frequency of intake, timing of intake, infection control practices, modalities and frequency of monitoring, the doctor said. It has been directed that facilities like a dedicated central desk can be established, which should be manned 24×7 with dedicated personnel for the timely referral and intensive and focused IEC activities should be done to create awareness in the public. “The doctors involved in Covid-19 patient’s care have been directed to attend the regular update,” said Dr Jindal.State clinical team issues guidelines for use of remdesivir, steroidsIn the wake crisis of remdesivir stock in the market due to its indiscriminate use, the state clinical team has issued guidelines of the anti-viral drug. Dr Jindal said the state clinical team suggested the remdesivir may be considered only for patients with moderate to severe Covid cases requiring supplement oxygen and has no medical history of kidney or liver dysfunction.The patients who receive this drug should be within 10 days of onset of disease, said Dr Jindal, adding that it should not be used in patients who are not on oxygen support or are in home settings.He urged the public not to attempt to procure or administer remdesivir at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/death-audit-prompts-hp-govt-to-change-guidelines-for-covid-management-101622837119090.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 71 Covid deaths, 2,009 cases||Punjab on Friday registered 71 more fatalities due to Covid-19, taking the death toll to 14,927, while 2,009 fresh cases pushed the infection count to 5,76,119, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases declined to 26,277 from 28,673 on Thursday.Ten deaths were reported from Patiala, nine from Sangrur, eight from Bathinda and seven from Ludhiana, the bulletin said.Ludhiana reported 200 fresh cases, followed by Jalandhar (168), Kapurthala (156) and Bathinda (145).The state’s positivity rate dropped to 2.98% from 3.21% on Thursday.With 4,314 more recoveries, the number of cured persons in the state reached 5,34,915, as per the bulletin.There are 284 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 735 other critical patients and 3,575 others on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 95,30,712 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-71-covid-deaths-2-009-cases-101622837059007.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal weapon racket busted, armyman among seven held in Faridkot||FaridkotWith the arrest of seven persons, including an army jawan, Punjab Police on Friday busted an illegal weapon smuggling racket in Faridkot district.The accused have been identified as Bhupinder Singh, Jasdev Singh, Alam Singh, Satnam Singh, Sandeep Singh, all residents of Mansa, Navdeep Singh of Barnala, and Jaspreet Singh of Bathinda. Bhupinder is serving as a sepoy in 5th commando battalion of the army. Police have recovered two countrymade .32 bore pistols with two magazines and three 315 bore countrymade pistols along with six cartridges from their possession. “On Friday, four persons travelling in a car were stopped at a checkpoint near Jaitu for checking and two illegal weapons were recovered from the possession of two among them. During interrogation, it was revealed they were smuggling illegal countrymade weapons in Barnala, Mansa, Bathinda, Faridkot and other districts. Led by inspector Dalbir Singh, the CIA team raided Barnala and Mansa district, where three more members of their gang were arrested along with illegal weapons,” superintendent of police Bhupinder Singh.“They were travelling in Bhupinder’s car, who is serving in the army. We have also informed the Army officials regarding his arrest in this case,” he added.A case was registered under sections 25/54/59 of Arms Act at the Bajakhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-weapon-racket-busted-armyman-among-seven-held-in-faridkot-101622836639076.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||3 govt medical colleges send proposal to setup Covid care facilities for kids||FaridkotAmid projections of a possible third wave of Covid and its impact on children, the three government medical colleges in Punjab have sent proposals to the state government to setup special Covid care facilities to provide treatment to the children suffering from the virus.To provide treatment to children, dedicated level-2 and level-3 facilities will be setup in government medical colleges (GMCs) at Faridkot, Amritsar and Patiala as part of preparedness plan for third wave of Covid-19. Experts say as the virus has mutated and chances of its further mutation cannot be ruled out, it can affect children in the coming days.The three government medical colleges have sent proposals to the state government seeking grant of ₹11 crore for preparedness to tackle third wave of Covid-19. The Guru Gobind Singh Medical College at Faridkot sent a proposal of ₹6 crore to scale up the infrastructure including setting up of special covid care section dedicated to children suffering from virus. Similarly, GMCs at Amritsar and Patiala has sent proposals seeking grant of ₹3 crore and ₹2 crore, respectively.Dr Raj Bahadur, vice-chancellor of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), said that Punjab government has decided to make special Covid facilities dedicated to children, who are suffering from coronavirus. “Three GMCs at Faridkot, Amritsar and Patiala have already sent proposals to setup facilities dedicated to Covid infected children. We have sent request to state government seeking ₹6 crore to scale up the infrastructure including setup covid facility for children at GGSMCH at Faridkot,” he added.“There will level-2 and level-3 ward with oxygen supply in these facilities. We will also procure special ventilators made for children and small size beds along with other equipment made for kids. With these centres, we will have separate set-up for children,” “Apart from this we are going to start another 48-bed covid care centre at Faridkot with the help of Mumbai-based Tata Memorial Centre (TMC). We have already identified the location, where this make shift hospital will be setup,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-govt-medical-colleges-send-proposal-to-setup-covid-care-facilities-for-kids-101622836519211.html
05-06-2021||Lucknow||UP considers scrapping commercial tax dept’s mobile squad system||The Uttar Pradesh government is considering abolition of the “controversial” mobile squad system in the commercial tax department to facilitate seamless movement of goods vehicles and end the alleged extortion that traders are often subjected to in the name of checking on the road, people dealing with the matter revealed. Mobile squads have been functioning in the commercial tax department (then known as sales tax department) since 1970 to check tax evasion by intercepting suspected moving vehicles with traders’ consignments. More than 70% of the government’s total revenue comes from the commercial tax department.“The government now feels that not only have these mobile squads lost much of their relevance under the GST regime, but they are also considered to be the main tool of corruption and extortion of traders while their output does not match the huge resources they consume,” said a senior official requesting anonymity. The commercial tax department is expected to send a formal proposal recommending disbanding of mobile squads soon to the state government that a few months back sought a report on the utility of mobile squads in the state.Asked by commercial tax commissioner Ministhy S, additional commissioner (commercial tax), Gautam Buddhanagar Zone, Noida, Chandra Bhushan Singh has sent a detailed report to the headquarters here. The report makes a strong recommendation for doing away with the mobile squad units, merging the same with department’s special investigation branch (SIB) that is mandated to collect intelligence inputs on tax evasion.Mobile squads together comprise 150 assistant commissioners, 300 commercial tax officers and 150 vehicles to carry out checking vehicles on roads in the state. Singh, in his report, has said that mobile squads act arbitrarily, harassing and extorting traders in the name of checking. He also said that after implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST) with e-way bill system, the mobile squads had lost much of their relevance.“Also, the existing system of mobile squads is based on prejudice in which each vehicle carrying goods on roads is stopped without any valid reason and forced for verification, wasting transporters’ time and adding to the possibility of harassment and extortion,” Singh said in the report.He pointed out that all the mobile squads together inspected 6,11,636 vehicles during last three years and of them only 6% (367,35) vehicles were found to be at fault, which he said raised question marks on the rationale of the existence and utility of mobile squads. He further said in the report that maximum number complaints received from traders about corruption and extortion were against mobile squads.The government, according to another official, was not happy with the working of the mobile squad units and might disband them soon, making the Noida additional commissioner’s input the basis.The Mulayam Singh Yadav government abolished the border check posts about 13-14 years ago on the same grounds. Despite the apprehensions, it was found that abolition of check posts did not adversely impact the department’s revenue collection.UP Vanijya Kar Adhikari Seva Sangh president Sunil Kumar Verma said, “Like abolition of the border check posts 15 years ago, disbanding of mobile squads is the need of the hour today.”Verma has been writing regularly to the department and the government, raising the demand for restructuring and abolition of mobile squad units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-considers-scrapping-commercial-tax-dept-s-mobile-squad-system-101622835618214.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra set for five-level unlock from Monday||The Maharashtra government will lift lockdown restrictions from Monday, through its five-level unlock plan. The order to this effect was issued late Friday night.The state has decided to categorise districts and cities based on their positivity rate and occupancy rate of oxygen beds. Districts and cities will be put in level 1 if they have less than 5% weekly positivity rate and less than 25% occupancy rate of oxygen beds. Those coming under level 1 will be free of all restrictions. All activities under level 1 have been allowed to start from Monday. It means, all shops, restaurants, malls, theatres, public places, private offices, sports, shooting gatherings, marriages, funerals can restart in such spots. Cities and districts with up to 5% positivity rate and 25-40% occupancy rate will be incorporated in level 2 of the plan, 5% to 10% positivity rate and 40-60% occupancy will come under level 3, 10-20% positivity rate and 60-75% occupancy rate areas will come under level 4 and areas having a positivity rate of 20% and above and occupancy rate above 75% will not see any relaxation.At the time of going to press, officials said Mumbai may be put under level 2 or 3, which will have some restrictions. Continuing with the drop in numbers, Maharashtra recorded 14,152 new Covid-19 cases on Friday. The per-day caseload has remained less than 21,000 for the past one week. The tally now has reached 5,805,565.RELATED REPORTS, P4||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-set-for-five-level-unlock-from-monday-101622835498174.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||PAU student awarded Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Young Research Fellowship||Manjinder Kaur, a PhD student at the department of chemistry, college of basic sciences and humanities, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), has been awarded the prestigious “Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Young Research Fellowship” for the year 2020-21.Manjinder was selected from among 800 candidates nationwide and awarded the prestigious fellowship during an online event organised by TERRE Policy Centre, Pune, in memory of late President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. For her PhD research, she is working on “Evaluation of ocimum essential oil derived composites to enhance shelf life of kinnow fruit” under the guidance of Ritu Tandon from department of chemistry, Punjab Horticultural Postharvest Technology Centre. The fellowship carries a cash price of ₹25,000 along with a citation, scroll and medallion. Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon, vice-chancellor of PAU, congratulated Manjinder and wished her all success in her future endeavours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pau-student-awarded-dr-apj-abdul-kalam-young-research-fellowship-101622834958773.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Waterlogging blows lid off Ludhiana MC’s tall claims||Waterlogging at various parts of the city following rainfall on Friday morning has blown the lid off the tall claims made by the municipal corporation (MC) regarding its preparations for the monsoons. Water accumulated in areas like Chaura Bazaar, Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar (BRS) Nagar, near Clock Tower and Model Town Extension and residents said that the civic body must wake up from its slumber and take necessary steps ahead of the monsoons .Former councillor Parminder Mehta slammed the civic body for its failure to clean the Talab Bazaar drain, which moves through parts of the old city area including Talab Bazaar, Chaura Bazaar, Bhadaur House and Kundanpuri. Mehta said, “The drain releases rain water into the Buddha Nullah, but it has been choked for years. Despite repeated complaints and reminders, the civic body has failed to clean it, due to which rainwater accumulation is witnessed in most of the main markets of the old city area.”Harwinder Singh, a resident of BRS Nagar, said, “The authorities should find a solution for rainwater accumulation near the Sidhwan Canal at BRS Nagar, due to which fruit vendors who normally install their vends at one corner shifted their vends to road sides. As the work to install interlocking tiles is also going on, traffic jams were witnessed in the area.”Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu said that directions have already been issued to the officials to get the internal drains, sewer lines and road gullies cleaned. The work is ongoing and the lines will be cleared before the monsoon hits the city, Sandhu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/waterlogging-blows-lid-off-ludhiana-mc-s-tall-claims-101622834901048.html
05-06-2021||Lucknow||Anti-Covid jabs cross one million mark in Lucknow||The number of total Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the state capital crossed the 10-lakh (one million) mark on Friday as 23,388 more beneficiaries took the jab during the day.“Lucknow is the first district in North India to cross a million doses, perhaps. Today’s achievement 23,388 (doses) is the highest in a single day,” said district magistrate Abhishek Prakash while congratulating the team on the success.“In all, 10,04,940 doses have been administered, including 7,75,543 first doses, to beneficiaries. The beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years of age took the first dose in 2,44,865 instances and 11,868 second doses since their vaccination began on May 1,” said Dr MK Singh, the officer in charge of vaccination in Lucknow.The beneficiaries between 18 and 45 years of age have shown the maximum enthusiasm. The turnout is over 95% against the slots allotted to this age group, which is more than the other categories.The maximum 2,90,072 doses have been administered to people in the category of above 45 years of age. Healthcare workers have taken a total 1,17,864 doses, frontline workers 1,01,554 doses, and those above 60 years of age took 2,38,717 vaccine shots.“Lucknow is running over 150 vaccination sites, including seven at private hospitals,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, spokesperson for the office of the chief medical officer, Lucknow. He said three mega vaccination camps were also running, including two at Ekana Stadium, KD Singh Babu Stadium, which has got a “massive” response.Vaccination is also being done at all 19 community health centres and women and child hospitals, apart from medical institutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/anticovid-jabs-cross-one-million-mark-in-lucknow-101622834898784.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Jailed rapist booked for issuing death threats to complainant||Two months after a school teacher alleged that her rapist was issuing death threats to her family from behind the bars, police have booked the accused and his two accomplices.The accused, Mandeep Singh, alias Honey, of Gopal Nagar, was using a mobile phone in jail to issue threats to the woman, investigators said. One of his two accomplices has been identified as Deepu of Shimlapuri.According to police, Mandeep was booked on May 23, 2020 for raping the school teacher for three years after threatening her with dire consequences. The accused had also forcibly taken her debit card and stolen ₹6 lakh from her bank account.After being arrested, Mandeep threatened the woman to withdraw the rape complaint, else he would kill her family after being released from jail, her husband stated in his complaint to the police commissioner on April 2.Mandeep also claimed that he had her lewd videos and pictures that he would release on the internet. The woman got more threat calls from different people, claiming to be gangsters, the complainant had said.Taking note of the complaint, the police commissioner had marked an inquiry to the assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Central). Following investigation, police traced the phone used by Mandeep near the Ludhiana Central Jail. “A case under Sections 195-A (threatening any person to give false evidence) of the Indian Penal Code has been lodged against Mandeep. We will bring him out on a production warrant for questioning,” said sub-inspector Bakhshish Singh, who is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-jailed-rapist-booked-for-issuing-death-threats-to-complainant-101622834658753.html
05-06-2021||Other||K’taka to hold SSLC exams from July 3rd week, 2nd PUC exam scrapped||Bengaluru: The Karnataka government has decided to hold the SSLC ((Secondary School Leaving Certificate) or class 10 examinations in the third week of July while cancelling the second year pre-university college(PUC) exams, S Suresh Kumar, state of primary and secondary education informed on Friday. “This year, SSLC examination will be held and the question paper will contain only multiple choice questions,” a statement from the minister’s office said.Kumar, while addressing the media, said that the department has come up with a model in which all six subjects will be squeezed into just two papers.The first paper would include mathematics, science and social science and each topic will have a maximum of 40 mark’s that takes the total to 120.The same grading would be used for all three language papers, the minister added.He said that the exam is being conducted to help children choose a stream for their further studies in either science, commerce and arts.“Conducting examinations in the usual elaborative manner during these troubled times poses a lot of risk for the student community. Their lives are most precious for us and their health assumes paramount importance. However, since we don’t have previous assessment models for these students, it is inevitable for us to somehow evaluate their performance and hence a most simple solution has been formulated,” the statement stated. The two papers, to be held on two different days with at least 3 days gap in between, will have optical mark readers, and it will have multiple choice answers. Kumar said that model question papers will be released shortly.The decision comes in the wake of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic crisis in Karnataka, which is among the worst impacted regions in the country.The exams for SSLC will be held in the third week of July and grading for PUC students will be announced by the last week of June. “We are not holding the PUC exams this year. The grading will be based on their performance at the district level assessment in the first pre-university examination,” Suresh said while addressing a press conference. “The second pre-university college students would be promoted to the next level,” he added. The minister said that the government is doubling the number of examination centres from 3,000 to 6,000 this time to ensure proper safety precautions are taken for the same. “Only 12 students per room would be accommodated and only one student per desk. At least a six feet distance will be maintained between each student,” the minister said.All students will be provided N 95 masks and all teachers will be vaccinated; the minister added.Kumar also said that the primary and secondary education are now deliberating on how they can innovate to bring in periodical review practices like CBSE and ICSE. He also added that it is unlikely that any student will be held back in these two grades.However, the decision to hold exams for class 10 received criticism from former Karnataka chief minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Kumaraswamy. “It is really insane on the part of the state government to hold SSLC exams while cancelling the II Year PUC exams in the wake of the prevailing Covid situation.People of the state are laughing at such a mad decision of the education minister who is acting as if he is out of his mind,” Kumaraswamy posted on Twitter.He said that the government should withdraw the “irrational decision” and “reign in” the education minister “who is playing with the lives of children.” “It is mainly due to the fear of the Prime Minister that II PU exams were cancelled. Is this learned person who is eager to hold exams for SSLC students an education minister or the examination minister who is testing the patience of parents and students,” he added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-to-hold-sslc-exams-from-july-3rd-week-2nd-puc-exam-scrapped-101622834238088.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||15-year-old girl attacked by stray dogs in Ludhiana||A 15-year-old was attacked by a pack of stray dogs in Krishna Nagar near Ghumar Mandi on Thursday morning. Two passers-by rescued the teen, Neha, but she couldn’t escape multiple bite injuries on her arms, chest and back. The girl also received seven stitches on the head after she fell on the road in the vicious attack.Her parents, who are migrant workers, have filed a police complaint against a doctor in the area, who feeds stray dogs, alleging this had led to an increase in their number. As per information, Neha, the only child of her parents, was on her way to a relative’s house with her mother around 6am when the dogs attacked her without provocation. Two commuters passing by rescued her and helped her reach the hospital. Her mother, Roshni, said, “She was walking at some distance from me when the dogs suddenly appeared and attacked her. They also tried to bite me as I jumped in to save my daughter. Fortunately, two residents came to our rescue and saved us from the dogs.” Father Vinod Kumar, who works in a garment factory, said he was asleep at home when his wife alerted him over the phone. “I was shocked to see multiple injuries on my daughter’s body. We rushed her to a nearby hospital, where doctors discharged her in the evening,” he added. Seeking stern police action against the doctor for luring stray dogs into the area, the father also demanded that the civic body relocate the animals to avoid another similar incident.Meanwhile, MC senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Dhalla said they had not received any information about the incident.Ghumar Mandi police post in-charge sub-inspector Jaswinder Singh said, “The family members have submitted a complaint against the doctor. We are investigating the matter before lodging an FIR.” NOT A FIRSTOctober 30, 2020: Eight-year-old Ekam was attacked by four stray dogs in Tajganj January 27, 2020: Four-year-old Viraj Kumar was mauled to death by stray dogs in Bahomajra village of Khanna May 30, 2019: A six-year-old girl, Dania, was bitten by a stray dog in Sector 32 on Chandigarh RoadMay 25, 2019: Mehtab Singh, aged four, was bitten by a stray dog on the cheek in Barmalipur villageDecember 31, 2018: A stray dog ripped off the finger of a workshop owner in Gurdev Nagar December 5, 2018: Stray dogs attacked a four-year-old at Bhamiyan RoadOctober 2018: A five-year-old girl allegedly died of rabies in Sarabha Nagar after stray dogs attacked herJanuary 2016: A stray dog ripped off the ear of a 12-year-old boy when he came out of his school bus in South Model Gram area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15yearold-girl-attacked-by-stray-dogs-in-ludhiana-101622834183226.html
05-06-2021||Other||Karnataka: 3 sanitation workers die while cleaning sewage system||Bengaluru: Three sanitation workers engaged in manual scavenging died of asphyxiation while cleaning a public sewage system in Ramanagara town located around 50 km from Bengaluru on Friday. The three workers, all in the early thirties, died in the drainage even though manual scavenging has been banned since 1993. Ramanagara district police identified the deceased as Manjunath (32), Manjunath (30) and Rajesh (32). According to police, Manjunath who had gone into the drainage collapsed due to asphyxiation. Soon, the other two went inside to rescue him but died inside. According to police, the three workers were hired by the Ramanagara Municipal Corporation through a contractor. Police who have filed an FIR has arrested one Manoj on Friday, who is an associate of a contractor named Harish. Following the incident, two government staffers were booked and transferred .These deaths come just months after 30-year-old Lal Ahmed and 25-year-old Rasheed Ahmed died while cleaning a manhole in north Karnataka’s Kalburgi on January 26. In a similar incident, on February 23, a pourakarmika (civic worker) working for the municipality in Maddur town of Mandya district died by suicide, months after he was allegedly forced to clean a manhole without safety equipment. According to Karnataka State Commission for Safai Karamcharis, the state has witnessed 36 manual scavenging-related incidents since 2008, resulting in 72 deaths. Police cases were filed in all the incidents, but there has not been a single conviction. In four cases, police filed a B Report, which meant they did not find any evidence to file a charge sheet. Five cases were registered as unnatural deaths, 15 were under trial, two under investigation and in 12 cases, the accused were acquitted. “Any death related to manual scavenging is called an accident, but the truth is that it is culpable homicide, if not murder. When you send someone inside a pit with poisonous gases, you are aware of the danger to that person’s life,” said Clifton Rozario, a city-based advocate, who has filed the petition against manual scavenging in the high court. Even though The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act came into existence in 2013, the inhuman practice not only continues, but it has caused lives,” Rozario said. The Karnataka high court too, in December 2020, had noted the state government’s laxity in implementing the law in full letter and spirit. A bench led by Chief Justice AS Oka had noted that forcing one to perform manual scavenging amounts to a violation of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) of the Indian Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnataka-3-sanitation-workers-die-while-cleaning-sewage-system-101622834120394.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||65-year-old Ludhiana man bludgeons wife to death with wooden stick||Enraged during an altercation with his wife, a 65-year-old farmer bludgeoned her to death with a wooden stick at Mangli Tanda village on Thursday, police said.The accused, identified as Buland Singh, has been arrested and booked for murder on the complaint of his son Gurdeep Singh.Gurdeep, a mechanic at a factory, told the police that his father lived in a separate accommodation near their house. He used to deter his mother from meeting her siblings and other relatives, which had caused their relationship to go sour.On Thursday morning, he had a spat with his mother, Surinder Kaur, 60, over the same issue. In a fit of rage, he bolted the room from the inside and attacked his mother with a wooden stick.The complainant said his wife alerted him about the incident over the phone, following which he rushed home. After persistent knocking, his father opened the door and fled, leaving his mother in a pool of blood on the floor. Gurdeep rushed her to Christian Medical College and Hospital, where doctors declared her dead.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, East) Davinder Chaudhary said the accused was arrested on Friday and the wooden stick used in the crime was recovered from his possession. A case of murder under the Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/65yearold-ludhiana-man-bludgeons-wife-to-death-with-wooden-stick-101622834119819.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gang war spills out on Ludhiana’s streets: Aides of jailed gangster attack relatives of rival||Over two dozen men on bikes went around the city firing shots and attacking people related to gangster Puneet Bains on Thursday night in what police suspect was a gang war.According to the police, the assailants were the aides of gangster Shubham Arora of Mota gang, who is lodged in the Ludhiana Central Jail, where Bains is also incarcerated.Investigators said the assailants, riding multiple bikes, reached Guru Arjan Dev Nagar first and attacked Bains’ cousin Major Sandhu with sharp-edged weapons and sticks. Leaving Sandhu with multiple injuries, they proceeded to vandalise a Toyota Fortuner parked at a petrol pump near the Samrala Chowk. It reportedly belongs to another relative of Bains.They moved to Chotti Colony around 12.30am where Bains’ house is located. They pelted the building with stones, while abusing and threatening the gangster’s mother, who is a witness in the murderous attack on him by the Mota gang, said police. The assailants then went to New Mohar Singh Nagar, where they hurled stones at the house of Nanna Don, an aide of Bains, and then moved to Ghoda Colony, where they fired five shots at the house of a woman, Anju, also a relative of Bains. She escaped unhurt.Receiving a slew of alerts about the attacks, police teams from Moti Nagar police station rushed to respective areas and initiated investigation. Five bullet shells were recovered outside Anju’s house.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, Industrial Area) Simranjit Singh said the stream of attacks seemed to be a fallout of a gang war between gangsters Puneet Bains and Shubham Arora.“Police are scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed in different areas to identify the accused, who will be arrested soon. Statements are being recorded to register an FIR,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-war-spills-out-on-ludhiana-s-streets-aides-of-jailed-gangster-attack-relatives-of-rival-101622833999315.html
05-06-2021||Other||Bengaluru buckles up for monsoon||Bengaluru: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to set up a task force with dedicated teams in each assembly constituency in the city to handle monsoon-related issues, officials aware of the development said. Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka on Thursday said a decision has been taken to provide adequate equipment to the task force to handle any flooding-like situations in the city. “We have directed the BBMP to use high-pressure motors to drain underpasses. A task force will be set up in every assembly constituency to exclusively oversee the monsoon preparations and attend to distress calls from citizens. The task force will be provided with required vehicles, personnel and equipment to deal with rain-related emergencies. A 24X7 control room will be set up in every BBMP zone to attend to people’s problems,” the minister said. The decision was taken after a meeting called by chief minister BS Yediyuarappa with senior officials of the city administration just two days before the southwest monsoon is expected to hit Karnataka. During the meeting, the CM also instructed officials to set up eight permanent control rooms, one in each zone, and 63 temporary control rooms, which must be operational 24 hours, said officials who were part of the meeting. On Wednesday, minister for urban development BA Basavaraj, along with BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta, reviewed various measures taken in this regard. As per the report of the review meeting, which was presented to the CM, as many as 209 flood-prone areas have been identified across the city, of which 58 have been placed in severely vulnerable category while 151 were deemed moderately vulnerable. They also informed the CM that the redevelopment of 440 km of stormwater drain walls has been completed and added that other monsoon preparatory works will be completed by the end of June. As per the documents presented to the chief minister, Bommanhalli area in Bengaluru has the highest number (12) of flood-prone areas followed by Mahadevapura (10). On Thursday, Sai Layout, Geddalahalli and a few other areas near Hennur Main Road got flooded with just 80-90 mm of rainfall in the city. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the southwest monsoon will enter interior Karnataka and Bengaluru by Sunday. CS Patil, director in-charge of IMD-Bengaluru, said the interior parts of Karnataka will receive rain for the next three days. While the preparation for the monsoon is underway in full swing, BBMP officials are faced with the additional challenge of handling Covid-19 situation. As the number of Covid-19 cases are still on the higher side, officials have been asked to prepare for any contingencies, where people have to be evacuated in case of serious flooding. “We are preparing for the same. In several parts of Bengaluru, people have to evacuate their houses for a short time because of the flooding. They generally move with someone they know or a relative. Even though it is a worst-case scenario and is very few in numbers, we are making a plan on relocating people, if needed,” said a senior BBMP official, who didn’t wish to be named. Meanwhile, considering the higher number of power cuts in the city, Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (BESCOM) has decided to allocate more staff for its helpline (1912) number, which was converted to Covid-19 helpline when the cases were on the rise. “We had around 60 personnel working for the Covid-19 helpline and 30 working for BESCOM helpline, with the reduction in calls, we might move some employees back to BESCOM since there are multiple power fluctuations due to rains,” said a helpline official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bengaluru-buckles-up-for-monsoon-101622833998055.html
05-06-2021||Other||Mysuru DC comes under spotlight as rumblings grow in admin circles||Bengaluru For at least three years now, Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer Rohini Sindhuri has battled several allegations against her – both personal and professional – by her colleagues and political leaders. On Thursday, another IAS officer, Shilpa Nag, the incumbent Mysuru city commissioner, resigned from the services, citing “harassment” and “humiliation” by Sindhuri at a press conference.The offer to resign, which is yet to be taken forward through official channels by Nag, has opened the floodgates of brickbats against Sindhuri, a 2009-batch officer.Nag’s allegations, also mentioned in her handwritten resignation letter, include charges like “personal vendetta” and “ego” against Sindhuri, who has also reacted in an official release on Thursday.Hindustan Times has viewed a copy of both the resignation letter as well as Sindhuri’s reaction.“There is a process, a forum in which the chief secretary, a regional secretary is there. Everyone should follow the process,” Sindhuri told Kannada TV news channels on Friday. In a statement on Thursday, Sindhuri said she had only sought details of Covid-19 related documents, including expenditure of CSR funds during Covid, from Nag, which did not constitute to harassment.“It is not my place to keep on reacting to every allegation,” Sindhuri said on Friday.People aware of the developments said Sindhuri had impeded an attempt to usurp around 1,500 acres of land near a lakebed, which had upset some politicians.People cited above said Sindhuri was being targeted for not “obeying” politicians and their demands for awarding contract of works to persons related to them as well as denying an opportunity to usurp government land for various projects. She had also probed a possible model code of conduct violations against A Manju, then with the Congress in Hassan district, during the assembly elections in 2018. She was at the receiving end of sharp barbs by elected representatives when she had allegedly denied awarding a scaffolding contract to a person related to Manju just before the Mahamastakabhisheka of Gomateshwara, an elaborate Jain festival ritual held every 12 years in Hassan district.Soon after, the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government transferred her citing flimsy grounds of her breaching protocol. Sindhuri took the legal route and was reinstated.Her being appointed as deputy collector of Mysuru, the second largest city in Karnataka, about 125 km from Bengaluru, was opposed by Janata Dal (Secular) leader Sa Ra Mahesh. At a press conference called on May 2 by the JD(S) leader, he took personal jibes at Sindhuri, stating that the district required “role model officers” and not “models”. Politicians from all three political parties – the Bharatiya Janata Party, the Congress and the JD(S) – have targeted Sindhuri in the recent past.The developments are not helping chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who is also at battle with dissidents from within his own party and fighting all attempts by the BJP central leadership to replace him.Sindhuri was also accused of ignoring desperate calls for help by her colleague from Chamarajanagar, where 24 Covid-19 patients died allegedly due to shortage of oxygen. However, a report after a probe into the incident indicated that there was no clear hindrance on the Mysuru DC for supply of oxygen to Chamarajanagara district. On Friday, Nag said her decision to resign was not in haste but well thought off.“Politicians, especially those who take up positions in the government, are expected to be neutral. But this rarely happens. The IAS officers on the other hand are neutral,” said a former IAS officer, who resigned from services in Karnataka two years ago citing personal reasons.He said officers are often targeted by politicians by planting fake news, spreading misinformation and organising protests for alleged corruption or irregularities. The officer cited above has known and worked with both Nag and Sindhuri in the past.He said Nag looked exhausted in her press conference.“Covid has extracted a lot from officials,” he said, adding that these officers have been working tirelessly for over a year now despite the threat the virus poses to their own families.He said such “skirmishes” were common between officials but rarely does an official do what Nag did.Karnataka chief secretary is scheduled to meet both officials on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mysuru-dc-comes-under-spotlight-as-rumblings-grow-in-admin-circles-101622833938018.html
05-06-2021||Other||Bureaucratic reshuffle begins in UP after BJP’s feedback sessions||The transfer of senior IAS officers in Uttar Pradesh comes two days after Bharatiya Janata Party national general secretary (organization) BL Santhosh and the party’s Uttar Pradesh in-charge Radha Mohan Singh completed feedback sessions with ministers, MLAs and state unit office bearers about the working of the state government as well as the strategy for the 2022 assembly election. During the meetings, the ministers and MLAs raised the issue of the “uncontrolled functioning” of bureaucrats, alleged involvement of some officers in corruption, besides officers not taking the calls made by the ministers, MLAs and MPs. They also claimed the appointment of officers in various departments had been made without the ministers’ consent. The MLAs said that in several districts, the district magistrates were not informing the people’s representatives about the progress of development and welfare schemes and even matters referred by the MLAs were overlooked, said a BJP leader familiar with developments at the meetings.Another BJP leader, who did not wish to be named, said along with overhauling the bureaucracy before the 2022 assembly election, the state government had decided to fill up vacant posts in various boards, corporations and commissions. Vacancies in the BJP’s fronts, including Mahila Morcha, Yuva Morcha, Scheduled Caste Morcha, besides minority, OBC, traders’, intellectual, and legal cells, will be filled soon, too.In the meeting with chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, the two leaders Santhosh and Singh discussed the issues raised by the ministers and MLAs regarding the bureaucracy. Thereafter, the state government shifted 18 officers and more were likely to be transferred soon, a party leader said.With eight months left for the assembly election, the state government does not want a tussle between officials and MLAs. The state government faced embarrassment in the state assembly in December 2019 when several ruling party MLAs, led by BJP lawmaker from Loni in Ghaziabad, Nand Kishor Gujjar, staged a dharna (sit-in) in protest against the working of the district administration officers.While reviewing Covid management with district magistrates and superintendents of police, the chief minister had directed the officers to hold regular meetings with people’s representatives, brief the MLAs and MPs about the progress of various health projects, hand over the list and mobile numbers of patients admitted in the hospitals to local MLAs, the party leader said.All eyes are now on party meetings to be chaired by BJP national president JP Nadda in Delhi on June 5 and 6. The BJP leaders will review preparations for the 2022 assembly election in UP. Along with cabinet expansion in UP, the leaders are likely to mull over the assembly election strategy. “The initial mismanagement during the Covid second wave has damaged the image of the state government. The state unit will launch a public outreach campaign across the state as a damage control exercise,” the BJP leader said.Six DMs among 18 IAS officers shiftedWhile carrying out a reshuffle in the state bureaucracy, the state government transferred 18 IAS officers including district magistrates of six districts on Thursday- Friday night.Manoj Singh has been made the additional chief secretary (forest), MVS Rami Reddy the additional chief secretary (horticulture), Sudhir Garg the principal secretary (animal husbandry) and BL Meena the principal secretary (cooperatives). NG Ravi has been made the Gorakhpur divisional commissioner, replacing Jayant Narlikar who has been sent to his original cadre Assam.K Ravindra Nayak has been made principal secretary (social welfare). Mukesh Meshram has been given additional charge of director general (tourism). Subhash Chandra Sharma has been made principal secretary (higher education). Ajay Shankar Pandey has been made the divisional commissioner of Jhansi. RK Singh has been made Ghaziabad district magistrate and Ankit Agarwal the Etah DM. Bal Krishan Tripathi has been made Amroha DM, Shailendra Singh Moradabad DM, Arvind Chaurasiya Lakhimpur Kheri DM and Umesh Mishra Bijnor DM. RK Pandey has been posted as special secretary (excise) and Vibha Chahal has been made additional director (ICDS).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bureaucratic-reshuffle-begins-in-up-after-bjp-s-feedback-sessions-101622833638094.html
05-06-2021||Other||Why govt lifted the 6-year-old liquor ban in Maharashtra’s Chandrapur district||The six-year-old liquor ban at Chandrapur district in Vidarbha region was lifted by the Maharashtra government last week. While experts and activists said poor implementation failed the attempts to ban liquor, the state government has reasoned multiple issues, including rise in crime rate, illegal sale and smuggling of alcohol from other districts, fall in growth rate \as well as revenue losses accounting to ₹2,571 crore in five years, behind revoking it.The cabinet in its meeting on May 27 referred to the 100-page report submitted by a 13-member committee headed by former excise commissioner Ramanath Jha and comprised legal experts, activists, educationists and officials from various government departments.  The committee said that the implementation of the ban has grossly failed, resulting in the rampant sale of illicit and spurious liquor, which is injurious to the health. Secondly, while the state government lost on its excise revenue, the high sale of illegal and smuggled liquor led to the rise in crime rate. The liquor ban also had an impact on the social, health and criminal aspects, with the involvement of children and women in the illegal sale of liquor being the most worrisome, the report stated. Lastly, the public opinion over the ban appears to have changed because of the failed implementation and it has resulted in citizen groups demanding that the prohibition be revoked.However, the committee has recommended that the ban can continue if the implementation is taken seriously. It has also stated that if the measures suggested by the Deotale committee – appointed in 2011 before the ban came into force – were enforced rigorously, liquor can be prohibited in the district by allocating more funds and resources. The Jha committee also recommended taking a decision on continuing the ban, based on its assessment in rural and urban parts of the district. Finally, it also recommend for a state-level liquor ban policy, instead of imposing it in some districtsData that went against the ban The committee collated the five-year before and after data from various departments to assess the impact of the liquor ban. In its report, the committee stated that the annual growth in stamp duty contracted between 2015 and 2019 to 8.15% from 26.14% recorded in 2010-2014. Similarly, the annual value-added tax (VAT)/ goods and services tax (GST) growth rate contracted to 1.87%, during the five years of ban against 16.32% recorded before it. The committee also observed that tourism, entertainment and hospitality sectors were badly hit.According to the committee, the cases of crimes against women shot up to 4,042 during the 2015-19 period from 1,729 cases recorded in 2010-2014, while the cases against children increased to 64 from 24 in the five-year period before the ban. The number of cases related to liquor consumption went up to 36,215 in the first five years of the ban against 12,474 cases from 2010 to 2014. Other crime cases, too, witnessed around two-fold rise from 25,101 to 47,050 in 2015-2019.“Children and women were roped into to smuggle liquor from the neighbouring Nagpur, Bhandara and Yavatmal districts to evade the police. Many students who travel to their colleges to Nagpur were caught smuggling liquor bottles in their bags. The number of illegal shops selling smuggled illegal and spurious liquor mushroomed in thousands, against the 531 licensees that existed before ban. More serious was the rise in organised crime, as gangs of goons entered in the business of illegal sale. The fact that 26 people were booked under the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act in the first five years of ban shows the severity of the crime situation of the district. There was not a single case registered under MPDA from 2010 to 2014,” said an excise department official.The report submitted by the committee has also stated that the government exchequer faced a revenue loss of ₹2,571 crore ( ₹1,607 crore in excise and VAT worth ₹964) in the first five years of ban.It stated that out of the 269,824 memoranda received from the citizens during a referendum, 243,627 proposed that the ban be lifted, while only 25,876 favoured its continuation. Home, excise and finance departments of the state government seconded the proposal to lift the ban, while rural development, social justice and woman and child welfare departments expressed their reservations in lifting it.Politics behind the decisionThe Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government was in favour of lifting the liquor ban from Day one of its formation in November 2019. A committee under the district collector was appointed immediately after MVA government came in power. It submitted its report last March, favouring the withdrawal of the ban. When the government tried to lifting the ban on the basis of the report, the district witnessed a huge uproar, with locals saying the report was biased and the data fudged.Social activists such as Paromita Goswami and Dr Abhay Bang staunchly opposed the lifting of the ban. Treading cautious steps, the state government appointed the committee headed by Jha in September.The lifting of ban came as a decision as part of the election promise by Congress leaders, similar on the lines of the decision to impose it in 2015 by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government. BJP leader and former Chandrapur guardian minister Sudhir Mungantiwar had assured the locals that liquor will be banned if the party is elected to power in the 2014 Assembly polls. The ban was one of the decisions taken by the Devendra Fadnavis government in the first six months.In the 2019 Assembly polls, Chandrapur’s guardian minister and state relief and rehabilitation minister from the Congress, Vijay Wadettiwar, had made the issue the election plank by assuring the electorate that the ban will be lifted. “The lifting of ban was based on the referendum in which public opinion was weighed. The sale of illegal and spurious liquor had increased multi-fold and crime rates shot up. More than 4,000 women and 320 children were booked for direct involvement in illicit liquor business. The ban led to other ill-effects as well, owing to which it has been lifted,” the minister said.Mungantiwar said alleged that the data and statistics given by the district machinery are fudged and fake. “The decision to lift the ban was taken for political and other reasons. Many Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leaders are directly involved in the liquor business at Chandrapur and the adjoining districts. The government is eyeing an annual sale of ₹1,000 crore for liquor, but it will come at the cost of people’s health and well-being. Their claim of revenue losses is not true because the excise duty is levied on manufacturing,” he said. Mungantiwar said that MVA’s priority is to push the liquor businesses and the decision to provide waivers to the industry in the past 18 months prove it. “The decision to lift the ban during the pandemic shows how desperate they were for it,” he added.Dissenting voicesDr Bang, who has been fighting for liquor ban in Chandrapur and Gadchiroli said that the figures given to revoke the decision were exaggerated and twisted. “The public opinion taken in the name of the referendum was a sham and the memoranda collected in favour of lifting the ban were generated by those who were in the liquor business. The figures given for the rise in crime rate are inflated because the number of domestic violence cases and the general crimes have reduced. The data includes cases registered for illegal sale of liquor. A survey done by non-governmental organisation (NGO) Search and Nagpur University establishes that the ban had a positive impact. The district collector, who should have been the nodal officer to implement the ban, was asked to review and submit a report after the political leadership announced to lift it. This is just a mockery of the law,” he said.Dr Bang said that Chandrapur’s ban failed because its implementation fell short. “No ban proves to be 100% effective. The ban in adjoining Gadchiroli is 70% successful as 600 of the total villages have implemented it in toto. We have taskforces in villages for its implementation. As CM, Fadnavis had headed the taskforce for the district. If it could be successful in Gadchiroli, why can’t it be replicated in Chandrapur? And if the ban is lifted for failure in implementation, ban on tobacco, corruption and plastic, too, should be lifted,” he added.Goswami, who has been fighting for the ban since 2002, said that the government lacked the will power to strictly implement it. “Why it can’t be successful in Chandrapur when its being strictly in force in Gadchiroli. The government had passed an ordinance in September 2019 for the stricter implementation of prohibition in these districts, but MVA government did not convert it into a law,” she said.Demand for ban started in 2000s • Wardha, known for the popular Sevagram Ashram where Mahatma Gandhi lived during the freedom movement, was the first district to impose liquor ban in 1975• The Maoist-dominated tribal district of Gadchiroli imposed the ban in 1993• The demand for liquor ban started gaining momentum in Chandrapur from the early 2000s. In 2010, the issue was raised in the legislature, and the government assured to appoint a committee to deliberate on the issue• During 2010-11, 585 (60%) gram panchayats in the district passed a resolution calling for the liquor ban. More than 100,000 women signed a petition over the demand, but no decision was taken by the then Congress-led government• in February 2011, a committee was constituted under the then guardian minister and Congress leader Sanjay Deotale• A month later, thousands of women from Chandrapur’s Chimur marched to Nagpur demanding the ban• The Deotale committee submitted the report in February 2012 recommending the ban and suggested measures for its implementation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/why-govt-lifted-the-6-year-old-liquor-ban-in-maharashtra-s-chandrapur-district-101622833398034.html
05-06-2021||Other||False ceiling collapses in Mumbai’s Sahyadri guest house, none hurt||A massive piece of false ceiling along with a chandelier collapsed in a lobby of the Sahyadri guest house on Friday around 4pm. The incident happened when state tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray was holding a meeting in one of the conference rooms along the lobby. However, no injuries were reported as the incident took place outside the conference rooms where no one was present. Following advice from officials, Thackeray called off the meeting and left the premises immediately, said an official. State public works (PWD) department officials inspected the site soon after the incident.State PWD minister Ashok Chavan said that an ornamental false ceiling having wooden support had collapsed, as it was fitted 25 years ago. “I have sought a detailed report of the incident,” he added.The incident has raised serious safety concerns of ministers and officials who use the premises to hold meetings. It also led to panic among officials and the staff of the guest house. However, PWD officials said there was no problem with the structure or the ceiling of the building. “The portion that collapsed was part of an ornamental false ceiling. It has nothing to do with the RCC (reinforced cement concrete) structure or the slab. We’ll soon find out the cause of the incident and take action accordingly,” said Anil Gaikwad, secretary, PWD.He added that the structural audit of the building was conducted only three months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/false-ceiling-collapses-in-mumbai-s-sahyadri-guest-house-none-hurt-101622833158015.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Her post-recovery poem||Her life is returning to some sort of normalcy, but the recent days were a nightmare. In April her “Nana ji” was lying terminally ill with cancer. The whole extended family was attending to him. As soon as the end came, another crisis started—everyone got Covid.This must have been too much for somebody so young to process. Isha Ahuja is 23. “The worst part was that we couldn’t undertake easily even the everyday tasks, like waking up and making a cup of tea,” she says, talking on WhatsApp video from her home in west Delhi’s Janakpuri. A literature student in Jamia Millia Islamia University, Ms Ahuja’s study is lined with black-spined Penguin Classics. By now, she and everybody else in her family has recovered, and she is preparing for her final semester exams. She recently penned a poem detailing her experience of the ongoing aftermath of the disease. “While it will take a long time to heal fully, maybe this poem is a start.”Posing for a portrait with her parents, Rajeev and Neeru, and younger brother, Rachit, she agrees to share the poem with us.The aftermathThe days have passedbut the residue remainsmy joints rattle in unison with rashes and unknown pains.When I walkmy breath wavers and I need to sit.Survivors guilt robs my sleep each nightI made itbut many others didn’t.I am healingbut the pain remainsrooted in my chestgrabbing my insides handful.My hands are callousedtrying to dislocate this weight.The words of my books appear devoid of sensethe brain fog triumphsover each word I am unable to write.Strength and hope appear superficialalthough I started to pray.I don’t know when will this endall of us forced into the perpetuity of it.I rescued a baby pigeon last monthfallen down from the nest.I gave it water and food.We both livedand healed.I saw it flying todaywatching the young bird fluttering its wingsI stood there without breathlessness.It’s a startmaybe.Nature’s way of reminding that healing is possible.I don’t know how this is supposed to endthis poem and our livesfor once perhaps it’s better not to know.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-her-post-recovery-poem-101622832473965.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra teacher Disale who won global award is now on World Bank panel||Ranjitsinh Disale, who hit national headlines after winning a USD 1 million 'Global Teacher' award last year, has been appointed by the World Bank on an international advisory board working to improve the quality of teaching.Disale, from Paritewadi in Solapur district of Maharashtra, some 300 km from here, will join 11 others on the World Bank's recently launched Global Coach Programmes' International Technical Advisory Board, he said."There is a training programme for teachers designed by the World Bank and there is a committee to design it. I have been appointed as an adviser of this committee," Disale told PTI on Thursday.A World Bank spokesperson confirmed the development.Work on the board is pro bono and the panel will meet for two hours every six months, with the total time commitment not exceeding 10 hours every six months for the project ending December 2024, a World Bank statement informed.The Global Coach Program is focused on accelerating learning by helping countries improve in-service teacher professional development (TPD) programs and systems, it added.The International Technical Advisory Board comprises 12 individuals from the domains of research, policy making, and teaching.Disale was in December last year named the winner of the USD 1 million annual Global Teacher Prize 2020 in recognition of his efforts to promote girls' education and trigger a quick response (QR) coded textbook revolution in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-teacher-disale-who-won-global-award-is-now-on-world-bank-panel-101622832024223.html
05-06-2021||Lucknow||Over 500 cops transferred in Aligarh after hooch tragedies||In a major shake-up in the district police following two recent hooch tragedies, more than 540 policemen posted for over two years at the same police station have been transferred, a senior officer said on Friday.Five police inspectors, including two station house officers, and a circle officer have been suspended in the past four days for suspected links with the liquor mafia, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Kalanidhi Naithani said.Of the 548 policemen who were transferred, 148 have been shunted out of the district, the SSP said.The first hooch tragedy hit the district on May 28. Thirty-five people are confirmed to have died of liquor poisoning. The toll could be higher as reports of viscera examination on 52 more suspected victims are still awaited.In the second incident, nine people lost their lives after consuming spurious liquor found dumped in a canal near Rohera village in Jawan area of the district. PTI Corr SAB IJT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-500-cops-transferred-in-aligarh-after-hooch-tragedies-101622831751034.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Senior citizen loses ₹1 lakh to phone fraud in Chandigarh||An unidentified fraudster duped a senior citizen of ₹1 lakh in the city, police said on Friday.In his police complaint, 67-year-old resident of Baldev Raj Paul of Young Dwellers Complex, Sector 49, said that the accused fraudulently withdrew ₹1 lakh from his bank account.Paul fell prey to the swindler after he inadvertently made a transaction of ₹9,500 from his Citi Bank account on a mobile phone application PhonePe.The sexagenarian then raised a request with his bank in this regard and was assured that the amount would be credited into his PhonePe wallet soon. However, when he didn’t receive the amount for some time, he looked for other helpline numbers of the bank online. When he called one of the many numbers thrown up by the Google search, the accused picked up posing as a bank employee.The unknown caller told the complainant that his money would be credited into his bank and took the confidential details. Soon after, Paul received two messages of withdrawal of total ₹1 lakh from his bank account.Based on the complaint, the police registered a case under sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 49 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/senior-citizen-loses-1-lakh-to-phone-fraud-in-chandigarh-101622831538612.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||No community spread in Mohali villages, finds survey||The district administration on Friday completed the Covid-19 sample testing and door-to-door screening survey in villages under the Mission Fateh-2.As many as 6,86,881 persons were examined, while 7,180 rapid antigen tests (RATs) were done on symptomatic persons out of which 328 tested positive for coronavirus.The survey, which started on May 21, was carried out in the villages of three health blocks of the district — Gharuan, Dera Bassi and Boothgarh. The health teams, including ASHA workers, visited 1,49,891 houses in the district.Initially, the target was to visit 1,24,954 houses and cover 6,25,540 persons in rural areas. But later, the villages within the city limits were also screened as a precautionary measure.The villagers and sarpanchs extended much support during the survey. “Even as the number of new Covid positive cases is on a steady decline, precautions are a must. People should stay home unless venturing out is absolutely necessary. Masks should be worn and necessary distance from each other should be maintained,” said Mohali civil surgeon Adarshpal Kaur.Revealing the survey findings, Kaur said, “The sampling has indicated that there is no community spread in the villages. The screening was done to provide doorstep testing facility to villagers who were hesitant to come forward.”Stating that the rural areas witnessed more cases in the second wave as compared to before, the civil surgeon said, “The villagers were in denial mode and avoided being tested. They used to land up in hospitals with very low oxygen levels, so it was decided to take testing to their doorstep to contain the spread of disease.”For health-related queries, patients/ attendants can contact the health department helpline 104.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-community-spread-in-mohali-villages-finds-survey-101622831478615.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula gets new DC, MC chief||Vinay Pratap Singh has been appointed as the new deputy commissioner (DC) of Panchkula, while Sharandeep Kaur Brar will take over as the municipal corporation (MC) commissioner.The appointments came as part of the 42 transfers of IAS officers made by the Haryana government on Friday.Brar is a 2009-batch Haryana cadre IAS officer and will also hold the charge of district municipal commissioner for Panchkula. She was earlier serving as the DC of Kurukshetra district.Singh, a 2011-batch Haryana cadre IAS officer, was earlier the commissioner of Gurugram MC, Gurugram district municipal commissioner and chief administrator of Shree Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board, Gurugram. Now, he will also hold the charge of chief administrator of Shri Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, Panchkula.Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, who was posted as the DC and MC commissioner of Panchkula, will replace Singh as the commissioner of Gurugram MC and chief administrator of Shree Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board, Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-gets-new-dc-mc-chief-101622831420109.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh stable, wife’s health deteriorates||Legendary sprinter Milkha Singh, 91, is better and more stable as he battles Covid-19 at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) here even as his wife Nirmal Kaur’s condition deteriorated because of the same ailment on Friday.Milkha also received a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi inquiring about his health on Friday.The former Commonwealth Games Champion was on Thursday admitted to the intensive care unit of PGIMER’s Nehru Hospital due to dipping levels of oxygen.“On the basis of all the medical parameters today, his condition has been observed better and more stable than yesterday,” PGIMER said, adding that he is being closely monitored by a team of three doctors.Singh had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 19 last month after which he was admitted to a Mohali hospital on May 24.Milkha’s 82-year-old wife, who had also contracted the infection days after her husband, continues to be in the ICU of Fortis Hospital, Mohali, which said that her condition has deteriorated with progression of the disease and increase in oxygen requirement. She is currently on high-flow nasal oxygen therapy and non-invasive ventilation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-stable-wife-s-health-deteriorates-101622831418948.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||No disagreement in MVA, CM’s word is final, says Dy CM Ajit Pawar||Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, in an event in Raigad on Friday, cleared the air about having disagreements about lifting of lockdown within the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Pawar said that though multiple parties have formed the government, the word of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is final.Pawar along with health minister Rajesh Tope had come to Srivardhan for laying foundation of a water supply scheme and beach beautification project by the Srivardhan Municipal Council.When asked about relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar’s statement on unlocking in the state which led to confusion on Thursday, Pawar said, “There is no disagreement in the MVA government. We are in constant discussion over the unlocking and there is no confusion. The CM is also constantly conversing with the people over social media. We might be a multi-party government but the word of Thackeray as the head of state is final.”Pawar instructed the authorities to conduct an audit of oxygen, fire and electricity at all hospitals across the district. Along with a review meeting on Covid-19 management, Pawar and Tope also discussed the damages caused by Cyclone Tauktae.He said the state has had four cyclones in five years leading to huge financial impact on many districts including Konkan. He added that MVA would not allow shortage of funds hinder the overall development of the state and states that nine urban health centres have been planned for Raigad district.“We have included nine urban primary health centres (UPHC) in this year’s project implementation plan. Of the 500 ambulances that were to be added to the rural areas of the state, 30 have already been given to Raigad. Besides, we have made mucormycosis treatment free at all government colleges and hospitals which have Mahatma Jyotirao Phule scheme. In addition, the government will soon declare a capping in the price of treatment to make sure bills do not go beyond ₹5 lakh,” Tope said.Apart from this, Mahad’s rural hospital will be made a sub-district hospital, a trauma care centre will be set up at Mangaon, and Roha will have a 100-bed hospital along with a 100-bed exclusive hospital for women, Tope said in his briefing.He also took cognisance of the incidents of photographers and couples getting harassed by locals along Raigad beaches, a popular spot for pre-wedding photoshoots. Pawar said such people and photographers will now get the protection of the administration and regulations will be prepared for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-disagreement-in-mva-cm-s-word-is-final-says-ajit-pawar-101622829258471.html
05-06-2021||Chandigarh||Runaway couples seeking protection share their ordeal||They are adults and in love, but are constantly living in fear and in hiding. Their only crime is that they chose to spend life with a partner of their own choice, and want to stay in a live-in relationship. However, with this decision comes a threat to their life and they can be seen knocking the doors of the high court.In Haryana’s Jind village, a 19-year-old girl was locked in house, her studies were stopped and search for a bridegroom was started. Her only fault was that she loved a man of her choice.While the girl is a Jat and an MBBS aspirant, her 20-year-old love interest belongs to a backward class and has studied till Class 12.The girl, wishing not to be named, said: “We have been in a relationship for nearly four years. He was my senior in school and we have been very good friends since 2017. He is a very sensible person; even his family is very loving and caring. I love him and want to spend life with him.”While their love was blooming and both were focusing on making careers, so that they could lead a comfortable life afterwards, her family got to know about their relationship. “They did not let me attend coaching classes or online classes. My father took away my phones and I was not allowed to step outside.”The youth, who belongs to an adjoining village, said: “She called me one day, saying that her parents are planning to marry her to someone else. It was then we decided to run away.”The couple wants to be in a live-in relationship, till the time the boy attainsthe marriageable age. But they feared a threat to their life and hence reached the Punjab and Haryana high court in Chandigarh, seeking protection, but their plea was dismissed on May 14.The order mentioned that if such protection is granted then the social fabric of the society would be disturbed.The youth, who had very high hopes, said: “We live in fear all the time. The cancellation of the petition has added more stress.” The couple is living in hiding; they switch places frequently, so that they don’t get caught.Their advocate, Vishal Mittal, said: “Protection to life and liberty is every person’s right under Article 21 of the Constitution. Any person can seek protection. Judges should not go into the validity of their relationships but into this aspect of protection.”Another advocate, wishing not to be named, said: “Ideally, judges must go by one law, which is written in the Constitution. But often personal prejudices and laws of society come in their judgment. In law, personal opinion has no space.”‘Around 40 such cases daily’AdvocateSarvesh Kumar, who represented another such couple from rural Punjab,said that daily around 40 such petitions seeking protection are listed in the high court.His clients, Arshdeep Kaur and Gurpinder Singh, both 24, fell in love two years ago. While Singh does a private job, Kaur’s family wanted a son-in-law who has a government job. “I tried convincing my family but they were too adamant. I know that I cannot live without him; so we planned to run away,” said Kaur.The couple reached Chandigarh and got married at a gurdwara on May 24. This has agitated the girl’s family, who are looking for the couple. “My family is threatening Gurpinder’s family and his relatives. They are even giving death threats,” said Kaur, who is quite scared as her brothers and father are “very aggressive”. “They will kill us; hence, we sought protection. We are living in hiding and have switched off our mobile phones.”Even their plea for protection was rejected by the high court on May 14, on the ground that representation lacks “necessary particulars” regarding manner and mode of alleged threat.Sarvesh Kumar cited numerous cases wherein different judges had denied protection to several couples in live-in relationships. “In one such case from Amritsar, the girl was later allegedly killed by her family in the name of honour,” he said.However, while a high court bench on May 18 held that a live-in relationship is not prohibited nor does it amount to the commission of any offence, another bench observed that such relationships may not be acceptable to all, but could not be termed illegal. Hence, the denial of protection to a live-in couple would be a mockery of justice, it ruled. The court on May 21 gave protection to one such couple from Karnal, who are now staying at a safe home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/runaway-couples-seeking-protection-share-their-ordeal-101622829019268.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||‘Must administer 2nd Covaxin jab in 6 wks’: Delhi HC||The Delhi government on Friday told the Delhi high court that it planned inoculations by Covaxin based on the assurance by the manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, that the national capital will be given 500,000 doses in May and “four times that in June”.The submission came in response to the court’s observation that there was an “urgent need” to vaccinate people with the second dose of Covaxin within six weeks. “People cannot be left in lurch,” justice Rekha Palli said.The judge said there was an urgent need for the authorities to spell out the time to administer the second dose considering the Delhi government’s submission that 150,000 people have been administered the first dose between the age group of 18-44 years.“..Specially in view of the submission of Respondent no 1 (Delhi government) that 1.5 lakh people between the age group of 18-44 years have been administered the first dose, there is an urgent need to vaccinate the people with 2nd dose within six weeks,” the court said.It also questioned the city government for not taking a timely decision to stop the administration of the first dose in the city.“Even though you were well aware you did not stop it. When you already knew on May 12 that the doses were not coming, why did you not stop it..They (the Delhi government) were getting too optimistic that they would get it (the vaccines). They were overconfident... Had you been a little wiser…,” justice Palli remarked.The court was hearing three pleas filed by people who were finding it difficult to get the second dose of Covaxin after getting the first jab.According to Delhi government’s vaccine bulletin on Friday, the government-run vaccination centres have less than a day’s stock of Covaxin for the 45+ age group, even though its present stock of Covishield is expected to last another 28 days.For the 18-45 years age group, all 368 Delhi government centres -- administering Covaxin and Covishield -- have been shut for about two weeks after they ran out of stock.Advocate Anuj Aggarwal, additional standing counsel for the Delhi government, told the court that they continued to vaccinate because the Centre told them not to set aside any doses. He also said that since they were promised the adequate amount of Covaxin doses, they inoculated the people accordingly.To this the court said, “So as the Delhi government, you are saying that you can’t do anything? Give us a clear stand”.Aggarwal told the court that the supply needs to be streamlined, and added that the Delhi government issued a circular on June 3, mandating that next doses supplied will be used only for administering second doses.Central government standing counsel Anurag Alhuwalia told the court that it had dispatched the vaccine, and left it to the discretion of the state governments to use it for first dose or second dose.The court asked both the Centre and the Delhi government to look into the shortage while remarking that it would not get into a blame game at this stage.The court asked the Centre and Delhi government to take instructions and posted the matter for hearing on June 7.The company has a production capacity of about 10-15 million doses a month. On May 20, it announced it was ramping up production with additional capacity of 200 million doses per year, taking the annual production to close to 1 billion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/planned-covaxin-vaccinations-on-assurance-of-manufacturer-delhi-govt-tells-hc-101622828297675.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||303 vaccination centres shut amid lack of Covaxin doses||New Delhi As many as 303 Delhi government vaccine centres, meant for those aged above 45 years and spread across 196 locations in the city, were suspended on Friday in the light of shortage of Covaxin doses, the government’s daily vaccine bulletin showed.The government’s bulletin recorded 414 vaccine centres spread across 299 locations on Friday for the beneficiary group comprising individuals aged over 45 years, as against 717 vaccine centres spread across 495 locations recorded till Thursday. The bulletin also showed that the government-run centres have less than a day’s stock of Covaxin for the 45+ age group, even though its present stock of Covishield is expected to last another 28 days.For the 18-45 years age group, all 368 Delhi government centres -- administering both Covaxin, which is produced by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, and Covishield, produced by the Serum Institute of India.-- are suspended for around two weeks now after they ran out of stock.“Covaxin doses are almost over for the 45+ group. For more than a week now, we have been administering Covaxin to only those scheduled for the second dose. Now, even with the second dose policy, we are unlikely to succeed in continuing with offering Covaxin doses for more than a day to the 45+ category. We urge the central government to expedite and scale up the supply of Covaxin in Delhi,” said AAP MLA Atishi, while reading out the government’s vaccine bulletin in a live streamed video press briefing on Friday evening.“For the 45+ group, we had around 600,000 doses of vaccines left on Friday morning – of which around 590,000 were Covishield doses, which should last for 28 days, and the remaining were Covaxin doses. More Covaxin centres for the 45+ group are likely to be closed tomorrow (Saturday) and in the coming days if stocks are not replenished. As far as the 18-45 age group is concerned, we have been out of vaccines for 12 days now. Vaccination in Delhi is mostly happening in private centres currently. The rates are unaffordable for around 70% of Delhi’s population, especially at a time when the lockdown has affected household incomes. So, only people who can afford the high price between ₹1,000 and 2,000 for a single dose are getting vaccinated. It is an unfortunate scenario,” said AtishiStressing on how vaccinating the younger population would help reduce hesitancy among the elder population, Atishi said, “In Delhi, more than 50% of the population belonging to the 45+ age group have got at least one dose of vaccine. The vaccine coverage of this age group can be increased with increasing supplies for the 18-45 group. It is inter-related. Higher vaccination coverage in the younger population will help reduce hesitancy among the older population. The young are also likely to encourage the seniors in their family to get vaccinated along with them. Delhi needs 5 million doses of vaccines in June. We appeal to the central government to help in this regard.”Government records showed that around 4.25 million people in Delhi have received one dose of the vaccine and around 1.24 million have received both doses.Documents seen by HT showed that the Delhi government is supposed to receive 319,510 doses of Covishield and 96,300 doses of Covaxin directly from the central government – for the vaccination of the 45+ age group -- in June. The Delhi government will also be allowed to purchase 309,220 doses of Covishield and 91,960 doses of Covaxin from manufacturers to carry out vaccinations for the 18-45 age group.“However, consignments directly ordered from the manufacturers are not likely to arrive before June 10. So, the Delhi government centres for the younger beneficiary groups are unlikely to resume till then,” said a senior government official.To be sure, vaccine sites in central government hospitals in Delhi (which are currently vaccinating only the 45+ group) and those in private hospitals (open for both 18-45 and the 45+ age groups) have independent stocks.Delhi has a total population of around 20 million, of which 15 million are over 18 years and qualify for the vaccine drive. As per government estimates, there are around six million people aged 45 and above – of which, government records showed, around 2.51 million have received one dose of the vaccine and around 832,000 have received both doses. Also, there are around nine million people aged between 18-45 years, of which around 1.12 million have received one dose of the vaccine and 2,387 have received both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/303-vaccine-centres-shut-amid-shortage-of-covaxin-101622828237747.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||1st Delhi-Meerut RRTS corridor pillar complete||Work on the Delhi segment of the 82km-long Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) has picked up pace, an official from the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) said, adding that the construction of the first pillar of the 9.2km-long elevated section in Delhi has been completed.The official added that work on the 17th bridge over the Yamuna river was also moving at a fast pace.An NCRTC spokesperson said, “The first pier of the elevated section of the RRTS corridor in Delhi has been constructed near the upcoming New Ashok Nagar RRTS station. The height of the constructed pier is 6.5 metre, and average height of the piers in the stretch varies from 5.6 metres to 17 metres.”The spokesperson added, “The foundation work between New Ashok Nagar to Kondli is in full swing. Foundation work on around 2km of the 9.2km elevated corridor in Delhi has been completed.”In February this year, the NCRTC started the work on the construction of a bridge on the river, which will be parallel to the Delhi Noida direct flyway.The 1.35-km-long bridge on Yamuna, which will be the 17th to come up on the river, will connect Sarai Kale Khan and New Ashok Nagar stations.“It will be the first RRTS bridge on the river. The length of the bridge crossing over the river will be around 626 metres. The remaining portion will come up on the floodplain on both sides,” said the spokesperson.This will be the eighth mass transit corridor to be constructed on the river.Northern Railway is constructing a new bridge parallel to the Old Yamuna bridge. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has four corridors crossing the river and the construction work on the fifth bridge on the Majlis Park-Maujpur corridor started in August last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-pillar-on-delhi-meerut-rrts-line-comes-up-at-new-ashok-nagar-101622828177711.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Panel gets 10 days to fix criteria to assess Class 12||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday constituted a 13-member team to fix “well-defined objective criteria” for the assessment of Class 12 students following the cancellation of their exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.In a statement, announcing the constitution of the committee, CBSE said the panel will submit its report within 10 days. Officials said the board will now collect data on the past performances from schools and seek expert opinions to formulate the alternative assessment method.The Union government on Tuesday cancelled CBSE Class 12 exams to ward off the threat of coronavirus infections. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The government said that CBSE will come up with a “well-defined objective criteria” in a time-bound manner to assess these students. On Thursday, the Supreme Court gave two weeks to the CBSE to come up with an evaluation formula for Class 12 students.In the statement, the board said, “In view of the uncertain conditions due to Covid and the feedback obtained from various stakeholders, it was decided that Class 12 board exams of CBSE will not be held this year. It was also decided that CBSE will take steps to compile the results as per well-defined objective criteria in a timeb-ound manner.”The members of the committee included Vipin Kumar, joint secretary in ministry of education’s department of school education, Udit Prakash, director of the Delhi government’s directorate of education (DoE), Nidhi Pandey, commissioner of Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan, one representative from the UGC and NCERT each, and two representatives from the schools, CBSE controller examinations and director (academics), among others.Sanyam Bhardwaj, CBSE controller examinations and a member of the committee, said the board will try to formulate a criterion using which the students will get marks equivalent to what they would have gotten after appearing in the examination. “We will analyse and study the data of previous year performances of students in classes 10, 11 and internal exams of Class 12 and compare it with their Class 12 final marks in CBSE board exams. We will compare and correlate the performances of students in Class 10 and then Class 12 in previous years. We will collect this data from some schools on Monday,” he said.Bhardwaj said that the board will also seek information regarding the methods schools used for the internal assessment of students.“We are just trying to find out the ground reality and take wider consultation before coming out with an assessment method. We have requested our regional officers to consult with schools in their regions and seek this information. Besides, we will also take advice from experts on the matter... Whatever data we will collect from schools would be easily available with them,” he said.Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “The committee has wide range of people. It’s looking very balanced... If the board is going to consult large number of schools it will have some benchmark to base their assessment policy on.”Teachers and students have already expressed reservations over suggestions in some quarters that the CBSE formula for assessing Class 10 students may be applied for Class 12. They said the policy was flawed and that it was unfair to meritorious high scorers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbse-forms-13-member-committee-to-fix-assessment-plan-for-class-12-101622828117764.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt challenges HC nod for pvt schools to collect annual fees||The Delhi government has challenged in the Delhi high court the order by a single judge allowing private schools in the city to collect annual fees and development charges.The judge on Monday quashed two orders issued by the Delhi government last year, prohibiting private schools from collecting annual charges and development fee during the Covid-19 lockdown. The judge ruled that schools may collect these charges for the last academic year, on a monthly basis, but only after a 15% reduction in the payable amount, in lieu of un-utilised facilities (such as water and electricity) during the lockdown.The matter was urgently mentioned on Friday, following which it was listed for hearing before a bench of justices Manmohan and Navin Chawla on Monday.The Delhi government has argued that “schools being charitable organisations are adopting an inhumane approach by charging parents more in the unprecedented time”.“...Therefore, creating such a pressure to recover from the parents who are already struggling to save their family from medical emergencies is nothing but an inhuman approach which may not be allowed by this court. Needless to say each and every family is incurring expenses... with economy at an all-time low and people losing jobs which makes the survival of common man more difficult,” the government said in the appeal.Justice Jayant Nath on June 1 quashed orders issued on April 18, 2020 and August 28, 2020, which restricted private schools in the city to collect additional charges.The high court ruled that the prohibition on collecting the charges is “illegal and “ultra vires” to the powers of Delhi government’s directorate of education under the Delhi School Education (DSE) Act and Rules.The Action Committee Unaided Recognised Private Schools, an umbrella body of 450 private unaided schools in Delhi, moved the court in September 2020 against the Delhi government orders, saying that the orders curtail the rights of the educational institutions to fix their own fees.In its appeal against the June 1 order, the Delhi government has said extra charges such as development fees was suspended as the upgradation, improvement and maintenance was not required when the schools were closed for more than one and a half years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-challenges-order-allowing-pvt-schools-to-collect-annual-fees-and-development-charges-101622827997860.html
05-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt caps rate for black fungus treatment at private hospitals||After fixing the rates for the Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals, the state government has put a cap on the rates for treatment of mucormycosis or black fungus, at private hospitals.The admissions of these patients remain the same as the normal Covid-19 patients. While the charges for the routine isolation range from ₹4,000, ₹3,000 and ₹2,400 per day, for A, B and C category areas respectively, it is ₹7,500, ₹5,500 and ₹4,500 for intensive care unit (ICU) without ventilators. For the treatment in ICU with ventilators, the rates are ₹9,000, ₹6,700 and ₹5,400 for the hospitals in A, B and C category areas, respectively. The rates include monitoring, consultation charges, meals, nursing charges investigations such as CBC (complete blood count), serum creatinine, urine routine, X-ray, electrocardiogram (ECG), nursing and bed charges.For the 28 types of surgeries related to fungal infection, the charges have been capped between ₹10,000 to ₹1 lakh for Class-A areas, ₹75,000 to ₹7,500 for Class-B areas and ₹60,000 to ₹600 for the Class-C areas.Mumbai Metropolitan Region, except Vasai Virar, Bhiwandi; Nagpur and Pune, have been classified as A-class areas, while areas such as Aurangabad, Solapur, Kolhapur, Nashik, Amravati, Bhiwandi, Nanded, Kolhapur, Vasai Virar and Sangli have been classified as B-class areas. The remaining rural regions are in C-category. The notification issued by the public health department will remain in force till July 31.It has also warned that if a private hospital is found violating the orders, it will be liable for cancellation of registration of nursing home and also face action under India Penal Code. The notification also states that the billing by such hospitals will be audited by the auditors appointed by local authorities and any such excessive amount, if charged, will be reimbursed to the patient.Maharashtra has reported more than 5,000 cases of black fungus, which has already declared as a notified disease. The rates have been capped by using provisions in various Acts including the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act, Maharashtra Nursing Home Act, Bombay Public Trusts Act among others.“Superspeciality hospitals in big cities in MMR, Nagpur, Pune where the specialised doctors are available to handle these cases, charge high rates. This adds to the hardship of patients and the government had received many such complaints,” said a health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-caps-rate-for-black-fungus-treatment-at-private-hospitals-101622827757692.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Woman stabbed by neighbour in Rohini||A 28-year-old woman was critically injured after she was stabbed at least eight times on Thursday, allegedly by her neighbour, outside her home in Rohini’s Sector 11.The attacker, identified as Naresh alias Raju, was arrested and the kitchen knife he used for the crime has been recovered, police said.The woman is being treated in hospital and is now stable.Though the exact motivation behind the alleged attack is yet to be ascertained, preliminary investigation revealed that the two neighbours were not on good terms for a few months, and the woman, Renuka Luthra, also filed a complaint against the accused about a month ago.Her father, Bhim Luthra, alleged that Naresh was annoyed because of the complaint and wanted revenge.The incident, which took place on Thursday evening and was captured on CCTV cameras installed nearby, went viral on social media.In the footage, the man was seen attacking the woman with a knife as the latter fell on the ground trying to shield herself. While the man continued stabbing the woman, another man tried to stop him and pulled him away, after which the former fled the crime scene.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the video.Deputy commissioner of police (outer north) Rajiv Ranjan Singh said the injured woman was first taken to a nearby hospital from where she was referred to Safdarjung hospital as her condition was serious. “The woman’s condition is now stable,” said DCP Singh.According to the DCP, the woman and the arrested neighbour had known each other for eight months. “The exact cause of the attack will be ascertained when we record the woman’s statement,” he added.Meanwhile, her father alleged that Naresh often created a nuisance in the neighbourhood after drinking alcohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50yearold-arrested-for-stabbing-neighbour-in-rohini-101622827698350.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||CBSE survey to gauge how Covid-19 impacted schools||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has initiated a survey to understand the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on the teaching-learning and assessment processes, and the socio-economic condition of its affiliated schools across the country. The survey aims to provide possible solutions to the challenges faced by the schools in the current Covid-hit academic year, and in the future.The virtual survey, which started on June 2 and will conclude on June 20, focuses on the teaching and learning practices adopted by the schools during the lockdown. In a letter to all its affiliated schools on Wednesday, CBSE director of academics Joseph Emmanuel said, “The insights obtained will help the board to propose and create support systems for schools in the current academic session and future policy formulations.”Among the details sought in the survey are the total strength of students from classes 9 to 12 in the academic sessions 2020-21 and 2021-22, the percentage of students having access to the internet, the percentage of students not in touch with schools since March last year, modes of virtual learning schools used during the lockdown, and attendance of students during online classes.The board has also asked schools to submit information on how their students and teachers accessed remote learning when the schools were physically shut. For instance, if students had to purchase devices or were given school-owned devices, or if multiple students used the same devices.CBSE has asked schools to tell them about the most popular tools for supplementary learning. These include worksheets, audio lessons, video lessons, assignments as games and narrative, and offline study material. It has sought information on whether schools have provided psychological support to students, and catered to the needs of children with disabilities.Physically classrooms were shut across the country for seven to 10 months last year. Schools in Delhi partially reopened for practical and remedial classes for students in classes 9 to 12 but had to shut down after the second national wave of Covid-19 -- fourth wave in the Capital.Emmanuel said the information collected will be used to find “broader solutions to existing problems” for CBSE affiliated schools. “The survey will help us understand the real picture on the ground. After analysing the responses, we will be in a better position to take any decision regarding the current curriculum as well as assessment for the existing and upcoming academic sessions,” he said.CBSE has also sought suggestions from schools on how it can provide support in terms of training and resources for teachers and students.Several school principals in Delhi said the survey will help the board understand their challenges. Meenakshi Khushwaha, principal of Birla Vidya Niketan in Pushp Vihar, said, “The survey is very crucial given that the entire education system is witnessing several challenges due to the pandemic. The suggestions provided by the schools should be taken seriously. Even if 10,000 schools respond, it will help the CBSE get a broader picture of the real situation while making any policy decision.”Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said, “It is a very thoughtful decision to consider challenges and views in a very democratic manner. The survey will also help the board to deal with unforeseen circumstances in the future. Besides, efficient and meaningful strategies can only be formulated with reliable quantitative and qualitative data in hand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbse-survey-to-study-impact-of-covid-on-its-schools-101622827577746.html
05-06-2021||Delhi||Forest officials alert after leopard seen in Sultanpur||The state forest department on Friday put out an alert after they received two reports of a leopard being spotted around south Delhi’s Sultanpur Depot.A senior forest department official said they were first informed of a leopard being spotted around the Delhi-Gurugram border near Chattarpur on Wednesday, after which teams from the South forest division did a thorough search of the area.The department received another report from residents, who claimed they spotted the animal near Sultanpur Depot around 10am on Friday.“We have caught some images on CCTV cameras, but the images are blurry and we cannot say for sure if it is a leopard. However, we have set up more cameras around the area and have also put out an alert for the public to not venture out after dark, and to be on their guard. We are also engaging with local residents to ensure they do not attack the leopard, since it is a protected animal,” the forest department official said.Forest officials said they have laid out traps and are conducting round-the-clock patrols to capture the animal. Teams from Wildlife SOS, a wildlife protection and conservation group, also assisted the forest department in their capture efforts in the area on Friday.Delhi has seen an increase in leopard sightings over the past six years, a rise that experts said is an indication of the city’s success in efforts to create green spaces and sanctuaries for the safe movement of these animals.Amit Anand, deputy conservator forests (south division), said camera traps have been set up around the area and announcements are being made to ensure residents are vigilant.“We could not use drones on Friday since the skies were cloudy. But we will conduct drone surveillance on Saturday to spot the animal. Our primary aim is to trap the animal. If it is found to be in a healthy state, we will release it in the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary,” Anand said.Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, where a leopard was spotted in 2016, said the reduced movement of people and vehicles due to the Covid-19 curbs could be one of the reason behind the increased instances of leopard sightings in Delhi.“We need to understand the leopard is a ‘generalist’ in its food habit, which means that it eats anything and everything. Even if scraps and chicken waste are thrown somewhere, they will attract a leopard. It has adapted itself well to the urban landscape, so we have seen leopards move around different continuous forests in Delhi,” Khudsar said.In March this year, the south forest division confirmed that at least two leopards were living in the Asola Bhatti Wildlife Sanctuary over the past six months. Officials said they were spotted near some old mining pits in the area, adding that this was proof of the increased population of prey base for these animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/leopard-sighting-near-sultanpur-depot-forest-dept-puts-out-alert-101622827517700.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Special Covid-19 vaccine drive for students going abroad ends in Pune||After four days of special Covid vaccination drive for students who have documents ready to study abroad, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will stop the campaign as 1,314 students have been vaccinated.Of the total applications of 2,200 students, the civic body vaccinated all those who wanted to get the first shot and came as per their token system.A senior civic official said, “Of the 2,200, 1,314 who had received the token have been vaccinated, others included those who wanted the second shot earlier than the 84 days or those who wanted to take it later or who did not come. However, by Friday afternoon, almost all the students had gotten the jab and the centre was vacant. We even had to take back a few vials which were left over.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/special-vaccine-drive-for-students-going-abroad-ends-in-pune-101622826797689.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Decision on further curb relaxation in PMC and PCMC on Monday: Ajit Pawar||Pune: The decision to further ease Covid relaxations in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad is likely to be taken on Monday. Areas under Pune and Khadki cantonment boards may also expect curb relaxation. Deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar made the statement during the Covid review meeting at Council Hall on Friday. Pawar instructed the civic and district administration to consider the areas under Pune and Khadki cantonment boards for relaxation from curbs.“The decision of unlocking is dependent on the positivity rate in that particular administrative unit. In terms of PMC and PCMC, the positivity rate is at 5% or below 5%. But in rural areas, the rate is still around 12%-13%. By Monday we will take a decision regarding further easing of restrictions,” Pawar said.With non-essential shops permitted to reopen, there is growing pressure from various business organisations such as salons, gyms operators to resume business. Pawar hinted at the possibility of an increase in the timings of shops.“Salon, beauty parlour operators are asking to be included in the unlock phase. We are going to monitor the positivity rate per day. Let’s wait for the reports of Saturday and Sunday,” he said.He also announced relief for areas under Pune and Khadki cantonment boards. “Khadki and Pune cantonments are not a part of Pune city (jurisdiction wise). So, no concessions have been given there. In the meeting, I told the administration to consider Khadki and Pune cantonments as a part of Pune city and apply the same rules of unlocking to these areas as Pune city. Dehu cantonment is more related to Talegaon and the positivity rate in that area is more than 10%. So no concessions will be given there as of now,” he said.Warkari representatives also met Pawar on Friday for the organisation of ‘Palkahi Sohala’. Pawar said a committee headed by Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao will be formed to discuss the issue with warkaris and a report will be prepared. “A report will be prepared in 3-4 days. It will be submitted to the chief minister and he will make the decision. Warkaris have asked for permission to take padukas to Pandharpur with only 50 people. They may follow the rules, but there might be crowd on the way. How would that crowd be controlled? Such situations have to be handled without using force,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/decision-on-further-curb-relaxation-in-pmc-and-pcmc-on-monday-ajit-pawar-101622825598133.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Over 0.2 million youth vaccinated at private hospitals in Pune city||After the Central government gave a nod to private hospitals to purchase Covid vaccines directly from the manufacturers, several prominent hospitals from the city bought the vaccine doses and from May 22 began vaccination. A majority of the beneficiaries who were getting vaccinated were from the age group of 18-45, and so since May 22 when the private hospitals started vaccinating until now a total of 0.2 million have received the vaccine in this age group. As the government centres have stopped vaccinating this age group, the younger population has to rely completely on the private hospitals and the speed of their vaccination is also quite good compared to the government vaccination drive in the city. “There is a good response to our vaccination within the hospital since we have started. As we bought the vaccines directly from the manufacturers, we were able to resume the vaccination. Youngsters are coming for vaccination with a prior appointment taken on the Cowin website, as there is no direct walk-in vaccination allowed for them as per the government guidelines. But it needs to be changed as many of them are coming directly to the hospital for vaccination but due to a smaller number of slots they cannot get the vaccine. This needs to be changed and district administration needs to look into this matter,” said Dr Avdhut Bodamwad, medical superintendent at Ruby Hall Clinic. Prominent hospital like Ruby Hall clinic, Noble hospital and Sahyadri Hospital have started the vaccination at their hospital premises through the directly purchased vaccine doses. The rate for the vaccination is ₹900 if it is taken at the hospital and at corporate offices on their campus it is ₹1,200 which is fixed by the Pune hospitals’ association. “Vaccination drive is going on well at our hospital and there is a huge rush of youth between age 18 to 45 coming for vaccination. There is a proper system in place for the pre-booked appointments at the hospitals and as per the slots given, they are given the vaccination. We are planning to increase our vaccination pace, but it will happen only when we get more vaccine doses from the manufacturers.” said Dr HK Sale, executive director of Noble Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/over-0-2-million-youth-vaccinated-at-private-hospitals-in-city-101622825597615.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Pune city was home to 100 gardens during Peshwa era: historian||Researcher and historian Mandar Lawate has found leads and references to prove that the city of Pune was truly a city of gardens. Lawate’s findings in old document writings in ‘Modi Script’ during his research on Peshwas has found that lakhs of trees were planted around the city creating various baugs. The Peshwas were fond of gardens or baugs as they called them and there were close to 100 baugs in the city 200 years ago but the concept of baug was nothing similar to what we have now as gardens. “During the rule of the Peshwas, Pune flourished in terms of green cover. Until 1818, there were at least 100 private ‘baugs’ (gardens), but they were unlike the gardens we see today. They were more of fruit bearing trees, flowering plants and food crops. There were no landscaped lawns or carved fountains and manicured trees that we find in gardens today,” said Lawate. These gardens were found from Shaniwar wada into all four corners of the city as far as Bobdev ghat. “What we know as Tulsibaug, Hirbaug, Belbaug, Chiman baug, Motibaug are not just names of areas but in the Peshwa era were actual gardens spread over acres of land. Now we identify Sarasbaug as one of the oldest baug created by the Peshwas,”said Lawate. He found map etchings saved and salvaged by the Britishers from the old records from Shaniwarwada which distinctly show gardens of the city. It was not just the Peshwas who had the gardens, but Pune then boasted of several Sardars as well as commoners having baugs like Purandares who owned tracts of land, which is now known as Nehru Stadium, or Vasantbaug in Bibwewadi, or the Bunglabaug near SP college. The Peshwas before coming to Pune were residents of Saswad and they brought with them lots of trees of all kinds which were then planted in the city. It is said that there were 1.5 lakh mango trees planted throughout the city from Mandai to Parvati and beyond. The second Bajirao although known for all the wrong things also had a green thumb where upon he brought coconut trees from Konkan and planted 25,000 trees in Shaniwar wada area. “It is indeed a lesson for us to learn why Pune was hailed as green city, although many of the gardens then were private as compared to the gardens which are now public,” said Lawate. Chandrakant Abhang, a history scholar said that the Peshwes were very particular about the city’s green cover. “There was a rule then too if a tree was cut then two would be planted in its place which is still applicable even today under the tree authority in PMC. That period also gave importance to the conservation and preservation of nature.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/city-was-home-to-100-gardens-during-peshwa-era-historian-101622825537520.html
05-06-2021||Pune||World Environment Day: Tree man Warghade plants 21,000 saplings to turn barren land green||It took Chandrakant Warghade more than four years to turn a barren land of mountain into lush greenery with the plantation of thousands of trees. On the occasion of the World Environment Day on June 5, Warghade famously known as ‘tree man’ will be planting 200 more trees. In what is an inspiration to many, Warghade has planted over 21,000 trees at the Bakori village where an open land of around 200 acres in the ‘Gayran’ area (reserved for cows and cattle for eating grass) since 2017. “My birthday comes on March 22 and in the year 2017, I wanted to do something for the nature, so I decided to plant trees at this open mountain area. Initially, I planted 10 trees on my birthday, since then I started planting more and more trees on the hills. Looking at the plantation, local residents, school children and people working around joined the movement. We altogether have planted more than 21,000 trees till now,” said Warghade. 48-year-old Warghade is a businessman and out of passion is doing this social work to preserve the environment. To give daily water to the planted trees, he himself spends money from the pocket and through water tanker plants are given water. Almost all the trees planted by him have grown well into huge trees. “We have planted various kinds of trees like banyan, tamarind, peepal tree, pomogranate, chikku, guava, sheesham, lemon and neem trees on the hills. Also, to do daily watering to these trees, we have dug up a small pond one part and the water tanker release water into and then we give water to all trees through pipes. Our aim is to plant 5 lakh trees on this hill, and we are going to achieve it in the next few years,” added Warghade. Appreciating his work, Kiran Gandhi a resident of Wagholi area said, “I have also participated in this noble cause of tree plantation started by Warghade and his family, we society members celebrate birthdays by planting tree at the hill. Through this cause, we are able to give back something our mother nature.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/world-environment-day-tree-man-warghade-plants-21-000-saplings-to-turn-barren-land-green-101622823917395.html
05-06-2021||Pune||World Environment Day: Biodiversity mapping in Velhe records 208 species||The Raintree foundation recently concluded the first leg of the year-long biodiversity mapping initiative along with Biologia Life Science LLP near Velhe, Pune. During this phase, a total of 208 species in Northern Western Ghats were recorded. For any conservation of a landscape, biodiversity mapping is the first step in the process. The assessment of each ecosystem within the landscape is to find out species, composition and species’ richness. Mapping is also important for impact assessment of any interventions happening within the landscape. The project area of Velhe, Pune district is confined by the boundary of the watershed which is about 2,100-hectare area. It has nine villages namely Lavhi, Avali, Merawane, Sakhar, Dadvadi, Phanshi, Chirmodi, Ghavar and Gunjavane. “Environmental conservation is at the centre of Raintree foundation’s rural ‘Sustainable Landscape Management’ program. The program, through education and empowerment initiatives, encourages the community to tackle environmental conservation. While our environment program has conducted several awareness and sensitizations trainings for the community and the forest department, over the last two years, we have initiated a comprehensive biodiversity mapping exercise in the region, which will help us identify the gaps and co-create a robust conservation plan with the community and other stakeholders.” said Leena Dandekar, founder, Raintree foundation. The objective of the mapping is to have systematic documentation of the flora and fauna in villages which will help in creating inventory of endemic and threatened species of the project villages. “This kind of bio mapping will also help in understanding change in land use and land cover (LULC) of the project area and its possible impact on biodiversity and also aid in identifying priority conservation areas,” said Dandekar. Biologia-Life Sciences as an implementation partner, had a team of 12 experts collecting the data on 12 different groups of flora and fauna. The team began their recce visit in February 2021 and began their first field visit in March 2021 for three days and they came across 208 species in one visit. According to a member of the team of taxonomists doing the survey said, “We sighted a mouse deer also called Indian spotted chevrotain which is the smallest deer species found in India. It is native to India and prefers dense vegetation and is nocturnal in habit, as well as that of a Palm Civet, an omnivorous nocturnal species.” The team also found leopard scat near Ghavar confirms presence of leopard in the landscape, seven species of fish were recorded in three days, along with 77 species of birds 37 species of butterflies-dragonflies-damselflies as well as some migratory bird species. “We recorded a few winter migratory bird species, against their normal migratory patterns. We are conducting further review on these species to understand any change of its migration pattern due to climate change,” said Dharmaraj Patil, program manager, environment, Raintree foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/biodiversity-mapping-in-velhe-records-208-species-101622819777248.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Parents demand RTE admission process resumes to avoid further delays||With the unlock process ushering in, parents have demanded to restart school admissions under the Right to Education (RTE). The lottery under the RTE was declared on April 7, however, the document verification and other procedures were stopped due to the lockdown which continued until May end. Parents and activists are demanding that the RTE process should restart quickly so that children begin school soon. Parents of children who have been selected under the RTE lottery have received text messages wherein they are asked to keep the documents for verification ready. Speaking about the delay in the admission process, Soni Rathod from Undri said that her 6-year-old son has been selected under RTE for admission in Class 1. “I have received the message so far that the admission process is yet to start. I have seen my number on the online lottery of admission under the RTE. The online lottery was on April 7,” said Rathod. “Due to the lockdown, there has been a delay. Earlier, we went to the RTE office for enquiry. We were informed that the process will start soon, and the details will be uploaded on the website. The details have not been uploaded yet. We want the online school to start so that the child is busy. The process should not be delayed as the children will suffer academically. While sitting at home, my six-year-old does not study. If the online classes start, at least for some time during the day he will be engaged in something productive,” said Rathod. Another parent, Nitin Mohare, has been waiting with his documents ready. “Due to the lockdown, I was forced to come to my village. But if the admission process starts, I’ll have to come back to the city and get the admission. Other schools with regular admissions are charging a huge fee to enrol children. I am unable to pay that. I hope the process resumes soon so that my child does not stay behind in her studies,” said Mohare. Schools are likely to start their new academic year from June 15. Last year, due to the pandemic, the online admission was delayed. The process was completed in January 2021 for the academic year 2020-2021. Under RTE, 25 per cent seats of the unaided private schools are reserved for students from economically backward sections at entry level of preschool and Class 1. For the academic year 2021-2022, there are 982 RTE registered schools in Pune. Of the 55,813 applications, 14,567 students were selected in Pune during the online lottery. Mukund Kirdat, city-based education activist and member of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), said that since the unlock process has begun, the education department should not delay the process further. Across Maharashtra, there are 82,129 students selected under RTE during the online lottery. “Many parents received the message around April 15. The education department has wasted one and half month by doing nothing. The department has kept the parents on the waiting list in a limbo. These parents will need more time to get their cold enrolled. And while doing this, they might lose the chance at taking admissions elsewhere,” said Kirdat. He further added that the shops are now open so why cannot the parents get the documentation verified in the morning time. “We urge the education department to restart the process of admission soon. This will help parents and students,” said Kirdat. Education department officials said that parents can visit the official website for more information regarding the online admission process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-demand-rte-admission-process-resumes-to-avoid-further-delays-101622819717226.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Pune schools await notification from board on formulating SSC results||After the evaluation method for Class 10 was declared by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), the state board was expected to declare a pattern in which the results are to be drafted by schools until May 31. However, the notification has not yet been published by the board. Dinkar Patil, chairman of MSBSHSE said the notification will be published by June 5. “The board is working on the document, and it will be published soon so that schools have clarity about how the marks are to be calculated,” said Patil. Sources at the board said that the drafting of the notification will need a few more days. Probably in the next week, the notification will be issued. The notification will give clarity to schools about how the 30 marks from class 10 are to be calculated. As per the evaluation pattern declared by the board, every subject would be evaluated for 100 marks. Of these 50 marks will be based on the result of Class 9. From Class 10, 30 marks will be internal assessment based on the performance of the student from the whole year and 20 marks will be calculated based on the oral/practical and homework done by the students. Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Laxmanrao Apte Prashala from the city said that many schools have not taken exams like unit tests and half yearly due to the lockdown. “Schools that have can evaluate the students based on these. In our schools we had already conducted the exams before the lockdown started. So it is easier for us to evaluate students. Some schools will have to conduct online tests to evaluate students,” said Sinnarkar. Teachers noted that delay in this notification may affect students adversely as many are not sure how the result would turn out this year. Avinash Takwale, principal of Poona Night school said that students who have not studied properly in Class 9 will face issues while their evaluation is done. “The board should issue a notification soon so that schools can start preparing accordingly. Many students have not studied in Class 9 very seriously, so this time the result may not be as good,” said Takwale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/schools-await-notification-from-board-on-formulating-ssc-results-101622819659228.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Student bodies demand reduction in college fees due to Covid||Due to the second lockdown in the state and the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation, the education sector has been hit, especially students who took admissions for courses with high fees. The Yuvak Kranti Dal, a youth organisation along with other youth organisations and students are demanding a fee cancellation from colleges. A movement has been started online and forms are being filled by students over this issue. “We are collecting complaints from students in Maharashtra via Google forms to demand reduction in fees. Students are being charged full fees even though they are not using college resources as colleges are closed due to Covid-19. These complaints will be forwarded to the vice-chancellor as well as the governor of Maharashtra and Yuvak Kranti Dal will follow up on the same. We request all the students to fill the form.” said Sachin Pandule, member of the organization. Last year, there was lot of conflict seen between students their parents and school and college administration over fees payment. So, to review the existing fee structure of the colleges in the state, the state government had appointed J P Dange committee to restructure the fees. The committee submitted its report last year in September, as students were demanding to reduce gymkhana, library, canteen and other expenses from fees. However, the recommendations given by the committee are not yet considered and made open in public; student organisations are now demanding to immediately take action on it as large number of students are not taking admission for this academic year due to high fees. Ketan Gosawi, a computer engineering student said, “In the last 1.5 year we have hardly used any college resources or gone to campus. Still for the next academic year, our college has charged regular fees and not given any concession over it. I come from a farmer’s family, and we are already suffering financially at home and cannot afford to pay full fees this year.” Talking about this issue Dhanraj Mane, director of state higher education department said, “We have not yet got any directives about it, once we get any order it will be worked upon accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/student-bodies-demand-reduction-in-college-fees-due-to-covid-101622819417127.html
05-06-2021||Pune||Shivajinagar records 4mm rain on Friday; showers to continue: IMD||Pune on Friday reported isolated intense rainfall spells during the afternoon. Shivajinagar reported four millimetre rainfall whereas Lohegaon reported 8.3 mm rainfall on Friday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecasted that the rainfall in the city is likely to continue until June 7. This rainfall in the city is pre monsoon; however, monsoon is likely to reach the city by June 12. Southwest Monsoon may reach southern Maharashtra until June 6 and June 7, said IMD officials. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, IMD Pune said that a trough line is active from offshore south Maharashtra to south of Kerala, because of this the westerlies are stronger and good rainfall is seen along the west coast. “June 11 to June 17 good rainfall will be seen in Konkan and Goa region. From June 7 to June 9, the monsoon will not be active over the State. From June 11, the monsoon will start getting active over Maharashtra again,” said Kashyapi. The monsoon will reach Pune until June 12, added Kashyapi. “Konkan and Goa, Central Maharashtra may receive good rainfall due to the trough line. After June 7, the rainfall activity over the state is likely to reduce. Pune city will experience rainfall until June 6. Heavy rain at isolated areas in the ghat areas may continue. After June 7, the intensity of rainfall in Pune city and district will reduce,” said Kashyapi. As per the weather department, southwest monsoon has further advanced into the remaining parts of south Arabian Sea, some parts of central Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Lakshadweep and Kerala on Friday. The Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) now passes through Karwar, Harapanahalli in Vijayanagaram district, Anantapur, Arogyavaram, Vellore and Nagapattinam. “Southwest monsoon is very likely to advance further into some more parts of Central Arabian Sea, remaining parts of Karnataka, some more parts of Andhra Pradesh, some parts of Telangana, remaining parts of Tamil Nadu, some more parts of Central Bay of Bengal, some parts of Northeast Bay of Bengal and Northeast India until June 7,” said IMD officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shivajinagar-records-4mm-rain-on-friday-showers-to-continue-imd-101622819297205.html
05-06-2021||Other||Andhra woman returns home days after she was presumed to have died of Covid||Vijayawada: When Gaddaiah, 70, visited a Vijayawada hospital to inquire about his wife Muthyala Girijamma’s health on May 15, he was told she had succumbed to Covid-19 two days after she was hospitalised. He was handed over a packed body as per Covid protocols at the hospital mortuary after the completion of formalities. Gaddaiah and his relatives immediately performed the last rites. A week later, the couple’s son, David, also died of Covid-19 on May 23. Gaddaiah held a memorial service for Girijamma, 60, and David on May 31. Little did he imagine, Girijamma, a vegetable seller, would return home at Jaggaiahpet in Andhra Pradesh’s Krishna district two days later and leave them shocked first and a bit frightened later.It later emerged that she had recovered and that the body that was earlier handed over to Gaddaiah by mistake and was not that of his wife.“Inquiries revealed that in the hospital, Girijamma was shifted to another ward for better treatment. On May 15, when Gaddaiah went to see his wife, he could not find her in the original ward. As the duty staff could not give proper replies, he thought she might have died,” a relative of the family said. Gaddaiah then went to the mortuary, where the staff showed him the body of a 60-year-old woman. “Maybe, because he was in grief, he could not properly identify the body and mistook it as that of his wife. At his request, the staff handed over the body to Gaddaiah.”A Hanumantha Rao, the resident medical officer at the Vijayawada Government Hospital, said bodies in the mortuary are handed over to the relatives only after proper identification. “Similarly, the body of the woman was handed over to Gaddaiah only after he identified it. Girijamma was actually undergoing treatment in another ward, and she was discharged after she recovered.”KV Rama Rao, a local police officer, said no case has been filed as there was no complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-woman-returns-home-days-after-she-was-presumed-to-have-died-of-covid-101622805137092.html
