06-06-2021||Noida||Group of men barges into G Noida village mosque, beats up locals and imam; case registered||Greater Noida: A group of unidentified men allegedly barged into a mosque Saturday night and attacked the imam and some others, in Rampur Majra village in Greater Noida’s Dankaur. According to locals, the incident took place around 8:30pm, when people were offering their evening prayers. A case has been registered against unknown persons and a search has been launched, said the police.According to Raisuddin, a local resident who is the relative of one of the persons injured in the incident said that a youth from their community allegedly had an argument with a woman from another community on Friday. He said the woman went home and informed her family about the matter, after which her kin allegedly went to a Muslim locality around 10am on Sunday and threatened them of “teaching them a lesson”.“At night, however, they orchestrated the attack and injured the Imam, Nasir Muhammad, and my relative Fateh Mohammad, who was offering prayers, at the mosque,” Raisuddin further alleged.He said that the two communities allegedly have differences with each other. He added, however, that the Imam and his relative has no connection with the youth. He said Nasir received severe injuries in his head while Fateh received injuries in his back; both are admitted to a private hospital in Greater Noida. Area residents, meanwhile, said that Wasim has allegedly fled the village.The complaint in the matter was filed by Shafi Mohammad, another local resident.Arvind Pathak, station house officer of the Dankaur police station, said that primary investigation shows that the youth allegedly harassed a woman in the village. “The woman informed her family who then attacked some people in the mosque Saturday night. We have registered a case against unknown persons under Section 147 (rioting), Section 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), Section 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship, with intent to insult the religion of any class), Section 296 (disturbing religious assembly) of the Indian Penal Code,” the SHO said. Police teams have been deployed to ensure enforcement of law and order and that they are on the lookout for suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/group-of-men-barges-into-g-noida-village-mosque-beats-up-locals-and-imam-case-registered-101623004170384.html
06-06-2021||Noida||Hindon pollution worsens, officials insist STPs working fine||The pollution in river Hindon has continued to worsen with the water samples registering a very high presence of faecal coliform, a clear indicator that untreated sewage is flowing into the river, contrary to the tall claims by officials that the sewage treatment plants (STPs) are “up to the mark”.According to Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), an analysis of samples collected from downstream of Kulesra in Noida in April 2021 found the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) to be 55 milligrams per litre (mg/l) against 30mg/l in April and December last year. The permissible limits for BOD — or the minimum levels of oxygen required to diffuse biological matter — is up to 3 mg/l.Similarly, faecal coliform was found to be 13,00,000 most probable number (MPN)/100ml (against 4,00,000 in April 2020), which is about 520 times the max permissible levels of 2,500 MPN/100ml, the UPPCB report said. The higher levels of faecal coliform shows that a high volume of sewage is reaching the river.Earlier in October, a report by National Mission for Clean Ganga had stated that 10 of 14 STPs along the river in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar were not complying with the discharge standards and that all 14 STPs were underperforming. Officials in the two districts later said the STPs have been fixed and are now “working fine”.But the UPPCB data contradicts the claim, as the pollution level after the STPs were fixed (October 2020 onwards) had only worsened.The data also showed that dissolved oxygen level in the river was nil throughout the year against a minimum requirement of 5mg/l. Dissolved oxygen level (required to sustain aquatic life) is the life of a river, which being nil means that the river is virtually dead with water unfit for consumption of any kind.According to officials, it’s the unauthorised and untapped sewer from illegal settlements along the river that is polluting the Hindon.“All STPs have been fixed and are complying with discharge norms in Ghaziabad.A few STPs were earlier not performing but we had them checked and later inspected. They are now complying with the norms. There are 10 STPs in Ghaziabad of which four are along the Hindon, and all are currently working,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer, UPPCB, Ghaziabad.The pollution control board officials from Noida also stated that STPs in their jurisdiction are working.“We are diluting the sewage that we are receiving from upstream. There was one STP in Sector 123 that was found non-compliant for faecal coliform but we had fixed it. Noida has six STPs and all are complying with norms; only the Sector 123 STP discharges into the Hindon,” said Praveen Kumar, regional officer, UPPCB, Noida.He admitted that there are some drains that empty into the river untreated.“There are some drains like the one in Dasna that empties into the Hindon near Gaur City untreated. Though we ensure that whatever industrial effluent it carries is treated, the drain takes a long route after originating in Dasna and flowing through Ghaziabad, Dadri, villages along GT Road and merges with Hindon near Gaur City. The best we can do is to alert the civic authority concerned to take care of the local waste,” said Kumar.Officials also pointed out that there are a number of illegal settlements along the river.“The truth is that we can tap the illegal sewage from authorised settlements but there are a number of large settlements such as the ones in Khulsehra, Chhajarsi, Vijay Nagar, Kinauni village and other areas of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar that are situated along the river and discharge untreated effluents into it -- the reason for the presence of high levels of faecal coliform. The issue persists as the sewers in these villages are untapped, there is no data on them either. Besides, in Ghaziabad, the river is diverted toward the Hindon canal for irrigation, so that the flow of the river is affected. This issue remains unaddressed,” said a senior UPPCB official, on the condition of anonymity.According to environmentalists, the major cause of pollution is “official apathy”.“The national mission for Clean Ganga in its report had ordered the district administrations to take appropriate action against officials or organisations responsible for polluting rivers. It also ordered legal action against officials who were responsible to ensure that STPs are functional. Unfortunately, there is no accountability, nor is anyone held responsible. The result is that the condition of the Hindon continues to deteriorate by the day,” said Vikrant Tongad, a Noida-based environmentalist.The Hindon – west Uttar Pradesh’s most important river – has a basin area of about 7,000 square kilometre. Its tributaries include the Krishni and Kali, which are also highly polluted. The Hindon originates from the Shivalik range in Saharanpur district, flowing down to Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Meerut, Baghpat, Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar to finally meet the Yamuna in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/hindon-pollution-worsens-officials-insist-stps-working-fine-101623003750740.html
06-06-2021||Noida||Vaccination must for UP Roadways staff for joining duty||Taking serious cognisance of the Covid-19 cases among its employees, the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has decided not to assign duties to their staff without vaccination certificates. Officials from the state road utility said the corporation has around 650 employees in Gautam Budh Nagar district. An exclusive booth has been made in the Noida depot for to inoculate the employees of Noida and Greater Noida depots. Ashok Kumar, the regional manager of UPSRTC (Noida region), said following the guidelines of the headquarters, the roster of employees in Gautam Budh Nagar district is being prepared to ensure all of them are vaccinated. “In a recent online meeting with the top officials of UPSRTC in Lucknow, directions have been issued that employees have to produce their vaccination certificate before joining their duties. All the employees of both the depots have been asked to immediately register themselves on the Co-WIN app and get themselves inoculated at the vaccination booths.” “Earlier, the government had ordered for the vaccination of the 45-plus age group, as part of which 100 of the 120 employees have taken the shots. Now, we have been asked to ensure vaccination of the employees falling under the 18-45 age bracket. We are making slots for around 530 employees of this age group,” he said. Echoing similar views, N K Verma, manager of Ghaziabad region, UPSRTC, said the vaccination of all the roadways staff in 11 depots of this region is going on in full swing. “Out of nearly 2,200 employees in these depots, 510 are in the 45-plus category. Over 380 of them have been inoculated so far while the remaining 130 employees will be administered the shot by next week.”“We have around 1,700 employees in the 18-45 age group. We are preparing a roster to provide them slots. The drivers and conductors are being given priority in the vaccination as they are more exposed to the common people. All our employees are strictly following the standard Covid-19 protocols,” he said. He further added Ajmeri Gate, Kashmiri Gate, Anand Vihar (all in Delhi), Khurja, Bulandshahr, Sikandarabad, Hapur, Loni, Sahibabad, Ghaziabad and Kaushambi depots fall under the jurisdiction of UPSRTC, Ghaziabad region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccination-must-for-up-roadways-staff-for-joining-duty-101623003750171.html
06-06-2021||Noida||Traders relieved as markets set to reopen from Monday||Noida: Traders in the city are elated as they would be able to open their shops after five weeks from Monday. However, the weekend curfew will continue, as per the new unlock guidelines of the district. On Sunday, the district officials said that the partial Covid curfew, which was in prevalence from the night of April 30, would be lifted from Monday as the active cases in the district dropped below 600.“Most business owners are happy to resume their work, though some are still opting to stay shut. We have incurred heavy losses during both the lockdowns. However, a chance to resume work will start helping us financially. However, it all depends on the customers’ turnout,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president, Sector 18 market association. Now, shops will be allowed to open between 7am and 7pm and markets will operate for five days a week. “I doubt if I will get business from new clients, especially as the shop will remain closed on weekends. Though I suffered losses, I continued paying one of my assistants while the other one went back to his hometown,” said Vicky Yadav, a photography shop owner in Sector 76. Earlier, Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that shops and markets outside containment zones have been allowed to remain open from 7am to 7pm from Monday to Friday, while vegetable markets located in the densely populated areas have been instructed to function in open places. “Restaurants will have only home delivery options,” he said. Under the new guidelines, shopping malls will continue to remain closed while there will be a complete curfew on the weekends which are to be used for cleaning and sanitisation purposes.Shop owners feel that to keep markets from becoming Covid hot spots, implementation of guidelines is also imperative. “We will have to make sure that social distancing norms are followed. Vendors are allowed to operate in compliance with guidelines. We have 240 registered vendors in our market. But there are many more in the market. It is important to keep a check on all of them,” said CB Jha, president, Atta market association. Police officials said they will ensure that the guidelines are not being violated. “Only registered vendors will be allowed to operate in market areas. Others will have to go to designated vending zones. Our teams will be on alert and action will be taken against anyone found flouting the unlock guidelines,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/traders-relieved-as-markets-set-to-reopen-from-monday-101623003630198.html
06-06-2021||Lucknow||Day temperature to rise, heatwaves across several districts of UP: IMD||The day temperature across Uttar Pradesh is expected to go up, with the possibility of heatwaves in many parts of the state, as per a recent weather forecast issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday.“The day temperature will rise and coming days will be warmer with maximum temperature crossing 44 degree Celsius mark in several places across the state. The heat will be accompanied by humidity in some regions. The heatwaves will also impact daily life in various districts of UP,” said state MeT director JP Gupta.While regions with above-average rainfall will experience a spike in humidity, the dry regions including that of Bundelkhand and Prayagraj will experience a spell of heatwaves in the coming days. “District authorities across the state have been alerted about the shift in weather conditions for a further action,” said Gupta.In the state capital, the mercury is expected to rise around five degrees till mid next week with a clear sky on most days. These conditions will lead to a spike in average temperatures. The maximum day temperature is also expected to break the 42-degree mark during the daytime. The change reflected on Sunday when the mercury reached 40.6 degrees, 1.4 degrees above the normal mark in the afternoon, caused by the scorching sun.Besides the state capital, Banda, Jhansi, Prayagraj and Varanasi recorded the hottest day temperatures on Wednesday with the mercury hovering around the 44-degree mark.These weather condition will prevail for the next four to five days before another brief spell of rainfall expected around June 11 according to IMD forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/day-temperature-to-rise-heatwaves-across-several-districts-of-uttar-pradesh-imd-101623003390201.html
06-06-2021||Other||Now, speed post ashes to temple towns for post death rituals||VARANASI: The postal department has teamed up with a non-government organisation Om Divya Darshan, involved in socio-cultural activities, to help people perform post-death rituals of their loved ones, like immersion of ashes in sacred rivers which is very difficult in the present scenario, given the raging Covid-19 and subsequent curbs. Now the ashes can be sent from post offices to Varanasi, Prayagraj, Haridwar and Gaya through speed post, where asthi visarjan (immersion of ashes) and shradha rituals would be done by Om Divya Darshan (ODD), informed Krishna Kumar Yadav, Postmaster General of Varanasi region. Yadav said that recently the organisation submitted a proposal for this to the directorate, postal operations division, India Post, New Delhi. The directorate accepted the proposal, and an arrangement was made for sending ashes through speed post. He said that to avail of this facility, one would have to register on the portal of Om Divya Darshan (http://omdivyadarshan.org) After having registered for asthi visarjan or shradha ceremony on the ODD portal, one could send the packet of asthis (ashes) by speed post to Varanasi, Prayagraj, Haridwar and Gaya. He said the ashes should be packed properly and ‘Om Divya Darshan’ should be inscribed on the packet in bold letters, so that it would be distinguished. The sender would have to write his full name, address and mobile number etc. on the packet. The speed post charges would be borne by the sender. After booking the speed ​​post, the sender would have to update the booking details, including speed ​​post bar code number, on the portal of Om Divya Darshan Sanstha. Once the packet was received at the post office, it would be delivered to Om Divya Darshan’s address, he said. After that, Om Divya Darshan Sanstha, through the empanelled pandits, would perform the shradha ceremony on the pre-decided date and time. The ceremony would be webcast live to the family members of the deceased. Thereafter, a bottle of Ganga water would be booked by ODD and delivered to the family members of the deceased through speed post from Parliament Street post office, New Delhi, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-speed-post-ashes-to-temple-towns-for-post-death-rituals-101623002550184.html
06-06-2021||Other||Decks cleared for fitting panic buttons in UPSRTC vehicles||Lucknow: Finally, the decks are cleared for the installation of vehicle location tracking (VLT) devices and emergency panic buttons in around 4 lakh permit-holding public service vehicles in Uttar Pradesh to enhance safety of women as well as other passengers. The passengers will be able to raise an alert in case of any emergency to get prompt help. After the Central government recently provided around ₹52 crore grant to the state under the Nirbhaya framework, the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has prepared the request for proposal (RFP) and uploaded the same on its website for prospective bidders to implement the ambitious project. “Having floated the RFP, we will hold a pre-bid conference on June 11 after which we will invite bids from expert agencies to carry out the project for equipping all the public service vehicles, including UPSRTC and private buses, with VLT devices (AIS-140 specifications) and emergency buttons to provide immediate assistance to passengers in emergency,” UPSRTC managing director and transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu said. “The final project that will make real-time seamless tracking vehicles possible may be rolled out very soon this year after the implementing agency is selected,” he added. As per the scheme, the public service vehicles fitted with VLT devices and emergency buttons will be integrated with the state-of-the art centralized 24x7 monitoring centre being set up in the transport commissioner office. The backend system of the monitoring centre will be hosted on the NIC cloud. “Any emergency alarm raised by a passenger will land on two VLT platforms simultaneously—on the transport department’s monitoring centre as well as on the national 112 police helpline. These centres will verify and communicate the message to the nearest interceptor/response vehicle to make the assistance available promptly to the passenger concerned,” explained another UPSRTC official aware of the project. The project, according to him, would help the UPSRTC to keep a close watch on all its 11,500 buses and 100 interceptors remotely. “Apart from enabling passengers to get prompt help in situations like sexual attack on a woman passenger, hold-up of a bus or a road mishap, the project will also help us keep a close watch on our buses for many other purposes , helping us plug in leakages and improve services,” the official said. Of the ₹52 crore that UP has got as grant from the Centre to execute the project, ₹5 crore will be spent on publicity campaign alone to make people aware of the project and how to seek emergency help when they are in any trouble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decks-cleared-for-fitting-panic-buttons-in-upsrtc-vehicles-101623002430176.html
06-06-2021||Other||Akhilesh: Farmers worst-hit under BJP govt||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday held the BJP government responsible for the ‘worsening condition of farmers in the state’. In a statement, he alleged that the condition of farmers has deteriorated the most in the state under the BJP government and they were badly hit financially. Akhilesh also blamed the three new farming laws introduced by the union government for “breaking down the agricultural economy”. He said that there was a big farmer movement against the new laws and even after a long time the anger of the farmers had not subsided. “The unity of the farmers will shatter the arrogance of the BJP. The farmers did not get remunerative prices for their crops from the BJP government. The BJP government had made tall claims about doubling the income of farmers just to grab their votes. To mislead them, the BJP government promised MSP (minimum statutory price), but in reality, the crop procurement was not done on MSP. The MSP of wheat of ₹1,975 per quintal was only in the advertisements. In reality the farmer are forced to sell wheat to middlemen at throwaway prices.” On sugarcane farmers in the state, Akhilesh Yadav said, “Sugarcane farmers are badly hit in the state. Even in the crushing season, their produce was not procured. Even today, sugar mills owe farmers more than ₹20,000 crore. There is also a provision of interest on the arrears, but when the principal is not being paid, who will pay the interest?” “The farmers are being cheated by reducing the weight of the sacks of fertilisers and increasing the price. Farmers are already badly affected by the increase in the price of diesel, food items and transportation cost. They are fed up with these tricks of the BJP and now they have resolved to give a befitting reply. Justice will be done to the farmers in 2022 when the Samajwadi Party government will return to power,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/akhilesh-farmers-worst-hit-under-bjp-govt-101623002250186.html
06-06-2021||Other||‘Dilli Kooch 2.0’: Charuni leads farmers’ contingent from Ambala to Delhi||To give a fresh zeal to their demand for repealing the three central farm laws, farmers affiliated to Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) moved to the protest site at Singhu border near Delhi from Ambala’s Shambhu border in a large number of vehicles on Sunday.The movement led to traffic chaos on both sides of the border from as early as 9am despite the presence of police. The farmers’ vehicles left around 11:30am with the union’s state president Gurnam Singh Charuni leading it. He claimed that more than 2,500-3,000 vehicles were part of the contingent.This even as another group of farmers were staging a sit-in outside the Tohana Sadar police station demanding the release of two of their activists who were jailed for protesting outside a Jannayak Janta Party legislator’s house. Farmers from Patiala and Mohali in Punjab also joined their Haryana counterparts in their march towards Delhi. Among them was a 11-year-old boy, Amanjot, who came with his father Harpreet from Mohali. When asked, he said he is aware of the gravity of the situation and hence came to support the farmers. “The government wants to suppress the protests in the name of Covid but no farmer will leave any protest site till the laws are taken back,” he said.Another agitator, an 81-year-old former Air Force officer, said he has been registering his protest by wearing black clothes since August 15 last year. “I have been wearing black clothes and a turban of the same colour as a mark of protest against these black laws,” he said.Will start mission UP soon: Charuni When asked about the possibility of talks with the Modi government, Charuni told reporters that even if there is no discussion with the government on a solution, laws have to be taken back.“They are more scared than us. Just look at their situation. Bharatiya Janata Party is losing everywhere. We showed them what we can do in West Bengal, now we are preparing for mission UP against them,” he said referring to the state polls scheduled next year. On the Tohana controversy, he said the matter had almost ended after an apology by JJP MLA Devinder Babli but farmers will agitate till their fellow activists are released.In November last year, farmers from most of the north-Haryana and Punjab region had gathered in Ambala to move towards Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dilli-kooch-2-0-charuni-leads-farmers-contingent-from-ambala-to-delhi-101623002130098.html
06-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan records 904 new Covid cases, 25 more deaths||The Covid-19 death toll in Rajasthan rose to 8,656 on Sunday with 25 more fatalities, while 904 new cases pushed the infection count to 946,346, according to an official report issued here.Of the new fatalities, Udaipur reported the highest six deaths followed by five in Jodhpur, it said.Of the new cases, the highest 169 was recorded in Jaipur while 97, 70, 56 and 48 infections were reported from Alwar, Hanumangarh, Jhunjhunu and Sikar respectively, the report said. A total of 919,115 people have recovered from infection so far and the number of active cases currently stands at 18,575, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-records-904-new-covid-cases-25-more-deaths-101623001107611.html
06-06-2021||Gurugram||Five booked for creating illegal colony on agri land||The police on Saturday booked five persons in Manesar for allegedly carving out an illegal colony on agricultural land in Rampur and Shikohpur villages on a complaint from the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP).The case was filed under relevant sections of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, said DTCP officials. Permissions or licence for the colony was not taken, said officials.The police identified those booked as Ravinder, Dev Karan, Rajeev Kumar, Kuldeep and Sanjay.RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram, said that the land situated in khasra numbers 358, 359, 378/2, 377, 356/2, 357, 394/2/3 and 0//484, 485, 486, 487, 488, 514, 515, 517 in the revenue estate of village Shikohpur under Manesar was being developed into an unauthorised colony, with an office constructed and roads being erected.“No permission has been taken to develop this colony and despite a notice being issued to them, the construction and other works were not stopped. As such, a complaint was lodged with the police and a case was registered,” said Bhath, adding that the landowners were previously asked to restore the land, but failed to take any corrective measures.In the last two months, this is the fourth case registered by the police on the complaint of DTCP against illegal colonies on agricultural land. “Some people tried to take advantage of lockdown, but we have taken action against them,” said Bhath.Earlier on Friday, the department demolished an additional floor of a house constructed in violation of norms and warned of action. “Action would be taken against all house owners, who have built or trying to build floors without permission,” said Bhath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/five-booked-for-creating-illegal-colony-on-agri-land-101623001110803.html
06-06-2021||Gurugram||Illegal call centre set up to dupe US citizens busted in Sector 23||An illegal call centre operating in Sector 23 was busted in the early hours of Sunday and three persons were arrested for allegedly duping US citizens over the last six months, the police said. The suspects were identified as Zarar Haider of Mumbai in Maharashtra, Pratesh Patel of Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh and Nishgar of Ahmedabad in Gujarat. The police said they made at least ₹50 lakh, as they were paying workers ₹15,000 to ₹25,000 per month.Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police, said that Haider was the team leader, while Patel used to handle technical operations and Nishgar used to handle voice and accent training along with process training. “Three of them were masterminds. They had taken up a house on rent in Sector 23 and were paying ₹45,000 a month. The call centre was operational for the last six months. These suspects were duping US nationals and taking money through gift cards and Pay Pal,” he said. A case was registered on Sunday at Cyber police station under sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 66D and 75 of the IT Act. They will be produced before the district and sessions court on Monday.The callers posed as officials of law enforcement agencies and coerced their victims into paying fines, the police said. The suspects used to threaten US citizens that their social security numbers (SSN) would be blocked or that they would be booked for consuming drugs or taking loans on the basis of forged documents, the police said. Data of US citizens, two laptops, one hard disk and two mobile phones were recovered from the premises. The police said that at least 2,000 people based in the US were targeted.Goel said that they conducted a reconnaissance of the area on Sunday. “There were more than six men and three women making calls in the room. They all were graduates who had work experience at other call centres. There were around 15 workstations and training was given to the employees before hitting the floor. They also set up a toll-free number, to which they received calls from their targets,” he said. The police said the suspects developed several fake websites, which would direct the victims to call the toll-free number for assistance. The police said the confiscated hardware will be sent to a laboratory in Madhuban of Karnal for forensic examination to ascertain the total number of frauds committed. “Payment was generally done through virtual gateways, credit and debit cards, gift cards and iTunes cards,” said Goel, adding that the call centre used to earn nearly ₹2 lakh a day, but due to lockdown, the operations were closed for two months in the interim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-call-centre-set-up-to-dupe-us-citizens-busted-in-sector-23-101623001110093.html
06-06-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to hold mock drill on June 9 to get monsoon-ready||Ahead of the monsoon, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and other civic agencies, including National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), will conduct a mock drill on June 9 to keep waterlogging issues during the rains in check.Officials said that the mock drill will be conducted at four main underpasses — where people face waterlogging issues during the peak of monsoon — in the district.Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer, infrastructure-II division of GMDA, said, “As part of the mock drill, we will fill water at four underpasses in the district — near Medanta, Rajiv Chowk, IFFCO Chowk and Signature Tower — through tankers. Following this, we will use machineries deployed by GMDA teams and NHAI at these locations to drain out the water. This will give us an idea of how well we can deal with the waterlogging issues during the peak of monsoon, and how the remedial measures taken in the past are working.”“We are planning to make barriers along the stretch from Vatika Chowk to Southern Peripheral Road — with low habitation and waterlogging issues — so that the water can be diverted to low-lying areas. Thus, the excess water won’t accumulate at Narsinghpur, and can be used for groundwater recharge,” added Kumar.Meanwhile, during a meeting with several agencies on Friday, GMDA chief executive officer Sudhir Rajpal instructed all the departments to coordinate with each other and ensure that the residents do not face any issue this monsoon. The NHAI officials apprised Rajpal that “a permanent solution has been found for waterlogging issues at Subhash Chowk, with different sides of the road being connected to an underground pipe passing below it”.Rajpal also ordered the departments to install pumping machines and make arrangements to divert the excess water to green belts or areas with natural depression, so that the water can be used for groundwater recharge.In May 2021, different parts of the district witnessed heavy waterlogging, with Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch, Sohna Road, Gurugram bus depot, Rajiv Chowk, and sectors 9 and 10 being some of the worst-affected areas. The district authority has already made diversions at certain stretches near Shiv Nadar School to prevent waterlogging along the Golf Course Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-hold-mock-drill-on-june-9-to-get-monsoonready-101623001051334.html
06-06-2021||Gurugram||55 new Covid-19 cases, two deaths in Gurugram||The district on Sunday recorded 55 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths, while 50 people completed their recovery from the infection, according to the district administration’s daily health bulletin.As per the bulletin, there are currently 812 active Covid-19 cases in the district, with 731 in home isolation, 80 in hospitals and one patient at a district Covid care centre.As per the health bulletin, the recovery rate is currently at 99.08% and the death toll at 848. In the last 24 hours, as on Sunday, 4,458 people were tested for the virus, with results of 2,322 people awaited from government facilities.Officials appealed to residents to continue safe practices despite the recent fall in the number of cases.The district recorded 57,012 Covid-19 cases in May that were marginally fewer than the 59,921 cases in April. The number of recoveries, however, was higher in May, with 91,837 people recovering from the infection, compared to 25,059 in April. Despite the increase in recoveries, 343 Covid-19 deaths — the highest in the district in a month — were recorded in May.“With the cooperation of the residents, the spread of coronavirus has been contained. There is only one mantra to defeat Covid-19 and it is that when we come out of the house, we must wear a mask covering the nose and mouth, keep a distance of two yards from others, and keep washing hands with soap or disinfect hands with an alcohol-based sanitizer. The cooperation of the people is vital in the prevention of this epidemic,” said Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram.On Sunday, 7,835 doses of Covid-19 vaccines were also administered, of which 7,386 were the first dosage for the 18-45 age group while 449 people were second dosages.Of the 7,835 doses, 88 were administered at a solitary drive-through facility set up by the district administration at the parking of JMD Regent Square on Mehrauli Gurgaon (MG) Road. All the vaccines administered in this camp were Covishield, for people above the age of 45. Overall, more than 735,000 people have been vaccinated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/55-new-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-in-gurugram-101623001050141.html
06-06-2021||Gurugram||MCG focuses on safe public transport||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has turned its focus to finding solutions to aid the recovery of public transport systems in the Covid-19 era, officials said on Sunday. For this purpose, the MCG will be taking the assistance of non-governmental organisations (NGOs), social enterprises, and academic and research institutes to improve the mobility needs of the city and understand the problems faced by residents and transport operators.“As our city braves through these challenging times, the MCG is committed to making our buses, trains, and other transport services like shared autos, e-rickshaws Covid-safe,” said Surender Singh Saharan, additional commissioner of MCG.He said that as part of the process, the MCG will be participating in the Central government’s Transport4All challenge to come up with possible solutions for recovery as well as address transportation issues within the city.Saharan said that through the Transport4All challenge, the city will work towards resolving the most critical problems which citizens face, such as crowding in vehicles, unaffordable fares and long travel times, in order to rebuild people’s trust in public transport.“Better public transport will help all citizens move safely during the pandemic and make the system more resilient to such outbreaks in the future,” said Saharan.Sarika Panda Bhatt, a city-based transport expert, said, “Gurugram has multiple options in regards to public transport but there is no clarity or assessment on the exact public demand for each of the options. This challenge will, hence, be beneficial in determining the exact number of buses, e-rickshaws, autorickshaws or metro stations the city requires and accordingly, build around it.”At present, city residents mostly depend on autorickshaws or e-rickshaws for travel due to the paucity of public transport options. While the Delhi Metro’s Yellow Line and the Rapid Metro network connect areas from the Sirhaul border up to Golf Course Road, there is no connectivity to the older parts of the city. The Gurugaman bus service was also launched due to demands for better public transport and currently caters to select routes.The MCG officials said that the role of citizen groups, NGOs, social enterprises, academic and research institutes will be crucial in assessing the city’s transport needs. These expert groups can capture the mobility problems citizens, especially vulnerable groups, face through surveys. They can also develop solutions that meet the needs of citizens and evaluate the impact of these solutions after testing them with citizens, among other such measures, said officials.The challenge is a new initiative by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. “This challenge will be among the cities which have a population above 500,000. It is regarding safe, convenient and affordable transport facility. By participating in this challenge, Gurugram will improve its public transport and better serve the mobility needs of all citizens, during and after this pandemic,” Saharan said.As per MCG officials privy to the matter, the main focus areas of the challenge will be on conceptualising digital innovations, developing and testing them, and scaling them to provide the best possible options to residents.Other important aspects of this challenge are to figure out the best possible modes of payment with an emphasis on digital forms, creating control rooms that can help monitor different modes of public transport, and creating various platforms through which passengers can get relevant information, such as waiting time, fare, routes, distance, as well as set up a centre from where they can ask queries on such information, either through an operator or a digital interface.MCG officials said that the last date for registering for the transport challenge is June 15, with the initiative set to go on till December 2022.Barring Gurugram, only Faridabad and Karnal are eligible for this challenge in Haryana, as these are the only three cities that have a population above 500,000 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-focuses-on-safe-public-transport-101623000992436.html
06-06-2021||Gurugram||With four robberies in 10 days, criminals train their guns on collection agents||Armed robbers are targeting collection agents on their way to banks to deposit cash since the latest lockdown curbs were eased in Gurugram on May 24, the police said, citing four such instances in a 10-day period and the arrest of four persons in connection with the cases. On Sunday, the Sector 40 crime unit arrested a suspect, identified as Veer Singh Saini of Hisar, from Bhiwani and recovered ₹90,000 from his possession, along with documents pertaining to the targets. The police said that Saini was involved in two robberies and is being questioning to ascertain more details.The police said that most of the targets collected cash from retail outlets and liquor vends, with incidents being reported from Farrukhnagar, Pataudi, Palam Vihar and Sector 17/18 dividing road since the last week of May.Officials said that police teams, upon collating and scanning CCTV footage from more than 11 locations in connection with the four cases, found that the same modus operandi was followed by all robbers and that those responsible for planning the robberies were affiliated with one another.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that a common feature in the four incidents was the role of an insider. “All the collection agents are given a route for collection, and as per the roster, the route is shared within the team. In three cases, we arrested supervisors who had shared the information with their close associates and planned the robbery incidents,” he said.In the latest incident, a 26-year-old collection agent of a chain of retail stores was robbed of ₹4.5 lakh at gunpoint by three persons in Sector 52, outside Ardee City Gate 4, on June 2. Sangwan said, “Our crime units started an investigation on June 2. Within 24 hours, they cracked the case and arrested the suspects for attacking one of the victims, identified as Jeetu Kumar, outside Ardee City Gate 4 on June 2. The suspects allegedly followed him, intercepted his motorcycle, and snatched his bag at gunpoint. When the agent tried to raise the alarm, they threatened to kill him and threw red chilli powder in his eyes before escaping with the bag on a motorcycle. It had a fake number plate,”Three suspects, identified as Chetram of Rajasthan, Ramakant of Bihar, and Vishal alias Monu of Haryana, were arrested in connection with the incidents, while the police are on the lookout for another affiliate.Chetram used to run a kiosk in residential areas where he ironed clothes, but due to a financial crunch, took up a job in an end-to-end logistics solutions provider company in Sector 15, where he came in contact with Vishal. The duo masterminded the robberies, the police said.Gunpal, the sub-inspector and in-charge of Sector 40 (crime) police station, said that Chetram often discussed his financial issues with Vishal and sought his suggestions to make more money. “The latter shared his plan they decided to rob collection agents as they usually carry large amounts of cash.”As per the plan, they coordinated and followed Jeetu Kumar, who undertook cash collection for their office and other retail outlets. The police said that the duo was in a conference call with the others and directed them to converge on him when he slowed down before a speed breaker ahead of Ardee City Mall.During questioning, the suspects revealed that they generally followed their targets for three days to ascertain their schedule. “Prior to this, they said that they used to sit outside a private bank in Sector 52 for hours to check if anyone would come carrying a bag to withdraw cash. As they did not find targets for over a week, they started targeting collection agents as they were easy targets and were alone on their motorbikes, without any security,” said Gunpal.The police said the gang was active for over a year and they robbed their targets only after ensuring they were carrying at least ₹4 lakh.On May 26, a 28-year-old collection agent was robbed of ₹4 lakh at gunpoint by two persons in Palam Vihar. On May 29, three persons on a motorbike robbed a liquor store operator in Farrukhnagar while another liquor store collection agent was robbed on the Sector 17/18 diving road. On April 19, a collection agent of a chain of liquor stores was allegedly robbed of ₹6 lakh at gunpoint by four armed persons in Sector 18, near a private bank. The police said that one of the robbers fired two gunshots in the air to intimidate the victim, before escaping with the money in a car. The police said that the car, a Swift Dzire, was recovered from a road in Palam Vihar an hour after the incident was reported.Sangwan said that they have asked banks and agencies involved in cash collections to send along a security guard with the collection agents, and not to share routes and money details with the entire team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/with-four-robberies-in-10-days-criminals-train-their-guns-on-collection-agents-101623000991665.html
06-06-2021||Other||AAP seeks Centre’s help in scaling up vaccine supply||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday appealed to the Central government to help expedite the supplies of Covid-19 vaccine for the 18-45 age group in Delhi, expressing concerns about people who have their second doses due and asserting that a potential third wave of Covid-19 can be stopped only by scaling up the vaccination drive.“For the 18-45 age group, we have no vaccines available in the government-run centres. As per schedule, vaccines for this group are likely to arrive in another five days. It is a concerning situation because many people are scheduled to take their second doses now and several of them have travelled long distances to places, such as Meerut and Bulandshahr, to get vaccinated. We appeal to the Central government to scale up vaccine supply for Delhi,” said AAP legislator Atishi while reading the government’s vaccine bulletin in a live-streamed video briefing.All the 368 vaccine centres of the Delhi government for the 18-45 group are suspended for more than two weeks now as they have run out of vaccine stock. The Delhi government gets vaccines directly from the central government for the 45+ age group. But for the 18-45 age group, they buy directly the vaccines from the manufacturers – Covishield from Serum Institute of India and Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. However, a formula applied by the central government automatically ends up imposing a cap on the supplies.“For the 45+ age group, we currently have 584,000 total doses available. There is a shortage of Covaxin. So it is being used for only second doses. A third wave of Covid-19 can only be stopped by vaccinating more people. The central government should promote state-run vaccine centres, which offer vaccines for free. A large number of people cannot afford to pay to get their families vaccinated in private hospitals,” said Atishi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-seeks-centre-s-help-in-scaling-up-vaccine-supply-101623000990815.html
06-06-2021||Gurugram||Sewage overflow yet to be resolved for month, allege Ardee City residents||Residents of Ardee City in Sector 55 said that drainage overflow has become a common sight over the last month and that there has been no resolution despite repeated complaints to the developer and the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG).Residents alleged on Sunday that the lack of de-silting of drains has led to a blockage and subsequent overflow, following recent spells of rain. They said that due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the authorities are not paying any heed to their problems and they have to deal with the unhygienic situation on their own. Praveen Yadav, president, Ardee City residents’ welfare association (RWA), said that they have been raising the issue for the past three weeks. “The administration is turning a blind eye to this serious problem. We have also taken to social media to highlight the issue as our requests are not been heard. Residents of Block D-2 lane have been left to live with this. We are still wondering how to wake up the department for a permanent solution,” he said.Anil Haseeja, the vice-president of Ardee Infrastructure Private Limited, on Sunday, refused comment in the matter. MCG’s chief engineer TL Sharma said that the area falls under the developer’s jurisdiction, but they will get it checked at the earliest. “Though we have started the tendering process and expect monsoon preparedness measures to start by May-end, on-ground work, such as de-silting and clearing of stormwater and sewerage drains, have been started and will be completed within a week. A team will be sent to Ardee city on Monday to check if the master sewerage pipelines are blocked,” he said. Residents alleged two lanes have turned into breeding grounds for mosquitoes due to overflow and stagnation of waste, with recent spells of rain evoking unbearable stench from the refuse. Besides, the electricity infrastructure is also located in the vicinity of the overflow, with residents fearful of the situation.Chaitali Mandhotra, an RWA member, said that there are around 300 residents directly impacted by this condition. “We are already struggling with Covid-19 and black fungus, and don’t want another epidemic to strike just due to apathy of the department concerned. Several reminders have gone unheard and residents are fearing to exit their houses,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sewage-overflow-yet-to-be-resolved-for-month-allege-ardee-city-residents-101623000990184.html
06-06-2021||Other||On suspicion of extra-marital affair, woman, her friend kill husband in outer Delhi||New Delhi A 31-year-old woman allegedly spiked her husband’s dinner and killed him with the help of her male friend at their home in outer Delhi’s Nilothi Extension near Nihal Vihar, police said on Sunday. According to police, the woman allegedly planned the murder as she suspected her husband of having extra-marital relationships. While the woman has been arrested, investigators are still looking for her friend.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parminder Singh said the police control room received a call regarding a murder in a house in Nilothi Extension on the morning of June 3, after which a team found the body of the victim, identified as Anil Sahu, who ran a placement agency, with multiple injuries on face, neck and head.Police said that Sahu’s wife, Bhuvneshwari Devi, was present at the rented home along with their two children and two other women. While Devi told police that two outsiders had come to meet her husband and murdered him, investigators found gaps in her story and also questioned her about the injury marks and blood spots found on her body and clothes. Police said her children and the two women, who were present in the house, were unaware of any such visit. “Devi was further questioned and asked about the injuries. She broke down and confessed to the crime and the involvement of her friend, Raj. We arrested her,” said DCP Singh.During questioning, he said, Devi disclosed that she had a regular fights with her husband and had even filed a dowry, assault and threat case against him last year at their hometown in Jharkhand. However, the issues were resolved and she again started living with him in Delhi.“The marital discord began again as Devi suspected her husband of having affairs with other women. Whenever she confronted him, he would beat her. When she could not bear the atrocities of her husband, she planned to kill him with the help of Raj,” added the DCP.According to police, on the night of June 2, when Sahu returned home from work, Devi allegedly spiked his dinner and after he fell unconscious, she allegedly tied him up with Raj’s help. However, he gained consciousness after a while and it lead to a scuffle. Devi and Raj allegedly overpowered him and stabbed him with a sharp tool. Thereafter, they dressed up the crime scene to make it look like a murder by outsiders. After Raj left, Devi alerted her family members and neighbours, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/on-suspicion-of-extra-marital-affair-woman-her-friend-kill-husband-in-outer-delhi-101623000870819.html
06-06-2021||Other||46% more children, women enrol in Delhi’s anganwadis amid second lockdown||After losing her livelihood following the imposition of the lockdown announced by the Delhi government in April to contain the fourth wave of Covid-19 in the city, Uma Singh, a domestic help, was left with no means to arrange nutritious food for her two children until she managed to enrol them in an anganwadi centre last month with the help of a civil society organisation. The resident of northeast Delhi’s Yamuna Vihar said, “My son is three and my daughter is just one-year-old. None of them are enrolled in a school yet; otherwise they would have got dry ration from there. Some NGO people visited our locality last month to distribute food. When I told them about my issue, they put me in touch with an anganwadi worker who later helped me enrol my kids in a centre.” Singh, 28, is a single mother and lives with her parents. Like Uma, several thousand people have enrolled their kids in the city’s anganwadis after losing their source of income amid the pandemic. According to a recent survey conducted by the Delhi government, 247,293 children and pregnant/lactating women have enrolled in anganwadi centres across the Capital amid the lockdown enforced by the Delhi government in April. The trend, experts said, shows that the income of families has been more severely hit this time compared to the last lockdown. These anganwadi centres, part of the central government’s Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), provide supplementary nutritious meals to children up to age six as well as pregnant and lactating women. They also provide pre-school education, health education, immunization and medical check-ups for the children. While the city’s 10,700 anganwadi centres have been shut since March, the Delhi government’s department of women and child development (WCD) has been providing children and pregnant/lactating women supplementary nutrition - including dalia, black chickpea (chana), jaggery, nutritious ladoos, and roasted chickpea - through door-to-door services each fortnight.Government data seen by HT showed that in March last year, 534,741 children and women were enrolled in the ICDS programme, which increased to 782,034 (46.24%) by April this year. The latest survey report also stated that the coverage of supplementary nutritional diets also increased by 68% from the last lockdown.“As per the latest round of survey results from the DCPCR, 91% of the beneficiaries reported that they are receiving nutritional supplements whereas in May 2020 when only 23% of the beneficiaries surveyed had reported that they received the ration,” the document stated.Dilshad, who lost his job at a garment store in Lakshmi Nagar in April last year, had initially registered his two children in a local anganwadi and recently also enrolled his four-month pregnant wife as well. “My children--a four-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter--were enrolled in a private school in Seelampur. I had to pull out my children from the anganwadi as I was not able to pay the fees in July. I am still out of work and we are struggling to arrange daily meals.”“I enrolled my children in an anganwadi in August. In March, I got to know that my wife is expecting again. I am still hardly earning anything by cleaning cars in Dilshad Garden. I cannot provide her with the basic nutrition she requires now. Therefore, I had to enrol her at the same centre,” he said.In some cases, the workers of the child development department themselves identified children whose families’ income was severely hit amid the lockdown. Ankur (goes by the first name), who was working as a cleaner in a factory in Okhla Phase-3, said he is out of work since last year. He said last month, when some officials of the department visited their neighbourhood in Jahangirpuri, the family had nothing to feed their two daughters aged three and five. “They not only provided us with dry ration and some supplementary nutrition but also enrolled my two daughters in an anganwadi,” he said.Senior officials said the increased enrolment in the programme was also because of the enhanced efforts of officials and workers engaged in these projects. “During the pandemic, maximum efforts have been taken to enhance the outreach services and make the workers serve the needs of vulnerable children in a holistic manner, including having knowledge of children at risk. Massive training exercises were undertaken to sensitise all our workers to identify and help vulnerable children, children in need, and orphaned children,” said a woman and child development department official. The department trained 11,248 field functionaries between January to May on various themes such as special needs of children, children’s health and nutrition, pre-school education, various child-related acts, and protecting children from any form of physical or mental abuse during the pandemic. According to the latest data collected by the Delhi Commission for Child Rights Protection (DCPCR), at least 1,436 children lost either one or both their parents to Covid-19. Of them, 59 children lost both parents, 467 lost their mother while 910 lost their father. The anganwadi workers were also asked to call on helpline number 1098 to report about any children in distress. Officials said the number receives around 500 calls every day. For instance, on May 31, the helpline number received 634 calls, of which 45 were related to Covid-19 or the lockdown. Apart from this, the other dedicated helpline number - 9311551393 - for information about children who need any help or support received at least 2,800 calls as on June 1, data showed.The Delhi government, in its budget 2021-22 presented in March, announced setting up of 500 Saheli Samanvay Kendras (SSKs) for better outreach to vulnerable women and children. Of the 500, about 101 such SSKs have been made operational as of now. Dr. Rashmi Singh, director of the women and child development department, said SSKs have emerged as emergency response centres catering to women whose livelihood and socio-economic condition have been hit by the pandemic and the lockdown. “Distribution of additional relief, ration, health supplies, raising awareness on vaccine and other issues related to the Covid-19 is taking place through these centres that are located in densely populated areas which are low on resources and where a large number of migrant workers have settled,” she said. Meanwhile, civil society organisations in Delhi, said the number of enrolment in the ICDS scheme is still low as compared to the population of the national capital. Amrita Johri of Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan said, “Income of families has been severely hit amid this second wave due to two reasons. First, the loss of jobs following the lockdown and, second, the unexpected health crisis that had unfolded around us. Many families, who were earning ₹20,000-30,000 a month, lost all their savings in arranging Covid resources for their loved ones. If we consider this all, the number of enrolment in the ICDS scheme is still low in Delhi.”“The number of families hit this year was also high. While last year, the number of SOS calls for ration was in thousands, this time, amid the second lockdown, we have received over 1.5 lakh such calls. Hence, more effort needs to be taken to enrol every child and woman in distress under the scheme,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/46-more-children-women-enrol-in-delhi-s-anganwadis-amid-second-lockdown-101623000811371.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s malls, markets and district in sync as precaution takes centre stage||As Delhi prepares for its second phase of reopening after seven weeks in lockdown, market welfare associations in the city said they are trying to vaccinate as many shop owners and employees as possible, shopping malls said they are going to invest on managing footfall in real-time, while district administrations said they will ensure stricter enforcement of distancing and mask norms. On Monday, around 250 enforcement teams of the Delhi revenue department will be deployed in markets and public spaces that are likely to see large crowds, said a senior government official. “Liquor stores will be under watch. They are likely to witness huge crowds for the next few days. If things go out of control, officers in sub-divisions have been directed to close the shops immediately for the day,” said the government official. Dharmendra Kumar, west Delhi’s additional district magistrate, said, “Enforcement will be scaled up. We have to ensure social distancing and high mask compliance at any cost. We cannot let Covid-19 cases go up again.” Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF Shopping Malls and director, Shopping Centres Association of India, said the mall industry has been ready to reopen for some time. “Apart from the guidelines recommended by local authorities, we have got stringent measures now like live footfall trackers, apart from getting all mall employees vaccinated. It is important that we give an environment of safety to both consumers and to build staff confidence during these testing times. We hope that business will soon come back to normal,” said Bector. Yogeshwar Sharma, executive director and CEO, Select Citywalk, said the reopening has been mapped out, with extensive standard operating procedures in place, including temperature checks at entry points, sanitization across all public areas and retail outlets, and air-conditioning practices in accordance with government guidelines. “We will also work in tandem with our occupants to ensure best practices [are in place] for the safety of our visitors,” said Sharma. Atul Bhargava, owner of a store at Connaught Place and president of New Delhi Traders’ Association, said the body conducted a vaccination drive on Saturday for their staff and family members ahead of the Monday’s reopening. “Our members paid for the vaccines for their staff,” said Bhargava. The Khan Market traders body also said the association is in touch with a private hospital to vaccinate staff. Sanjeev Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders’ association, said, “It will take another two or three days for us to streamline the vaccination process. We have taken care of other precautionary measures,” said Mehra. He said that crowding might not be a problem initially since people were unlikely to throng the markets in the first few days. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that restrictions, including those on markets and transport, were being eased in the Capital starting Monday, after a seven-week lockdown that was necessitated by a devastating fourth wave of Covid-19 cases that overran the city’s health care system and led to shortages in critical medical supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-malls-markets-and-district-in-sync-as-precaution-takes-centre-stage-101623000750755.html
06-06-2021||Other||Police bust fake international call centre, arrest 21 for duping UK citizens||Police on Sunday said they have arrested 21 people, including a woman, for allegedly running a fake international call centre in west Delhi’s Naraina and duping citizens of the United Kingdom (UK) by impersonating as officials of the country’s revenue and customs department. The police have recovered 34 computers along with accessories, optical fibre routers, LAN servers, Wi-fi routers, Wi-fi-switches, mobile phones, incriminating evidence of foreign payment gateways, fraud bank accounts and data of lakhs of UK income taxpayers.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said the call centre had been operating since February this year. The racketeers duped UK-based citizens of their money by claiming that discrepancies were found in the audit of their income tax. The number of UK-based citizens cheated and the total money the gang has earned through the illegal business is being evaluated, she said.Goel said the employees at the call centre in Naraina industrial area approached UK-based citizens through phone service over the Internet (VoIP) and posed as HMRC (Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, United Kingdom) officials.Police said the call centre was raided on June 3 after the Naraina police station received information. A team was formed and 21 employees at the centre, including a floor manager, two supervisors, and 14 agents were caught.During the interrogation, the DCP said, the frauds revealed they used illegal techniques, VOIP calling, by passing the legal International Long Distance (ILD) Gateways, thus causing wrongful loss to the government exchequer. They used costly software and cheated UK-based citizens on the pretext of income tax frauds and violations of government regulations by impersonating as HMRC officials of the UK, said Goel. “These fraudsters are suspected to have links abroad who helped them by providing data of international citizens and also assisted them with international payment gateways,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-bust-fake-international-call-centre-arrest-21-for-duping-uk-citizens-101623000690059.html
06-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh records 1,165 new Covid-19 cases; tally nearing 1.7 million||Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 caseload surged to 1,698,389 on Sunday with 1,165 fresh infections while the death toll climbed to 21,252 as 101 more people succumbed to the viral disease.Of the fresh cases, 102 were reported from Kanpur, 91 from Gautam Buddh Nagar, 55 from Meerut and 51 from Varanasi. Thirty-six districts reported fresh infections in single digits, the state government said in a statement issued here.Kanpur reported the maximum number of deaths at 16, followed by 11 in Shahjahanpur and eight in Bareilly, it said.As many as 2,446 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease and were discharged in a day. With this, the total number of discharged patients has increased to 16,59,209.There are 17,928 active cases in the state, according to the statement.The recovery rate stands at 97.7 per cent.The test positivity rate (TPR) dropped to 0.3 per cent on Saturday and has remained below 1 per cent for almost two weeks now.Only five districts in the state have a TPR between 1 per cent and 1.2 per cent, the statement said.So far, over 53.1 million samples have been tested in the state, with more than 309,000 being tested the previous day, it said.Meanwhile, chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a high-level meeting with senior officials to review the Covid-19 situation in the state.He stressed intensifying contact tracing for early detection of Covid patients."Contact tracing needs to be further improved to break the chain of transmission. On confirmation of a positive case, at least 15 people who might have come in direct contact with that person should be traced and tested to ensure early detection and treatment," the chief minister said at the meeting.These efforts are the only way to keep the coronavirus fatality rate low and prevent the spread of the infection, Adityanath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-records-1-165-new-covid-19-cases-tally-nearing-1-7-million-101622999598974.html
06-06-2021||Other||Himachal jumps to third spot in Anemia Mukt Bharat Index||Himachal Pradesh has climbed to the third spot in the Anemia Mukt Bharat Index 2020-21 national ranking with a score of 57.1.Madhya Pradesh is at the first position with a score of 64.1 followed by Odisha with a score of 59.3.National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said the feat is attributed to the consistent efforts of our field staff and robust implementation of policies.He said the state government has been employing multipronged strategies under the drive which includes, providing prophylactic iron and folic acid (IFA) supplementation and de-worming of schoolgoing children besides intensified year-round behaviour change communication campaign; testing of anemia and point of care treatment; mandatory provision of IFA fortified foods in government-funded health programmes and addressing non-nutritional causes of anaemia.He said the prevalence of soil transmitted helminths had decreased from 29% to 0.3% in a short span of three years, indicating the effectiveness and implementation of the programme.He said the comprehensive strategy was expected to yield positive results in decreasing anemia prevalence. The score card and rankings in the Anemia Mukt Bharat Index are based on certain parameters like coverage of IFA supplementation across beneficiaries to support assessment of progress and performance of the programme.“Himachal Pradesh was at rank 18 in the year 2018-19, but with consistent efforts of the government and the field functionaries, the state was able to achieve the third spot,” said Dr Jindal.Anemia remains a major public health issue with high prevalence across the country irrespective of gender, age and geography. India is one of the countries with anemia as a serious public health concern today. Almost 50% of the pregnant women, 59% of children fewer than five years of age, 54% of adolescent girls and 53% of non-pregnant non-lactating women in India are anemic.Anemia during pregnancy is associated with post-partum haemorrhage, neural tube defects, low birth weight, premature births, stillbirths and maternal deaths. In other populations, anemia is associated with lowered immunity, poor cognitive development and decreased work productivity. The morbidity and mortality risks associated with anemia calls for an urgent need to design an effective strategy to address this public health problem. The decline in anaemia prevalence will in turn contribute in improved maternal and child survival rates, and improved health outcomes for other population groups.Considering the slow progress that is less than 1% per annum in reduction of anemia from 2005 to 2015, the Government of India launched the Anemia Mukt Bharat (AMB) strategy under the Prime Minister’s Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nourishment (POSHAN) Abhiyaan with the target to reduce anaemia by 3% per year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-jumps-to-third-spot-in-anemia-mukt-bharat-index-101622999437291.html
06-06-2021||Other||Govt comfortable with non-political setup in J&K: Lone||People’s Conference chairman and former minister Sajjad Lone on Sunday said the current government is comfortable with a non-political setup in Jammu and Kashmir.Lone’s party was in alliance with the Peoples Democratic Party-Bharatiya Janata Party combine in Jammu and Kashmir till the saffron party withdrew support from the government led by Mehbooba Mufti in 2018. He later became part of the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) that contested the district development council (DDC) polls jointly last year. He, however, parted ways from the alliance after winning eight seats.“The newly elected DDC members seem to be fed up of the government. People seem to be fed up of the newly elected DDC members. And the government is fed up with both the DDC and people. Government of the day is comfortable with a non-political set up. I think aiming at a non-people non-DDC set up,” Lone said in a tweet.Lone’s party now controls two DDC councils -- Baramulla and Kupwara -- in J&K, however, he seems to be annoyed with the bureaucracy and has been targeting them on social media. Earlier, he also made a veiled attack at former J&K chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam, stating that the latter nursed hatred towards the people of Kashmir.“Will be remembered as the darkest person in the darkest hours of Kashmir. A person consumed by the self and also consumed by hatred for Kashmiris. Saw expression of naked hatred for Kashmiris and belittlement of Kashmiris as a means of upward mobility for his self,” Lone had said in a series of tweets.“Trespassed into a domain which belonged to the political class. Made statements which were unambiguously political in nature. Made a trespass into the dividing line between politics and bureaucracy,” he said in another tweet. “Actually had delusions of Godliness. Thought of himself as God. Dropped big names. Boasted of having kicked out gubernatorial entities,” Lone had written.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-comfortable-with-non-political-setup-in-j-k-lone-101622999436092.html
06-06-2021||Other||Himachal logs lowest daily spike of 312 in over two months||After the devastating second wave of Covid-19 hitting its peak in mid-May, Himachal Pradesh on Sunday recorded 312 fresh infections — lowest daily cases after two months — taking the state’s total caseload to 1,95,099.Before this, 309 cases had been reported in the state on April 6.The second wave of Covid-19 began in Himachal around February 24, picked up pace in March and April and peaked in mid-May. It started subsiding in the penultimate week of last month.The highest single-day spike was recorded on May 8 with 5,424 infections, while the active cases had peaked by May 13, touching the 40,008-mark.Less than 100 cases in all 12 districtsMeanwhile, of the new cases, 74 were reported in Kangra, 53 in Chamba, 46 in Mandi, 38 in Shimla, 36 in Una, 30 in Hamirpur and Sirmaur, 24 in Solan, nine each in Bilaspur and Kullu, seven in Lahaul-Spiti and two in Kinnaur. It is for the first time in over two months that the entire 12 districts have recorded less than 100 cases in a single day. Four districts recorded less than 10 cases. The new infections were below 50 in ten districts and above 50 only in Kangra and Chamba.Today’s positivity rate was 2.6% with a total of 11,844 people tested for the virus.The recoveries in the state have reached 1,83,434 as 1,459 people recuperated. The recovery rate has climbed to 94%. The death toll mounted to 3,281 after 18 patients succumbed to the contagion.There are only 8,361 active cases left in the state. Kangra has the highest of 1,983 active cases. The remaining 11 districts have active cases below 1,000.In terms of total cases, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 44,490 infections. It is followed by Mandi with 26,028 cases and Shimla with 24,367cases.Solan has 21,830 cases, Sirmaur 14,916, Hamirpur 13,870, Una 12,845, Bilaspur 12,259, Chamba 10,299 , Kullu 8,502, Kinnaur 3,068 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,625.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachallogs-lowest-daily-spike-of-312-in-over-two-months-101622999435006.html
06-06-2021||Other||Srinagar DC, doctor slug it out over Covid vax safety||A verbal spat over what is scientific or unscientific over Covid-19 vaccination is playing out between a health expert and a prominent bureaucrat in Kashmir.The row ensued as influenza expert Dr Nisar-ul-Hassan, who heads a faction of Doctors’ Association of Kashmir (DAK), stated that people allergic to any ingredient of Covid vaccine should not receive the jab.This drew a sharp retort from Srinagar deputy commissioner (DC) Mohammad Aijaz Asad who shot a letter to the UT’s medical education department seeking action over Hassan’s statement terming it “antithetical to scientific evidence”.On Sunday, DAK issued a statement against Asad criticising his letter as “unscientific and defamatory”.“The DC’s letter is unscientific and misleading. He has created a story which is everything but science. The contents of the letter are intimidating and harassing. This has demoralised the whole medical fraternity …,” it said quoting DAK general secretary Dr Suhail Shah.“If a doctor will not do the talking during the pandemic, then who will,” it questioned.On June 2, Hassan, who is a regular at updating about various aspects and research regarding Covid and has been a strong advocate for vaccination, had said, “If you are allergic to any component of the vaccine, you are advised not to take it”.“However, if you have a history of allergic reactions that aren’t related to Covid vaccine such as food, medicine, latex, insects and environmental triggers, you may take the shot,” he had said.The DC’s letter to the government has sought action against this statement.Asad said as of June 1, 33,23,862 doses of Covid vaccine have been administered in Jammu and Kashmir, and no severe/ adverse effects of its ingredients have been detected in 99.99% beneficiaries.“The statement has created apprehensions among general public about the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccine. Such kind of unscientific, un-researched statements lead to erosion of faith in medical science and dampen the efforts to vaccinate the targeted population,” the DC’s letter said.Condemning the letter, DAK spokesperson Dr Riyaz Ahmad Dagga said the contents of the letter are “baseless, unscientific and defamatory for the DAK president.“Dr Nisar is a senior consultant at GMCH Srinagar and is also an influenza and pandemic expert. He has been at the forefront in the fight against the pandemic by treating Covid patients tirelessly since the public health crisis began in 2020,” said DAK’s Sunday statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/srinagar-dc-doctor-slug-it-out-over-covid-vax-safety-101622999372105.html
06-06-2021||Other||Below 1,500 Covid cases in J&K for second day straight||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday reported 1,440 fresh Covid-19 infections, lowest single-day spike in the past 50 days, and 23 deaths, taking the overall cases to cross the three-lakh mark at 3,00,490 and total fatalities to 4,074.Of the new deaths in the UT, eight were reported in Jammu division and 15 in Kashmir. As many as 1,102 fresh infections were recorded in Kashmir and 338 in Jammu, including 17 travellers.The number of patients who were cured on Sunday was 3,099, including 2,179 from Kashmir and 920 from Jammu. The active case count dropped to almost half to 26,741 in 25 days from the highest-ever active cases of 52,848 recorded on May 13.The total number of people who recovered in J&K reached 2,69,675, improving the recovery rate to 89.74%.Officials said that 50,253 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the total number of tests done so far reaching 8.84 million.With 264 cases, Srinagar saw the highest number of new infections, followed by 145 in Budgam, 140 in Kulgam, and 136 Baramulla on Sunday.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed about 1.18 lakh cases and 1,895 deaths till now. Jammu district has the highest number of fatalities at 1,097, followed by Srinagar with 798 deaths.The month of May was the most devastating with J&K recording the highest of 1,14,382 cases and 1,625 deaths due to the contagion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/below-1-500-covid-cases-in-j-k-for-second-day-straight-101622999370885.html
06-06-2021||Lucknow||Roster system to be implemented for functioning of district courts in UP||The roster system will be implemented for the functioning of the district courts when they resume hearings in the state capital Lucknow and the rest of Uttar Pradesh.The high court administration has decided that a maximum of eight judicial officers will be asked to hear the cases on a rotational basis.These courts will list important new cases for hearing, bail applications, discharge applications and record statements under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Apart from this, the courts will list remand applications for hearing and discharge applications related with criminal matters. The high court administration has also decided that courts will list important civil matters for hearing as well. “It will be decided at the local level (district court) as to which new case will be listed for hearing,” said Sanjeev Pandey, general secretary of Central Bar Association (Lucknow district court). The procedure for accepting bonds will also be decided at the local level (district court) and all judgments will be uploaded on the case information system. At present, three courts are taking up cases in the Lucknow district court through virtual hearing. From Monday onwards, four courts will resume work. Once the partial corona curfew is lifted, eight courts will be functional.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, summer vacations in both district courts and high courts were advanced. In view of the pandemic, it has also been decided that not more than 30% of the court staff, including class four employees, will be assigned duties on a particular day. VIRTUAL HEARINGSMeanwhile, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has decided that only virtual hearing of cases will take place from Monday.Physical hearings will take place only in urgent matters decided by the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/roster-system-to-be-implemented-for-functioning-of-district-courts-in-up-101622999310095.html
06-06-2021||Other||BJP leaders, lawmakers to adopt health centres in UP, says party’s national vice-president||All Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionaries, lawmakers, heads of boards and corporations would adopt primary and community health centres (PHCs, CHCs) across the state, the party’s national vice-president and UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh said on Sunday.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had first urged the ministers and lawmakers to adopt CHCs and PHCs in the state and several of them had already initiated the exercise. The exercise is aimed at improving healthcare facilities, especially in rural areas of the state where many PHCs and CHCs were said to be in a bad shape. “We will also get prominent people across the state, as well as non-governmental organisations, to join the initiative,” said the BJP leader who arrived here from Delhi on Saturday night. Radha Mohan Singh was also present in the state capital a few days back when BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh held one-on-one feedback sessions with ministers. Apart from other discussions, it was decided after the sessions to continue “seva hi sangthan”, the BJP’s outreach activity during the pandemic, in the villages. The appeal to party leaders to adopt CHCs and PHCs was a part of this activity, he said. Singh said party cadres would set up teams to assist those suffering from post-Covid complications and added that the party would also encourage maximum vaccination across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-leaders-lawmakers-to-adopt-health-centres-in-up-says-party-s-national-vicepresident-101622998950782.html
06-06-2021||Lucknow||Only Lucknow, three other districts remain under corona curfew in UP, review on Tuesday||The partial corona curfew was being eased in four more districts — Varanasi, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Muzaffarnagar and Ghaziabad —from 7am on Monday and the situation in the four remaining districts under curbs — Meerut, Lucknow, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur with more than 600 active cases each — would be reviewed on Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday.Now, a total of 71 districts with less than 600 active cases are out of the preview of the partial corona curfew.“The state government had set a standard of more than 600 active cases for carrying on with the corona curfew. Earlier, 67 districts had the curfew eased because the cases fell below 600 there and now four more districts —Varanasi, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Muzaffarnagar and Ghaziabad — will have the curfew eased from Monday 7am. Markets and shops will open from 7am to 7pm in these four districts as well. However, night curfew and weekend curfew will continue statewide,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/only-lucknow-three-other-districts-remain-under-corona-curfew-in-up-review-on-tuesday-101622998950055.html
06-06-2021||Gurugram||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim taken to private hospital in Gurugram for tests||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who is lodged in Sunaria jail in Haryana's Rohtak district, was on Sunday taken to a private hospital in Gurgaon for some tests, a senior prison official said.Earlier on Thursday, Singh had undergone some tests at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak after he complained of abdominal pain.The 53-year-old sect head of the Sirsa-headquartered Dera was taken to Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon for further tests on Sunday.Sunaria Jail Superintendent Sunil Sangwan told PTI over the phone that all tests related to Singh's condition could not be completed at PGIMS, Rohtak. When another top government hospital was approached in this regard, they said the tests were currently not being done due to the Covid-19 situation.Later, it was suggested to the prison authorities that these tests could be done at Medanta Hospital. The permission for the same was granted, he said.Singh was taken to the hospital under heavy police escort.Among other tests, Singh had undergone an abdominal CT scan at PGIMS, Rohtak on Thursday, officials had said.In May, he was admitted to the government hospital after he complained of dizziness and blood pressure fluctuation. He was discharged after an overnight stay at the hospital.Singh is serving a 20-year jail term for raping two of his women disciples. He was convicted in August 2017 by a special CBI court in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-taken-to-private-hospital-in-gurugram-for-tests-101622998520487.html
06-06-2021||Gurugram||Haryana daily Covid-19 tally drops further with 654 new cases||Haryana on Sunday recorded 654 fresh Covid-19 cases that took its tally to 762,291 while 48 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 8,712.Hisar reported 64 fresh cases, Yamunanagar 63 and Gurgaon 55, according to a state health department bulletin.Of the latest deaths, six were reported from Rewari, five each from Bhiwani and Hisar, and four each from Gurgaon, Yamunanagar and Sirsa, the bulletin said.There are 9,097 active Covid-19 cases in Haryana. So far, 744,482 patients have recovered from the disease and the state has a recovery rate of 97.66 per cent, it said.The cumulative positivity rate stands at 8.23 per cent, it stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-daily-covid-19-tally-drops-further-with-654-new-cases-101622998075393.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers' unions to hold statewide gherao of police stations in Haryana on June 7||After the talks with the administration over the release of two farmers, who were detained following a spat with local Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) MLA Devender Singh Babli, remained inconclusive, Haryana farmers' unions decided to hold a statewide gherao of all the police stations on June 7.The farmers' unions also appealed to all the citizens of Haryana to join the protests at their local police stations."Haryana farmer unions have given a call that on June 7, there will be state-wide gherao of all police stations in the state. There is an appeal to all Haryana citizens to join the protests at their local police stations," read an official release by Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM).The unions have made a special appeal to the farmers of Sirsa, Fatehabad, Jind and Hisar, to assemble in large numbers at Tohana police station to show "collective strength", while farmers of other districts have been requested to protest at their respective local police stations.After the meeting with administration, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said that the protest will continue until the farmers are released.On Sunday, farmers had organised many online and offline events to mark the "Sankalp Diwas" to remember and pay respects to six "martyrs" who were killed by police brutality in Madhya Pradesh's Mandsaur in 2017."Abhishek, Punamchand, Chenram, Satyanarayan, Kanhaiyalal and Ghanshyam were killed by Madhya Pradesh police on this day in 2017 during an agitation in Mandsaur, where they were demanding remunerative prices for their farm produce. It is to be noted that these brave farmers fell to the bullets of a BJP state government at that time too," the statement said.It added that thousands of protestors continue to pour into the protest morchas at Singhu Border, Tikri Border, Ghazipur and other locations. "Large convoys of hundreds of vehicles have joined the protest sites today too, especially from Ambala in Haryana, led by BKU Gurnam Singh Charuni," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-unions-to-hold-statewide-gherao-of-police-stations-in-haryana-on-june-7-101622997108818.html
06-06-2021||Pune||Education minister Samant reviews COEP’s excellence centre master plan||The master plan of the ‘excellence centre’ of College of Engineering Pune (COEP) is ready, the tender process is going on and within 1.5 months the actual work is about to start at the 30 acres land given by the state government at Chikhali to COEP. State higher and technical education minister Uday Samant visited COEP on Saturday and Sunday for a review meeting of this project. “I visited the COEP college and took a review of various ongoing development works and the Chikhali excellence centre project work. I had fruitful discussions with the COEP board of directors and college director along with our state technical education officials,” said Samant. The state government has given the land of 30 acres to COEP for this new excellence centre and also the first instalment of ₹25 crore for the construction work to start. This centre will benefit thousands of students from the rural parts from the nearby areas and even across the state who want to pursue career in engineering. “The meeting was held by minister Samant was to review the Chikhali project, we showed them the final master plan and its details were given. He gave his valuable inputs and suggestions to start the project work as soon as possible. It is very kind of the state government as they are giving us financial aid of ₹25 crore for starting the project,” said Prof B B Ahuja, director of COEP. “Currently our tender process is going on, the contractors are giving their quotations and then the pre-bidding meeting will be held. Once the tender process is completed and it is awarded to a contractor then the actual work on the site would start within 1.5 months period,” added Ahuja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/education-minister-samant-reviews-coep-s-excellence-centre-master-plan-101622996669961.html
06-06-2021||Pune||Three senior citizens caught with 4.6kg marijuana||Three senior citizens, including a 70-year-old woman were booked for possession of 4.6kg of marijuana in three slum areas of Bhosari. The three were identified as Mankabai Shahji Waghmare (65), a resident of Ambekarnagar slum; Mamu alias Rauf Khan Ramzan Khan (83), a resident of Vitthalnagar slum; and Savitribai Yuvraj Gaikwad (70), a resident of Balajinagar slum, all in Bhosari area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. The senior citizens were found with a total of 4.603 kg cannabis worth ₹1,30,055 in their possession. The police suspect that they had brought the drugs to sell them in the area. However, the police are investigating the source of the drugs. The police have, however, not arrested the senior citizens immediately. A case under Sections 8(c), 20(b) 9ii) (a), and 29 of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-senior-citizens-caught-with-4-6kg-marijuana-101622996489989.html
06-06-2021||Pune||​Ajit Pawar hints of two-member ward system for civic polls||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has hinted at a two-member ward system for next year’s civic polls in the state after deputy chief minister and NCP senior leader Ajit Pawar expressed his opinion in the favour of a two-member ward system. The then Devendra Fadnavis government had introduced four-member ward system before 2017 municipal elections in nine local bodies including Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad while in Mumbai, there was a single-member ward system. Speaking to reporters on Sunday, Pawar said, “In my view, there should be two-member ward system in the upcoming civic polls. However, senior leaders in Maha Vikas Aghadi senior will take a final call on the panel system.” The change in ward-system is key to strategizing civic polls, as seen in the past. After clarifying that it is his personal opinion, Pawar added, “There are many civic polls and Zilla Parishad elections scheduled between November 2021 and February 2022. However, the state election commission will take a final decision on the background of Covid-19 pandemic situation.” Having lost the last civic polls in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad, NCP has already started preparations with Pawar conducting a party meeting in Pune. Pawar said the previous BJP government took the decision for their convenience. Pawar has also instructed party workers and leaders to be prepared for the civic polls and demanded suggestions for an alliance and strategy to win the civic body polls. In the meeting with NCP leaders and workers, many had demanded scrapping of the present four-member panel system of wards and introduced a two members system to keep away the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which is the ruling party in PMC with a majority. NCP believes that smaller ward arrangement is beneficial for the party to win more seats. Smaller size of wards forces the voters to focus on the candidates rather than party and voters tend to vote for a party as there are more ‘unknown’ or ‘lesser known’ candidates in the fray in the larger size of wards (prabhags). Of the total 164 seats, BJP currently has a majority with 98 corporators and it is the ruling party in PMC. The NCP is the second largest party with 42 corporators followed by Shiv Sena and Congress 10 each, MNS 2, AIMIM-01||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-hints-of-two-member-ward-system-for-civic-polls-101622996429938.html
06-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka's Covid-19 tally nearing 2.7 million; 12,209 new cases recorded||Karnataka posted 12,209 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of infections in the state so far to 2,695,523 while the toll surged to 31,580 with 320 more deaths. The day also saw 25,659 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases. Out of 12,209 new cases reported on Sunday, 2,944 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 10,224 discharges and 187 deaths. As of June 6 evening, cumulatively 2,695,523 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 31,580 deaths and 24,09,417 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin on Sunday. Total number of active cases in the state was 254,505. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 7.71 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.62 per cent. Out of 320 deaths reported on Sunday, 187 were from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru 19, Belagavi 15, Dharwad 9, Hassan 8, Ballari, Chamarajanagara, Davangere, Haveri, Shivamogga, Tumakuru and Uttara Kannada 6 each, followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 2,944, Mysuru 1,237, Tumakuru 698, Hassan 655, Dakshina Kannada 609, Mandya 571, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 11,83,126, followed by Mysuru 1,50,885 and Tumakuru 1,08,245. Cumulatively a total of 30.6 million samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 158,274 were tested on Sunday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnatakas-covid-19-tally-nearing-2-7-million-12-209-new-cases-recorded-101622995886631.html
06-06-2021||Pune||One of four arrested for firing at sub-contractor in Dukkar Khind||One among four people booked for firing multiple shots at a sub-contractor in Dukkar Khind area of Pune on Saturday morning was arrested by Pune police crime branch officials on Sunday. The arrested man was identified as Abhijit Tukaram Yelvande (24), a resident of Karvenagar. He was arrested by officials of Anti extortion cell-1 of Pune police crime branch. The man Yelvande, and three others, had fired at the sub-contractor for road work, Ravindra Sakharam Tagunde (36), a resident of Warje Malwadi who also does plotting work. The accused had planned the murder of Tagunde over their belief of his involvement in murder of a man named Deepak Sonawane. Yelvande has been handed over to officials of Warje Malwadi police station for further investigation. Yelvande has also revealed the names of three others involved in the case. However, the three are yet to be arrested. Yelvande has a history of five cases in Pune city - all at Warje Malwadi police station. The case of firing at Tagunde was also registered at Warje Malwadi poliice station under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 3(25) of Arms Act and Section 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/one-of-four-arrested-for-firing-at-sub-contractor-in-dukkar-khind-101622996369983.html
06-06-2021||Ranchi||Covid-19 impact: Jharkhand identifies 234 children who lost parents to virus||The deadly coronavirus infection, that has killed over 5,000 people across Jharkhand since its outbreak last year, has also left hundreds of children orphaned or with a single parent, mostly after the onset of its second wave in early April this year. The department of women, child development and social security has so far identified 234 such children, officials said on Sunday.The identification of such children, that was started last month after chief minister Hemant Soren’s direction, is still on. Special secretary at the department DK Saxena said, “Till now, we have identified as many as 234 children who have lost either one parent or both during Covid-19 pandemic. The identification process of such children is, however, still on and will continue.” The department has, however, still not segregated the number of children left with a single parent and those orphaned. “Details about children left with single parent or with none is being separated at the district level. It will be uploaded on the NCPCR (National Commission for Protection of Child Rights) website by the districts,” Saxena said. Chief minister Hemant Soren recently said that the government will take care of children who lost their parents to the pandemic. The government has also issued a centralised helpline number, besides helpline numbers at the district level for information of such children.The chief minister also directed district administration officials to ensure proper care for such children, as many of them were left vulnerable to exploitation and child trafficking.Soren also said if any other family member of such children agree to look after them, they will be given monthly sponsorship assistance.Identification of such children was being done in coordination with district child welfare committees (CWC). The committees were also chalking out strategies for rehabilitation of such children. Ranchi’s CWC chairperson Rupa Verma said, “There are 19 cases under process so far in Ranchi district. Many phone calls are also coming from outside Ranchi. We are coordinating with respective districts for such cases.”Citing an example, she said an 18-year-old boy from Jamtara, who emerged as the district topper in matriculation examinations, called and narrated that he lost both his parents to Covid-19. “The meritorious boy, who is a single child, sought help for education and livelihood. Even though this is not a case of our district, we talked to many educational institutes, who agreed to teach him free of cost.”Verma said they were also getting several cases where orphaned children do not want to stay with their relatives. “We are chalking out alternative plans such as child care home for such children,” she said.She said a school student, who lost both his parents, was now staying with his uncle in Ranchi. “When this boy was asked the help he expects from the government, he said he will like to continue his education at a boarding school. He doesn’t want to stay with his uncle,” she said.About the financial assistance scheme for such children, Verma said under a state government scheme, orphaned children will be given an assistance of ₹2,000 per month, besides other facilities, including food and education.Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also announced a number of welfare measures for children who lost their parents to Covid-19. The Centre recently announced that PM-CARES fund will contribute through a specially designed scheme to create a corpus of ₹10 lakh for each of them, when he or she reaches 18 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/over-234-j-khand-children-lost-parents-in-covid-19-second-wave-101622995889936.html
06-06-2021||Patna||BPSC 64th final results out, 1454 candidates qualify||Om Prakash Gupta has topped the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) 64th Combined Competitive Exam (CCE), results of which were declared on Sunday.Vidyasagar and Anurag Anand secured the second and third position respectively. All three toppers have been selected for Bihar Administrative Services.As per the BSPC, altogether 1454 candidates have qualified the exam while 11 posts identified for specially abled/ physically challenged persons have been left unfulfilled for want of desired candidates.A total of 28 candidates have been selected for Bihar Administrative Service, 40 for Bihar Police Service, 10 for Bihar Finance Service (Commercial Tax Officer), 02 for Jail Superintendent, 8 for Sub Registrar/Joint Sub Registrar.Amarendra Kumar, joint secretary-cum examination controller of BPSC , “Despite Covid-19 crisis and lockdown, we conducted written exam last year following safety norms. The commission put all efforts for the preparation of results during pandemic.”The commission conducted interviews for 3799 shortlisted candidates from December 1, 2020 to February 10, 2021. Out of them, 1454 candidates have qualified the 64th CCE based on marks scored in the mains examination and personal interview. The cut off marks for unreserved category is 446 for written exam and 535 for final exam while for unreserved female category cut off marks is 430 for written exam and 513 for final exam.BPSC officials said the mark sheets for all the candidates will be released under Marksheet Tab on the official website.BPSC conducted 64th exam to fill 1465 vacant posts in different government departments. More than 2.95 lakh candidates appeared in 64th prelims exam conducted in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bpsc-64th-final-results-out-1454-candidates-qualify-101622995649939.html
06-06-2021||Patna||Patna’s 12 pvt clinics under scanner for overcharging Covid patients||At least 12 private hospitals in Patna are under the scanner for charging patients more than the rate fixed by the state government for treatment of coronavirus while many others have been let off the hook because of the grey area in the health department’s order, silent on investigations and drugs. The Patna district administration has lodged FIRs against four private health facilities in this connection so far. It has also facilitated in refunding excess payment to as many as five patients, encouraging them to withdraw their complaints. The Patna district administration, which has been proactive in this regard, has received 31 complaints against private health clinics overcharging patients. Twelve among them have been examined and show-cause notices issued. The complaints have been filed either directly by patients or their relatives and friends, generally, after they were discharged from health centres. “In as many as five cases, we succeeded in facilitating the refund of excess amount to patients or their relatives. FIRs were registered against private health centres who did not cooperate with our investigations,” said Chandrashekhar Singh, Patna’s district magistrate (DM), who constituted a special task force, comprising administrative officers, doctor, drug inspector, magistrate and police officers, for this purpose. The Patna district administration had empanelled a total of 91 private health facilities for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. They were, however, supposed to charge patients within the government-approved treatment rate, capped at a maximum of ₹15,000 per day for non- National Accredited Board of Hospitals (NABH) hospitals in Patna and ₹18,000 per day for NABH hospitals. “We found that some empanelled hospitals were charging patients up to ₹50,000 per day. In some cases, they would charge patients ₹1,00,000 in the first couple of days and then release patients or threaten to release them, taking the alibi that the government was not making oxygen available to them. We dealt sternly with all such hospitals and lodged FIRs against a few, sending a strong message across all private hospitals. Automatically, many others fell in line and began toeing the government order,” said Singh. “Inquiries into several other similar complaints are on and we will take them to their logical conclusion,” said Richie Pandey, Patna’s deputy development commissioner, also the senior nodal officer, treatment cell of Covid-19, constituted by the DM. The Hindustan Times has accessed a “provisional in-patient bill” of a well-known NABH-hospital in Patna that raised a bill of ₹2.44 lakh for 10-day hospitalisation between October 25 and November 4, 2020. Interestingly, the hospital has levied ₹38,000 as bed charges in Covid “daycare unit” (ward type), ₹42,495 for laboratory investigations, ₹29,000 as miscellaneous charges, ₹23,960 as ward procedure, ₹9,240 under hospital procedure and ₹5,200 as in-patient consultation charge. A whopping ₹94,070 has been raised against in-patient drug sale. Closer scrutiny of the bill revealed that the patient was prescribed costly investigations, either daily or every second day. Some of the common investigations prescribed included liver function test, renal function test, complete blood count, D-Dimer (helps rule out the presence of a serious blood clot), ferritin (it helps understand how much iron the body stores), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) test, which looks for signs of damage to the body’s tissues, interleukin-6 (to check for chronic inflammatory disorders), C-reactive protein test (to check the level of c-reactive protein, produced by liver, in blood), urine culture and sensitivity test, etc. The August 20, 2020 order of the health department, fixing treatment rates for Covid-19, however, did not specify tests and drugs. As such, the hospitals exploited this loophole to the fullest and charged patients, prescribing these tests at their whims and fancy. Patna district magistrate accepted having come across several such cases. “We came across many such cases where costly drugs and investigations were prescribed repeatedly to patients. We could not do much because the government order fixing treatment rates only mentions basic medicines and tests, without specifying them. We have flagged it to the health department,” said Singh. “Doctors should tickle their professional morality and not exploit patients in crisis,” he added. In Gaya, two complaints were lodged of patients being overcharged, said its district magistrate Abhishek Singh. In both cases, the private facilities refunded the excess amount to patients as soon as the district administration proceeded against them. The district administration even de-empanelled one of the 17 facilities for treatment of Covid-19 in the district after it overcharged a patient for high resolution computed tomography of thorax (chest), the government-approved being ₹3,000..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnas-12-pvt-clinics-under-scanner-for-overcharging-covid-patients-101622995409920.html
06-06-2021||Other||Women at the helm in Punjab’s new district Malerkotla||As chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh formally inaugurates Malerkotla as Punjab’s 23rd district in a virtual event on Monday, the command of the administration and police has been handed over to women officers. While Amrit Kaur Gill has been appointed the deputy commissioner, Kanwardeep Kaur is the senior superintendent of police. Another woman officer, Harwant Kaur, holds the charge of SP (headquarters).The Malerkotla constituency is also represented by a woman legislator, Razia Sultana, who is the state transport minister, while the nagar council has another woman, Nasreen Ashraf, at the helm.Gill, a 2010-batch Indian Administrative Services officer, said she will focus on community coaching and try to channelise the youth’s energy in sports. “There are many playgrounds and historical buildings in Malerkotla region. We will focus on developing and maintaining them,” said Gill, who is also a former international champion in cycling.Kanwardeep Kaur, an Indian Police Service officer, said: “We will perform our duty to maintain peace and order in the district.”“It is a moment of pride that women are leading the new district. We already have a woman MLA, but the appointment of women officers will empower us further,” said Rubina Shabnam, head of Nawab Sher Mohammad Khan Institute of Advanced Studies in Urdu, Persian and Arabic, Malerkotla. “It is also an answer to those people who termed Malerkotla a backward area. It is a sign of advancement that women are leading the district.” As the state heads for elections early next year, the CM fulfilled a long-pending demand of granting the district status to Malerkotla on Eid on May 14. He also announced a medical college, a degree college and a women’s police station in Punjab’s only Muslim-dominated town, which is around 35 km from the Sangrur district headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/women-at-the-helm-in-punjab-s-new-district-malerkotla-101622995290520.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Monoclonal Antibody Cocktail treatment begins at LNJP hospital for free||The Monoclonal Antibody Cocktail used to treat mild to moderate "high risk" patients who are Covid positive is now available at Delhi's Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital (LNJP) free of cost."We have received a Monoclonal Antibody Cocktail-- a combination of Casirivimab and Imdevimab. We have started using it in LNJP hospital. Now we will be able to provide the latest medicines for the Covid-19 patients. These are the monoclonal antibodies and they are very useful," said Dr Suresh Kumar, Managing Director, LNJP hospital"We will have first-time experience of these drug cocktails or antibody cocktails. Earlier patients were going to the private hospitals to get this treatment, but now the government has made a provision and we are giving it in LNJP. We are giving it free of cost."Roche India and Cipla had announced the launch of the Antibody Cocktail in India last week.Priced at ₹59,750 for a dose, the therapy has been earlier introduced in private hospitals Fortis Escorts, Moolchand, Apollo, Sir Gangaram, and Max Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-monoclonal-antibody-cocktail-treatment-begins-at-lnjp-hospital-for-free-101622994854195.html
06-06-2021||Pune||Married to her rapist, minor girl dies by suicide within a year of wedding||A minor girl was married to her rapist under duress and was found dead by suicide in her house within one year of their wedding in Camp area of Pune. The 22-year-old man and his mother were booked by Pune police on Saturday for driving his minor wife to suicide.The arrested man was identified as Rohit Raju Pawar (22), a resident of Booty Street area in Camp, Pune. While Pawar himself is a high-school dropout and unemployed, his brother works as a rickshaw driver.The accused and the now-deceased are distant relatives and he had gotten in touch with her after her family had visited his family over the summer in 2019, according to the police.He was imprisoned for over three to four months in a case under relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, 2012 registered at Khadak police station for sexually assaulting the teen.“He was in jail in 2019 for sexually assaulting her and had been released after a few months. The girl had lost her father in 2017 and he pressurised her mother with maligning their reputation by telling their social circles that he had raped the daughter in order to get the mother to marry the girl to him. The mother gave in and in June 2020, the girl was married to him,” said police sub inspector AD Sonawane of Lashkar police station who is investigating the case.The two were married in June 2020 and the girl had shifted from her parent’s house in Bhawani peth to the accused man’s house in Camp.Her 34-year-old mother, who is also a complainant in this case, has submitted that the now-deceased girl was 17 years and 7 months old when she died by suicide. Therefore, the girl was 16 years and 6 months old when she was married to the arrested man. The police have now asked the mother to produce her birth certificate.The complainant as well as Pawar’s mother who is a co-accused in the case, both work as domestic helps in Pune.The man allegedly suspected the teenager to be having extra-marital affairs and routinely abused her verbally and physically, according to her mother’s complaint.The man had started asking the girl to ask for money from her parents in order to pay for his regular consumption of alcohol, according to the complaint.On Friday, the girl was found dead - suspected to be by suicide - in Pawar’s house.A case under Sections 498(a) (domestic violence), 306 (abetment to suicide), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Lashkar police station against the two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/married-to-her-rapist-minor-girl-dies-by-suicide-within-a-year-of-wedding-101622993309801.html
06-06-2021||Pune||30-year-old kills man over suspicion of affair with wife in Talegaon Dhamdhere||A man was remanded to custody of Pune rural police on Sunday for killing another man over suspicion of having an affair with his wife in Talegaon Dhamdhere village of Haveli. The deceased man was identified as Navnath Sampat Chaudhary while the arrested man was identified as Harish Sudhakar Kale (30), both residents of the same village. Chaudhary was produced in the Ghodnadi court and remanded to police custody until June 10. The body was found around 1:45pm on Saturday by the residents of Talegaon Dhamdhere village near a government godown located along the road connecting the village with Nhavra road. “He had learned that the man was involved with his wife and suspected them to be having an affair. Now that is what he has told us. We are investigating and recording statements to verify his claims,” said senior police inspector Hemant Shedge of Shikrapur police station. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Pandurang Vishwanath Narke (46) police patil of the village in Shirur where the body was found. The body was found with severe head injuries caused by a stone, and it was sent for post-mortem at the nearest government hospital, according to the police. “It was difficult to find his identity in the first place. Once we found his family, we learned that he was habitual of disappearing from his house for two to three months without notice,” said PI Shedge. The police have learned that the deceased man was married and had an affair. However, they are verifying if the affair was with the accused man’s wife. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Shikrapur police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/30yearold-kills-man-over-suspicion-of-affair-with-wife-in-talegaon-dhamdhere-101622993249931.html
06-06-2021||Pune||Woman, her boyfriend in custody for killing husband||A 19-year-old woman and her 19-year-old paramour were remanded to custody of Pune police by a local court in Pune on Saturday for killing her 27-year-old husband while he was recovering from Covid-19 in Uruli Kanchan area of Pune. The deceased man was identified as Manohar Namdev Hande (27), a resident of Hindavinagar in Uruli Kanchan area of Pune. The two arrested were identified as his wife Ashwini Hande (19), who lived with her husband and her friend Gaurav Santosh Sutar (19), a resident of Uttamnagar in Fursungi area of Haveli, Pune. The two were remanded to police custody until May 11, according to police inspector (crime) Subhash Kale The police had found the man dead in his house on April 24 and an accidental death report was filed while the body was sent for post-mortem at Sassoon general hospital. “On April 24, at 6am, Manohar Navdev Hande,a resident of Uruli Devachi, Haveli, Pune was found dead in his house. In this regard, his wife had stated that he was Covid-19 positive,” read a statement issued by the police. On May 4, the police learned that the woman had an extra marital affair with Sutar. The police kept a watch on their activities since then and first found Sutar and arrested him, according to the police. Upon interrogation, he revealed to the police that it was him and Hande’s wife who had plot and executed the murder and blamed it on Covid-19. “Sutar and Hande’s wife had been in a relationship for around two years and her husband Manohar had learned about this. Meanwhile, he had been at home for 15 days before his murder as he was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 infection. This had created hurdles in the woman’s extra marital affair. That is the reason the two decided to kill him and blame it on Covid. On the night of April 23, Sutar bought and gave sleeping pills to the man’s wife,” read the police statement. The two had thrown the packaging of the sleeping pills away in order to destroy any evidence. While PI Kale of Lonikalbhor police station is investigating the case, police sub inspector Niketan Nimbalkar is the complainant in the case. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Lonikalbhor police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-her-boyfriend-in-custody-for-killing-husband-101622993129839.html
06-06-2021||Pune||NCB nabs man wanted in drug case from Pune, 12 kg ganja seized||A wanted accused in a drug case was held on Sunday along with an associate in Pune and a consignment of 12 kilograms of ganja was seized from his car, Narcotics Control Bureau officials said.The NCB had earlier arrested one person with 28 kgs of ganja and the man held on Sunday, identified as Sunil Bhandari, was wanted in that case, they added."Bhandari and his associate Aman Gagade were held from near a toll plaza in Pune on the basis of a tip off. A consignment of 12 kilograms of ganja was concealed beneath the front seat of their car. Bhandari has some nine serious offences against his name, including drugs, attempt to murder, extortion etc," an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncb-nabs-man-wanted-in-drug-case-from-pune-12-kg-ganja-seized-101622992481894.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||They are not gangsters: Court rejects plea to produce Umar Khalid, Khalid Saifi in handcuffs||A court here turned down a plea of Delhi Police to produce former JNU student Umar Khalid and activist Khalid Saifi in handcuffs before trial courts, noting that “they are not gangsters”.The plea application which came up for hearing before Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav sought to produce the 2020 Delhi riots accused in “handcuffs in both hands from back side”, contending that they are “high-risk prisoners”.The judge dismissed the plea observing that it is devoid of merits and filed in a mechanical manner and without application of mind by the high echelons of the Delhi Police and prison authority.“The accused persons, who are sought to be produced in fetters and handcuffs, are admittedly not previous convicts. They are not even gangsters,” the Additional Sessions Judge stated in an order dated June 5.He further said that the plea is not required at this stage as the accused are not being produced in the court physically due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The judge also noted the replies submitted by the Superintendent of Mandoli and Tihar jail, Additional DCP (Special Cell) and DCP of third battalion of Delhi Police, on the plea.The DCP told the court that in the aftermath of an attempt made by armed assailants to free an undertrial prisoner at GTB Hospital, the police had decided to request the court for permission to handcuff high-risk prisoners who are prone to escape.“As part of the exercise, the current application for handcuffing UTPs Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi was moved for the consideration of Hon'ble Court,” the senior police officer stated in a reply submitted to the court on April 26.However, in the reply given by the Additional DCP of Special Cell, it was stated that no such application seeking to produce both the accused in handcuffs, was filed before any court or other authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/they-are-not-gangsters-court-rejects-plea-to-produce-umar-khalid-khalid-saifi-in-handcuffs-101622990947470.html
06-06-2021||Other||Mehbooba on Amarnath yatra decision: Does govt listen to us?||Peoples Democratic Party president Mehboba Mufti on Sunday said the government of India took decisions without considering the opinions of the people of Jammu and Kashmir.She said it was for the government of India to decide whether the pilgrimage to Amarnath cave shrine should be allowed or not amid the pandemic.Talking to mediapersons in south Kashmir’s Bijbehara, Mufti said the decision to allow the yatra this year has to be taken by the government of India. “What shall I say? On one side there is Covid, people are confined to their homes and on the other hand, they want to allow the yatra. Who will stop them? They are the owners. Whatever decision they have to take, they will do it,” she said. The 56-day yatra is scheduled to start from June 28 this year, though there have been demands for cancelling the pilgrimage amid the lurking threat of another wave after the second wave ravaged the country. Last year too, the government had cancelled the yatra amid the first wave.Mufti said the government does whatever it wants. “Do they listen to the people of Jammu and Kashmir? If they would have listened to what people want, they would not have booked 15 year olds under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. They do whatever they want to do,” she said.She condemned the killing of BJP leader and municipal chairman of Tral Rakesh Pandita, who was fired upon by suspected militants on Wednesday. “We condemn the killing of Rakesh Pandit. There is no outcome of such actions. Instead, we get defamed here in J&K by such actions. And the whole state has to bear the consequences,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mehbooba-on-amarnath-yatra-decision-does-govt-listen-to-us-101622990969662.html
06-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 deaths cross 1 lakh, 12,557 fresh cases recorded||Maharashtra on Sunday crossed the grim milestone of one lakh coronavirus (Covid-19) deaths after 230 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin. The state witnessed 12,557 new coronavirus cases, taking the cumulative tally to 5,831,781. This is the lowest daily number of cases recorded in the state in nearly three months.The last time the state recorded Covid-19 cases less than 12,000 was on March 9 when 9,927 cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours.However, the country's worst-affected state became the first in the country to see more than one lakh deaths on Sunday. Only seven countries, including India, have more than one lakh casualties.Also read: Only 7 countries have over 1 lakh Covid deaths. Maharashtra is close to the markThe other countries in the list are Russia (123,436 deaths), Italy (126,472 deaths), the UK (127,836 deaths), India (346,784 fatalities), Brazil (472,629 fatalities) and the worst-hit United States (612,203 deaths).Mumbai city has also added 786 fresh Covid-19 cases with 120 deaths in the last 24 hours.The authorities have carried out 237,484 tests in the state, the health bulletin said.Earlier in the day, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the government was taking a "calculated risk" by relaxing the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the state. He added that people need to take care of themselves."The state government is taking a calculated risk and hence people have to take care of themselves. Nothing is going to be eased immediately. Some criteria and levels have been fixed and the local administration will take decisions on whether to ease restrictions and further tighten them," the chief minister said.The state government has announced a five-level plan to relax the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the state from Monday, based on the weekly positivity rate and the occupancy of oxygen beds. A notification to this effect was issued on Friday night. In the third level of the plan, restaurants, shops selling non-essential items and public places are set to reopen."The state government is taking a calculated risk and hence people have to take care of themselves. Nothing is going to be eased immediately. Some criteria and levels have been fixed and the local administration will take decisions on whether to ease restrictions and further tighten them," the chief minister said.The lockdown-like restrictions in Maharashtra were imposed in April this year when the second wave of the pandemic intensified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-deaths-cross-1-lakh-12-557-fresh-cases-recorded-101622990056276.html
06-06-2021||Other||What's scientific?: Doctor, bureaucrat fight it out over vaccination in Kashmir||A written spat on what is scientific or unscientific over Covid-19 vaccination is playing out between a doctors’ association and a prominent bureaucrat in Kashmir.Influenza expert Dr Nisar-ul-Hassan, who heads a faction of the Doctors Association of Kashmir (DAK), said on June 2 that people who are allergic to any component of the Covid-19 vaccine should not receive the jab. On Saturday, deputy commissioner (DC), Srinagar, Mohammad Aijaz Asad wrote a letter to the UT’s Medical Education Department seeking action over Hassan’s statement and called it “antithetical to the scientific evidence”.On Sunday, the DAK issued a strongly worded statement against Asad terming his letter “unscientific and defamatory”.“The contents of the DC’s letter were unscientific and misleading. He has created a story that is everything but science. The contents of the letter are intimidating and harassing. This has demoralized the whole medical fraternity …,” the statement quoted General Secretary of DAK, Dr Suhail Shah.“If a doctor will not do the talking during the pandemic, then who will?” it questioned.On June 2, Hassan, who is a regular at updating about various aspects and researches regarding Covid-19, and has been a strong advocate of vaccination, said, “If you are allergic to any component of the vaccine, you are advised not to take it”.“However, if you have a history of allergic reactions that aren’t related to the Covid-19 vaccine, such as food, medicine, latex, insects and environmental triggers, you can get the vaccine,’’ he said.Asad’s letter to the government sought action against this statement by what it said was a “so-called self-styled DAK president” Dr Nisar-ul-Hassan.“… the above statement is antithetical to the scientific evidence,” Asad wrote.He said that so far 33,23,862 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir as of June 1, and no severe/adverse effects of its components have been detected in 99.99% of the beneficiaries.“The statement has created apprehensions among the general public about the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines. Such kind of un-scientific, un-researched statements lead to erosion of faith in medical science and dampen the efforts to vaccinate the targeted population,” the letter said.Condemning the letter, DAK spokesperson, Dr Riyaz Ahmad Dagga said the contents of the letter are “baseless, unscientific and defamatory for the clean and honest image” of the DAK president.“Dr Nisar is a senior consultant, medicine, GMC Srinagar, and is also influenza and pandemic expert. He has been at the forefront in the fight against the pandemic by treating Covid-19 patients tirelessly since the public health crisis began in 2020,” the statement said.The spokesperson further said when people, including healthcare workers, were initially hesitant to take the vaccine, Dr Nisar was among the first to receive the Covid-19 vaccine.“The DAK has set up helpline numbers to address the public concerns related to Covid-19. And recently, we received a call from a young male, an engineer by profession, who developed severe anaphylaxis to Covaxin for which he was hospitalised. He wanted to know if he can receive a second dose of the same vaccine,” he said.“In response to this, the DAK issued a statement asking people who are allergic to the components of the vaccine not to take the jab, lest they might face any severe reaction, hampering their lives and also creating doubts in the minds of people vis-à-vis the vaccine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/what-is-scientific-doctor-bureaucrat-fight-it-out-over-covid-19-vaccination-in-kashmir-101622989530446.html
06-06-2021||Kolkata||BJP intensifies campaign on post-poll violence in Bengal after man’s murder||Violence by Trinamool Congress (TMC) after the West Bengal assembly polls continues unabated, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged on Sunday afternoon after Jaiprakash Yadav, a labourer, was killed by a crude bomb in the Jagaddal area of North 24 Parganas district.The BJP alleged that with Yadav’s death, the number of party workers killed since the announcement of poll results on May 2 touched 27. The party has been carrying out a relentless campaign not just in Bengal but other states as well. On Sunday, the issue was discussed at a meeting held at the Delhi residence of BJP national president JP Nadda. Claiming that Yadav was a BJP supporter, Arjun Singh, the party’s Lok Sabha MP from the district’s Barrackpore constituency, said, “TMC has unleashed terror in the district and other parts of Bengal. I have informed the governor,” said the former TMC leader who joined the BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. He also virtually attended the meeting held by Nadda. Local police officers said Yadav’s murder took place hours after a raid was conducted to nab known criminals and three firearms were seized. “We have started a probe,” an officer from the local police station said on condition of anonymity. Somnath Shyam, TMC legislator from Jagaddal said, “The incident has nothing to do with politics. It is the fallout of the BJP’s internal feud. Local people said Yadav’s killer lost his arm in the explosion. Police are conducting raids.” Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar accused the administration of inaction and asked the chief secretary to meet him on Monday.“Extremely alarming law & order scenario @MamataOfficial. Security environment is seriously compromised. In such a grim situation called upon Chief Secretary to brief me on the law and order situation on Monday 7th June and indicate all steps taken to contain post poll violence,” tweeted Dhankhar. “There is rampant post poll retributive violence @MamataOfficial. Disturbing that this ostracisation has graduated to social boycott & denial of benefits they are otherwise entitled. They are made to suffer “extortion fee” for living in their own house or run their own business,” Dhankhar wrote in a second tweet, referring to an alleged incident of social boycott of 18 people by the TMC at Mahishda in West Midnapore. A host of national leaders of the BJP, including Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, targeted Bengal’s ruling party on this issue on Saturday. While the TMC alleged that the list circulated on social media was fake the local police registered a case of rumour-mongering. TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, who was made a state general secretary by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday, said, “The governor feels unwell if he does not write tweets against the state government. He is an agent of the BJP. Before the polls, he called for a change in the government. No governor can do that.”In the recent polls, the TMC bagged 213 of the state’s 294 seats while the BJP could wrest only 77. “It is the governor’s job to look after the welfare of citizens. He can always summon the chief secretary and ask why BJP workers are being targeted. These incidents are sending a message to people across the nation,” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. To make the alleged violence a political issue across India, leader of the opposition in the Bengal assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, has held virtual meetings with BJP leaders across several states. On June 2, more than 600 academicians from several states signed a joint statement against the alleged post-poll violence in Bengal. They appealed to the National Human Rights Commission, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes and the National Commission for Women to conduct probes. Last week, the Supreme Court agreed to hear some petitions seeking a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the alleged violence. On May 24, as many as 146 retired public servants, including former judges, bureaucrats, ambassadors and police and army officers wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking an SIT headed by a retired Supreme Court judge. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “If the Hathras incident in Uttar Pradesh can become national news and prompt opposition parties to target the BJP, why should not the violence in Bengal be discussed by people across the nation? Ten people were killed between May 2 and May 5, the day Mamata Banerjee took the oath as chief minister. After that, 27 more were murdered.”Bhattacharya alleged that many women were raped or molested but nobody dared to file a police complaint either fearing social ostracism or because of threats. TMC Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said the BJP is carrying out a malicious campaign. “There is no such widespread violence,” he said. Police investigation into some of the alleged murders has pointed at death by suicide. Days after taking the oath, Banerjee said 16 people were killed in post-poll violence and half of the victims were TMC workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-intensifies-campaign-on-post-poll-violence-in-bengal-after-man-s-murder-101622989470532.html
06-06-2021||Pune||Action against 33 dilapidated wadas this year, redevelopment on the cards||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has taken action against a total of 33 dilapidated wada structures this year which is more in comparison to last year. In 2020, the PMC demolished only 12 structures due to lockdown restrictions. PMC officials observed that the dispute between developers and tenants is dropping due to the extra Floor Space Index (FSI) and 300 sq ft of free tenement. Therefore, the problem of dilapidated wadas will be resolved completely in the upcoming years. The wadas hold a unique characteristic and legacy of Pune, the structure is two to three storied tall and these old structures are mostly located in the heart of the city. Usually, they are square or rectangular in shape having a courtyard at the centre. During the rule of the Maratha dynasty, the wada culture was introduced in the Pune region. As per statistics of the PMC, there were 1,204 wada structures existing in the city. However, the number has gone down due to cave-in incidents, PMC’s demolition drive and development by builders. At present, there are only 330 wadas left in the city. As per state government guidelines, PMC has categorised wada structures in three categories such as very dangerous (C-I), repair structure with vacating (C-II), repair structure without vacating (C-III). According to the statistics of PMC, there are four structures in the class-I category. There are 211 wadas in the class-II and 115 in the class-III category. All the remaining 330 wadas are located at Sukhrawar peth, Raviwar peth, Sadhashiv and Navi peth, Shaniwar peth, Narayan peth, Somwar peth, Mangalwar peth, Budhwar peth, Rastha peth, Bhavani peth, Ghorpade peth, Nana peth, Ganesh peth, Kasba peth, Guruwar peth, Mahatma phule peth. Rajendra Raut, superintendent engineer of building permission and development department said, “Every year before beginning of monsoon, the PMC conducts a survey of dangerous structures which are mainly old buildings such as wadas in the city and issues notices to vacate them. If residents deny vacating the structure, we forcefully vacate them and demolish the structure. But it happens in very rare cases. Last year, we took special permission from the High Court to demolish dangerous structures and have demolished 12 such structures so far. Some are completely demolished, and some are partially demolished. The action was limited due to strict restriction of lock down.” He further said, “This year, the number has increased, and it went to 33 as Covid restrictions are not so strict as compared to last year. Four structures were demolished completely and the remaining part of the wada structure was partially knocked down.” Disputes lower; redevelopment gathers momentum Disputes among owners, tenants and developers are the major hurdle in the development of wada structures in the city. To resolve the issue, the state government issued guidelines in 2015 to provide certificates to tenants to maintain their claim in property in wadas which are in dilapidated condition. Sudhir Kadam, executive engineer of building permission and development department said, “The state government’s decision to issue certificate to tenants and PMCs offered to give extra floor Space Index (FSI) and 300 square feet tenements to wada tenants in 2017 Pune city’s development Plan (DP) opened new era of development of the long pending wada issue. There is another wada cluster policy pending at the state government level to boost the development of the wada. If approved, it will speed up the development of the wada in the heart of the city as most of the wadas are located in the heart of the city. Redevelopment of wadas is a key factor of development of the heart of the city as there is no open space available in these areas.” He further said, “ From 2017, the redevelopment of wada structures has got momentum as builders are getting extra FSI as well as permission to develop some part of the structure for commercialpurposes. The wada structure problem will be sorted out in the coming four-five years.” Nirmala Kolhe, owner of Gaikwadwada located at Rasta peth, said, “Due to extra FSI and free tenements to tenants helped us to develop our wada. The developer is happy with these new rules, and he undertook the redevelopment of our wada in 2017. The redevelopment of wada was pending for more than two decades. Now, it is almost solved. We are happy that every stakeholder is getting their share including tenants.”  Dilipidated wadas by the numbers Type I Total structures: 4 Action taken: 4 Action pending: 0 Type II Total structures: 211 Action taken: 155 Action pending: 56 Type III Total structures: 115 Action taken: NA Action pending: NA Total structures: 330 Action taken: 159 Action pending: 56 PMC identified 33 dangerous dilapidated wada structures Name of area Number of structure Kasba peth- 02 Shaniwar peth- 06 Narayan peth- 03 Bhavani peth- 04 Budhwar peth- 02 Rastha peth- 02 Ganesh peth- 05 Raviwar peth- 01 Somwar peth- 01 Nana peth- 02 Shukrawar peth- 01 Guruwar peth- 01 Ghorpade peth- 01 Mahatma phule peth- 01 Navi peth- 01 Total 33||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/action-against-33-dilapidated-wadas-this-year-redevelopment-on-the-cards-101622988809723.html
06-06-2021||Pune||City-based architect converts terraces into productive landscapes||Lockdown has been tough on many professionals, however, Saleel Savarkar, a city-based architect and urban designer has found a way to release stress and convert it into a sound investment.Savarkar cofounded My Homestead, an urban farming company with likeminded friends who help people convert their terraces into productive landscapes. “Gardening is all soulful searching. It is all about life and passion and at a time when the pace of life was in peril, the pace of growing plants seemed more encouraging and blissful. It was my single source of enjoyment and encouragement. My garden has a unique blend of fully trees popping into it and my own planted shrubbery,” said Savarkar. He lives in a quaint family in a condominium complex in Erandwane. Calling it as level four of his house, this barren terrace has now become the reason to look forward to, being together and sharing and generating positive vibes with family members and friends. “As an avid gardener, I had always found my love for plants often not matching the mark of my actions. The lockdown following the global pandemic last year gave us an opportunity to relook at a vacant terrace space and reimagining it as a thriving mini ecosystem. It has been a year into this process of gardening and home farming that have been a seamless integration into my daily routine,” he added. Over the years, the terrace seemed to have gathered over 100 pots lying unused. What started off as a sowing and planting exercise in May 2020, assumed the proportion of careful planning, making budgets and finally ordering and planting shrubs, plants and even trees on a terrace. “The idea was to give a sense of signature ‘Gharchi Baug’ a recollection of the bungalow garden which I had always heard from my grandparents and parents as a treasure they enjoyed through their childhood and growing years. We chose a selection of flowering plants, typically Indian flowers. Along with it we chose certain Ayurvedic herbs, kitchen herbs and some flowering trees that can grow in large pots. To fill the gaps and give a sense of evergreen, we chose certain minimum exotic flora like crotons and grass,” he added. “My father, Sanjay Savarkar, was an avid gardener. He would have been 60 this year. We initially coincided the culmination of our phase 1 in June last year to celebrate what would have been his 60th year with 60 potted plants. Gradually new ideas, new efforts and new inspirations has now made level 4 a thriving garden of over 250 plants and some trees,” said Savarkar. He encountered many people who had to give away a part of their home plants because of relocation and redevelopment last year, that he happily adopted their plants. “Covid lockdown has got its tremendous downside in our personal and professional lives. But it also taught us the essence of time, patience and joint efforts and the taste of hard work and family values, just as I learned through home gardening,” said Savarkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/citybased-architect-converts-terraces-into-productive-landscapes-101622988509756.html
06-06-2021||Pune||Protective walls of Katraj garbage segregation plant in urgent need of repairs||At a time when the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is making tall claims of maintaining citizens safety by carrying out round the clock cleanliness campaign to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city, the 400 tonne garbage segregation centre of the civic body located in the immediate neighbourhood of Katraj Milk dairy has been facing issues like collapsing walls where a large amount of garbage is flowing out on the road leading to health-related issues. The garbage is also falling out of the crevices of the tin-sheets and no efforts were being taken to plug the holes in the walls and tin-sheets, residents allege. A spot visit to the site revealed that the cement concrete walls of the project had developed holes and cement was falling to pieces due to lack of repairs. The PMC building permissions department recently ordered audit of four walls which are unsafe for the residents but seems to have missed its own wall which too required immediate restoration and repairs, residents and commuters said. The site located on the main road opposite Rajiv Gandhi Zoology Park and Wildlife Research centre was started eight years ago to cater to garbage segregation generated from five wards of the corporation. The plant segregates an average of 400 tonnes of garbage and the dry garbage is sent to Hadapsar garbage depot for further processing. Nandkumar Shinde, an area resident said, “There is a lot of garbage accumulated inside the campus and it is loaded onto the walls due to which they are breaking while garbage is flowing out of the crevices from the sides which have been protected by tin sheets. The garbage is flowing out on the road and is creating problems for commuters and residents alike due to foul smell and possibility of airborne viruses attacking the residents due to the polluted nature of the waste. Also, there is a possibility that the walls might collapse, and it could be dangerous for the commuters and citizens passing near the site.” Solid Waste Management department engineer ( Zone 3) Latika Mhaske said, “An onsite inspection has been conducted to look at the current state of problems at the garbage plant. A fresh tender seeking repairs and restoration of the protective walls and other essential works be released and the work will be completed at the earliest under the guidance of the seniors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/protective-walls-of-katraj-garbage-segregation-plant-in-urgent-need-of-repairs-101622988449614.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid curbs in Haryana extended till June 14; shops, hotels allowed to open with conditions||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the ongoing restrictions to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till June 14. However, shops, malls, restaurants, bars and religious places are permitted to reopen with certain conditions. The restrictions were earlier supposed to end on June 7.Haryana has so far recorded 761,637 cases and 8,664 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease. On Saturday, the state recorded 723 new cases while 59 more people succumbed to the viral disease. The active cases have come down to 9,974 while recoveries are nearing 743,000 and constitute 97.55 per cent of the caseload.Also Read| Haryana’s active cases dip to 4 digits“After duly considering the fact that although the positivity rate and the number of new Covid positive cases have declined, so as to continue to the preventive and precautionary measures to contain the pandemic, the government has decided to extend the Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana from 7.06.2021 (5am onwards) to 14.06.2021 (till 5am) in Haryana,” the state government said in an official order.Also Read| Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida begin Covid unlocking process. Check what’s allowedThese are the relaxations which have been provided in modification of the order issued on May 30:> Shops except standalone ones can function from 9am to 6pm on an odd-even basis. The shops with odd numbers will be open on odd dates while those with even numbers on even dates.> Malls are allowed to open from 10am to 8pm.> Home delivery from hotels, restaurants and fast food joints is allowed up to 10pm.> Restaurants and bars, including in hotels and malls, can remain open from 10am to 8pm with 50 per cent seating capacity. However, they will have to adopt requisite social distancing norms, ensure regular sanitisation and Covid-appropriate behaviour.> All religious places can open with 21 people at one time with the condition that social distancing and Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed and the premise is sanitised regularly.> Up to 21 people are allowed to attend marriages, funerals or cremations. Marriages can also be held at places apart from home and courts. No movement of ‘Barat’ procession will be permitted.Haryana govt extends COVID restrictions till June 14; shops, malls, restaurants, bars, religious places permitted to reopen with certain conditions pic.twitter.com/geBtQYTNvP> For public gatherings other than the above three, only 50 people will be allowed. Prior permission from the deputy commissioner will be required if the gathering has more than 50 people.> Corporate offices are allowed to function with 50 per cent capacity after ensuring requisite social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid-appropriate behaviour.> Clubhouses/restaurants/bars in golf courses can open from 10am to 8pm with adherence to social distancing and other safety norms. Members and visitors will be permitted to play in golf courses by the management in a staggered manner in order to avoid overcrowding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-june-14-with-certain-relaxations-101622987429971.html
06-06-2021||Bangalore||K'taka govt needs more infrastructure development to curb 2nd Covid wave: Expert||Karnataka government requires more infrastructure development in the state, including human resource appointments, oxygen beds, and vaccination to curb the second wave, said Dr HM Prasanna, a member of Covid-19 Taskforce and senior neurologist on Sunday.Speaking to ANI, Prasanna said, "Feels that the Karnataka government required more infrastructure development in Karnataka including human resource appointments. The government needs to increase oxygen beds and vaccination in the state to curb the second wave."Stressing on health of students amid Covid-19, he said that the malnutrition issue is much needed to be addressed before the third wave hits Karnataka as the mid day meal scheme has been stopped due to the lockdown and the closure of schools."Malnutrition must be addressed on priority to fight the third wave which can reportedly hit children as the mid-day meal scheme has been stopped in the state due to lockdown," he added.Meanwhile, according to the state health department, with 13,800 new cases, Karnataka's Covid-19 tally reached 2,683,314 on Saturday.As many as 365 people succumbed to Covid-19 in the state on Saturday, taking the toll to 31,260. The active cases in Karnataka stand at 268,275.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-govt-needs-more-infrastructure-development-to-curb-2nd-covid-wave-expert-101622983982164.html
06-06-2021||Jaipur||Unlock 2: 50% staff at govt offices from Monday in Rajasthan||From Tuesday the Rajasthan government will further ease certain restrictions as the Covid-19 cases have come down in the state, the official state notification stated. Government offices and schools will be functional with 50% employees and teachers from June 7.Markets would be allowed to open till 4 pm, a major demand of the traders and market associations. At present, markets are allowed to open between 6 am to 11 am.Extending the time to open the markets would be a major decision in phase-2 of the unlock in the state. Earlier, the government had allowed the opening of all shops, which were limited to dairy, vegetable, grocery, from June 2.The public transport system would be resumed and the ban from inter-district movement will be removed, said a senior official familiar with the development.He said that the ban on social and religious gathering will continue and wedding ceremonies will not be allowed in the state till June 30.While markets will operate, shopping complexes and malls shall remain shut. In addition, cinema halls, theatre, auditorium, swimming pool, gym, entertainment parks, among others shall also remain closed.Meanwhile, the directorate of secondary education, Bikaner, issued orders to open government schools from Monday.The schools will function with 50% staff presence and the attendance schedule will be based on rotation. Due to the lockdown, the government has started ‘Aao Ghar se Padhen-2’ initiative under which a WhatsApp group will be formed. The study material will be provided online. All class teachers are asked to complete the formation of the WhatsApp group by June 15. To curb the increasing cases of Covid-19, the state government extended the lockdown from 5 am on May 24 to 5 am on June 8. The Gehlot government also increased the fine for not wearing a face mask in public places or workplace from ₹500 to ₹1,000.Rajasthan’s active cases of Covid-19 have reduced to 21,500 from over 2 lakh around 25 days back. The number of daily associated fatalities have dropped to less than 50 which were earlier around 150. The cumulative deaths figure in the state stands at 8,631.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/unlock-2-50-staff-at-govt-offices-from-monday-in-rajasthan-101622985090196.html
06-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan BJP to extend help to aggrieved families of workers who succumbed to Covid-19||In a first, Rajasthan BJP is planning to help the aggrieved families of 585 BJP workers who succumbed to Covid-19 while carrying out Covid-19 relief works in the state, officials said. “We are fixing the responsibility on the Member of Parliament (MPs), MLAs and other public representatives of the BJP for helping the aggrieved families of the workers”, Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia said.State BJP has prepared a list of party workers, who died due to Covid-19, for extending help to their families. The party has prepared a policy for helping families of such deceased BJP workers.The state party unit has decided to put the responsibility of the families of the deceased BJP workers on the public representatives.Poonia said that the BJP is the first party that has started a program to help the families of workers who have laid their lives combating Covid-19 and providing their service amid the pandemic.The party unit has prepared the list of the deceased BJP workers based on the information sought from the district executive committees of BJP and district BJP President, Poonia added. Nearly 2.50 lakh BJP workers have participated in the ‘Public Service’ campaign during the Covid-19 period and collected 40,000 units of blood through voluntary blood donation camp, he said. Party workers prepared nearly 10 lakh food packets along with 3.25 lakh ration kits for the people affected by Covid-19, he asserted.“Since BJP workers have laid their lives extending relief to the people during the Covid-19 period, it is our responsibility to help the families of their workers,” he said.Poonia said that the party has decided to not only look after such families but also help them financially and solemnize weddings of the daughters in their families. Out of the total 585 BJP workers who died due to Covid-19 from the year 2020 till now, the maximum number of deaths of BJP workers has been reported from the Kota division. “BJP workers have also died of Covid-19 in other districts as well including Tonk, Ajmer, Nagaur, Jodhpur, Jaipur, Chittorgarh, Udaipur, Bharatpur, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Dholpur, Udaipur, Banswara, Udaipur, Hanumangarh, Shri Ganganagar, Jalore, Pali, Sirohi, Pratapgarh and others,” he said.Besides BJP workers, financial assistance in the form of free education and the wedding of daughters shall be offered to aggrieving families of Covid-19 victims from the general public, said Poonia.Congress was quick to react to BJP’s initiative, state spokesperson Archana Sharma said that the move should be welcomed but the assistance should be extended to the common public also along with party workers who have lost earning members of the family in the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-bjp-to-extend-help-to-aggrieved-families-of-workers-who-succumbed-to-covid19-101622981670004.html
06-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt taking 'calculated risk' by easing Covid curbs: CM Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the government was taking a "calculated risk" by relaxing the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the state, and added that people need to take care of themselves.He made the statement during a virtual meeting with leading industrialists.The state government has announced a five-level plan to relax the coronavirus-induced restrictions in the state from Monday, based on the weekly positivity rate and the occupancy of oxygen beds. A notification to this effect was issued on Friday night."The state government is taking a calculated risk and hence people have to take care of themselves. Nothing is going to be eased immediately. Some criteria and levels have been fixed and the local administration will take decisions on whether to ease restrictions and further tighten them," the chief minister said.As per the 'unlock' notification, areas with positivity rate of five per cent or less and oxygen bed occupancy of less than 25 per cent will be in the first category, and can open up completely.Whereas in the fifth category areas, with positivity rate of more than 20 per cent, only essential shops will remain open and office attendance will be capped at 15 per cent.During the meeting, Thackeray also said that the state should set an example before the country by showing that the industrial sector can function uninterrupted by following all Covid-19 norms during restrictions."We should not let ourselves be knocked down by the virus," he said."Neither a lockdown is required nor do we want to get knocked down by the virus. So all health related rules have to be followed," Thackeray added.He said if there is a need to go for another lockdown after the possible third wave, there should be no impact on manufacturing."Industries should set up temporary accommodations in their premises for their staff and employees. The planning process should begin now," he said.Prominent among those who participated in the meetingincluded Uday Kotak, Sanjiv Bajaj, B Thiyagrajan, Naushad Forbes, Amit Kalyan,Ashok Hinduja, A N Subramanyam, Ajay Piramal, Harsh Goenka, Niranjan Hiranandani, along with the state government's Covid-19 task force members Sanjay oak and Shashank Joshi.A statement from the chief minister's office (CMO) said the industrialists present at the meeting welcomed the criteria of positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy to ease restrictions and the levels fixed.They said awareness should be created about this among people, and also offered help in checking the spread of corona virus in rural areas .They suggested that members of the unorganised sector should be vaccinated and the IT sector professionals should be allowed to continue working from home .Their other suggestions include vaccination of not just employees of the industrial sector, but also their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-taking-calculated-risk-by-easing-covid-curbs-cm-thackeray-101622979925221.html
06-06-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar visits Dilip Kumar at Mumbai hospital, wishes him speedy recovery||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday visited veteran actor Dilip Kumar to check on his health and treatment here at a hospital in suburban Mumbai and wished him a speedy recovery.The 98-year-old veteran actor was admitted to Khar-based Hinduja Hospital, a non-Covid-19 facility this morning after experiencing "episodes of breathlessness"."Visited legendary actor shri Dilip Kumar ji at Khar Hindujahospital to check on his health and treatment, with veteran actress SmtSaira Banu. I wish shri Dilip Kumarjia speedy recovery and good health," Pawar tweeted.Confirming the news, Dilip Kumar's manager shared an update about the actor's health on his official Twitter account."Dilip Sahab has been admitted to non-Covid PD Hinduja Hospital Khar for routine tests and investigations. He's had episodes of breathlessness. A team of healthcare workers led by Dr Nitin Gokhale is attending to him. Please keep Sahab in your prayers and please stay safe," the tweet read.Dilip Kumar was admitted to Hinduja Hospital in Khar for two days for some routine checkups and tests last year as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-visits-dilip-kumar-at-mumbai-hospital-wishes-him-speedy-recovery-101622978063698.html
06-06-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 27 black fungus patients fall sick after Amphotericin-B shot||At least 27 patients suffering from mucormycosis or 'black fungus' took ill after they were administered Amphotericin-B injections at the government Bundelkhand Medical College (BMC) in Madhya Pradesh's Sagar district, an official said on Sunday, adding the medical condition of these patients is stable now.The use of the injection, a key drug in the treatment of black fungus, was immediately stopped after the incident on Saturday evening."At least 27 patients, out of the 42 patients admitted in the mucormycosis ward, were given Amphotericin-B injections on Saturday around 6 pm. Immediately after they were administered the injections, which were provided to us by the government, the patients started complaining of adverse reactions like mild fever, shivering and vomiting," BMC public relation officer Dr Umesh Patel told PTI over the phone.He said the use of the injection was stopped immediately."BMC superintendent and dean sprang into action and symptomatic treatment of the affected patients was started immediately. The condition of all the patients is stable. There is no need to fear," Dr Patel added.He said authorities and the government are being kept in the loop about the treatment being given to the patients.Another doctor at the facility said approximately 300 to 350 anti-fungal injections had been supplied to the BMC by the MP government just two days ago."These Amphotericin-B injections were of a different brand. Earlier, we used to get injections of another manufacturer," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-27-black-fungus-patients-fall-sick-after-amphotericin-b-shot-101622975633762.html
06-06-2021||Pune||Your Space: Vaccination vital to handle Covid wave||Pune city is seeing a drop in Covid cases and positivity rate. The administration has partially eased lockdown restrictions and allowed non-essential shops to reopen. With medical experts predicting a third wave, residents share suggestions that authorities and residents can take to tackle it? PMC action plan ready for third wave “Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has prepared an action plan to tackle the possible Covid third wave. The civic body is setting up 160 oxygen beds and 40 ICU beds at a special paediatric ward in Rajiv Gandhi hospital at Yerawada. PMC has also reserved beds at COEP Jumbo facility and Baner hospital, besides appointing paediatricians. The civic administration has reserved more than 1,000 beds at private hospitals which include 623 oxygen beds, 177 ICU beds and 95 ventilator beds. At the oxygen concentrator library, PMC has 117 concentrators. Dr Ashish Bharati Vaccine is the strongest protection There was an unexpected spike in Covid deaths and acute shortage of hospital beds during the second wave of Covid-19. Vaccine is the most potent tool to fight the Covid infection. Though we do not have a concrete data on the level of protection offered by the various vaccines against the mutant strains, most of the experts agree that some degree of protection against severe infections do exist. Therefore, relying on vaccines is the most rational way to prevent a third wave. But it is not also on war footing. We are still struggling to purchase vaccines from different companies. Manoj Shetty Follow precautions regarding kids Learning from the first wave experience, we should not be casual. I appeal to parents to follow precaution regarding their kids. Though the government and private hospitals have made preparations to tackle the third wave, we should also be alert. Maximum vaccination can develop herd immunity. The vaccination is not up to the mark at present, so we should have to be more cautious. We should have to boost the immunity of our children with healthy food. Dr Kalpana Baliwant Not learnt from past experience The city reported record cases during the first and second wave of Covid. Child is the main concern of every family and I am very much concerned about my kids. I cannot rely on the government machinery as far as my experience is concerned. Many lost their lives for lack of proper medical help. Our country and city have not learnt from past experience. Rohit Bhujbal Govt’s plan doesn’t involve parents association We are worried about kids. Kids cannot tell or express what they are feeling? So, it is difficult to face the third wave. Kids are already irritable due to lockdown restrictions. They have become impatient. Now, what kind of restriction should we put on them? It is a very sticky situation for kids and parents. We cannot totally depend on the government as they are claiming to be prepared for the third wave. But, where is the plan? The government has not involved any parents association in their plan of action. Devendra Dhumal Parents are confused We are aware about news reports regarding the possible Covid third wave and its effect on kids. But, no one tells us what kind of precautions parents should take to avoid infection to kids. Parents are confused and don’t know what to do. We are getting only warnings from authorities. It is good that schools are closed, but still parents are worried as they are going outside for work and therefore are at risk of getting infected. Vandana Belsare Kids should be vaccinated Actually, the government should give priority to children’s vaccination. We don’t want to be careless when it comes to kids. The percentage of children is less as compared to other age groups. It will take less time and less dosage. No parent wants their kids to fall sick and get infected. The government should show some mercy at least towards kids. Mrunal Kirve Waiting for government guidelines I am worried as the government has failed to tackle the second wave. I am concerned for my one and a half month old baby. Many people have lost their lives to Covid. When it comes to kids, I panic. We can take care of ourselves, but what about kids? There is no clear direction from health experts. We are eagerly waiting for guidelines and steps taken by the government. I cannot imagine if it hits our kids. When we discuss the issue in the family, we become restless. Shrutika Randhir Vaccination is key factor The pace of vaccination will be a key factor in preparing for the third wave. We are inoculating the elderly, and it is showing results, but it is important that we vaccinate the younger population as well. We can’t emphasise this enough. Now, the third wave is predicted and we are back to square one. Yogesh Dhudhal Give jab to parents on priority The preparations for the third wave have to go beyond just medical infrastructure and oxygen supply. The younger population might be the most vulnerable group in the third wave. With most senior citizens getting vaccinated by then, those below 18 years, if not vaccinated, would be the most vulnerable. Infections among children would be a bigger concern. Home isolation of infected children is very difficult without parents’ supervision; therefore, vaccination of parents should be given priority. If they are immunised, the risk of them getting infected while handling Covid positive children will be minimal. Sachin Potdar Proactive steps needed from authorties I am afraid of the third wave. I cannot imagine what will happen to kids. How does the government provide medical facilities to parents? I have two kids. I am taking extra care of them. But, I don’t know what the government is doing for our children. We survived the first and second waves. But, we are more concerned for our children. Government should have to show readiness to tackle the third wave. Ruksar Sheikh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-vaccination-vital-to-handle-covid-wave-101622976749691.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||Just interested in abusing Kejriwal: Sisodia slams BJP over ration delivery plan||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday hit back at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for impeding the launch of doorstep ration delivery and said the party is only interested in abusing chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and not controlling the ration mafia. Sisodia also accused the BJP of aiding the theft of ration of 800 million people across the country, reported news agency ANI."I was hoping that the BJP leaders would understand the matter and would take note of the fact that if pizza can be delivered then why not ration. However, listening to Sambit Patra's press conference, he did not utter a word about this scheme. He did mention that 80 crore people get ration but skipped highlighting the problems faced by the poor in procuring their ration. He is not interested in stopping the stealing of the poor's fraction of ration but instead, he is more interested in abusing the chief minister," the news agency quoted the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader as saying.Also read: Kejriwal says Centre stalling doorstep delivery of ration in Delhi, aiding mafiaThe BJP wants the ration theft to continue in India and its leaders will 'abuse' anyone who is against it, Sisodia added, referring to Patra's comments on Kejriwal. Earlier in the day, Sambit Patra accused Delhi's chief minister of doing drama for politics and called the home-delivery of rations scheme a scam."Chief Minister @ArvindKejriwal ji wants that ration reaches every poor's house. BJP says there is no need to do anything against theft of ration. If home delivery of pizza can be done then why not ration for the poor man?" Sisodia also tweeted, drawing forward the line of argument that the chief minister gave earlier in the day during a virtual press conference."They are not only saving the ration mafia but are also promoting it," the deputy chief minister added, as he continued accusing the BJP of ration theft.Kejriwal claimed that the home delivery of ration scheme was stalled by the government and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow the rollout of the scheme for the benefit of 7 million people in the national capital. Kejriwal also claimed that the ration shops have the potential to become 'super spreader' locations in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/just-interested-in-abusing-kejriwal-sisodia-slams-bjp-over-ration-delivery-plan-101622971615519.html
06-06-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Learning from children the fine art of acting||I jokingly say that I had five “first films”. I had been trying to get one made for about a decade and that “one” film kept changing. One even came very close to entering production before the financers backed out at the last moment. And finally, the process of the film that became my first directorial — “Dhappa” — was so fast and unexpected that at every turn I was expecting it to stop. But thankfully it didn’t! When Girish Kulkarni narrated the story to me, he took me on a ride of the world he had created. He is a master at narration and creating many characters, each one complete with their personal motivation and traits. I had fun listening to him! When we wrote that story down on paper and listed the characters I realised that there were eight characters in the lead, and seven of them were kids! I had never worked with kids before, but I had performed in a play for children. The one thing I remembered distinctly was how unfiltered their reactions were! If they loved something they would be all praises but if they didn’t like it, then god help you! A friend of mine had conducted workshops for children while prepping them for a film and I decided to take the same route. Since it was also my first film, I knew I was going to be overwhelmed with unknown pressures and I wanted to be mentally prepared to face it all. And not knowing how to extract performances from children was never an option. We conducted an open round of audition and received an excellent response from nearly five hundred children. Out of those we shortlisted around a hundred. We conducted another round of audition for the shortlisted ones and out of them I personally selected thirty such children who were promising and were also close to our characters. While the script was being written on the one hand, we decided to conduct a weeklong workshop of all thirty children. Even they and their parents seemed interested in it. “Dhappa” dealt with a socially relevant topic and I was looking out for children who were sensitive, who could empathise and, of course, who could act at the drop of a hat. Without giving the idea of the film away, I asked them to improvise scenes which were totally similar to the ones in the film. Slowly but surely they started becoming friends even though they were of different ages. Even I started seeing my characters in them. The most interesting situation I faced was that there was a girl named Deepali Borkar who had such an amazing presence and was quite the performer, but unfortunately she wasn’t suitable for any of the roles. I talked to her and her parents if she would still like to be a part of the film, we could develop her role along the way. They were gracious enough to accept and she was cast as the younger sister of one of the principal characters who follows him everywhere! She doesn’t have too many lines, but her presence brings energy and warmth to every frame she is in. The cinematographer – Swapnil Sonawane - decided to keep the camera movement fluid and go handheld, without restricting their movement and limiting them by giving them positions. We felt that they might get caught up in the technical aspects and wanted to keep their performance as natural as possible. So, I used to choreograph a scene and never did any of us ever show the children “how” to act. We tried to help them to understand the scene and be present in the moment – whether it was a fun scene or an emotional one. And they became masters in that! I particularly remember one incident. There was a key scene which I had never narrated to them in detail. We had even skipped that scene from their script copies. So, the scene was that while the children are rehearsing for a play, some goons arrive, break their set and threaten them with dire consequences if they still went ahead with it. Feigning fear is one of the most difficult things and so I had decided to directly shoot the scene without informing the children about what was going to happen, so that we could get their natural reactions. We rehearsed with the camera and sound and the adult actors involved in it, but without the children. Then we called them and started rehearsing the play. Or so they thought. They were clueless when the actors playing the goons arrived and when the mayhem started, their reactions were amazing, which are now part of the film! For a few years I used to pat myself on the back for this scene and how I had managed to evoke those reactions. But one fine day I realised, that in that minute-long scene, which is a single take without a cut, not a single child has looked in the camera directly or has broken character! Even when they didn’t know that they were a part of the scene, they played their characters perfectly. And that got me wondering, perhaps it is time to learn something from them!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-learning-from-children-the-fine-art-of-acting-101622976270437.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||Day before unlock, Delhi’s daily Covid-19 tally falls below 400-mark||A day before Covid curbs are to be relaxed in Delhi, the Capital recorded 381 new cases of the coronavirus disease, the lowest in nearly three months, taking the Capital’s caseload to 1,429,244, according to the health department’s bulletin on Sunday. Sunday’s cases have been the lowest since March 15 this year, when 368 people tested positive for Covid-19. Nearly 1,200–1,189 to be exact—patients were discharged in the last 24 hours and 34 succumbed to the viral disease, taking the recoveries and death toll to 1,398,764 and 24,591 respectively.The active cases in the national capital have come down to 5,889 and the positivity rate has also dropped to 0.50%, the bulletin showed. As many as 76,857 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours of which 55,786 are RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests while the remaining 21,071 are rapid antigen tests. The number of patients under home isolation is just a little above 2,300 and the containment zones have come down to 11,557, according to the bulletin.Also Read| Delhi unlocking: AIIMS doctor has a word of caution for metro servicesDelhi has been seeing consistent improvement in its overall Covid-19 situation as a result of the complete lockdown imposed since April 19 this year. From Monday, the unlocking process will begin where shops including those selling liquor will reopen on an odd-even basis, e-commerce services will resume, private and government offices will reopen at 50 per cent attendance and metro services will resume at half the capacity.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led Delhi government is preparing to deal with an infection peak of 37,000 Covid-19 cases a day amid the upcoming third wave of the pandemic. Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal said the government is working towards ramping up the oxygen infrastructure along with the setting up of a paediatric task force and two genome sequencing labs. The government will also create a buffer stock of all important medicines, the chief minister added.Also Read| Capital will be ready for 37k cases a day during next Covid surge: CMMore than 58,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated against the viral disease in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative figures to 5,650,819. Delhi is still facing a severe crunch of vaccine doses and it has been over two weeks since inoculations for beneficiaries between 18-44 years had been suspended. AAP MLA Atishi on Saturday urged the Centre to provide doses for the 18+ age group. She said that doses of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine will last for nearly a month while Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will only last for two more days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-tally-falls-below-400-mark-positivity-rate-at-050-101622975364548.html
06-06-2021||Bhopal||After ban on MNREGA work, MP villagers contain Covid-19 spread in 13k panchayats||In Sidhi village panchayat of Madhya Pradesh’s Shahdol district, where 11 people tested positive for Covid-19 in April, strict measures were taken by residents to contain the spread after the state government banned work under MNREGA, officials said.Shahdol chief executive officer Mehtab Singh said, “After a ban on MNREGA, people felt the burn and came out with steps to fight against Corona. Villagers won the battle against the virus with self-discipline and fine on villagers for violation of Covid-19 protocol.”Within a month and a half, the village panchayat was declared Covid-19 free. Not only Sidhi panchayat, but more than 13000 village panchayats contained the infection after a ban on MNREGA work.People were not allowed to come out of their houses, all evening chaupals were dismissed, children were banned from playing outside while only two people were allowed to go out to purchase items from the shops for 740 families of the village panchayat. The state government divided more than 23,000 village panchayats into three parts - red zones, with more than five Covid-19 positive cases; Orange zone, having 1-5 positive cases; and green zone, with zero cases - after a surge in Covid-19 cases. The government banned MNREGA work in red zones to contain the infection, said an official.In April, 13,500 village panchayats were declared as red zone and 6,000 under the orange zone. Now, about 3,000 villages are under the orange zone and 130 under the red zone. In the second wave, rural Madhya Pradesh was badly affected and up to 60% Covid-19 positive cases in a day were reported from villages. In many villages, people died in suspicious circumstances without any tests. Crematoriums and graveyards were flooded with bodies to an extent that in many village panchayats people banned cremation.In Seoni malwa block of Hoshangabad district, which is located on the bank of Narmada river, villagers claimed that cremation of bodies increased pollution in the river. “We had never seen so many cremations in the village. People from the neighbouring villages were coming to cremate the bodies on the bank of the river so we decided to ban cremations as a large number of fish were getting killed in the river,” said Ramesh Markam, a resident of Bhiladiya village of the district. Now, the number of Covid-19 positive cases are on the decline and has even dropped to zero in many villages, he added.The state government said early detection and self-disciplined of people from rural Madhya Pradesh helped in containing the spread of Covid-19. Panchayat and rural development department principal secretary Umakant Umrao said, “Unlike urban population, seriousness and self-discipline of people in the villages of MP helped in curbing the infection.Village panchayat officials, Aganwadi and ASHA workers conducted a survey in March and identified more than 80,000 suspects in rural MP. “We established at least 14,000 Covid-19 care centres and quarantine centres for infected people. Our strategy and the effort of villagers worked and Covid-19 infection was curbed to a great extent,” he added.However, an activist, who accepts a decrease in positive cases, demanded a social audit on deaths and positivity rate in rural Madhya Pradesh.Ekta Parishad’s state general secretary Rann Singh Parmar said, “The positive cases have been reduced but the state government shouldn’t forget the suspicious deaths of so many people in rural areas. In rural MP, many people, who were suffering from many symptoms of Covid-19, died without test and treatment in April and May when the second wave hit the country but neither the villagers nor the administration knows the reason behind these deaths. A social audit should be done across all 23,000 village panchayats to know the reality.” (With inputs from Jitendra Verma from Hoshangabad)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/after-ban-on-mnrega-work-mp-villagers-contain-covid-19-spread-in-13k-panchayats-101622975729655.html
06-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally nearing 341,000; 517 fresh cases reported||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 340,925 as 517 more people tested positive for the virus while 12 new fatalities pushed the death toll in the tribal dominated state to 5,046, health department bulletin said on Sunday.Continuing with the declining trend in Covid-19 fatalities, 15 of the 24 districts reported no deaths during the last 24 hours while a door-to-door campaign in rural areas is on to detect and treat cases.There has been a significant decline in the number of deaths in state capital Ranchi and East Singhbhum, both of which were witnessing high numbers.Ranchi, East Singhbhum and West Singhbhum reported two deaths each followed by one death each from Bokaro, Deoghar, Dhanbad, Hazaribag, Pakur and Saraikela.Of the 517 new cases, East Singhbhum reported 73, followed by Dhanbad (59)and Ranchi (47).Jharkhand now has 6,239 active cases, while 329,640 patients have recovered from the virus including 1,098 during the last 24 hours.Altogether, 87,65,045 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, including 56,126 on Saturday, it added.However, the mortality rate remained at 1.48 per cent, higher than the national average of 1.20 per cent.The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state has improved to 96.68 per cent, higher than the national average of 93.40 per cent.In a bid to curb the spread of the virus, the state government has extended the lockdown till June 10.Since the advent of the second wave of Covid-19, the death rate in the state increased from 0.9 per cent to 1.46 per cent, as several districts reported high numbers of fatalities.Several other restrictions, including seven-day mandatory quarantine for people visiting the state, have been in place.The state has also suspended the operation of the intra and inter-city bus services and restricted the maximum number of attendees in a wedding event to 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhands-covid-19-tally-nearing-341-000-517-fresh-cases-reported-101622974764533.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi unlocking: AIIMS doctor has a word of caution for metro services||As Delhi Metro is all set to resume its services after being completely shut since May 10, AIIMS doctor Naveet Wig said the transporter should be extra cautious in reopening as the situation will again reverse to where it was if the reopening is rushed. "We should not start metro immediately. For 1-2 weeks, we must experiment with 33-50 per cent occupancy. We should go slow. Otherwise, the lid will open up and we will not be able to suppress it," Dr Wig, HoD of Medicine and chairperson of AIIMS Covid task force said.While Delhi came under movement restriction from April 19 in the wake of a sharp increase in the number of cases, metro services — its lifeline — were operational for essential travel till May 9. From June 7, the services will resume in a graded approach. As experts are advising, services will first resume with 50 per cent seating capacity and standing will not be allowed. As the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation sought the co-operation of the general public and the authorities to maintain the law and order outside the stations, it also informed that only half of the available trains will be inducted into the service on Monday. The full strength of trains will be pressed into service in a graded manner by Wednesday.But this would not mean the services would be anything similar to the pre-lockdown period as passengers will have to wait outside the stations for their turn.The peak of the second wave of the pandemic in the Capital has gradually subsided but experts have already warned that this is only due to the restrictions that were maintained in the last 50 days. As the unlocking process is also starting in Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram — the National Capital Region — it is time to be on guard, experts have advised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-unlocking-aiims-doctor-has-a-word-of-caution-for-metro-services-101622971895587.html
06-06-2021||Other||Assam government launches ‘war on drugs’ to free state from menace||Two kilograms of drugs named brown sugar valued at ₹2 crore in the international market and nearly 100,000 illegal tablets valued at around ₹1.5 crore were recovered from two women on Saturday in a joint operation by Assam and Meghalaya police on the outskirts of Guwahati, officials said.“Police has caused a huge dent in the drugs network today. Now the organised cartel is under attack,” Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted soon after congratulating the team.Assam police DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta informed that a special recommendation has been processed for the team involved in the operation as well as a reward for the Kamrup (Rural) district police.Though it was one of the biggest drug hauls in recent weeks, it isn’t the only such operation Assam police is involved in at present. Every day, police teams across the state are busting drug cartels, arresting traffickers and recovering contraband and cash, officials said.Though the drive against drugs has been part of the routine police operations, the campaign picked momentum last month after the new government under Himanta Biswa Sarma, who also holds the home portfolio, took charge as the chief minister.Between May 10, when the new government assumed office, and June 4, police across Assam registered 342 cases and arrested 596 people in connection to drugs. Over 10 kilograms of heroin, nearly 6,000 kilograms of marijuana, over 200,000 illegal tablets and around ₹20 lakh in cash have been recovered in this period.As per police records, there has been a big jump in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act cases in the past 10 years in the state. From 180 cases in 2010, the police registered 1,023 cases last year.“We will continue our operations against drugs continuously. Many families have been destroyed because of it, so we are taking this action as our responsibility. I am of the firm belief if our police act actively, Assam would be able to get rid of this menace,” Sarma said in Delhi last week.According to the police, Guwahati is the prime transit point in the region for drugs that enter India from Myanmar through the International Border (IB) along with Manipur and Mizoram. The drugs smuggled into the region include heroin, brown sugar, marijuana, cough syrups and methamphetamine tablets.“Drug addiction has increased immensely in Assam in recent years. Earlier, the drugs used to get transported via the state but now it is getting sold within Assam by a huge network of traffickers. Easy availability has led to more people getting addicted, especially young teenagers,” said Deepak Sahaney, project director Kripa Foundation, a drug rehabilitation centre in Guwahati.Started 16 years ago, Kripa Foundation is one of the oldest rehabilitation centres in Guwahati and has treated over 3,000 patients. At present, Assam’s biggest city has around 50 such centres.“The menace has spread from urban to rural areas now. Even small towns in Assam have drug rehabilitation centres. Mobile phones and social media platforms are aiding traffickers to get connected with users. We have had cases wherein children have assaulted parents for money to buy drugs or resorted to petty crimes like snatching,” said Sahaney.Significantly, there has been no study done by the government or private agencies on the spread of the drug menace in Assam and no data is available on the number of drug users, their profile, et cetera.“The number of users has progressively increased and most of the new users are teenagers. Addiction starts due to various reasons, including a family history of drug abuse, domestic troubles, financial problems, among others,” said Dr Tridip Choudhury, a Guwahati-based psychiatrist involved in drug rehabilitation.“The problem has to be dealt with in two ways-supply reduction, like action being taken by the police and demand reduction, which is done by professionals to bring down the number of users. Better infrastructure and more manpower are needed to ensure demand reduction as well in Assam,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-government-launches-war-on-drugs-to-free-state-from-menace-101622971829458.html
06-06-2021||Noida||Covid curbs lifted in Noida, Ghaziabad as active cases drop below 600||Authorities in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar on Sunday eased curfew-like restrictions imposed to curb the spread of Covid-19 as active cases of the coronavirus disease in these districts fell below 600. The Uttar Pradesh government said earlier in the day that the “Corona curfew” has been lifted in 75 districts of the state except in Meerut, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur where the active cases of the coronavirus disease are above 600.In directions issued on May 30, the state government announced relaxations on the outdoor movement of people and on non-essential services in districts with less than 600 active cases. The restrictions from the partial corona curfew, which is in prevalence from the night of April 30, get automatically lifted once the active cases in a district drop below 600, the order said.Also read | GB Nagar starts sero survey, to include children this timeShops will now be allowed to open between 7am and 7pm and markets will operate for five days a week with limited customers. The weekend lockdown and night curfew from 7pm to 7am will, however, continue. Both districts may also allow weddings and funerals with limited number of people. According to the order, more than five people will not be allowed at religious places and there will be no restrictions on inter-state travel.Restaurants and food establishments will only be allowed to deliver food. The state government, presently, has no guidelines regarding re-opening of schools, gyms, swimming pools and cinema halls.The number of active Covid-19 cases fell below the 600-mark in Ghaziabad district on Saturday, according to the state Covid portal. The active cases for Ghaziabad stood at 573 till 9pm on Saturday and the neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar district, under which Noida falls, had 623 such cases, according to the state Covid portal.“The number of active cases on the portal has come down below 600 and it is likely that cases will further decline. So, ongoing restrictions may ease down soon. But people will have to observe strict adherence to Covid protocols,” Dr NK Gupta, Ghaziabad’s chief medical officer, said on Saturday.Also read | Beneficiaries from Delhi-NCR turning towards Ghaziabad vaccination centresGB Nagar district administration official said they have chalked out a plan once the restrictions are lifted. “With the figure of active cases going down, we expect that restrictions will be eased from Monday onwards. We have planned that markets will open up from 7am to 7pm. The industries and business establishments will follow all Covid protocols, while the educational institutions will remain closed. We have also decided that clubs, swimming pools and gyms will remain closed,” Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar, said.Also watch | Swimming pool in Ghaziabad raided by police; owner bookedOn Saturday, official data showed that the active Covid-19 cases or the number of patients under treatment across Uttar Pradesh fell below the 20,000-mark after a gap of two months. Data showed that 34 of the state’s 75 districts reported below 10 fresh Covid-19 cases on the day and that Banda and Kanpur Dehat recorded zero infections.“There are 19,438 active cases in the state at present of which 11,178 are in home isolation. The number of active cases has fallen by 93.75% as compared with April 30 when there were 310,783 active cases in the state,” Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (medical health and family welfare) said at a press conference.UP reported 1092 fresh cases and 120 deaths on Saturday and with this, the state’s case count reached 16,97,352 and the death toll went up to 21,151.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-curbs-lifted-in-noida-ghaziabad-as-active-cases-drop-below-600-101622970320867.html
06-06-2021||Mumbai||Rajasthan businessman arrested for raping 24-year-old on pretext of marriage||Mumbai police arrested a 30-year-old businessman from a five star hotel near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport on Saturday evening for allegedly raping a 24-year-old woman on the pretext of marriage.Juhu police station officers had put out a look out notice for the accused and they learnt that he was going to return to Mumbai via air from his home town in Rajasthan. Police kept a watch and apprehended him as soon as he entered his room in the five star hotel. “The accused was in Mumbai for a business meeting and planned to return to Rajasthan in a few hours as he was aware that he was wanted by the police,” said Shashikant Mane, senior police inspector of Juhu police station.According to Juhu police, the woman who works in a private firm first met the accused on Instagram and the two began chatting in 2019. After a few months of dating, the accused, who is a mobile spare parts dealer, proposed marriage to the victim and allegedly raped her repeatedly at a rented apartment at Lallubhai Park in Vile Parle. He had also borrowed ₹35 lakhs from her when they were together, police claimed.On May 29th, when the accused stopped answering the victim’s calls after having ignored her demand to return the money, the woman registered a complaint with Juhu police.“We have arrested the accused for rape under sections 376, 420, 506, 376 (J) (N) of the Indian Penal Code. He will be produced before the court on Sunday,” said Mane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rajasthan-businessman-arrested-for-raping-24-year-old-on-pretext-of-marriage-101622969429436.html
06-06-2021||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav pays tribute to former Raghuvansh Singh on 75th birth anniversary||On the 75th birth anniversary of former Union Minister and Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav paid his tributes on Sunday.Taking to Twitter, Yadav wrote, "Tributes to the founder member of Rashtriya Janata Dal, former Union Minister, senior socialist leader MNREGA man, respected Raghuvansh Babu Ji on his birth anniversary."Raghuvansh Prasad Singh passed away at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi last year on September 13, where he was admitted and was being treated for post-Covid complications. He was 74 years old.On September 11, Singh wrote a letter to Bihar Chief Minister and Janata Dal (United) chief Nitish Kumar seeking the fulfillment of his three demands, which also included bringing ordinance regarding amendment of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MNREGA) law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-yadav-pays-tribute-to-former-raghuvansh-singh-on-75th-birth-anniversary-101622968455798.html
06-06-2021||Mumbai||BJP condemns cutting down of trees in Mumbai, calls it 'shameful act'||A day after World Environment Day, as many as 25-30 trees were cut down in Worli, Mumbai, said Pravin Darekar, Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Maharashtra Legislative Council on Sunday, stating it as a shameful act.Speaking to media persons, BJP leader Darekar said, "It is a very shameful act that a day after celebrating World Environment Day, trees were cut down. Around 25-30 trees have been brought down in Worli. We condemn the act. We have come here to visit and take a note of the situation."He further informed that the Deputy Commissioner of Police Paramjit Singh Dahiya has filed a First Information Report (FIR), however on unknown persons."This is not our personal issue. It is related to the environment. We want this issue to be looked into," said the LoP.President of Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Mumbai unit Mangal Lodha had also accompanied Darekar on Sunday to Worli.According to Lodha, the trees were cut down by a gang that puts up illegal hoardings. This incident has taken place in Borivali, Andheri, and Chowpatty areas also, he said."Day and night, this is being by a hoarding gang. All hoardings should be audited. If a common man plucks even a leaf, a case is registered. But this hoarding gang has been operating for the past several years in Mumbai," Lodha said.He further demanded that the state government should file a case and set up a special committee to investigate into the matter. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-condemns-cutting-down-of-trees-in-mumbai-calls-it-shameful-act-101622965675688.html
06-06-2021||Mumbai||Shivrajyabhisek: Tributes pour in on Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s coronation day||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and several other political leaders on Sunday paid their tributes to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj on the anniversary of the Maratha king’s coronation day. On the occasion of 'Shivrajyabhisek', Uddhav Thackeray said it was the golden moment engraved in the heart of the state."On the occasion of Shiv Rajyabhishek Day, Chief Minister Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray paid homage to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the founder of Swarajya, saying this is a golden moment engraved on the heart of Maharashtra," the chief minister's office said in a statement on Sunday.Also read | 'Shivrajyabhisek' 2021: What it is, the significance and historyUnion minister G Kishan Reddy paid respect on the occasion. “Tributes to the Great Warrior And Epitome of Valour & Bravery Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj On His Coronation Day,” he tweeted with a hashtag #ShivajiMaharaj.Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant also celebrated the day at various places in the coastal state. He was seen placing a garland of flowers around the neck of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj statues in Bicholim, Mapusa, Korgao and Pernem among others.Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was crowned the king of Maratha Swaraj at Raigad Fort on June 6 in 1674. The day is of great significance to the Maratha community and is celebrated on a large scale, especially in Raigad. The day would witness mass public rallies and processions at the Raigad Fort in the pre-pandemic era.However, the grandeur celebrations are restricted amid the surge of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, which has planned to unlock in five levels from Monday.Also read: Chhatrapati Shivaji's descendent, Sambhajiraje, to launch quota agitation todayShivaji Maharaj's 13th direct descendant Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje, who is also a BJP lawmaker, released 'Hoan', an antique coin of the king's era, on the occasion. "This year's Shivrajyabhishek Ceremony will be graced by the presence of a rare coin 'Hoan' that is part of the antiques of Shivaji Maharaj's era," Sambhajiraje tweeted on Saturday.Last month, the BJP MP warned the Maharashtra government he will launch an agitation on June 6 if the demands concerning the reservation under the Maratha quota are not met. His caution came weeks after the Supreme Court struck down the state government's law granting quota to Maratha community admissions in colleges and government jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shivrajyabhisek-tributes-pour-in-on-chhatrapati-shivaji-maharaj-s-coronation-day-101622962879284.html
06-06-2021||Jaipur||BJP should take care of itself before commenting on us, our govt: Rajasthan Congress MLA||Congress MLA P R Meena Saturday hit back at Rajasthan BJP leaders, saying they should first take care of their own party before commenting on the Congress or its government.State BJP leaders have been targeting the Congress over reports of alleged infighting involving two ministers at a meeting of the Council of Ministers recently.Meena said the Congress was united, is united and will remain so."The BJP should first take care of its house, then make a comment about the government and organisation of the Congress party," Meena said in a statement.In the statement, the legislator from the Todabhim assembly constituency said the Congress party is more than 100 years old and it has seen many ups and downs.He is also the second MLA from the Sachin Pilot camp after Indraj Gurjar to have praised Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot for fulfilling demands of their constituencies, budget announcements and the management of the coronavirus pandemicHe said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power by allegedly making false promises to the people of the country.The country and the world are run by proper policies of mature leaders, not by clapping and beating of thalis.Replying to a statement of Leader of Opposition in Rajasthan Assembly Gulabchand Kataria, Meena said the BJP itself is battling infighting.Kataria himself was accused of engineering the defeat of his own party from Rajsamand seat in the recent assembly bypolls, he said, claiming half-a-dozen leaders in the BJP dream to become the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-should-take-care-of-itself-before-commenting-on-us-our-govt-rajasthan-congress-mla-101622965726305.html
06-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh lifts Covid-lockdown restrictions in all districts, except these||Uttar Pradesh on Sunday lifted the Covid-19 curfew from all 75 districts in the state except in three areas, as the number of active cases of the coronavirus disease fell below the 20,000-mark, news agency ANI reported citing a senior official. Navneet Sehgal, an additional chief secretary, said the curfew has not been lifted from Meerut, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur as active cases in these three districts are above 600, ANI reported.The UP government on Saturday extended relaxations in the "Corona curfew" to Bareilly and Bulandshahr districts from June 7, allowing shops and markets outside the containment zones to open for five days in a week. It, however, said the night curfew and weekend curfew will continue to remain in place.According to official data, the active Covid-19 cases or the number of patients under treatment across Uttar Pradesh fell below the 20,000-mark on Saturday after a gap of two months. Data showed that 34 of the state’s 75 districts reported below 10 fresh Covid-19 cases on the day and that Banda and Kanpur Dehat recorded zero infections.Also read | Sero-sampling begins in 40 districts of UP“There are 19,438 active cases in the state at present of which 11,178 are in home isolation,” Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (medical health and family welfare) said at a press conference. “The number of active cases has fallen by 93.75% as compared with April 30 when there were 310,783 active cases in the state,” said Prasad.There were 19,738 active cases in the state on April 4 and the number went up to 22,820 the next day.Also read | 7 Covid-19 variants behind second wave surge in Varanasi region: StudyUP reported 1092 fresh cases and 120 deaths on Saturday and with this, the state’s case count reached 16,97,352 and the death toll went up to 21,151. The state’s overall case positivity rate now stands at 3.3% and the 24-hour positivity rate at 0.4%. The recovery rate in the state is 97.6% and 5,10,32,967 samples have been tested till now.The Yogi Adityanath-led government started conducting sero-sampling in 40 districts of Uttar Pradesh on Saturday with the aim to collect over 61,500 samples by June 11 to analyse the development of anti-bodies among UP residents. Samples will be collected in the remaining 35 districts from June 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-lifts-covid-lockdown-restrictions-in-all-districts-except-these-101622963594135.html
06-06-2021||Mumbai||Shivaji Maharaj's coronation remains a golden moment for Maharashtra: CM||Coronation of Shivaji Maharaj is a golden moment engraved on the heart of Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday as he paid tributes to the warrior king who was crowned "Chhatrapati" of the independent Maratha kingdom in 1674.In normal times, public rallies and processions mark the coronation day at Raigad Fort, but due to the Covid-19 pandemic, no public function was held for the second consecutive year.The hill fort, located in Mahad in Raigad district, holds a major significance in the history of the Maratha empire founded by Chhatrapati Shivaji. Many constructions and structures on Raigad were built by Shivaji Maharaj when he made it his capital in 1674 upon being crowned the king of the Maratha kingdom.Thackeray said the legendary warrior kinginstituted a welfare state and gave the topmost priority to his motherland."On the occasion of Shiv Rajyabhishek Day, Chief Minister Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray paid homage to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the founder of Swarajya, saying this is a golden moment engraved on the heart of Maharashtra," the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a statement. ShivajiMaharaj was formally crowned as Chhatrapati at the Raigad fort in Maharashtra on June 6, 1674.BJP MP Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje, a descendant of Shivaji Maharaj, visited Raigad fort on the occasion."This year's Shivrajyabhishek Ceremony will be graced by the presence of a rare coin 'Hoan' that is part of the antiques of Shivaji Maharaj's era," tweeted Sambhajiraje on Saturday.'Hoan' itself exemplified the sovereignty and prosperity of Swarajya established by Shivaji Maharaj. It is not merely a currency, but a symbol of our collective pride, a true national treasure, he had said."This antiquity found in the pious soil of Raigad will witness this historic occasion," the Maratha leader said.Sambhajiraje also posted pictures of the illuminated Raigad fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shivaji-maharaj-s-coronation-remains-a-golden-moment-for-maharashtra-cm-101622963373852.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal says Centre stalling doorstep delivery of ration in Delhi, aiding mafia||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow the state government to launch doorstep ration delivery, claiming crowded ration shops could potentially turn into Covid-19 “super-spreader” zones in the city.“If pizza, burgers, smartphones and garments can be delivered to doorsteps of people, then why not ration?” said Kejriwal in a live-streamed video press briefing.His comments came a day after his office claimed that the Centre had again “blocked” the Delhi government’s ambitious doorstep delivery of ration scheme days ahead of its launch with lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal rejecting it. Baijal’s office, however, said he did not “reject” the scheme and only “advised for the constitutional scheme of things to be followed in letter and spirit”.Kejriwal, on Sunday, also highlighted instances of Centre’s ongoing conflicts with states such as West Bengal, Jharkhand and Maharashtra and even farmer groups over the three contentious farm laws to drive home his point.“In Delhi, the doorstep delivery of ration scheme was ready to be launched next week. All necessary tenders were completed, and arrangements were in place. It would have relieved millions of people in Delhi from crowd[ing] and long queues outside ration shops. For the last 75 years, the ration distribution system across the country has been looted by the ration mafia, leading to leakages in the system depriving poor people of the food grains they are entitled to. Doorstep delivery would have been a revolutionary initiative,” said Kejriwal, citing his own days as a social activist when he was allegedly attacked by people--he chose not to identify them--for his fight against the “ration mafia”.Delhi currently has around 1.78 million ration card holder households, which according to government records, translate to 7.2 million beneficiaries. Ration is currently distributed to them through a network of 2,000-odd fair price shops.“The proposal has been turned down citing no approval from the Central government. It is untrue. We have written to the Central government five times, seeking their approval in this regard. Going by the law, we do not need any approval from the Central government in this regard. State governments are capable of implementing such schemes. In March, you asked us to remove Mukhyamantri (chief minister) from the name of the scheme, we obliged. We followed all your conditions,” said Kejriwal.This is the second time this year that the scheme has been stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre. The scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections— the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament.The Delhi government, on March 24, passed a Cabinet decision to remove the name “Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna” for the scheme and to implement doorstep delivery of ration as part of the existing NFS Act, 2013.The conflict, however, is older than that. The scheme was first approved in March 2018 but could not be implemented because of numerous administrative issues, largely revolving around methodologies allowed under the National Food Security Act. It also led to a tussle between the elected government and the lieutenant governor, leading to a demonstration outside the L-G’s office by the top leaders in the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government. The matter did not progress despite the Supreme Court’s July 2018 judgment that said the L-G is bound by the “aid and advice” of the elected government in Delhi, other than matters involving land, police and public order which comes under the Centre’s domain. Before the 2020 assembly polls, the AAP government gave the project a fresh push.Kejriwal at Sunday’s press briefing said that the government has now cited a case filed by ration shop owners that is being heard in the Delhi high court for the delay in approval. “When even the high court did not impose a stay on the scheme, why did you (Central government) impose a stay on it? If you choose to stand with the ration mafia, who will stand with poor people? Interestingly, the Central government is also a party in this case. However, the Central government’s counsel did not raise a single objection against the scheme in the (high) court,” said Kejriwal.He further said, “These are difficult times. People fear getting infected because of crowds outside ration shops. There are chances of a third wave of Covid-19 which is likely to affect more children. What if people get infected in queues outside ration shops? These ration shops are potential super-spreaders. The doorstep delivery scheme can stop that from happening.”Broadening his attack on the Centre, Kejriwal added, “The Central government is fighting Mamata didi in West Bengal, the government of Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, and now the people of Delhi. They are also fighting against farmers. Why is the central government fighting everyone? We are all Indians. We are not supposed to fight with one another. We are supposed to join hands and fight against Covid-19. People want to see Prime Minister Narendra Modi joining hands with Kejriwal in enabling delivery of ration to the doorstep of 7.2 million ration beneficiaries.”Under the National Food Security Act, 2013, which governs the public distribution system (PDS), the approximately 1.78 million lakh ration card households in Delhi are divided into three categories -- priority households (PR), priority state households (PRS), and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) families. The beneficiaries under the PR and PRS categories are entitled to 5 kgs of food grains per month while AAY households receive 25 kgs wheat, 10 kgs rice and 1 kg sugar.Rebutting the Delhi government’s claim, the L-G’s office said on Saturday that “it [the Delhi government] has been advised again, like earlier on March 20, 2018, that since the proposal seeks to change the method of distribution, it would mandatorily require the prior approval of the Government of India as per Section 12 (2) (h) of the National Food Security Act 2013. Additionally, it was brought to the notice that a Writ Petition WP (C) 2037/2021 in the said matter has been filed by the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh. The said petition is scheduled to be heard on August 20, 2021”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-claims-centre-stalling-doorstep-delivery-of-ration-in-delhi-aiding-mafia-101622962889165.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||'If pizza can be delivered why not ration?': Delhi CM Kejriwal asks why doorstep delivery scheme was stalled||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday asked the Centre why it stalled its ambitious doorstep delivery of ration scheme in the national capital, which he said would have benefitted lakhs of poor people. "Just two days before 'Doorstep Delivery of Ration' scheme's implementation in Delhi, the central government stopped it. If pizza delivery can be allowed amid the Covid-19 pandemic, then why not ration?” CM Kejriwal asked."We are doing this to help those who are underprivileged," Kejriwal also said; adding that it will help people hesitant to go to the stores to buy ration due to the ongoing pandemic." "The scheme would have benefitted 72 lakh ration cardholders in the national capital," he also said.He also noted that these shops have the potential to become Covid hotspot. “I request with my folded hands to Centre, please allow us to deliver ration to the Delhi residents,” the chief minister also said.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also refuted allegations that the Delhi government didn't seek permission from the Centre for the scheme. "We took approval not just once, but five times. Legally, we don't need Centre's approval but we did so out of courtesy,” he said. He also alleged that the Centre has taken this decision under the influence of "ration mafia."On Saturday, the Delhi government claimed it was prepared to launch the doorstep delivery of the ration within days and that Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal returned the file on June 2 stating the scheme cannot be implemented. However, the Centre said that the file was returned for "reconsideration" and described the allegation as "baseless," news agency PTI reported citing an official.Under the proposed scheme, the Delhi government has promised to deliver 4kg of flour and 1kg of rice cleaned and packed at the doorstep of every beneficiary. Earlier, the name of the scheme was 'Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana', but was dropped by the Delhi government on the objection raised by the Centre."We are not doing this for credit," CM Kejriwal further said. "Have just one aim and that is to provide ration to the poor... There should be no politics over matters meant for the country's benefit," he added."Let me implement the scheme, I will give full credit to you (PM Modi). Ration does not belong to the state of the country, it is of people," CM Kejriwal also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/if-pizza-can-be-delivered-why-not-ration-delhi-cm-kejriwal-asks-why-doorstep-delivery-scheme-was-stalled-101622957812104.html
06-06-2021||Bangalore||After spat, Karnataka IAS officers Rohini Sindhuri and Shilpa Nag transferred||Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers Rohini Sindhuri and Shilpa Nag have been transferred by the Karnataka government days after a they were involved in a power tussle. "Rohini Sindhuri Dasari, the Deputy Commissioner of the Mysuru District, Mysuru is transferred with immediate effect and posted until further orders as Commissioner for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments," the notification issued by the Karnataka government on Saturday said, news agency ANI reported.Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) commissioner Shilpa Nag, a 2014 batch IAS officer, has also been transferred with immediate effect and has been posted as director (e-governance) rural development and panchayati raj (RDAPR) until further orders, the agency reportedAlso read | IAS officer, 'harassed' by Mysuru DC, resigns. Here's what the feud is aboutDr Bagdi Gahum, the additional commissioner for commercials taxes for Bengaluru, has now been posted as the deputy commissioner of Mysuru “with immediate effect” and will replace Rohini Sindhuri. And, Lakshmikanth Reddy will be the new Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) commissioner.Shilpa Nag announced her resignation from the Indian Administrative Services on Thursday citing “harassment” and “humiliation” and said that she cannot work in a “suffocating environment”. Nag made an apparent reference to Rohini Sindhuri, the Mysuru deputy collector and a 2009-batch officer, who has been at the receiving end of criticism from several political leaders including those from the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“With deep sorrow and regret, I am hereby submitting my resignation to the Indian Administrative Service. I humbly ask your kind self to accept this and relieve me of my moral dilemma, pain and sorrow for the sacrilege of the sacred service we have taken oath to serve and protect,” Nag said on Thursday.Also read | Mysuru DC comes under spotlight as rumblings grow in admin circlesRohini Sindhuri said in a statement on Thursday that she had only sought details of Covid-19 related documents, including expenditure of CSR funds during Covid, from Nag, which did not constitute to harassment. “It is not my place to keep on reacting to every allegation,” Sindhuri said on Friday.People aware of the developments said Sindhuri was being targeted for not “obeying” politicians and their demands for awarding contract of works to persons related to them as well as denying an opportunity to usurp government land for various projects.Also read | ‘I did not control O2’: DC rejects allegations in Chamarajanagar deathsRohini Sindhuri’s appointment as deputy collector of Mysuru was opposed by Janata Dal (Secular) leader Sa Ra Mahesh. Mahesh took personal jibes at Sindhuri, stating that the district required “role model officers” and not “models” as he addressed a press conference on May 2.Sindhuri was also accused of ignoring calls by her colleague from Chamarajanaga for help , where 24 Covid-19 patients died allegedly due to shortage of oxygen. However, a report after a probe into the incident indicated that there was no clear hindrance on the Mysuru DC for supply of oxygen to Chamarajanagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/after-spat-karnataka-ias-officers-rohini-sindhuri-and-shilpa-nag-transferred-101622957311169.html
06-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan launches free coaching scheme for underprivileged students||Rajasthan has launched Chief Minister Anuprati Coaching Scheme to help underprivileged students prepare for entrance examinations to civil services and professional courses, with an aim to give them equal opportunity, said a circular issued by the state finance department.Students belonging to scheduled caste, scheduled tribe, other backward classes (OBC), extremely backward castes, minority and economically weaker sections with annual family income less than ₹8 lakhs per annum will be able to avail the scheme run by the tribal area development, minority affairs, and social justice and empowerment departments. Children of government employees receiving Pay-Matrix level-11 will also qualify for the scheme, which can be utilised by every eligible student for a period of one year.Under the scheme, free coaching will be provided for preparation for civil services examination, conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC),Rajasthan Administrative services (RAS) examination and subordinate services joint entrance examinations organised by the Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC). It will also help students prepare for other RPSC examinations such as Rajasthan Teacher Eligibility Test (REET), Grade Pay-2400 or Pay-Matrix Level-5 services, constable examination, sub-inspector and 3600 Grade pay or Pay matrix level-10 jobs.Coaching will also be provided for engineering and medical entrance examinations apart from Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). Students’ eligibility for the scheme will be based on marks scored in class 10 and 12. Effort will be made to include at least 50% girls.Underprivileged students who will prepare for entrance examinations in coaching institutes located outside their home cities will be given ₹40,000 annually for accommodation and food. The social justice and empowerment department will be the nodal agency for the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-launches-free-coaching-scheme-for-underprivileged-students-101622957669067.html
06-06-2021||Mumbai||On Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s coronation day anniversary, descendent to launch agitation||Maratha leader and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) member of Parliament (MP) Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendent of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, will on Sunday announce the next move over the community’s agitation for reservation in education and government jobs. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati will attend a function at Raigad Fort in Mahad area of Raigad district of Maharashtra on the occasion of coronation day anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj on Sunday.Last month, the lawmaker gave an ultimatum to the Maha Vikas Aghadi government and raised several demands, including review and curative petitions in the Supreme Court against it order to scrap the quota, as well as a petition to the Centre for the reservation. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati also demanded other benefits such as hostel facilities and scholarships for the community’s students and revival of Pune-based SARTHI to ensure educational and social well-being of the Maratha youth.Also read | Maratha reservation issue: King Shivaji’s descendant leaning towards Congress?The Supreme Court on May 5 struck down the Maharashtra law granting quota to the Maratha community in education and government jobs, saying it was "unconstitutional”. The top court said people from the community can’t be declared educationally and socially backward just to bring them in the reserved category. It also held that there were no exceptional circumstances to breach the 50 per cent reservation cap set by the 1992 Indra Sawhney case, popularly known as Mandal Commission case.Marathas were given 12% and 13% quota in education and government jobs, respectively, under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018.Also read | Maharashtra extends EWS quota to MarathasThe Uddhav Thackeray-led state government appointed a committee of retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale to study the ruling and suggest a way forward. The committee, in its report submitted on Friday, has recommended the government to move a review petition in the SC challenging its verdict.Sambhaji Chhatrapati, a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) nominated Rajya Sabha member, has also met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar in May to discuss the Maratha reservation issue and urged him to take an initiative in the matter.Also read | Mumbai lawyer couple who opposed Maratha reservationMarathas are a politically influential community and constitute around 30 per cent of Maharashtra’s population. The Maratha community is likely to intensify its agitation against the Maharashtra government alleging that the regime did not take adequate steps for reservation and extending the ancillary benefits to the members in the absence of the quota.Maratha outfits have been protesting to push for the reservation and on Saturday, the Maratha Kranti Morcha staged an agitation in Beed under Vinayak Mete, the chief of Shiv Sangram party, which is a BJP ally. Mete said that the community will come out on the streets in large numbers as the state government is indifferent towards its sentiments.The state government, however, said that it has been taking every possible step for the reservation. Congress’ Maharashtra general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant has said that the opposition BJP is politicising the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/chhatrapati-shivaji-s-descendent-sambhajiraje-to-launch-quota-agitation-today-101622953678865.html
06-06-2021||Kolkata||Suvendu Adhikari, brother booked for stealing relief material||An FIR has been filed against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari and his brother Soumendu Adhikari for allegedly stealing relief material from the Kanthi Municipality office.According to the police, the case has been filed against the Adhikari brothers on the complaint of Ratnadip Manna, a member of the Kanthi Municipal Administrative Board."On 29 May 2021 at 12:30 pm as per direction of Suvendu Adhikari and his brother and former Municipal Chief Soumendu Adhikari of Kanthi Municipality, Government tripal whose estimated value is around lakhs of rupees, was taken away from municipality office godown by forcefully and illegally opening locks," read the complaint submitted by Manna at Kanthi Police Station on June 1.The complaint also mentioned that the BJP leaders used armed central forces in the alleged theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/suvendu-adhikari-brother-booked-for-stealing-relief-material-101622944774334.html
06-06-2021||Mumbai||‘Lust for power amid a pandemic will lead to...’: Thackeray’s veiled dig at BJP||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in an oblique reference to former alliance partners Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), said on Saturday that hunger for power amid an ongoing pandemic has the potential to lead to anarchy.Thackeray said that he is responsible for protecting the people of the state and people who voted for him from the Covid-19 pandemic or else him being in power is futile. “If people who voted for me do not survive the Covid- 19 pandemic, what is the use of power? Acting with lust for power amid Covid-19 will lead to anarchy,” Thackeray, who did not name the opposition party, was quoted as saying by news agency PTI. Thackeray led the charge as Maharashtra saw a large number of daily deaths and cases during the second wave of the pandemic.Thackeray made these statements during an online interaction organised by Marathi daily Loksatta. Thackeray said people will not forgive him if he did not provide clarity to the people on why he should be in power.Thackeray also said that his entry into politics was due to his father and he was never politically inclined. He also said that the dream of Shiv Sena founder late Balasaheb Thackeray, which was to see a 'Sena worker' elected as the chief minister of the state is "yet to be fulfilled".“I was never politically inclined. I came into politics to help my father. A pandemic after 100 years happened during my tenure as chief minister. I have never shied away from responsibility. I am doing what I can to the best of my ability,” Thackeray said. Speaking of chances of a revival of an alliance with the BJP, the chief minister said that following the demise of BJP leaders Pramod Mahajan and Gopinath Munde a trust deficit arose between both parties. Thackeray also said that his current alliance partners Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) treat him with respect and also highlighted that there were differences between these alliance partners in the beginning.“The BJP is now Delhi-centric. In an alliance, there has to be openness to air differences and resolve them. My new allies (the NCP and Congress) treat me with respect. The MVA is an alliance where we had differences, so we are more open now,” Thackeray further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lust-for-power-amid-a-pandemic-will-lead-to-thackeray-s-veiled-dig-at-bjp-101622942037433.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||Positivity under 1% for 6 days as infections continue to fall||The national capital on Saturday added 414 Covid-19 cases, the lowest daily spike in over 80 days, as Delhi continued to recover from the fourth wave of infections between April and May, a downturn that has prompted the state government to further relax the lockdown Monday onwards.Delhi’s total caseload has also dropped to levels the city last saw towards the end of March. As of Saturday, 6,731 people in the city are still batting the infection, around half of the active case count a week ago, when the city had 13,035 active Covid-19 infections.At the peak of the fourth wave of infections, on April 28, Delhi had 99,752 active cases.Saturday’s case count, the lowest since March 15, came after the state conducted over 77,694 tests. The test positivity rate, as a result, continued to wind down, and fell to 0.53% on Saturday, the lowest in 88 days.The seven-day average of daily infections, known as case trajectory, continued to drop, settling at an average of 602 cases per day on Saturday.The test positivity rate has now been below 1% for six days, and less than 5% for 16 days now.After the third wave of Covid-19 infections began to peter out in December, the test positivity rate stayed below 1% for 82 days, and began to inch up once the fourth wave started to expand its footprint in mid-March.As a rule of thumb, tracking a region’s positivity rate serves as a good barometer for whether cases are going to increase or decrease in the coming days.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that the positivity rate from a region that has a comprehensive testing programme should be at or below 5% for at least two weeks before it can be considered that the outbreak is under control.Sixty more people died of the infection, the health bulletin issued by the state government on Saturday showed, up from 50 fatalities recorded on Friday.Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College (Vellore), said he was unsure if there will be a third wave.“The Delta variant certainly cannot cause another surge. However, it is very good that the government is preparing for it. What we need to do is increase permanent structures and bed strength rather than the makeshift ones because if there isn’t a third wave, all will be forgotten,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/positivity-under-1-for-6-days-as-infections-continue-to-fall-101622930461445.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||Free food grains to non-ration card holders begins in capital||The Delhi government on Saturday began distributing foodgrains for non-ration card holders and those outside the ambit of the public distribution system (PDS) in the city’s 280 government schools, as part of relief measures announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal last month in view of the lockdown.State food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain said, “The Delhi government has started distributing 5kg of food grains (4kg wheat and 1kg rice) per person, free of cost, to non-PDS beneficiaries who don’t possess ration cards, including unorganised workers, migrant workers, building and construction workers, and domestic helps.”Hussain also inspected distribution drives in Wazirpur, Model Town and Ballimaran constituency with Aam Aadmi Party legislators Rajesh Gupta and Akhilesh Pati Tripathi as well as food department officers.“Non-PDS ration is being distributed from designated schools from 10am to 4pm, with a weekly off on Sunday... Fair price shops are open on all seven days to provide free ration to NFS [National Food Security Act] beneficiaries from 9am to 1pm and from 3pm to 7pm without any weekly off,” the government said in a statement.On May 4, Kejriwal announced that rations for the 7.2 million PDS beneficiaries will be distributed for free in May and June. On May 18, he announced that free rations would also be given to people without ration cards.Schools identified for distribution of non-PDS ration have been provided with a login ID and password to record the stock received, and to aid registrations and distribution.On Saturday, long queues were seen outside ration distribution centres in Chirag Delhi, Dilshad Garden, Seemapuri, Kalyanpuri, Badarpur, and Hauz Rani.Civil defence volunteers at these spots were tasked with maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour among beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/free-food-grains-to-non-ration-card-holders-begins-in-capital-101622929847623.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||US tip-off saves city man streaming suicide bid||Almost an hour past midnight, deputy commissioner of police Anyesh Roy was holding a routine meeting with the Delhi Police’s cyber fraud team when his phone rang. An international number flashed on his mobile screen, prompting him to take it up quickly.The caller, an official from the US headquarters of Facebook, told DCP Roy -- who is the force’s nodal officer for all social media-related cases in the city -- that a man, possibly a Delhi resident, was attempting suicide and streaming it live on the social media website on Friday.Roy said the meeting was brought to an abrupt end, and Facebook officials quickly sent registration details about the man’s account by e-mail.The Facebook live-stream by the user, a 40-year-old resident of Palam Vihar in the city, had ended by then, but the police team managed to find the man’s address by tracing his mobile number that was made available by Facebook.By 1:45am, a police team from Palam Vihar rushed to the spot and found the man unconscious with multiple cuts to his wrist. Emergency services were on alert and the man was shifted to the AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he is recovering, a police statement on Saturday said.“We were lucky, and so was he. The (man’s) address was precise (in SIM card registration) and had all details. We shared it with the police control room (in Palam Vihar),” said Roy.Facebook did not immediately respond to request for confirmation.Sub-inspector Amit Kumar at the Palam Vihar police station was among the team that rushed to the man’s house after being informed of the suicide attempt. “I did not know anything about the Facebook live. It took us fifteenminutes to find his (the man’s) house. When we entered his house, his two kids were crying. The man had stepped out of his room and fell unconscious,” Kumar said.“Fortunately, because of the lockdown norms and also because it was past midnight, we did not find any traffic (to the hospital). We managed to reach the AIIMS Trauma Centre within 15-20 minutes, where he was treated,” Kumar added.By Friday evening, doctors at the hospital told the police the man’s condition was stable. He told the doctors that he was suffering from depression after his wife’s death in 2016 and that he cut himself with a blade after a fight with his neighbours. The reason for the fight are unclear.He is now at the hospital getting treatment for depression, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/us-tip-off-saves-city-man-streaming-suicide-bid-101622929407615.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||‘Plan to deliver ration at homes stalled again’||The Centre has once again “blocked” the Delhi government’s ambitious doorstep delivery of ration scheme days ahead of its launch with Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal rejecting the scheme, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said in a statement on Saturday. The L-G’s office, however, said Baijal did not “reject” the scheme and only “advised for the constitutional scheme of things to be followed in letter and spirit”.“The Delhi government’s revolutionary doorstep delivery of ration scheme has been stalled by the central government just days before it was to be launched across the national capital. The scheme, which would have benefitted more than 7.2 million beneficiaries has hit a roadblock again. After accepting all suggestions of the central government, Delhi government had sent the file to the L-G for his final approval on May 24, after which its immediate rollout was scheduled. But the L-G has returned the file saying the scheme cannot be implemented in Delhi,” the chief minister’s office said in a statement.Kejriwal will address a press conference on the issue on Sunday.This is the second time this year that the scheme has been stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre.The scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections to the scheme — the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament.The Delhi government, on March 24, passed a Cabinet decision to remove the name “Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna” for the scheme and to implement doorstep delivery of ration as part of the existing NFS Act, 2013. “But the Centre has blocked our scheme again,” said Delhi food minister Imran Hussain.The L-G cited two “invalid reasons” to reject the scheme which shows that his decision is “politically motivated”, claimed Hussain.“The L-G has rejected the scheme on two grounds – that it is not approved by the central government, and that there’s an ongoing court case on the scheme. No approval to launch such a scheme is required as per existing law. We also changed the name of the scheme according to their letter dated May 19. What further approval is required? It makes even less sense to stop the roll out of this scheme due to an ongoing court case. There have already been two hearings and no stay has been ordered by the court,” the Delhi minister said.Rebutting the Delhi government’s claim, the L-G ‘s office said in a statement that the file pertaining to the “notification on home delivery of processed and packaged ration under TDPS” was “returned for reconsideration to the CM by the LG. It has been advised again, like earlier on March 20, 2018, that since the proposal seeks to change the method of distribution, it would mandatorily require the prior approval of Government of India as per Section 12 (2) (h) of the National Food Security Act 2013. Additionally, it was brought to the notice that a Writ Petition WP (C) 2037/2021 in the said matter has been filed by the Delhi Sarkari Ration Dealers Sangh...The said petition is scheduled to be heard on August 20, 2021”.DJ Narain, Union food ministry spokesperson, said the Delhi government can distribute ration under any other scheme.“Why insist on disrupting an existing pan-Indian scheme which is under the NFSA?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plan-to-deliver-ration-at-homes-stalled-again-101622925219669.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||Capital will be ready for 37k cases a day during next Covid surge: CM||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said Delhi is preparing for a peak of around 37,000 Covid-19 cases a day during any next potential wave of the infection and detailed the Aam Aadmi Party government’s action plan, which includes creating robust medical oxygen infrastructure, storing buffer stocks of essential medicines and setting up two genome sequencing laboratories to better understand the role of variants in the spread of the infection. The government is planning to set up a total of 36,900 Covid-19 beds in hospitals and Covid health centres (CHCs), in addition to those in Covid care centres (CCCs), documents seen by HT showed.“Experts are saying that a third wave is bound to emerge, but nobody knows when such a wave will arrive and how dangerous it will be. We have to be prepared for the worst-case scenario. The Delhi government is planning for this wave in full swing. On Friday, I chaired two meetings for almost six hours with experts and officers who have been working throughout this pandemic. We have constituted two committees and carried out detailed discussions with them,” he said in a digital press briefing on Saturday.During the previous waves, Delhi government hospitals provided care to around 20% of all Covid-19 patients, state government data showed. Overall hospital bed capacity within the next two to three months will be ramped up to at least 36,900, the documents said.To ensure hospitals and health care facilities are adequately staffed, the Delhi government is extending the contracts of all its nurses and doctors by another six months till December 31. “To improve the availability of doctors in all hospitals, the Delhi government will introduce a one-year internship for graduating postgraduate students in city hospitals, so that they can start working as senior residents immediately and also gain useful functional experience,” said a senior health official.As the April-May surge of the infection ravaged the city, the state government progressively increased the number of Covid beds in its hospitals from 5,221 in April to 7,978 in June. Similarly, the state ramped up ICU bed capacity in these facilities from 1,830 in April to 3,100 this month.Further, with an eye on tracking variants of the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, the Delhi government also said it will set up two genome sequencing labs — in the state-run Lok Nayak hospital, and the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) — within three months.In his press briefing on Saturday, Kejriwal also said the teams concerned are assessing the number of oxygen beds, ICU beds, medicines, and oxygen masks children may require.Kejriwal also said there was a “huge shortage” of oxygen during the April-May surge, which consequently meant the city could not set up enough oxygen beds.“We don’t want to face such a situation again, should another wave arrive. Therefore, preparations have been made – a storage capacity of 420MT of oxygen is being readied. We’ve had talks with Indraprastha Gas Limited and they have been asked to prepare a 150MT oxygen production plant, for which they have said that it will take 18 months,” he said. Kejriwal added that a paediatric task force has also been constituted.“In case a third wave does happen, children will be the most vulnerable because others would have either had the infection or received a vaccine...We would need fresh treatment protocols and SOPs,” said Dr Lalit Kant former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-will-be-ready-for-37k-cases-a-day-during-next-covid-surge-cm-101622922191998.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||Lockdown pollution higher in 2021 than last year: Study||The lockdown imposed this year on account of the second wave of Covid-19 was not as effective in bringing down the pollution levels in the national capital as it was last year, showed an air quality analysis conducted by the Delhi-based think tank Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).“Lockdowns were effective in bringing down PM2.5 levels this year as well. But given the shorter duration and lesser stringent lockdown this year, the levels are not as low as summer 2020,” read the analysis by CSE.The think tank said that the imposition of a partial lockdown (from April 6 to April 19) lowered PM2.5 levels by 20% in Delhi, while the complete lockdown (from April 20 onwards) brought the average pollution levels further down by 12%.“Meteorology would be partly responsible for this elevated level but this could also be a reflection of weakening of pollution control measures and efforts in the city and region during the pandemic phase. Traffic intensity was also comparatively higher,” the analysis added.The report said the monthly average level of PM2.5 in April and May this year, which was the phase when hard lockdown was imposed in the Capital, was higher compared to April-May 2020 -- a period which was marked by a strict nationwide lockdown.It said the evening peak of the hourly cycle of NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) was 29% higher during this year’s lockdown as compared to the lockdown last year. However, it was still 57% lower than the regular evening peak noted in May of 2019.“The key highlight is that during spring time, January to March, when pollution level begins to subside after winter, PM2.5 this year has recorded the highest seasonal levels compared to the corresponding period in preceding years, including 2019 which was a normal year,” said Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager in CSE’s urban lab team of the sustainable cities programme.“...despite the partial restrictions, pollution levels have increased. While the reason needs investigation, it is important to understand that there would be a rebound effect with the full opening of the economy,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), CSE.The CSE analysis also showed that there were 27 ”very poor” days in terms of air quality this February-March compared to 17 last year and 12 in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lockdown-pollution-higher-in-2021-than-last-year-study-101622922636917.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s active cases dip to 4 digits||For the first time in months, the active infection numbers in Haryana came below five-digit mark on Saturday. The number of active cases on Saturday were 9,974. As per a medical bulletin, the state reported 723 new infections, 1,744 recoveries and 59 deaths on Saturday. The day’s positivity rate further came down to 1.87% from 2.13% on Friday and the recovery rate improved to 97.55%. The health authorities tested 41,467 individuals for the virus on Saturday. Hisar district, with 979 active infections, continued to have the highest active case count followed by Sirsa (907), Gurugram (812), Karnal (772), Panipat (566), Panchkula (561), Yamunanagar (533), Faridabad (523), Rohtak (489), Bhiwani (486), Mahendergarh (450), Jind (439), Ambala (429), Kaithal (404), Kurukshetra and Fatehabad (420 each).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-active-cases-dip-to-4-digits-101622922866343.html
06-06-2021||Other||Jama Masjid minaret damaged due to heavy rain, strong wind||New Delhi: One of the minarets of Delhi’s Jama Masjid was damaged in strong winds and rain that struck the city on Friday evening, the mosque staff said. A sudden thunderstorm and rain accompanied by winds as strong as 60 kilometers per hour lashed the city on Friday, following which some tiles from minaret came off. The heavy tiles also damaged the courtyard. No one was injured in the incident. The mosque has been shut due to lockdown restrictions. According to mosque staff, a slab of red sandstone from the minaret came crashing down following rain in the evening around 5:45 pm. “Repairs at Jama Masjid are carried out by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) out on the special orders of the Prime Minister. We will talk to the ASI on Monday,” said Ansar-Ul-Haq, assistant PRO at Jama Masjid. Built by Mughal emperor Shahjahan, the mosque is not an ASI-protected monument. The responsibility of the mosque’s maintenance rests with the Delhi Waqf Board. Mehfooz Mohammad, section officer, Delhi Waqf Board, said that a managing committee headed by the imam look after maintenance issues. “The committee headed by the present imam looks after maintenance issues. They usually reach out to conservation experts from the ASI. If our intervention is needed, we will step in with support,” he said. Since last year, repair and conservation work at key monuments of the city has suffered on account of the pandemic. Some repair work of the mosque’s dome was undertaken last year before the imposition of lockdown. Last year, following heavy rain in July, the central dome of the 200-year-old Masjid Mubarak Begum in Old Delhi’s Hauz Qazi Chowk had collapsed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jama-masjid-minaret-damaged-due-to-heavy-rain-strong-wind-101622922506676.html
06-06-2021||Other||Unlock could be the cherry on top for growers in Kashmir||The onset of the summer fruit season has fortuitously coincided with the unlock process in Jammu and Kashmir, raising cherry growers’ hopes for rich returns after suffering losses last year due to an extended lockdown. Kashmir produces four highly sought-after varieties of cherry — double, makhmali, mishri and Italy — most of which are sold outside the Valley, for premium prices. With harvest underway, cherry growers are trying to send the fruit to other states at the earliest. Some are availing flights to ensure that no time is lost in selling the highly perishable fruit.The cherry harvesting season begins from mid-May and lasts up to the first week of July. As per estimates of J&K’s horticulture department cherry is being cultivates on around 2,800 hectares, which yields an annual turnover of around 130 to 150 crore. Though cherry is grown ubiquitously in the Valley, the major produce comes from central and northern Kashmir.Prolonged cold hit productionThe UT’s annual production of the stone fruit is around 12,000 metric tons. However, growers say this year production has been low due to prolonged cold weather conditions.Horticulture director Ajaz Ahmad Bhat said the production of the crops, whether strawberry or cherry, “was not so bad. The government has made arrangements so that the growers do not face any trouble exporting the fruit outside Kashmir amid the pandemic.”“Now, harvest of apricot and other stone fruits will follow. The government has already announced subsidies on air freight for cherry,” Bhat said, adding that the horticulture department had already signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the airline carrier, GoAir, for transportation of perishable horticulture and agricultural produce to destinations across the country, especially Mumbai.A grower, Mohammad Yusuf Pattan, said despite the hailstorms and fluctuating weather patterns the cherry production had not suffered much. “As compared to last year, the production has undoubtedly been less. We are selling the fruit in local markets and also mandis from where it is dispatched outside the state. Last year, we had to face losses because of the extended lockdown.”‘Rates compensate for lower production’Fruit Growers And Dealers Association president Bashir Ahmad Bhat says, “The lower production has jacked up the rates. We are dispatching cherries via road, air and train to other mandis.”J&K had witnessed a bumper crop in 2018. Officials in the horticulture department said the production had reached around 11,289 and 11,789 metric tons in 2017 and 2018, respectively. In 2019 and 2020, the cherry production had also been around 12,000 metric tons, as per the official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unlock-could-be-the-cherry-on-top-for-growers-in-kashmir-101622922506252.html
06-06-2021||Other||3 crore saplings to be planted in a year in Haryana: CM||Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said three crore saplings will be planted in a year in Haryana and the plantation will be done on 10% of the 8 lakh acres of panchayat land- which will be named as Oxy Forest. The chief minister said that pension amount of ₹2,500 would be given per year for the maintenance of trees, which are 75 years old under Pran Vayu Devta Pension Yojana. He said that ‘Pranvayu Devta Pension’ scheme will be unique and the first of its kind in India. As a matter of honour, the state government has taken an initiative to honour all those trees which are of the age of 75 years and above and have served humanity throughout their life by producing oxygen, reducing pollution, providing shade and so on. Such trees will be identified throughout the state and these will be looked after by involving local people in this scheme. Even, agro forestry will also be promoted on vacant land so that panchayat income in rural areas can also increase. The government to give ₹10,000 as an incentive to the farmer adopting Agro Forestry for three years, he added. The CM said that the Oxy Van, Karnal, will be created on Old Mughal Canal on an area of 80 acres covering a total length of 4.2 Kms and Oxy Van Panchkula will be established in Bir Ghaggar over an area of one hundred acresThe chief minister said that the state government has reintroduced Mera Pani-Meri Virasat scheme to cut ground water depletion by shifting farmers from water guzzling paddy to other crops.He said that for this, it was decided that an incentive amount of ₹7,000 per acre would be given to the farmers adopting crop diversification in place of paddy and now the government has decided that any farmer who opts for agro forestry and plants 400 trees on his land, then an amount of ₹10,000 would be given to such farmers for a period of three years instead of ₹7,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-crore-saplings-to-be-planted-in-a-year-in-haryana-cm-101622922326142.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||JJP’s Tohana MLA apologises to farmers, withdraws FIR||Three days after three activists were arrested for gheraoing the house of Jannayak Janta Party MLA Devinder Babli, farmers staged a sit-in protest outside the Sadar police station in Fatehabad’s Tohana on Saturday. Farmers led by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders Rakesh Tikait and Gurnam Singh Charuni asked the police either to ensure court arrest of all farmers or release the three activists.In the evening, Babli met farm leaders at the Balliala rest house in Tohana. He apologised to the protesters and withdrew the cases registered against them. Two FIRs had been registered against protesters after a spat with Babli on June 1 and the third FIR was registered after the farmers gheraoed his house one June 2.In a video message , Babli said he had pardoned those who had pelted stones on his cavalcade and as a public representative from Tohana he was sorry for using “some derogatory words” against the protesters. “ I have apologised to the farmers for using abusive language,” he said.“The MLA has apologised but the administration has not released our protesters from Hisar jail,” Tikait said.The spat between farmers and Babli started when the farmers gheraoed his SUV while he was on the way to Tohana Civil hospital to take part in a vaccination programme. The farmers have given a call to gherao police stations across the state on June 7, if police fail to lodge an attempt to murder case against Babli.Earlier in the day, thousands of farmers had attended a panchayat, which was addressed by Tikait, Charuni, Yogendra Yadav and others in Tohana to protest against police raids and the arrest of their three colleagues. Farmers demanded an FIR against Babli, his PA Radhe Bishnoi and the government doctor, who treated Bishnoi after he sustained injuries and on whose recommendation the FIR was lodged. “The doctor had made some injury marks on the PA’s body,” Charuni alleged. Charuni said, “Instead of raiding our houses, the police should come armed with warrants and arrest us. If the three arrested farm leaders are guilty, then so are we. We will go to the police station and demand to be arrested.” Farmers burn copies of three farm lawsObserving Sampoorna Kranti Divas, farmers burnt copies of the three farm laws across the state. They staged protests near the houses of MP Sunita Duggal, deputy CM Dushyant Chautala and power minister Ranjit Singh Chautala in Sirsa. Protesters burnt copies of the contentious laws outside the houses of agriculture minister JP Dalal in Loharu, Naina Chautala and Bhiwani-Mahendergarh MP Dharambir Singh’s offices in Charkhi Dadri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jjps-tohana-mla-apologises-to-farmers-withdraws-fir-101622921908567.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: A plover bonanza||The abnormal water deficit at the Siswan and Mirzapur check dams in the Shivalik foothills this summer has churned up an unexpected spin-off. Two avian species rarely found in our region and which were in passage migration to northern latitudes for summer breeding, were photographed by delighted troupes of tricity photographers.On May 29, the greater sand plover was photographed for the first time in the Inter-State Capital Region (ISCR), an area encompassing a radius of 50km from Chandigarh for the purpose of an avian species checklist.As luck would have it, the lesser sand plover offered a double, golden opportunity as it was keeping the close company of the greater plover. Both species were at Siswan Dam and prefer the slushy, quicksand-like shores exposed by freshly receding waterlines.The recent photographic record of the lesser sand plover is the second one for the ISCR, the first having come at the Sukhna Lake on May 13, 2018, by this writer.Both plover species migrate in good numbers to Indian coasts in winter, but few specimens are recorded as deep inland as the Chandigarh region while returning in summer to Ladakh and regions beyond and north of the Himalayas. The novel twist to this bird tale is that the two plover species were photographed by an unusual entrant to the competitive field of avian photography. It is none other than a top cop: ADGP, Welfare, Punjab Police, V (Voruvuru) Neeraja! Her photographs of May 29 triggered a flash wave of photographers, who rushed to the dams to record these rare species before they vanished into the northern horizon. “I took to bird photography and videos to educate my daughter, nephews and nieces about names of species. Children have to be sensitised to the beauty and diversity of nature so that they grow up to protect the environment and habitats of wild flora and fauna. I also sensitise wildlife officers on safeguarding habitats based on my observations in the field while birding,” Neeraja told this writer. Bravo!Greed triumphs needA ramble around the drying water holes in the Shivaliks is distinguished by an odd odour. The standard stink of decaying buffalo dung is replaced by the stench of putrefying sambars. Mostly fawns, these deer have been killed by packs of free-ranging stray, village or domestic dogs when the creatures come to quench their thirst. These dog packs include vicious pit bulls, bull terriers, hybridised pointers, which are deployed to guard fields and are used by some villagers for poaching.Dogs kill many more fawns than they can eat, as evidenced by a number of uneaten or partially devoured carcasses. The wanton killing is unlike that of natural predators such as leopards or tigers, who kill only as much as they can eat. Killer dogs, as companions of humans, thus subscribe to the despicable creed of greed reigning supreme over need. The purpose of wanton killing of wild mammals or birds by dogs is to establish domination over water holes. However, canny dog packs are less active at night around water holes due to leopard threat. When water is plentiful and sambars are difficult to slaughter, as in monsoon and beyond, dogs are not seen around water holes. They retreat to villages, where they are heavily subsidised by humans in terms of food, garbage, shelter and water. Exploding dog numbers is in itself an unnatural phenomenon.Ironically, domestic dogs are among the rarest of rare predators protected by a plethora of Indian “animal welfare” laws and an army of law and social media-savvy urbane activists. The related impotence of wildlife protection laws elevates killer dogs to VVIP immunity! It is pithily said that a man-eating tiger is easier put down by authorities than a dog on a human biting or Sambar-killing spree.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-a-plover-bonanza-101622921907442.html
06-06-2021||Delhi||Capital to ease more curbs from Monday||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that restrictions, including those on markets and transport, were being eased in the Capital after a seven-week lockdown that was necessitated by a devastating fourth wave of Covid-19 cases that overran the city’s health care system and led to shortages in critical medical supplies.Delhi Metro trains will be allowed to operate at 50% seating capacity, and shops in markets and malls can reopen on an odd-even basis from Monday, with the chief minister asserting that the national capital’s economy needed to be revived in view of the improving Covid-19 situation. The test-positivity rate fell to 0.53%, according to the government’s daily health bulletin.Delhi on Saturday added 414 cases as the city’s fourth and the worst wave of Covid-19 infections continued to taper, prompting the government authorities to focus on a phased withdrawal of lockdown restrictions while also preparing in advance for another potential outbreak.On Saturday, the government eased restrictions on stand-alone shops, markets and shopping malls, and permitted private and government offices to open with half their strength. The new rules will be effective from 5am on Monday.“The Covid-19 situation in Delhi appears to be improving, and keeping that in mind, we began theunlock procedure last week. It is necessary to bring the economy back on track now. Last week, we opened up the construction and factory sectors… The situation appears to be under control and by god’s grace should continue to remain under control,” Kejriwal said.At its peak in the April-May surge, Delhi added 28,395 cases of the infection in a single day on April 20 — the most the city has seen since the pandemic broke out in March last year. The high numbers of daily cases and the positivity rate compelled the Delhi government to extend the lockdown every week since April 19. It was extended six times.Kejriwal said markets and shopping malls will open from Monday, but on an odd-even basis from 10am to 8pm every day. “This means half the shops will be operational on one day and the other half the following day. It will be based on the shop numbers. At any given day, only 50% of the shops in a mall, shopping complex or market shall be opened,” he said.However, restaurants, bars and food courts across the city will remain shut and only takeaway or delivery will be allowed, senior government officials clarified.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) issued an order about the new rules in which it permitted stand-alone and neighbourhood shops to operate on all days from 10am to 8pm. This means such shops do not have to operate on an odd-even basis.In malls and markets, however, shops selling essential items including books, stationery, fans, air-conditioners and coolers will be allowed to open on all days. Liquor shops in Delhi will open from Monday, but on an odd-even basis. Weekly markets, gyms, spas, salons, auditoriums and swimming pools remain prohibited this week as well.After DDMA’s order, the Delhi Metro said it will resume services with trains running at a frequency of 5-15 minutes, depending on the route/line. Entry at stations will be regulated through identified gates. Passengers will not be allowed to stand inside the coaches.Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), said that on Monday, only half of the available trains will be inducted into service. He said DMRC was also writing to appropriate authorities to maintain law and order outside Metro stations to handle the rush.“The number of trains will be inducted in full strength in a graded manner by Wednesday and thereafter, services will be available as per normal frequency which was available before the lockdown. In order to ensure social distancing and compliance to 50% seating inside trains, public is also advised to take extra time for their daily commute and exhibit Covid-appropriate behaviour outside the stations and also while waiting for their turn to enter the station,” Dayal said.Passengers with an e-pass or employer’s ID will be allowed to travel in the state-run DTC or cluster buses. There has also been no change in the two-passenger-per-vehicle rule for travelling in cabs, auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws.DDMA allowed both government and private offices to operate, but with 50% staff. “All private offices can be opened up at 50% manpower between 9am and 5pm. But efforts should be made to ensure that more people work from home. Private offices should make attempts to stagger their work hours to ensure not everyone comes out at the same time,” said Kejriwal.People engaged in e-commerce deliveries will continue to be allowed. Besides, revenue services such as property registry will re-open in all district magistrate (DM) and sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) offices.The unlock rules invited mixed reactions on Saturday. Atul Goyal, president of United Residents Joint Action (URJA), an umbrella body of 2,500 RWAs in the city, said the relaxations were needed to resume economic activities for people, most of whom are suffering major losses in some form or the other.“We welcome the Delhi government’s order. But it appears to somewhat compromise on the alertness needed by a state to prevent a more severe third wave (fifth for Delhi). The markets could have been allowed for a shorter duration. Allowing everyone to open for 10 hours is a bit dangerous, even though it would be on odd-even basis,” said Goyal.Sanjay Bhargava, president of the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said the rule of an e-pass or ID for shopkeepers and its workers in the DDMA order was challenging. “The CM said apart from these relaxations the curfew shall remain as it is. The order also implies the same. Is it not unfair that shopkeepers and their workers have been asked to get e-passes and IDs, while nothing is required for customers?” he said.A senior government official said customers will not require an e-pass for visiting markets.Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore, said that although the cases have gone down, there is a need to ensure 100% masking and social distancing. “That is the best way to prevent transmission, better than vaccine even. But for that to happen, we need participation of the people and a change in behaviour,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-to-ease-more-curbs-from-monday-101622919761714.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Malta-based company offers to provide 60 million doses of Sputnik to Haryana||After its global bid to purchase 10 million Covid-19 vaccine doses did not get a response, the Haryana government on Saturday said a Malta-headquartered pharma company has come up with an offer to provide 60 million doses of Sputnik V vaccine.Pharma Regulatory Services Limited, which gave an expression of interest to provide Sputnik vaccine, is based in the southern European island nation of Malta, a known tax haven. Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said though the offer has come after the due date of the global tender lapsed, it is still being examined to see if it met the criteria of the tender document and ensured optimal vaccine availability for the state. “We are verifying the antecedents of the pharma company. We will also get in touch with the Indian High Commission in Malta to do a thorough check on the company,” said Arora.An official spokesperson said the Malta-based Pharma Regulatory Services Limited has given an expression of interest to Haryana Medical Services Corporation Limited (HMSCL) for providing 60 million Sputnik vaccine doses at ₹1,120 per dose. The firm has given a timeline of 30 days to supply the first batch of half a million (5 lakh) doses, followed by a million doses every 20 days till the supply is completed against a letter of credit issued in their name.The last date for receipt of global tender was June 4. Russian manufactured Sputnik-V is the only vaccine besides Covishield of Serum Institute of India and Covaxin of Bharat Biotech which has been granted emergency use authorisation (EUA) by the Drug Controller General of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/maltabased-company-offers-to-provide-60-million-doses-of-sputnik-to-haryana-101622921666103.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Witerati: Of Meghan’s book pithy and Kamala’s chithi||BLURB It is as much the season of Meghan Markle’s book about father and son, as of Kamala Harris’ Chithis’ Day Out in the sunEven as closer to home, actor Juhi Chawla landed in the bad books of the Bench hearing her lawsuit against 5G, on foreign turf there were tidings that did not spell well for Duchess of Sussex Meghan Markle’s book, The Bench.With a row erupting between her publisher and a leading bookseller, Markle may find she is not only getting in the bad books of the monarchy, but also that things are looking bad for her book.While much of cosmopolitan India Quarantining looks to have been busy hooked to books, some Tweeple have been busier bustling about to toss up tips on how to be in bad books. Or, make the most of being in bad books.Juhi Chawla: 3G mantra for making it to the high court Bench’s bad books. Invite fans for dhoom on Zoom in virtual courtroom. Then watch 3G do its job. Gatecrash, Gaana, “Ghungat ki Aad Mein”.Meghan Markle: When not busy babbling into British royalty’s bad books (Oprah or offstage), the next best thing to do is make royalty from books.Olympian Sushil Kumar: Fine Art of Fleeing by nook or crook, when the constabulary is out to book. Class-12 board students: How not to care about getting into parents’ bad books, as long as one can officially bunk the book.The Curious Case of ‘5G Ghar Par Hain?’Of Kamala Calling and chithisThe Prime Minister can certainly claim to be in the good books of the Joe Biden administration, considering he got his first call from none other than American vice-president Kamala Harris.And how the two Vax-ed eloquent!These trending tidings came close on the heels of news about Harris’ uncle’s 80th birthday in Covid-consumed India. The pandemic’s gloom and doom have mostly seen me shunning tamasha TV’s negativity-dripping news hour. Much in the manner one would shrink from American chop suey served with sauce that tastes not a drop sweet and simply sour.But what alerted my cochlear compartments to recent babblings of ‘breaking news’ about Harris is a name reeled off among her India family. It bestirred the backwaters of memory from many summers ago. Like gossamer lace from girlhood’s gift trunk being unwrapped.It refreshed the receded contours of a countenance stowed into the subterranean sleepiness of my subconscious. A genial and gentle face with a soft voice that could sound strict when need be.Since Harris’ shout-out to her “chithis” and anointment to the American hot seat, but naturally, her assortment of aunts and uncles have popped up practically everywhere propelled by the paparazzi.Reflected Glory meets Fifteen Minutes of Fame.As the Pashas of prime-time TV prattled about Harris’ call, the mists of time shrouding a faded face peeled away, layer by layer.“Left …. Right …. Left,” that soft voice of seasons back had instructed me. No, it was not a Baba Ramdev-esque reminiscence of a yoga class posturing. Nor was it about my political posturing.It had to do with calm clinicality.The voice had turned stern when I had once suggested a softer option, “No short cuts in life!”The foggy fumes of that forgotten memory finally lifted fully.Hers had been the last face that I remembered leaning over me, before the fast ‘n’ furious fumes of anaesthesia had ages ago consumed my consciousness.My forgotten tryst with none other than Harris’ “chithi”, Sarala Gopalan.The grand matriarch and former head of PGI gynaecology department who had presided over my C-section birthing pangs and had a hand in my sonny dearest not staying tied to mommy’s umbilical cord.The curious case of ‘Chithi Chithi Pang Pang’. chetnakeer@yahoo.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/witerati-of-meghan-s-book-pithy-and-kamala-s-chithi-101622921606897.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays: Let’s weave a web of motivation||With the mood of the world rather low, with despondency on the rise and with people in requirement of mental planks of support, motivational interventions are much in demand, and direly needed. In fact, there are too few of us who are (almost) whole time motivators, or at least try to be so!Society has never before needed, to such an extent, an embalming effect, healing prayers and kind words. People young and old are in their shells, almost as if the enemy is unleashing a barrage of mortar shells, which in a way, this unseen enemy has actually done.Those who have lost dear ones during the pandemic, or have suffered themselves, are even more in need of a soothing, calming, presence in their lives. With all this negative air floating around, there is a crying need for freshness, enthusiasm and inspiration.Thus, the need to create a strong and wide network of motivators who will make it their passion, if not their vocation, to spread vibrations of cheerfulness, hope and positive energy all around.Motivators need not stick to any strict regimen, or even be trained in motivational speaking skills, they just need to know that one of their goals in life is to inspire people they come in contact with. A youngster who spends time chatting up and listening to an elderly couple, is performing his or her motivational role very well.“Be an encourager. The world has plenty of critics already.” Author David Willis came up with this and similar quotes to show that our attitude is what really matters. Everyone can be an encourager, an ambassador of motivation, a walking-talking transmitter of peppiness. All one needs is to carry a ‘portable paradise’ within the heart, as the saint advised us to do.Easier said than done? Indeed so. Times are testing and tumultuous. Waves of fear and its terrible cousins — worry, anxiety, and depression — are incessantly beating against the shores of our minds. The all-conquering forces of social media are invading our beings and are changing our mindsets almost irrevocably.Yet if an armada of young students and old pros join hands and pledge to ameliorate the mental suffering of humanity at large, much can be achieved by way of improving the general state of mental health of the world’s population. Children in particular, if urged to come up with innovative ideas to motivate those who are down in the dumps, can work wonders. Through story-telling, through arts-based therapy sessions, through small group discussions, through music, games and sports, through video messages of the humorous and bouncy kinds, the young brigade can conquer the armies of gloom that have threatened our collective state of mind in recent times.My younger daughter, Kavya, has been remarkably successful in making youngsters of her age feel much elevated in spirit by holding online arts-based therapy sessions with them and using fine art, music and writing therapy to improve their motivation levels. The youth are aware of unending innovative ways in which to reach out to the lonely and morose. By transforming their efforts in a focused manner through a sustained campaign, they can work wonders and help society at large.Our Think Tank, SUVICHAR, has embarked upon a programme to ‘motivate the motivators’ so that large numbers of people can be encouraged to join hands and make a mark throughout the land. An online series of webinars is being organised with speakers from all walks of life who are speaking from the heart and making a real impact by inspiring viewers to shun fearfulness and embrace mental toughness as well as resilience to combat the current crisis.I, too, have been doing my bit to address audiences online from every nook ‘n’ corner, whether in English, Hindi or even in my ‘toothi-phooti’ Punjabi, so that I can motivate viewers to adopt calmness, balance, creativity, cheerfulness, compassion, and such like qualities. I also tend to beseech youngsters in particular to try and win the battle of the mind by eschewing all thoughts of failure and sickness.The problems that mankind faces are real, of course. But an inspired ethos will enable us to defeat them all, and more.vivek.atray@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-let-s-weave-a-web-of-motivation-101622921427437.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||HCS officers face heat in attempted land acquisition fraud in Palwal||An attempt by officials to swindle the state exchequer by manipulating the land acquisition process in the national capital region district of Palwal has been thwarted following a probe. After grave irregularities were detected in the process of land acquisition for the upcoming Western Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) of the Railways in Palwal, the Haryana government has decided to initiate disciplinary action against a Haryana Civil Services (HCS) officer and seek explanation from two HCS officers. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given a go-ahead for initiation of action against the errant officials, top officials said.Also, it has been decided to initiate criminal action against patwaris and officials who purchased a portion of the acquired project land for swindling the public exchequer, officials said. Top officials said that HCS officer Kanwar Singh, who was posted as sub divisional magistrate (SDM), Palwal, will be placed under suspension and chargesheeted for major penalty. Explanation of Singh’s predecessors and fellow HCS officers Jitender Kumar and Dr Naresh has been sought by the state government regarding infirmities committed in the land acquisition matter during their tenures as SDM, Palwal. Disciplinary action is also being initiated against registration clerks, reader and data entry operators. Inquiry nailed the fraudulent attemptA probe, conducted by a committee of Palwal additional deputy commissioner (ADC), chief executive officer of the Zila Parishad and district revenue officer, found that Palwal SDM Kanwar Singh was responsible for making excess calculation of ₹26.41 crore as rehabilitation and resettlement benefits to land losers. The amount, however, was not paid, and the matter was pending with Gurugram divisional commissioner after DFC authorities filed a case. The inquiry report was endorsed by Palwal deputy commissioner and Faridabad divisional commissioner.“It is amply clear that for acquisition of 120 kanals and 8 marlas, the number of families entitled to rehabilitation and resettlement benefits (payment of annuity and one-time resettlement allowance) are 493. Palwal SDM Kanwar Singh is completely responsible for this huge excess calculation of rehabilitation and resettlement benefits..,’’ said the inquiry report. The inquiry also found that HCS officers Jitender Kumar and Dr Naresh, during their tenure as Palwal SDM, were responsible for a six-month delay in conveying to Palwal tehsildar the issuance of a land acquisition notification under Railways Act, thus providing an opportunity for registration of land patches to many. “Jitender Kumar should have taken up the matter with the district collector for issuing directions to registration officers to not register sale transaction as provided in Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act. Thus, he can be held responsible to this extent as well,’’ the inquiry report said. Higher rates for paying compensation fixed by SinghThe report also found that rates for paying the land compensation were fixed higher than the collector rates and Palwal SDM Kanwar Singh was responsible for this. Also, the patwaris for land acquisition were engaged in a non-transparent manner and they did not possess minimum qualifications. Most of them were also found purchasing small portions of land in the name of their close relatives. It was also found that 10 sale deeds for the under-acquisition land were issued after notification under Railways Act for acquiring it. “Deeds registered after issuance of notification should not have found place in the rehabilitation and resettlement benefits to claimants,” the report said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hcs-officers-face-heat-in-attempted-land-acquisition-fraud-in-palwal-101622921426387.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ashu meets Ludhiana MC officials, reviews ongoing development projects||Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu conducted meetings with councillors of west constituency and municipal corporation (MC) officials at Zone D office on Saturday to resolve the problems being faced by the councillors and review the ongoing development projects.Ashu directed the officials and councillors to expedite the development works and seek public suggestions while taking up the projects. The councillors were also asked to urge the residents in their respective wards to get vaccinated against Covid-19.Issues discussed in the meeting included cleaning of sewer lines and road gullies ahead of monsoon season, solid waste management, timely completion of development projects, removal of encroachments, especially from the green belts/parks, cleaning of roads/streets, etc.Ashu’s wife and councillor Mamta Ashu said, “The meeting was held to review the ongoing projects and to plan more projects as per the proposals given by the councillors. The councillors and MC officials were directed to focus on getting the sewer lines and road gullies cleaned on priority so that the residents do not face problems due to waterlogging during monsoon season.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ashu-meets-ludhiana-mc-officials-reviews-ongoing-development-projects-101622921188300.html
06-06-2021||Other||National Means-cum-Merit scholarship: Ludhiana tops the state as 229 students clear exam||As many as 229 students from the district cleared the National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship (NMMS) exam, the results of which were declared by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) on Saturday. Across the state, as many as 2,210 students have passed the exam, with Ludhiana having the highest pass percentage.The exam is conducted for students of Class 8, who on clearing the exam become eligible to receive an annual scholarship of ₹12,000 per annum till they complete senior secondary school. Out of the 229 who cleared the exam, 145 belong to general, 57 to scheduled caste, 23 to backward class, and four to physically-handicapped category.Abhay, a student of Government High School, Giaspura, topped the district, scoring 131 out of 180. The second position was bagged by Gurleen Kaur, a student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Punjab Agricultural University, and the third position was secured by Umar Farooq of Government Senior Secondary School, Basti Jodhewal. Both scored 127 marks and 121 marks, respectively.District education officer (secondary) Lakhvir Singh congratulated the students, teachers, and school heads for this achievement.In Ludhiana, the top two schools, from where the maximum number of students cleared the exam are Government Senior Secondary School, Basti Jodhewal, and Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University.Abhay Kumar, the first position holder, said, “I will use the scholarship amount to pursue higher studies. I have worked hard and attended all the online classes for exam preparation. The first position in the district came as a surprise. The credit goes to my teachers Hari Dev, Paramjit Kaur, Deepika, and school in-charge Hem Lata, who encouraged me to appear for the exam.”Abhay’s father Harish Chander Mahto is a welder and his mother Anita Devi works in a factory.The second position holder, Gurleen Kaur, stated that she put in a lot of effort to clear the exam.The 12-year-old student said, “I dedicatedly prepared for two months and finally cleared the exam. It is a big achievement and I am overjoyed to have made my school and parents proud.”She aims to become an army officer and stated that she will use the scholarship amount for further studies. Her father Satnam Singh is a shopkeeper and her mother Charanjit Kaur a housewife.Umar Farooq, who bagged the third position, is a resident of Meharban. He said, “The online classes have been very helpful. My teachers had guided me before the exams. I have put in dedicated hours for preparation and revised the concepts daily to score full marks in the tests.”His father MD Sakin stitches blankets and his mother Faimida Begum stitches mats for a living. Of the 2,210 students who cleared the exam, 170 are from Jalandhar, 159 from Hoshiarpur, 158 from Amritsar, 157 from Patiala, 141 from Sangrur, 127 from Gurdaspur, 111 from Bathinda, 98 from Tarn Taran, 91 from Moga, 89 from Fazilka, 73 from Mansa, 71 from Ferozepur, 70 from Muktsar and Kapurthala, 66 from Rupnagar, 62 from SBS Nagar, 58 from Barnala, 54 from SAS Nagar, 53 each from Fatehgarh Sahib and Faridkot, 50 from Pathankot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/national-means-cum-merit-scholarship-ludhiana-tops-the-state-as-229-students-clear-exam-101622921187217.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Meandering memory lanes of Malerkotla||One has to begin somewhere and when it comes to the lore of Malerkotla, a city established in 1454 AD by Sheikh Saradruddin-i-Jahan of Afghanistan and ruled by his Sherwani descendants, I choose to begin with the narrative of a community theatre artiste late ‘Mast the Bhaand’ — a popular performer in a left-wing theatre group in Barnala who had many admirers through the 60s. What follows was recounted to me by a dear friend Manmohan Sharma — a theatre technique the reminiscent of the Mirasi-bhand tradition of feudal Punjab, used with great finesse! “I was out in the fields to bring home some fodder when Gaindarh Singh came running. “Hey you buffoon!,” he shouted at me, “You are making merry in the fields here, and out there, in Sirhind, the two younger sons of our 10th Guru are being bricked alive!” Hearing this, my heart sank and we made our way to Sirhind. Hundreds of people had assembled there, in the city that was being swept clean, and spent the night awake. “Next morning, the durbar assembled and the two Sahibzadas were brought there. What do I tell you, the older one was just like our Pappu, the landlord’s son, who studies in the English school, and the younger one so like that tubby little Gholu in the village. The Sirhind-wala Nawab asked them to change their faith and they would live. Even before the older one could speak, the younger one cried out, “We will not change our faith.”Puffing with rage, the Nawab ordered that the two children be bricked alive. At this the Malerkotla-wala Nawab got up and raised his voice: “This is unjust!” I too raised my arm and cried out: “It is absolutely unjust!”Island of peace It is this protest of the Nawab of Malerkotla that was to forever endear the Sherwani dynasty of the town to the Sikhs, which is why the Sikhs, Hindus and Muslims have lived here without a single act of violence during the holocaust of the Partition and the days of militancy. Thus, enjoying special status as the volatile states ‘island of peace’!In my long years in journalism as a roving correspondent of sorts there were many Punjab towns that I camped in doing stories but somehow, I never encountered the mystique of Malerkotla firsthand. In fact, the narrative of two writer friends of Samrala about Malerkotla made me feel that this was the city I must visit. During my many visits there, I learned from Punjabi fiction writer Mohammad Goria, who shared his birthplace with the great Saadat Hasan Manto in Papraudi village, now a part of Samrala town. He told me how his father, a simple unread oilman for a farmer was saved simply by moving to Malerkotla where Muslims were safe even in the blood-soaked times of Partition riots. Samrala poet Lal Singh Dil’s was a more colourful journey of unfulfilled dreams when he went to Malerkotla after covering to Islam to get a burqa made as he hoped that a Muslim girl would marry him.The city of dreams So, I was in the city of dreams many years ago when a publisher assigned me a book of essays on Punjab and I decided to open the book with the Malerkotla story. The journey began from Chandigarh to Fatehgarh Sahib with its picturesque gurdwara marking the place where the two Sahibzadas met their brutal end. Then a change of bus on a narrow road lined on the sides with shisham and kikar trees to Malerkotla. In Punjab, the modern exists side by side with the medieval. But that is not so strange for a country like India where Lord Rama of mythical fame can be resurrected so powerfully from myth.All I had was the contact of a young Akali leader, Azad Siddiqui, born and bred in Malerkotla. He was jubilant that the Akalis were back in power, and he told me his rags-to-riches story. His father was a poor man who repaired bags, but he educated his son till Class 10 and now Azad owns a couple of shops, a school and heads several NGOs.The next day, everything was laid out for me from Gurdwara Haa Da Naara where the Malerkotla Nawab protested against the inhuman deaths meted out to the young sons of Guru Gobind Singh, to a meeting with the elderly widow of the late Nawab of our times. I was provided literature aplenty on the Sherwani dynasty. And of course, the Dargah Hyder Shaikh in Malerkotla, which does not have as many devotees among the Muslim population as among the Hindus and Sikhs who visit it for wish fulfilment. But the bazaars of the city fascinate me with their exquisite zardozi embroidery as they make badges on contract for the police and the army. Then a story unfolds of the celebrities the town has known from Dharmendra who worked as a tubewell operator and played badminton in colourful shirts. His pictures for the Bollywood Talent Contest were clicked at the local John’s Studio and boy didn’t he make it. And trailblazing in music is another Malerkotla boy, Irshad Kamil — a famous poet and lyricist who did his birthplace proud.But one wish remains unfulfilled for when I ask Azad the Akali guide that I would like to have a glass of frothing malai milk in the bazaar, a speciality of the town, he rules it out. “We cannot take you there. It is not proper. This is a Muslim town and women stay in purdah.” So now I resolve that once the lockdowns end, I am going to Malerkotla sans a guide to have a frothing glass of malai milk in celebration of it now becoming as district and perhaps complete the book that is still not written!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-meandering-memory-lanes-of-malerkotla-101622921128326.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||FIR against Ludhiana man for sodomising nine-year-old boy||Dehlon police have booked a 40-year-old man for allegedly sodomising the nine-year-old son of his neighbour in Khanpur after barging into their house. The FIR has been registered following the complaint of the victim’s mother. The complainant stated that she was busy with daily chores, while her son was playing in another room. When she noticed that the light of the room was switched off, she called her son.On finding her son crying, she enquired about the matter and he told her that their neighbour had sexually assaulted him. The woman said that when she went inside the room, the accused fled after pushing her away. She added that she has no idea when the accused entered the room. As per the woman, her son used to address the accused as uncle and used to play with him.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Ranjit Singh, who is investigating the case, said that the FIR has been registered under Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act against the accused. A hunt is on to arrest him, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fir-against-ludhiana-man-for-sodomising-nine-year-old-boy-101622921126068.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Inspector, woman constable among 4 booked for abetting youth’s suicide in Ludhiana||Allegedly humiliated by a police inspector, a woman constable and her two relatives, a 23-year-old man has ended his life by jumping into a canal near Machhiwara. The woman constable was sister-in-law (brother’s wife) of the victim and it is alleged that she was having an extra-marital affair with the inspector, in-charge of police control room, Khanna. The body of the victim was fished out of the canal on Friday. The Machhiwara police have registered a first information report (FIR) under the charges of abetment to suicide against four persons following the complaint of the victim’s brother, who is also serving as a constable in the police department. The complainant, a resident of Garhi Tarkhana village, said he had married the accused woman constable on October 27, 2020.He added that soon after their marriage, the woman had a fall out with him, his mother and brother. He alleged that she also mounted pressure on him to shift to police quarters in Khanna.The complainant alleged that his wife kept on fighting with him over minor things. Uncle of his wife, her cousin and the police inspector used to intervene in the dispute, but they always used to favour his wife, the complainant said. He claimed that in the meantime, he came to know about the affair his wife was having with the police inspector. He alleged that on June 1, the accused had humiliated him, his mother and brother following a spat between him and his wife. He said following that, his brother left the house and jumped into the canal. They came to know about the extreme step when they found his motorcycle parked near Garhi canal bridge. His body was fished out of the canal on Friday, after which he lodged a complaint against the accused.Machhiwara station house officer (SHO) inspector Rajesh Thakur said that the FIR has been registered under sections 306 (abetment to suicide) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the four accused. A hunt is on to arrest them, he added.Man ends life by slitting his wrists in Fatehganj A 28-year-old man ended his life by slitting his wrists in Mohalla Fatehganj on Friday. The Division Number 3 police have launched a probe to ascertain the reason behind the extreme step.At the time of the incident, the man was alone at home. His family came to know about his suicide in the evening, when his wife, who is a banker, returned home. He was rushed to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), where the doctors declared him brought dead. Division Number 3 SHO sub-inspector Madhu Bala said the man had returned home from work at 1pm. At the time of the incident, his wife was at her workplace, while his parents had gone to Barnala to see one of their relatives after handing over the keys of their neighbour.The neighbours told the police that the man took the keys of the house and went inside. A deliveryman also went back after persistent knocking around 5pm.The SHO said his wife was first to witness him lying unconscious on the floor. The man had married 18 months ago. The police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC following the statement of kin of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/inspector-woman-constable-among-4-booked-for-abetting-youth-s-suicide-in-ludhiana-101622921066452.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sigh of relief as active cases drop below 3,000 after 60 days in Ludhiana||Five persons died while 201 tested positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours in Ludhiana district.At 2,827, the number of active cases in Ludhiana fell below 3,000 on Saturday for the first time in two months. It was on April 7 when the number of active cases was 2,987 and it had been continuously rising ever since. The total number of Covid cases in the district since the beginning of the pandemic stands at 85,251. The five deaths reported on Saturday took the total number of fatalities to 2,026.The deceased included four men and a woman, with two 33-year-old male residents of Mall Road and Haibowal Kalan being the youngest to succumb to the virus.A 68-year-old woman of Millerganj was the oldest to die, while the other two males, aged 65 and 60, who lost their lives were from Khanna and Rishi Nagar. The fatality rate in the district is 2.38%, while the recovery rate has shot up to 94.3%. There are 40 patients currently on ventilator support in the city.Meanwhile, neither a fresh case nor a casualty related to mucormycosis (black fungus) was reported in the district in the last 24 hours, the health department officials said. Three patients have recovered from the disease, taking the count of active black fungus cases in the district to 46 on Saturday.Till now, 92 confirmed cases of black fungus have been reported in the district, of which 12 patients have succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sigh-of-relief-as-active-cases-drop-below-3-000-after-60-days-in-ludhiana-101622921006959.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Haryana yet to pay their share for CHB’s high-end housing scheme||The future of the Chandigarh Housing Board’s (CHB) high-end flats for officials and MLAs in IT Park is in doldrums as both Punjab and Haryana have yet to clear their share of payment for the project.“We can’t move ahead with the project unless financial commitment is proceeded with,” said Yashpal Garg, chief executive officer, CHB.“For starting the construction of the flats, CHB has repeatedly written to both Punjab and Haryana governments for releasing their share of 25% payment. But so far, none has,” said a senior UT official. Notably, CHB has already finalised the architectural plans for the project.In September 2019, CHB had sought opinion from both the governments for buying these flats for their officials in IT Park. Additionally, PGIMER had also expressed willingness to buy the flats.The housing board is expected to construct 10 seven-storey towers with 28 flats each, having a base price of ₹2 crore each. All three agencies are expected to pay ₹66 crore each for their share of the flats. The project is to come up on 6.73 acres.Housing project for general public also in limboAnother CHB housing scheme coming up in IT Park for the general public, which was planned to be floated in April, is stuck with the plan approval committee of the UT administration.The committee has sought clarifications over the plans on several issues, one of them being construction of EWS flats, which are mandatory in a housing scheme. The CHB has decided to shift the EWS flats from the project to a separate location in Sector 54.Garg said, “We are awaiting the approval of the committee. We have submitted the responses to the clarifications they had sought. Simultaneously, we have also initiated the process of getting environmental clearances for the project. Only after both approvals are in place, we will float the scheme.”In all, 728 flats have been planned in three categories. A four-bedroom flat is likely to cost nearly ₹2.75 crore, three-bedroom flat ₹1.9 crore and two bedroom flat ₹1.3 crore. As per the proposed plan, the project includes 28 4BHK flats, 448 3BHKs and 252 2BHKs.The towers will have two basements with parking provision for two cars per flat in addition to surface parking for visitors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-haryana-yet-to-pay-their-share-for-chb-s-high-end-housing-scheme-101622920946136.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers hold protests across Punjab, burn copies of agri laws||On a call given by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of 40 farmers’ unions, protests were held across Punjab on Saturday to observe “Sampoorna Kranti Diwas” marking the day when three farm legislations were promulgated as ordinances last year. Carrying black flags, farmers raised slogans against the BJP-led central government and burnt copies of the contentious laws, which they said will destroy the farming community.Cops were deployed and barricades put up near the protest sites to maintain law and order.In Phagwara, farmers burnt copies of farm laws near the residence of Union minister Som Parkash at Urban Estate. The protesters assembled near the GT Road and marched towards his residence. The Union minister was not at home at the time of the protest. The agitating farmers also held a protest near Parkash’s residence in Mohali.Protests were also held in Amritsar, Jalandhar, Mohali, Abohar, Hoshiarpur, Barnala, Nawanshahr and Patiala. In south Malwa, activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) held dharnas outside the residences of BJP leaders Surjeet Kumar Jyani in Fazilka and Dyal Sodhi Tungwali in Bathinda.No untoward incident was reported, though protesters violated Covid guidelines at several places.Copies of farm laws were also burnt in Sangrur, Bhawanigarh, Lehra and Barnala. In a joint statement, farmer leaders said the central government used Covid-19 to pass the “black laws” last year and brought three ordinances to hand over the agriculture sector to the corporates.The protesters also condemned the attack on the Golden Temple in 1984 and observed two-minute silence to pay homage to those killed in the military operation.In Hoshiarpur, farmers took out a protest march from a gurdwara to the local BJP office at Shastri market and then burnt the copies of the legislation.Scores of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year demanding that the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. However, the government has maintained the laws are pro-farmer.Several rounds of talks between the farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over these contentious laws.Ex-BJP minister Joshi criticises Centre AMRITSAR: Senior BJP leader and former Punjab local bodies minister Anil Joshi on Saturday criticised the Union government for not addressing farmers’ concern over agri laws.A two-time MLA from Amritsar north, Joshi said: “I have also grown up in a village and used to cultivate the crops. I know the pain of a farmer. Now, I am a trader and our trade depends on farmers. If they are oppressed, we feel pain as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-hold-protests-across-punjab-burn-copies-of-agri-laws-101622920766112.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Profiteering during pandemic: Sukhbir to stage dharna outside Balbir Sidhu’s house||ChandigarhShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday announced to hold a dharna in front of the residence of health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu at Mohali on June 7 to demand his immediate dismissal as well a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the sale of Covid vaccines to private hospitals. According to a party release, Sukhbir will lead the two-hour dharna, to be attended by senior leadership of the party including MLAs, former legislators and district presidents.Party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said though the Congress government admitted that it had wrongfully sold 80,000 vaccine doses received from the Centre to private hospitals at a premium, it had not taken any action against those responsible for the corrupt and inhuman act. “No action has been initiated against health minister Balbir Sidhu who is directly responsible for diverting vaccine doses to private facilities, which charged ₹1,560 to ₹2,000 per dose from the people. It is clear that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is shielding a corrupt minister,” said Cheema. Youth Akali Dal (YAD) president Parambans Singh Romana said they will file a criminal complaint against Balbir Sidhu for selling 80,000 vaccine doses to private facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/profiteering-during-pandemic-sukhbir-to-stage-dharna-outside-balbir-sidhu-s-house-101622920587433.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports less than 2,000 Covid cases after two months||Covid-19 cases fell below 2,000 in Punjab on Saturday for the first time in the past two months. The state’s tally rose to 5,77,997 with 1,907 cases, while 79 fatalities took the death toll to 15,009, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government.The state’s positivity rate also dipped to 2.84%, the lowest in two months. Ludhiana reported a maximum of 433 cases, followed by 371 in Jalandhar, 297 in Amritsar, 25O in Bathida, 215 in Fazilka. Eight deaths were reported in Bathinda, seven each in Amritsar and Sangrur, six each in Fazilka and Patiala and five each in Muktsar and Jalandhar, the bulletin said. With 3,619 recoveries, the number of those cured reached 5,38,534. There are 295 critical patients who are on ventilator support. Besides, 95,98,059 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-less-than-2-000-covid-cases-after-two-months-101622920345895.html
06-06-2021||Bangalore||Congress leader DK Shivakumar says petrol price hike, slow Covid-19 vaccination are govt's failures||Taking pot-shots at BJP, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) President DK Shivakumar on Saturday asserted that 43 hikes in petrol prices since January this year and vaccination at snail pace evidently show the incompetence of the government on economical and administrative fronts."Today price of petrol has breached ₹100 per litre in many parts of the country. The price of edible oil has also surpassed ₹220 per litre. Only 3.17 per cent of the Indians have got vaccinated in five months. These are glaring examples of the failure of this government on the economical and administrative front," Shivakumar said at Kutagal Hobli village of Ramanagra district.The KPCC chief was on a day's visit to Ramanagara to distribute food kits and reach out to people affected by the pandemic."Congress is giving free vaccination to people going beyond castes and religions. I kicked off a campaign to vaccinate 3 Lakh people yesterday," Shivakumar said asserting his party is firm with its ₹100 crore plan to vaccinate the entire state if BJP government permits them to procure and carryout vaccination drive.He pointed out that BJP hiked petrol prices 10 times in January, 16 times in February, 16 times in May and once in the first week of June.Claiming that the government is determined to make petrol unaffordable for the common man, he said: "Let us all visit petrol pumps and pay floral tributes to pump machines to mark our protest."Lauding Congress workers, the KPCC President said that party workers and office-bearers are working overtime to help people at the time of the pandemic.Former Minister Shamanur Shivashankarappa kicked off a Covid vaccination drive in his constituency at Davangere on Friday. The Congress party has planned to expand the vaccination drive in other parts of the state in the month of June.The KPCC chief accused the BJP of doing a great disservice to the country by exporting over 6.6 crore vaccines. He alleged the government compromised the health and lives of its own people and thereby increased the mortality rate in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-leader-dk-shivakumar-says-petrol-price-hike-slow-covid-19-vaccination-are-govt-s-failures-101622919476832.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Khanna farmer seen tearing national flag, held for sedition||A 52-year-old farmer was arrested for allegedly tearing the national flag and making derogatory remarks against the Union government and judiciary in a video. The accused was booked for sedition by the Sadar police, Khanna, on Friday.The accused has been identified as Sandeep Singh, alias Vicky, of Ikkolaha village in Khanna. Police said the accused is facing trial in criminal cases, including forgery and land grab.Khanna sadar station house officer Sarabjit Singh said a video on social networking sites sowed accused tearing and disrespecting the national flag. The accused used derogatory language against the Government of India and judiciary. He also tried to instigate people to wage a war against the government, he said. The SHO said the relatives of the accused claimed that his mental condition is not stable.A case under Sections 121 (waging, or attempting to wage war, or abetting waging of war, against the Government of India), 121-A (conspiracy to commit offences punishable by Section 121) and 124- A (sedition) of the IPC, Section 2 of Prevention of Insult To National Honour Act and Section 66 of Information and Technology Act has been registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khanna-farmer-seen-tearing-national-flag-held-for-sedition-101622920166587.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Uncontrolled diabetes, improper steroid use key in emergence of black fungus: PGIMER study||Many, who have survived the Covid-19 virus, are now battling a fungal infection, mucormycosis, commonly called black fungus, which is “deadlier” than the virus itself.A study conducted by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) shows how uncontrolled diabetes and improper steroid use are important factors for the emergence of this infection. In Chandigarh hospitals alone, over 200 patients have died of the fungal infection.The study, MucoCovi (Muco from mucormycosis, Covi from Covid-19), was led by PGIMER along with 16 other centres. The institutes studied black fungus cases reported from September 1 to December 31, 2020, and the results were published in the Emerging Infectious Disease Journal, USA, on June 4.The researchers found that the prevalence of Covid associated mucormycosis (CAM) was more among patients managed in the ICUs (1.6%) than in the wards (.27%). Also, because of the pandemic, there was a 2.1-fold rise in cases during 2020, when compared to the previous year.The head of the department of medical microbiology, PGIMER, Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, shared that the clinicians should be vigilant for black fungus in patients recovering from Covid, especially those with new or previously diagnosed diabetes mellitus, and those reporting clinical manifestations of facial or orbital pain or black or blood-stained nasal discharge or loosening of teeth.“It was seen that on an average CAM diagnosis was made 18 days after Covid-19 infection. The most common sites of infection were found to be the nose with eye involvement (in 58% cases) followed by nose with eye and brain involvement (27% cases) and then lung infection (9% cases),” he said.Besides facial pain, nasal blockage and discharge, toothache and loosening of teeth were seen in a high number of cases for the first time.The doctor said that uncontrolled diabetes mellitus was the most common underlying disease. “This study has suggested that there is a direct role of Covid in causing or worsening diabetes, which may predispose these patients to mucormycosis.”Covid patients with diabetes developed CAM as early as less than eight days of getting Covid. On the other hand, those patients who developed CAM later had mostly received inappropriate steroid treatment (63%).The overall death rate due to mucormycosis was 38.3% at six weeks and 45.7% after 12 weeks of illness. “Patients over 54 years of age, those with brain or lung involvement and those who had to undergo ICU admission had a higher risk for death,” he said. He claimed this study to be the first evidence-based multicentre study on mucormycosis from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uncontrolled-diabetes-improper-steroid-use-key-in-emergence-of-black-fungus-pgimer-study-101622919866327.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||UP man stabs brother to death over money dispute at Mohali’s Dera Bassi||A migrant worker stabbed his brother to death following an altercation over sending money back home at Behda village in Dera Bassi on Friday.The accused, Salman, a native of Uttar Pradesh, has been arrested and the knife used in the crime recovered.The matter came to fore after the victim, Rizwan, was found dead near the house of the siblings’ friend Farman. Farman told the police that the brothers worked at a meat plant in Behda village and lived nearby.Around 4pm on Friday, Salman summoned him stating that Rizwan’s condition was critical and he needed medical care. Farman rushed to their house in his auto-rickshaw and saw a cloth tied around Rizwan’s abdomen to control bleeding. They took Rizwan to a private hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. However, Salman said he will take his brother to another hospital, following which Farman returned home. Later, he found Rizwan’s body near his house and alerted the police. Salman was arrested soon after from a dhaba on the nearby highway. “Salman and Rizwan had an argument over who will send money back home. In a fit of rage, Salman, who had returned from work in an inebriated state, stabbed his brother to death,” said sub-inspector Jatin Kapoor, SHO, Dera Bassi police station.The accused has been booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. He will be produced before a court on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-man-stabs-brother-to-death-over-money-dispute-at-mohali-s-dera-bassi-101622919806800.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Daily Covid cases stay below 100 across Chandigarh tricity for second day in a row||The daily Covid-19 cases remained below 100 across the tricity for the second consecutive day on Saturday, though there was a slight rise in the number of people getting infected.Mohali led Saturday’s tally with 99 people testing positive, up from 88 on Friday; Chandigarh had 98 cases, against 70 a day ago, and Panchkula 66, for the second straight day.With this, tricity’s cumulative fresh cases (263) also remained below 300 for the second day in a row. On Friday, the figure had dropped below 300 for the first time since March 11 when 296 people had tested positive.Thereon, the second wave climbed vigorously for 60 days until May 10, which saw cases touching the peak of 2,612. But, in the 26 subsequent days, in a steady downturn, tricity’s daily cases have plunged by 90%.On the deaths’ front, eight people succumbed to the virus – compared to six on Friday and four the day before, which was lowest since the all-time high of 38 on May 5.Mohali reported five deaths, Chandigarh three, while Panchkula had no fatality for the third day in a row.Since the advent of June, Panchkula has recorded no death on four of the five days, but three people died on June 2. At 23, Mohali has the highest fatalities this month and Chandigarh 15.In the same period in May, when the second wave was surging, Mohali had 56 deaths, Chandigarh 54 and Panchkula 27.Meanwhile, the active cases dipped further to 3,223, from Friday’s 3,502 and the peak of 24,201 recorded on May 12. The recovery rate also continued to remain above 95% across the tricity.All deceased in UT menThe latest fatalities in Chandigarh included three men, aged 57, 51 and 42, residents of Sector 40, Mauli Jagran and Manimajr, respectively. The fresh cases, which comprised 56 men and 42 women, took the total to 60,585. Among them, 925 patients are still recuperating, 58,892 have been cured and 768 have died.Mohali’s toll reached 986 with five people succumbing on Saturday. The district’s caseload stands at 67,204, of which 1,759 cases are active. As many as 64,459 people have recovered.Panchkula’s total cases and deaths reached 30,305 and 352, respectively. A total of 539 patients are under treatment in the district and 352 have lost their lives.Milkha Singh’s condition better than yesterday: PGIThe health of legendary sprinter Milkha Singh, 91, who is getting treated for Covid-19 at PGIMER, continued to show improvement on Saturday.A four-time Asian Games gold medallist and 1958 Commonwealth Games champion, Singh was admitted to the ICU of PGIMER’s NHE block on June 3 due to dipping oxygen levels.“On the basis of all medical parameters on Saturday, his condition is better than yesterday. He is being closely monitored by a team of three doctors,” said Dr Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson, PGIMER.His wife, Nirmal Kaur, 82, is also battling the virus in the ICU of Fortis Hospital, Mohali, where she is on high-flow oxygen therapy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/daily-covid-cases-stay-below-100-across-chandigarh-tricity-for-second-day-in-a-row-101622919750180.html
06-06-2021||Bangalore||BJP leader CT Ravi says no plans to replace BS Yediyurappa as Karnataka CM||Amid the in-party demands to replace Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) National General Secretary CT Ravi on Saturday said there is no plan to replace the former."BS Yediyurappa is our CM and he will remain as CM for the rest of his term, we have chosen BS Yediyurappa unanimously, there is no plan to change the CM in Karnataka. Changes of CM in Karnataka was just a rumour," said Ravi.Earlier, Karnataka Tourism Minister CP Yogeshwar made statements against the state leadership.Other than that, several other senior BJP leaders, including MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and Arvind Bellad had also made statements demanding the replacement of Yediyurappa.In March, Yatnal had said that if BJP has to be kept alive in Karnataka, there was need to replace the chief minister.Today, after having a meeting with BJP leaders in Delhi, CT Ravi clarified once again that Yediyurappa will remain as chief minister and there is no plan of changing him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bjp-leader-ct-ravi-says-no-plans-to-replace-bs-yediyurappa-as-karnataka-cm-101622919074500.html
06-06-2021||Other||Agitation for Maratha reservation likely to intensify in Maharashtra from today||The Maratha community is likely to intensify its agitation against the Maharashtra government alleging that the regime did not take adequate steps for reservation and extending the ancillary benefits to the members in the absence of the quota. Maratha outfits have been protesting to push for the reservation. Maratha Kranti Morcha staged an agitation in Beed on Saturday under the leadership of Vinayak Mete, the chief of Shiv Sangram party, which is a BJP ally. Mete said that the community will come out on the streets in large numbers as the state government is indifferent towards its sentiments. Maratha leader and Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Member of Parliament (MP) Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendent of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, will attend a function at Raigad fort on the occasion of coronation day anniversary of the Maratha warrior king on Sunday. He is likely to announce the next move from the fort on Sunday. He, however, has appealed to the community members not to head to the fort and crowd there amid the pandemic. The MP had given an ultimatum to the government after putting forward three demands, including review and curative petitions in the Supreme Court against it order to scrap the quota, as well as a petition to the Centre for the reservation. He also had demanded other benefits such as hostel facilities and scholarships for the community’s students and revival of Sarthi – a Pune based institute – to ensure educational and social well-being of the Maratha youth. Meanwhile, Virendra Pawar of Maratha Kranti Morcha, said, “The government has not done anything despite assurances on the benefits and welfare schemes. There is unrest among the community leaders and members. We have been demanding a speedy decision on the issuance of the appointment letters to the community youth who have completed the recruitment procedures for government jobs. The government has been delaying it beyond limits. We are eagerly waiting to see the stand taken by Raje tomorrow,” The top court on May 5 quashed the 12% and 13% reservation given in education and jobs to Maratha community under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act 2018. The state government then appointed a committee of retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale to study the ruling and suggest a way forward. In its report submitted on Friday, the committee has recommended the government to move a review petition in the SC challenging its verdict. BJP’s state unit chief Chandakant Patil alleged that the government has failed to take a quick action on legal steps for reservation. “The state-appointed Dilip Bhosale committee’s recommendations are on the lines of what we have been suggesting to the government. The Centre immediately filed the review petition on SC ruling, but the Maharashtra government has not been able to do it before the deadline, which ended on Friday. The state government’s stand is doubtful,” he said. The state government, however, said that it has been taking every possible step for the reservation. “The review petition will be filed next week. Similarly, we are also tapping on the other measures suggested by the committee. We have already made the financial allocation for Sarthi and Annasaheb Patil Financial Development Corporation. A letter has been sent to Maharashtra Public Service Commission directing it to expedite the process of accommodating the Maratha youth who had completed the recruitment process in government jobs under EWS (Economically Weaker Section) quota. We will convince Sambhajiraje to not resort to streets and cooperate with us, as almost all his demands are acted upon,” said a Congress leader. Congress’s Maharashtra general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant has said that the Opposition BJP is politicising the issue. “Patil has been blaming state government for the quashing of the quota. But it was his government in the state which kept the lacunae in the reservation law. The reservation was struck down because of the 102nd Constitutional amendment by the Modi government at Centre,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agitation-for-maratha-reservation-likely-to-intensify-in-maharashtra-from-today-101622919266391.html
06-06-2021||Other||At 13.6K Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra sees lowest spike in 87 days||On Saturday, Maharashtra recorded 13,659 new Covid-19 cases, which is the lowest count in 87 days. The total case count in Maharashtra stands at 5,819,224.The lowest daily figures prior to this were registered on March 10, when the state recorded the same number of cases. After that, the figures kept increasing, indicating the severity of the second Covid-19 wave.Meanwhile, Mumbai recorded 863 new Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths taking the tally to 709,857 and toll to 14,951. Pune recorded the second-highest (13,209) deaths. Dr Subhash Salunke, an advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, attributed the decline to a host of measures such as imposing the lockdown as well as ramping up the entire medical infrastructure. “The lockdown played a vital role in bringing down the transmission rates and now we are seeing the results. We took care to ramp up testing facilities and provide timely medication to Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Salunke.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, however, warned that all these gains will be nullified if the government and citizens fail to take corrective steps. “The government should not dismantle the Covid-19 centres like last year when the first wave subsided. In addition to it, the government needs to enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour and must not allow any leniency in this matter,” said Dr Shaikh. “Citizens need to wear masks, observe social distancing and must not participate in mass gatherings or rallies. The third wave can be more severe if we remain causal and don’t adhere to these regulations,” warned Dr Shaikh.A total of 240,088 tests were conducted across the state on Saturday. The death toll has reached 99,512 as 300 patients succumbed to the virus. On Saturday, 21,776 recoveries were recorded. There were 188,027 active cases in Maharashtra on Saturday, with Pune leading the list with 22,280 active cases, followed by Kolhapur (18,130) and Mumbai (18,118).Around 260 villages in Nashik district reported zero cases. However, despite the weekend lockdown, markets at Nashik remained open that resulted in crowding and violation of social distancing norms. Due to the surge in cases in Ratnagiri, a strict lockdown will be followed till June 9, and the situation is being monitored with the help of drones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-13-6k-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-sees-lowest-spike-in-87-days-101622919206802.html
06-06-2021||Other||Gender gap in vaccination: J&K doing well say officials, but data disagrees||Officials say Jammu and Kashmir is doing fairly well in terms of inoculating the women population against Covid-19, but the data begs to differ.According to family welfare and immunisation director general Dr Saleem-ur-Rehman, J&K is among the best performing states and UTs and has been lauded for vaccinating 67% of its 45-plus population.Be that as it may, J&K accounts for one of the highest gender disparities among its counterparts.According to the data, till June 5, as many as 34,56,698 people were inoculated against the contagion in J&K. Of these, 11,99,427 are women and 16,91,829 men — a difference of 4,92,402.This shows that for every 1,000 men who received the shot in the UT, only 709 women have been vaccinated.As per Census 2011, the UT has a sex ratio of 889 per thousand males. Lactating mothers adding to deficit When asked about the significant deficit in the inoculation of the two genders, Rehman attributed it to the lakhs of lactating mothers who were yet to take the jabs in the UT.He said, “J&K sees around 2.50 lakh births per year. This accounts for nearly as many lactating mothers, taking the approximate number of women yet to be vaccinated to over 4.50 lakh.”Ruling out stigma and vaccine hesitancy, the official, said, “There is neither any stigma nor reluctance among women to get inoculated,” urging pregnant and lactating mothers to take the vaccine shots. “It has now been proven beyond any doubt that the vaccine does not affect a lactating mother’s milk,” he assured.Rehman said he could not think of any other possible reason for the deficit.Research has come a long way Rehman said that medical research on Covid-19 has evolved in the due course of time with there being a much better understanding of the disease.“Initially, the guidelines didn’t endorse vaccine for lactating mothers. But in the past one and a half years, we have come to know that it does not affect their feed. I am sure they will come on board soon,” he said.Speaking about administration’s measures to tackle vaccine hesitancy among other groups, Rehman said, “We came up with a foolproof implementation plan. We roped in religious leaders, influencers, medicos, women senior officials and applied every method there is in the book,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gender-gap-in-vaccination-j-k-doing-well-say-officials-but-data-disagrees-101622919206338.html
06-06-2021||Other||FIR against Kashmir journalist over WhatsApp status||The Jammu and Kashmir police have filed an FIR against a north Kashmir journalist over a WhatsApp status showing children who died in boat capsize incident on May 30, 2006, at Wular Lake as “martyrs”.Sajid Raina, 24, who works with a local news agency in Bandipora district, had updated his WhatsApp status last week on the 15th anniversary of the Wular Lake boat tragedy in which 22 people – 21 of whom were children – died after a boat carrying them capsized in the lake.“It was a normal status remembering the children who died that day. I had no ill intention nor there was any politics behind the post,” he said adding that within a few hours of the status, he got a call from security agencies.“The person on the call said that we are disappointed with your status. They had a problem with the word martyr. I said there is nothing wrong in this status, but if you think it is not right, I will delete it. Only 20 people had seen the post,” he said.He said that despite the apology, he learnt on June 1 that the police had filed an FIR against him on May 31. “The superintendent of police called me after the FIR saying they will sort this thing out,” he said.As per a tweet by a police spokesperson from the district, FIR number 84/2021 registered at Bandipora police station against Sajid Raina for his WhatsApp status on May 30 “attracts investigation into its contents and intention behind it”.“It was not against anyone’s profession, particularly journalists, as it was being circulated on social media. Investigations are underway,” the tweet said.Bandipora senior superintendent of police Mohd Zaid said that nobody will be victimised as they have not filed the FIR over somebody’s profession.“I talked to Sajid. We have filed an FIR. There is always room for correction. We will take it to the logical conclusion. Nobody will be victimised,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-kashmir-journalist-over-whatsapp-status-101622919147030.html
06-06-2021||Other||CRPF jawan among 5 killed as vehicle plunges into gorge in J&K’s Ramban||Five people, including a CRPF jawan, were killed and one other was critically injured on Saturday when a cab skidded off the road and fell into a 300-meter gorge along the Jammu-Srinagar national highway in Ramban district, police said.The SUV was on its way to Jammu from Srinagar and the accident took place at Digdole near Khuni Nallah when its driver lost control over the vehicle, Ramban senior superintendent of police (SSP) PD Nitya said.A defence spokesman said the speedy vehicle hit another car before plunging into the deep gorge around 9.30am and was first noticed by the road opening party of the territorial army.Laying ropes, the troops went down the 90 degree steep slope and located five of the six passengers, he said, adding three were found dead on the spot and two seriously injured were given first aid before they were evacuated to Ramban district hospital, where one of them was declared brought dead.He said the army rescue party was immediately joined by police, CRPF and local volunteers and later one more body was found entangled in the wreckage of the mangled vehicle from the river.Police identified three of the deceased as CRPF head constable Shagun Kumar of Kangra (Himachal Pradesh), Vaneet Kour of Gupkar (Srinagar) and Garu Ram of Talab Tillo (Jammu).The other two deceased have been identified as Mohammad Rafi of Uri (Baramulla) and Sanjeev Kumar of Reasi who is working as a follower in 16th Battalion of Indian Reserve Police (IRP).The injured, Ajeet Kumar, a resident of Billawar, Kathua, posted in third battalion IRP, is being referred to Jammu for specialised treatment, police said.L-G asks depts to carry out road safety audit within one weekLt governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday expressed grief over the accident in Ramban district in which five people were killed, and directed the departments concerned to carry out road safety audit and rectification measures within a week.“Saddened by the loss of lives in Ramban road accident. My condolences to bereaved families. I have directed the concerned departments to carry out road safety audit and rectification measures within a week,” the L-G said on Twitter.Sinha also directed for launching road safety awareness campaign on such stretches to check accidents caused due to human errors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/crpf-jawan-among-5-killed-as-vehicle-plunges-into-gorge-in-j-k-s-ramban-101622919146062.html
06-06-2021||Other||Himachal extends lockdown till June 14||The Himachal Pradesh government on Saturday extend the lockdown till June 14.The decision to continue the restrictions was taken during the cabinet meeting, keeping in view the Covid-19 pandemic in the state.Among other decisions, the cabinet also ordered the cancellation of Class 12 examinations for the 2020-21 academic session, in line with the central government’s direction.It decided that the Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education would devise a formula for calculating the awards of the students on lines of Central Board of School Education and declare the final results of Class 12 accordingly.The cabinet concurred in the meeting that in case some students are not satisfied with the results arrived so, they would be allowed to appear in a special examination to be conducted once the situation is conducive for the same.Tele-consultation for Covid patients The state cabinet also directed that telephonic consultation be ensured for Covid-19 patients released from hospitals for home recovery. It also instructed the health department to explore more options for procurement of vaccines directly from the manufacturers.Earlier, the cabinet passed a resolution for mourning the demise of chief whip and Jubbal-Kotkhai legislator Narinder Bragta. The cabinet appreciated the former minister’s contributions, particularly in development of horticulture sector in the state. A two-minute silence was also observed by the cabinet as a mark of respect to the departed leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-extends-lockdown-till-june-14-101622919091318.html
06-06-2021||Other||Himachal’s home deaths rose during Second Covid wave||Himachal reported negligible difference in the number of hospital deaths in the first and the second waves even as the infections and deaths doubled the second time, data released by the health department reveals. The percentage of home deaths, however, went up from 5.09% in the first wave to 8.95% in the second wave. Besides, in at least 4.10% cases patients were declared brought dead at the hospital during the second wave. National Health Mission (NHM) director Nipun Jindal said, “There was little difference in the percentage of hospital deaths of both waves even though the caseload was higher during the second wave (1,35,521 against 58,403 in first wave). This indicates that the state government was well-prepared with its resources such as beds, oxygen, Remedesivir, steroids and other drugs.”The rise in home deaths, on the other hand, was attributed to delayed presentation of Covid patients to health facilities. The state clinical team, on the basis of death audit, concluded that the delay was due to the fear of quarantine, social stigma and patients taking the symptoms lightly. A further analysis of the data revealed that of the total deaths that occurred till May 23, 49.8% died due to delay in seeking medical help. At least 7.7 % (213) patients died at home while a total of 4.1 % (114) patients were declared brought dead at hospitals, indicating deaths in transit or at home. Also, 38% patients died within 24 hours of hospitalisation and 11.3% (310) patients lost their lives within 48 hours of hospitalisation. Jindal said that the state saw at least 69.7% of its total Covid deaths during the second wave. As per the NHM director majority of the people who lost their lives in the second wave had co morbidities (around 70%) whereas in the first wave, only 41.6% of such cases were seen. Age-wise analysis The mean age of deaths in the second wave was 61 years as compared to 64.2 years during the first wave. The case fatality ratio registered in the first wave was 1.68% as compared to 1.67% in the second wave. The age distribution of deaths reveals that the percentage of deaths occurring in the age group of 30-44 almost doubled during the second wave (see box). However, the percentage of deaths in the 0 to 15, 15-29, and 60 and above group, decreased during the second wave. Situation improving As per Jindal, the positivity rate in the state is on the decline and has stayed around 6% over the last five days or so. “However, we need to be cautious as after the partial easing of restrictions, the virus may rebound, and the cases could go up again. We need to continue following all the Covid-appropriate behaviour which includes proper use of mask, maintaining hand hygiene and social distancing, besides taking the Covid vaccine,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachals-home-deaths-rose-during-second-covid-wave-101622919089818.html
06-06-2021||Kolkata||Police find around 50 crude bombs near BJP's Bengal party office||The Kolkata Police on Saturday evening found around 50 crude bombs close to Hastings crossing, which is not very far away from the office of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The anti-rowdy section of the West Bengal Police found the bombs following a tip-off from the Military Intelligence. A bomb squad also reached the spot after police found the crude bombs. The bombs were recovered from 4 sacks which were found lying close to each other.The police have launched an operation to find out who kept the bombs at a location which is stone's throw away from the BJP Bengal office and for what reasons. The police are also trying to find out when were these sacks filled with crude bombs placed at this location.The state witnessed violent clashes between Trinamool Congress (TMC) and BJP supporters, after the declaration of assembly election results on May 2, with the latter claiming accusing the ruling party of targeted killing and the TMC lashing out at BJP for spreading fake news.After the oath-taking ceremony of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, the Union home ministry sent teams to West Bengal for a survey of the areas which saw post-poll violence. At least 16 people lost their lives due to incidents of post-poll violence in the state which also led to displacement of people. The Calcutta high court on Friday heard the PILs with regard to displacement of people in the state and asked authorities to take immediate steps for their rehabilitation.The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the West Bengal government following a plea which sought directions to stop or prevent the violence in West Bengal following the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-police-find-around-50-crude-bombs-near-bjp-party-office-101622918052685.html
06-06-2021||Other||Bulandshahr: Teen ends life after sodomy; 1 accused held, another on the run||An 18-year-old boy committed suicide after he was allegedly sodomised by two friends in the Kotwali area of Bulandshahr on Thursday. The police arrested one accused, Kuber, 20 (goes with a single name) and raids were being conducted to nab the other accused. Inspector of Nagar Kotwali Akhilesh Tripathi said a case was registered under Section 377 of the IPC against Kuber and the other accused and later Section 306 (provoking for suicide) of the IPC was also added to the case. “The main accused Kuber has been arrested and raids are being conducted to nab the other accused,” said Tripathi. The complaint lodged by the boy’s kin reads that Kuber and another boy had taken the victim to a guest house, where they sodomised him and threatened him of dire consequences if he informed anyone about it. The boy returned to his house and narrated the incident to his family members and the matter was reported to the police. Meanwhile, the boy committed suicide in the house by hanging himself. Thereafter, Section 306 of the IPC was also added in the case, said cops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bulandshahr-teen-ends-life-after-sodomy-1-accused-held-another-on-the-run-101622918605269.html
06-06-2021||Chandigarh||Op Bluestar suit: SGPC to hold talks with Centre for out-of-court settlement||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is set to begin negotiations with the Union government for out-of-court settlement of ₹1,000-crore damages suit related to Operation Bluestar, immediately after the 37th anniversary of the military action at Golden Temple.The suit was filed by the SGPC, under its then president Gurcharan Singh Tohra, in the Delhi high court in March 1985. Thirty-six years on, it is still pending. On the court’s order, both sides — Union government and SGPC — are ready to resolve the dispute out of court since 2019. However, no meeting has been held between the two sides so far.“The matter, which came to a standstill due to the pandemic, was discussed in our last executive committee meeting held on June 2,” said Bhagwant Singh Sialka, an advocate and general secretary of the SGPC. “It was decided that a letter will be written on the issue to Prime Minister Narendra Modi soon after the anniversary of military action.” The Prime Minister will be approached first because he is the competent authority being the executive head of the state, said Sialka. “Let’s see to whom he further assigns the task of negotiations,” he said.SGPC honorary chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami said the apex Sikh body has already paid ₹10 crore as court fees in the case. “So, we want the case to be settled, and will start the proceedings in this regard after June 6. We are bound by the court’s order to sit together and settle the dispute. The SGPC executive committee will sit again to decide on what terms the talks are to be initiated,” he said. The SGPC will also take help of experts and scholars in the process, said people privy to the development.‘Compensation is symbolic’“The loss borne by the Sikh community can never be compensated with money. The purpose of filing the suit was to make the government admit that it had been totally unfair with Sikhs. Compensation is a symbolic thing. If we get it, the operation will prove to be unjustified,” said Sialka, adding that the suit also helped bring on record the events that led to the military action and everything that occurred afterwards.Meanwhile, a sub-committee constituted by the SGPC is working on a list of precious items that were taken away by the Indian Army from Sikh Reference Library and other places on the Golden Temple complex.The military action that was carried out in the first week of June in 1984 to flush the Sikh militants out from the Golden Temple complex had damaged the buildings of the Akal Takht, Golden Temple and Teja Singh Samundri Hall, which is the SGPC headquarters. Except at Akal Takht, many bullet marks on other buildings are preserved as evidence in this case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/op-bluestar-suit-sgpc-to-hold-talks-with-centre-for-out-of-court-settlement-101622918245787.html
06-06-2021||Other||End arbitrary pricing & discrimination in Covid vaccination: Pramod Tiwari||Senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari, has again reiterated the need for free universal Covid-19 vaccination in the country. Addressing media persons in Prayagraj on Saturday, Tiwari, a member of Congress Working Committee, said that it was not proper to discriminate among people on the basis of age and state. “If the vaccine is free for people aged above 60 years, why arbitrary costs are being taken from those aged between 18-44 years?” he asked. The Congress veteran had taken his first Covid jab at the MLN Medical College vaccination centre on Friday. “Today even Supreme Court is asking why the Covid-19 vaccines were priced differently in different states. The Congress wants to know as to why the government is being so uncaring for the youth and the kids of the country,” he asked. He also said that Congress leadership including party general secretary and UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has been demanding universal Covid-19 vaccination for all. “The BJP has been accusing the Congress of playing politics on this demand but now the Supreme Court too has expressed similar views on universal vaccination and sought a road map of vaccination from the centre. The apex court has also directed all citizens to benefit from vaccination,” he said. He took a dig at the centre for sending Covid-19 vaccines to 72 countries of the world despite the fact that less than 3 crore people have been vaccinated across India so far, a mere 3% of the population. “The roadmap to vaccinate the remaining 120 crore people is lacking,” he said. He claimed large number of deaths and rising number of Covid infections were mainly due to the wrong policies of the Modi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/end-arbitrary-pricing-discrimination-in-covid-vaccination-pramod-tiwari-101622918005316.html
06-06-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 curbs set to ease by levels for Mumbai||An all-too-familiar limp back to normalcy is on the cards for Mumbai and other cities in the Mumbai Metropolitan (MMR) region. From Monday, all shops in the city can open; restaurants can serve customers till 4pm on weekdays; private offices can be reopened with 50% staff, but only till 4pm; and people can go for jogging and to gymnasiums, albeit with certain conditions.While suburban trains won’t be allowed for the general public, commuters can travel by BEST buses provided there are no standing passengers, a difficult ask during peak hours in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai. Manufacturing units can function with 50% of the workforce’s capacity and with travel arrangements for the staff. E-commerce firms will function regularly. Wedding ceremonies can be attended by up to 50 people. Although the state has allowed all women commuters to use local trains, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday restricted the services to medical staff and a few essential sectors.Following the devastating second Covid-19 wave that forced a lockdown in Maharashtra from April, the government’s five-level plan to ease curbs, based on weekly positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds in districts, comes into effect from Monday. The state has classified 35 districts and 11 municipal corporations with more than 1 million population into five categories – level one to five. The degree of relaxation of restrictions has been decided as per the level of severity of Covid-19 in those districts. Level one has the least restrictions, while level five will have the most. Mumbai comes under level three (see box). “The order and classification of areas are more pragmatic. This fixes responsibility on local administrations — district collectors or municipal corporations — to reduce the spread of the virus and augment infrastructure,” said a state official on the unlock order, issued late on Friday. The new order was issued by relief and rehabilitation secretary Aseem Kumar Gupta, after the state disaster management authority decided so on Thursday.Mumbai and most of the MMR cities fall in level three. None of the state’s districts falls in level five. Eleven municipal corporations with more than 1 million population — Mumbai, Pune, Thane, Nashik, Pimpri-Chinchwad, Aurangabad, Vasai-Virar, Navi Mumbai, Nagpur, Solapur and Kalyan-Dombivli — have been treated as separate units. Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi and Mira-Bhayandar fall under level three, while Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli fall under level two. Areas under Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) fall under level 4.“We have made it clear that district and city authorities will the powers to impose stricter curbs if they feel it is necessary. The Mumbai corporation has taken the decision to not allow trains for women as it leads to lot of crowding, affecting the entire MMR. Similar decisions will be taken at the local level,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.The official said most districts are happy with the exercise. “There was bit of confusion over the opening up of activities, but they have been clarified in a meeting chaired by the CM. We have tried to make it simple to understand at an administrative level and at the same time, the powers and responsibilities have been left to the local level,” he said.Level-three areas, however, will continue to have a curfew after 5pm every day. Salons, spas and beauty parlours have been allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity. Social, cultural, entertainment events and political/election meetings have been allowed with 50% capacity of the venue in level-three areas. The number of allowed attendees has been increased to 50 for wedding events in these areas, the notification stated. Religious places remain shut.However, the notification warns of blanket restrictions across the state if the oxygen-bed occupancy goes up. “The state’s daily production of medical oxygen is 1,200 metric tonnes, which can cater to a maximum of 60,000 patients needing O2. If the number of patients ranged between 35,000 and 45,000, no part of the state shall be below level three and no part be below level four, if it’s more than 45,000 patients. Currently, the oxygen bed occupancy is less than 35,000 patients and thus the oxygen trigger mentioned above does not get operated. In such a scenario, local level authorities are empowered to decide the level of restrictions they fall under,” the notification says.The state government is also considering introducing another parameter linked to the vaccination. “The relaxation will be linked with the vaccination percentage at a later stage, once vaccines are amply available. The district administrations witnessing a drop in positivity rare and oxygen-bed occupancy will have to report the constant drops to claim changing of the unlock gradation. Upscaling to an upper level will be based on the score of two weeks and it needs to show a consistent downwards trend on both parameters. We have no room left for local authorities manipulate data. For the upscaling in levels, they will have to approach the chief secretary, but to impose more curbs of downgrading, they can do it at their level,” another official from Mantralaya said.Maharashtra has reported fewer than 20,000 daily cases over the past week, after reporting a daily caseload of more than 50,000 cases at the beginning of May. The state had 196,894 active cases, as of Friday evening.Meanwhile, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) issued an unlock notification based on the level two guidelines of the state. All the shops in Navi Mumbai will be allowed to operate at regular timings, the malls, restaurants, cinema halls will be allowed at 50% capacity, weddings, funerals and social functions will be allowed with 50 guests. All private and government offices have been allowed to be opened with 100% attendance. Municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar, said, “Though the positivity rate in Navi Mumbai is down to 2% as required under level 1, the oxygen beds occupancy is over 25% and hence the unlocking has been ordered under level 2. The order will come into effect from 7 am on June 7 and will be in force till 7am on June 14. We will take further action next week based on the review of the situation then.” He said that while NMMC have allowed relaxations in the city, minimal attendance in closed and public places and minimal group movements will be the guiding principles. (with inputs from G Mohiuddin Jeddy) .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-curbs-set-to-ease-by-levels-for-mumbai-101622917945258.html
06-06-2021||Lucknow||CIMAP inks pact with pvt firm for herbal sanitiser units in rural UP||: Lucknow based Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP) will help set up herb-based sanitiser manufacturing units in rural Uttar Pradesh (UP). CIMAP officials said the idea was to generate employment for local youths. They said overall, the initiative was part of the aroma mission, aimed at propagating farming and use of aromatic and medicinal plants across the country. CIMAP also provide training regarding farming for aromatic plants to people across the country. Experts at CIMAP had developed herbal sanitiser last year and subsequently shared the technology with a private firm with whom it also inked a pact last week for mass production of herbal sanitisers. Now, the private firm, along with the institute, is planning to set up at least two dozen manufacturing units across the state by the year end and hopes to employ nearly 300 educated rural youths. “The plan is to provide technological help to youngsters living in village areas so that they could convert it into an employment opportunity. We will also share the expertise about the process so that they could expand their business in coming days,” Manoj Semwal of CIMAP. “The progressive farmers from across the state who are in touch with the institute will be given a preference in the project,” added Semwal. CIMAP will share technological expertise the firm will help in setting up machinery and sourcing raw material for the manufacturing plants. “The villagers who will get employment at these units can also sell the herbal plants grown in their fields to manufacturing units,” said Semwal. In the first phase the firm has identified villages close to Lucknow, Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Agra and Aligarh to set up the manufacturing units. Eight manufacturing units will be set up in the first phase and plan is to set up these units by August, CIMAP officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cimap-inks-pact-with-pvt-firm-for-herbal-sanitiser-units-in-rural-up-101622917885173.html
06-06-2021||Mumbai||6 men arrested for gang rape of 16-yr-old girl in Mumbai||Six men aged between 18 and 23 were arrested on Friday after a 16-year-old girl accused them of gang rape, police said.The survivor and the accused are all residents of Madh Island and Malwani areas in Malad (West) and were friends.According to police, the girl’s mother had registered a case of kidnapping as the minor had not returned from a friend’s birthday party on May 31.On June 1, when the girl returned home, she told her family and the police that she had been raped by six of her friends at separate locations.The minor said she had been invited for a friend’s birthday party at Madh. She reached the spot she saw that three of her male friends were waiting for her. They cut the birthday cake in a car which was parked near a hotel on Marve Road, in Madh. Three boys then raped her inside the car. Scared to face her parents late at night, she went to a friend’s house, who she knew through Instagram. She said that he also raped her. She then went to houses of two other friends she knew through Instagram, they also raped her.“We registered a kidnapping case on the complaint of the victim’s mother. However, when she returned home the next day, her mother informed us about the sexual abuse,” said a police officer. Police arrested the six men for gang rape under relevant sections of the IPC and Pocso Act. They were produced before a court on Saturday and were remanded in police custody for two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaifour-arrested-for-gang-rape-of-minor-101622914944948.html
