07-06-2021||Other||OPD services resume at SGPGI, 1200 patients report on Day 1||As many as 1200 patients were benefited on the first day after OPD, post-Covid and e-OPD services resumed at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGI) on Monday. Director Radha Krishna Dhiman inaugurated the post-Covid clinic and OPD services.All the OPD services were suspended on April 12 by the PGI administration after the surge in corona cases in the city. According to the PRO of PGI Kusum Yadav, “Around 750 patients took benefit of e-OPD services, while around 450 took benefit of the physical OPD services. 250 of them were new registration.”For online consultation, the PGI administration has released a number 0522-2496090 for post-Covid consultation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/opd-services-resume-at-sgpgi-1200-patients-report-on-day-1-101623090576653.html
07-06-2021||Other||UP Board: How to grade class 10, 12 students sans exams? Meet explores options||The secondary education department held a crucial meeting of officials at the district level via video conferencing on Monday to work out the modalities and formula on the basis of which marks will be awarded to UP Board’s class 10 and 12 students. This year, the UP board’s class 10, 12 examinations were cancelled due to COVID-19.Additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla on Monday said a number of suggestions were put forth by principals of government, aided and private schools and district level officials. No final decision has been taken as officials are still getting suggestions.One of the suggestions that emerged was for class 12. Under it, the final marks should be calculated on the basis of marks obtained by the students in half yearly and annual examination of class 11 along with class 12 pre board exams.To assess the marks of class 10 students, it was proposed to consider the final exam marks of class 9th and pre board exam marks of class 10 on the suggestion of one Jawahar Singh Rathore, principal, Sarvoday Inter College, Fatehpur.The secondary education department is taking suggestions from all stakeholders before it finalises modalities to pass students, an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-board-how-to-grade-class-10-12-students-sans-exams-meet-explores-options-101623090456637.html
07-06-2021||Pune||18 workers charred in Pune factory fire||At least 18 people were charred to death in a major fire that broke out at an industrial plant in Urawade village near Pirangut, around 40 kilometres from Pune, on Monday, officials familiar with the matter said.While 41 workers had reported to duty, 18 of them were trapped inside the plant when the fire broke out, Sandesh Shirke, sub-divisional officer of Maval, Mulshi area, said.“We have so far recovered 18 charred bodies. Two people were found alive and moved to a private hospital on Karve Road, Pune, for treatment,” Shirke said.The victims, which included 15 women, were local villagers working at the plant, officials said.The fire, officials added, broke out at around 4pm in SVS Aqua Technologies which manufactures chemicals used in water purifiers. The fire brigade department of Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) pressed eight fire tender units to douse the flames which was brought under control by around 6:45pm.“The company will be in a better position to tell why most of them were women,” Shrike said.Suhas Diwase, PMRDA chief executive officer, said the bodies recovered were beyond recognition and were sent to Sassoon general hospital.“We will know about their identity after the medical examination,” Diwase said.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in a statement said that an inquiry has been ordered to find out the cause of the fire. He also announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh to kin of each of the deceasedPune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We have constituted a committee to inquire into the fire incident. Details such as the cause of the fire and safety-related aspects will be probed.”Urawade has around eight industrial units, most of them producing chemicals, which locals claimed were not inflammatory.“The firm is involved in manufacturing chemicals required for purification of water. This chemical is not inflammable and we suspect a short circuit as the cause of the incident,” Nikunj Shah, director of SVS Aqua Technologies, said,Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the incident. “Pained by the loss of lives due to a fire at a factory in Pune, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families,” Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/18-workers-charred-in-pune-factory-fire-101623090013927.html
07-06-2021||Other||Undertrial makes bid to escape from Banda jail, found hiding in tall grass||A 22-year-old undertrial, a theft accused who had made a bid to escape from the Banda district jail late on Sunday night, was found hiding in tall grass between the circle wall and outer wall of the prison on Monday afternoon, said prison officials.Confirming the development, deputy inspector general (DIG), prison, Prayagraj zone, Sanjay Tripathi, “An inmate Vijay Aarakh, who was lodged in barrack number 4 of Banda prison, was reported missing at around 8:30 pm on Sunday. He was last seen inside the jail at 6:45 pm. Vijay was found hiding in tall grass outside the circle wall. “According to prison officials, the inmate used a bamboo to jump over the circle wall around 7 pm on Sunday. “He severely injured his back while doing so and could not cross the higher outer wall. Fearing action on being caught, he kept hiding himself in the tall grass until he was found by prison staff in the afternoon,” said the DIG. The officer has been tasked to investigate the matter and submit a report to the prison department.Vijay, a resident of Barsada Bujurg village in Girwa area of Banda district, was lodged in the prison in February this year in a case related to theft and house trespass. On Sunday afternoon, Vijay, along with other inmates, was sent to work in the prison farm as per routine. He returned along with others at around 5 pm, claimed prison authorities. Dinner in the prison was served at 6pm after which the inmates returned to their barracks.“Vijay had seen a long bamboo laying in the park inside the prison. He came out of his barrack at around 7 pm and used the bamboo to climb and jump over the circle wall,” said the DIG.Banda prison came into the spotlight earlier this year when don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari was shifted there from Punjab’s Ropar prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/undertrial-makes-bid-to-escape-from-banda-jail-found-hiding-in-tall-grass-101623090096724.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Rape case: Pearl Puri’s bail plea to be heard on Friday||Aditi Kadam, sessions judge, Vasai will hear the bail plea of television actor Pearl Puri, 31, who was arrested by Waliv police on Friday for allegedly raping a five-year-old at a film set in Vasai on June 11. Additional public prosecutor Jaiprakash Patil confirmed on Monday. The accused had applied for bail on Saturday and the plea came up before the court on Monday. Puri has been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.The incident allegedly took place at a filming site in Naigaon, Vasai in October 2019, said Sanjaykumar Patil, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Mira Bhayander Vasai Virar (MBVV) Commmissionerate. The victim and her mother, who is also a television actor, were on the set. The minor’s mother learned about the incident after the child complained of abdomen pain. Her father, who had worked with Puri, filed a complaint at the Versova police station. The case was transferred to Waliv police and after the probe, it was found that Puri had a role in the incident. He was called to Waliv police station on Friday and was arrested, said Patil.The defence counsel for Puri said before the court that the minor did not mention about the sexual assault but the police have medical report of the victim and is on record. Sources said that the minor’s father had recorded her statement in October 2019 which he submitted to Versova police while filing the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rape-case-pearl-puri-s-bail-plea-to-be-heard-on-friday-101623090036578.html
07-06-2021||Lucknow||Muslim families living near UP temple likely to be relocated over ‘security’||Muslim families living in the vicinity of the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur are likely to be relocated in the wake of the state government’s plan to bolster security around the complex.Though nine families in the area (Purana Gorakhpur Tappa, Kasba Pargana Haveli, Tehsil Sadar, Gorakhpur) have agreed to transfer their houses and land in favour of the state government, two have rejected the district administration’s offer for compensation and allotment of land at an alternative site.District magistrate (Gorakhpur) K Vijendra Pandian said there was no coercion by the district administration on the 11 families to vacate their houses.“The administration will acquire their property only after their consent. The houses are being vacated on the direction of the state government, on the basis of the report submitted by security agencies. The families will be given adequate compensation and the district administration will facilitate their relocation also. There is no religious angle in the shifting of these families,” he said.A district administration officer said the boundary wall of the Gorakhnath temple runs parallel to the 11 houses located on the south-east corner of the temple premises. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is the head priest of the temple, stays in the residential complex on the temple premises during his visits to Gorakhpur. “Hence, security agencies are reviewing and assessing the CM’s security during his stay on the temple premises,” Pandian said.A local trader, Mohammad Islam, said: “If the state government shifts them to another location, they will face problems of livelihood.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/muslim-families-living-near-up-temple-likely-to-be-relocated-over-security-101623089518809.html
07-06-2021||Other||Primary teachers’ assn wants GO for job to kin of deceased teachers||Lucknow President of UP Primary School Teachers’ Association Dinesh Chandra Sharma on Monday criticized the state government for announcing jobs to the kin of deceased teachers with but not backing the announcement with an order. To note, on May 24, basic education minister Satish Chand Dwivedi had sent out a series of tweets and a press release to announce a major relief to dependants of primary school teachers who died during service. The minister had announced that the department had made amendments in the appointment on compensatory ground policy. As per new rules, dependants who had B Ed/ DL Ed (formerly BTC) and TET degree would be appointed as primary school teachers while those who had not qualified for TET but were eligible for Class III appointment would be appointed even if there were no vacant posts in the above categories. Sharma said, “In the absence of a specific state government order (GO), basic Shiksha Adhikaris are harassing the kin of deceased teachers. The basic education department should come out with a detailed order.” Basic education minister Satish Chand Dwivedi had said that earlier the dependants of the basic education staff who did not qualify for TET but were highly educated were forced to give their services in Class IV category as there were no vacancies in Class III category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/primary-teachers-assn-wants-go-for-job-to-kin-of-deceased-teachers-101623089676629.html
07-06-2021||Other||Four of a family, including two kids, found hanging in Shahjahanpur||Lucknow: A couple. along with their two minor children, allegedly committed suicide in their house in the city area of Shahjahanpur on Monday afternoon, said police.. Superintendent of police, Shahjahanpur S Anand said, “Four members of a family, including 43-year-old father, 38-year-old mother, their 12-year-old son and six-year-old daughter were found hanging inside their house in the city area. We found a suicide note near the body of the father which cited financial trouble as reason for taking the extreme step.” Reportedly the neighbours saw the wife on Monday morning at around 11 am when she came out of the house to take milk from the milkman. Around 1:15 pm a local resident along with some neighbours found the couple hanging in the lobby of the first floor while the children were hanging in another room. “Pieces of same rope were used by all the family members. The bodies were found on the first floor where they lived. They used the ground floor as a storeroom,” said the SP. The police team that reached the spot sent the bodies for post-mortem examination. A dog squad along with team of forensic unit also visited the house to collect evidence. The forensic unit took samples of the rope and the suicide paper for analysis, The police denied possibility of any forced entry inside the house or signs of altercation. According to locals, the family was from nearby Bareilly district but had moved to Shahjahanpur over a decade ago. The head of the family was a retailer of medicines. The family moved to the house, where they were found hanging, in October last year. Chandan 7088775544||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-of-a-family-including-two-kids-found-hanging-in-shahjahanpur-101623089496589.html
07-06-2021||Other||PMC opens online admissions to its 273 primary schools||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has opened online admissions to its 273 primary schools for the year 2021-22. The PMC-run Marathi, English, Urdu, and Kannada language schools are slated to reopen on June 14.While “live” classes in classrooms will not be possible right now, there was some confusion among parents about admissions. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal, issued a press statement on Monday, stating: “Students can take admission in PMC-run schools by using the online facility. The primary section is from kindergarten to Class 8. Those who get admission in PMC-run schools will get free uniforms, shoes, bags and books. PMC will deposit this money in the student’s or parent’s bank account and then, they must purchase it from the listed shops”.“As schools are not opening physically, students will get online study material on the Edumitra app on their mobile phones,” Agarwal added.The demand for PMC’s English-medium schools has risen in the last few years, with some schools claiming to have waiting lists for admission.How to apply for admission online- Visit this link: https://rb.gv.duaxe9- Select the ward number where you reside or would like to go to school- Once the ward is chosen, a list of schools under that ward become available- Select the school and fill the details - Wait for concerned school’s principal and/or teachers to contact you for admission||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-opens-online-admissions-to-its-273-primary-schools-101623089378616.html
07-06-2021||Other||PMC’s riverfront devp project stuck at SPV formation||PUNE The Pune municipal corporation’s (PMC) riverfront development project, budgeted at Rs2619 crore, has permission from the state government. However, land acquisition, the tender process and the formation of a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to drive the project are all not yet executed.The Mula, the Mutha and the Mula-Mutha river fronts while will developed, passing via Pune, Pimpri- Chinchwad and the Khadki Cantonment areas.Mangesh Dighe, PMC’s environment officer said, “The Maharashtra government has given permission to the municipal corporation on April 9, this year. Now we need to form the SPV. Members of PMC, PCMC, Khadki cantonment, the district collector, members from the irrigation department and other concerned officers will be part of the SPV. The office of the SPV will be at the Pune Municipal Corporation headquarters in Shivajinagar.”Apart from most of the riverfront land being owned by the revenue department, the PMC will also need a no-objection certificate from the irrigation department for the project. Dialogue with the departments has begun, as per the PMC official.However, currently, the setting up of the SPV is a priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmcs-riverfront-devp-project-stuck-at-spv-formation-101623089377238.html
07-06-2021||Other||‘BJP to contest 2022 UP elections on Modi, Yogi govts’ achievements’||Lucknow: Bharatiya Janata Party’s UP general secretary (organization) Sunil Bansal said on Monday that the party would contest the 2022 assembly election in the state on the achievements of the Narendra Modi government at the centre and the Yogi Adityanath government in the state. Addressing the party office-bearers in a meeting held in Gorakhpur, Bansal said the people across the state were aware of the achievements of the Modi government as party workers had enlightened them about the development and welfare schemes launched by the Centre. With eight months left for the UP assembly elections, the workers should now propagate the development and welfare schemes launched by the Yogi government in rural and urban areas, he said. Bansal was in Gorakhpur to review the preparations for the 2022 assembly election as well as to discuss the strategy for the zila panchayat chairman and block pramukh elections. The office-bearers of BJP Gorakhpur region unit, district presidents and in-charges of 12 districts were present in the meeting. A BJP leader familiar with the developments in the meeting said Bansal directed the party leaders and office-bearers to take the achievements of the Yogi Adityanath government to each household. The people should be made aware of the schemes launched by the state government for their welfare and development, he said. Bansal collected feedback about the zila panchayat chairman and block pramukh elections, saying the office-bearers should focus on shortcomings in the election strategy and try to fill the gaps. Due to surge in the Covid cases during the panchayat election, the BJP failed to get the desired result as the BJP voters did not come out to vote. To give a message to the voters before the 2022 assembly election, the BJP should win maximum zila panchayat chairman and block pramukh posts, he said. To enlighten the people about the achievements of the central and state governments, the social media teams should be strengthened at district and division level, he said. Bansal said the party leaders and workers should assist the people who had been affected due to the second wave of the Covid pandemic. The party had urged the MPs, MLAs and leaders to adopt a community or primary health centre, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-to-contest-2022-up-elections-on-modi-yogi-govts-achievements-101623089316534.html
07-06-2021||Noida||Okhla Bird Sanctuary, Surajpur wetland to open next week||Noida: As the Gautam Budh Nagar district partial corona restrictions ease, the forest department said it will re-open the Okhla Bird Sanctuary (OBS) next week.The bird sanctuary and Surajpur reserve forest and wetland were closed for visitors and borders on April 17 in the wake of rising coronavirus disease cases in the city.Though some of the curfew eased in the district on Monday, forest officials said they will observe the lockdown for a week more to see if the Covid-19 cases rise again.“We have decided to open the sanctuary up for tourists and birders next week. As the restrictions are now being lifted in part, we have decided to observe the case tally for a week’s time to see if they continue to drop or at least don’t increase. After that only will we open both the OBS and the Surajpur sanctuary by next week,” said the divisional forest officer (DFO), GB Nagar, PK Srivastava.He added that the infrastructure work, including the construction of six huts at OBS, will continue.The OBS and Surajpur reserve forests were shut in March 2020 when the district experienced first Covid-19 cases and a nationwide lockdown was imposed. Both the habitats were reopened on September 15, 2020 with advisories.The sanctuary, which is home to about 350 species of birds, is spread over an area of 400 hectares of which about 60% is water bodies and attracts a number of migratory birds during winters and passage migrants during summers. The migratory birds start arriving in the sanctuary by October, while their strength reaches the peak by December.According to the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC)-2021 by Wetlands International South Asia and the divisional forest department of Gautam Budh Nagar in January 2021, a total of 8,068 birds of a total of 73 species of water birds were counted. Of these, 27 were resident and local migratory species and 46 were migratory species. Among the main attractions were Black-headed Ibis (Indian resident), Black-tailed Godwit (Winter migratory from Central Asia), Common Pochard (Winter migratory from Central Asia), Painted Stork (Indian resident species), Greater Spotted Eagle (Winter migratory migrates from Central Asia), Oriental Darter (Resident), River Lapwing (Resident), Ferruginous Duck (Winter migratory from Central Asia).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/okhla-bird-sanctuary-surajpur-wetland-to-open-next-week-101623089317092.html
07-06-2021||Kolkata||Guv, Moitra continue to trade barbs||The war of words over the alleged appointment of his relatives at Raj Bhavan escalated on Monday after West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar termed the charges by Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra as “factually wrong” and called it a “distraction strategy” from the “deteriorating law and order situation in the state”.The TMC lawmaker, however, refused to withdraw her remarks and urged the governor to explain the appointments of six officers on special duty (OSDs), who she alleged are related either to him or other Raj Bhawan officers.On Sunday, Moitra claimed that three of Dhankhar’s own relatives, two relatives of a former aide-de-camp (EDC) and one relative of his present EDC were appointed as OSDs at the governor’s house. She added that the law and order situation in Bengal would improve if the governor left with his “extended family”.Responding to the allegations through a series of tweets, the governor on Monday said that none of the six appointees were part of his close family and that four of them belonged to another caste. “Assertion @MahuaMoitra in tweet & Media that six coterminous appointee OSDs in personal staff are relatives is FACTUALLY WRONG. OSDs are from three states and belong to four different castes. None of them is part of close family. Four of them are not from my caste or state,” he posted on Twitter.The governor added that the TMC legislator’s tweets were a part of the “distraction strategy to divert attention from the deteriorating law and order situation in the state”.“This is unfolding of ‘distraction strategy’ to divert attention from alarming law and order scenario @MamataOfficial. Would continue undeterred and with zeal to serve the people of state and vindicate my oath of office under Article 159 of the Constitution,” Dhankhar tweeted.Taking note of one of his tweets, Moitra tweeted: “Asking Uncleji to lay out right here what antecedents of the appointees are & how each one got into Raj Bhavan. Do it NOW. BJP IT Cell can’t get you out of this one Uncleji.. And I don’t think Vice President of India also happening for you.”BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said, “Raj Bhawan officials are appointed by the state government, not the governor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/guv-moitra-continue-to-trade-barbs-101623089161658.html
07-06-2021||Noida||Metro services on Aqua Line to resume from June 9||Noida: The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Monday said that it will resume operations on its Aqua Line from June 9 as the partial Covid curfew has been lifted. However, the metro services will be available only on weekdays from 7am to 8pm, officials said.The officials said the NMRC is making necessary preparations at all of its stations and on trains as well, so as to ensure that passengers follow social distancing norms and other Covid-19 protocols. The services were suspended on May 1 after the second wave of the pandemic had ravaged the Guatam Budh Nagar district.“As the weekend curfew is still in place, train service will not be operated on weekends,” said Ritu Maheshwari, managing director, NMRC. The officials said that passenger screening teams will be deployed at each station to check the temperature of commuters and to ensure that they follow Covid guidelines such as wearing a mask and maintaining social distance. The parking facility will be available at Sector 51 station only, they said.Maheshwari said that the social distancing norms will be strictly followed on NMRC premises and inside the trains. The NMRC has also tweaked the frequency of trains during peak and non-peak hours. During peak hours (8am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm), the trains will be available at 15 minutes interval (as against 7.30 minutes on normal days) and during non-peak hours the frequency will be 30 minutes (earlier 10 minutes). Notably, on normal days, the train services are available from 6am to 10pm. The NMRC in a statement said it would continue to run fast trains once the service resumes on Wednesday. Of the 21 stations on the Aqua Line, trains during peak hours skip a total of 10 stations which usually have lower ridership. This move is aimed at reducing travel time between Noida and Greater Noida by nine minutes.Meanwhile, NMRC on Monday also issued a fresh tender to hire a developer for the Aqua Line’s extension to Greater Noida West -- 9.6km route from Sector 51 station to Sector 2 in Greater Noida West. VV Reddy, deputy general manager, NMRC, said that the elevated extension will have five metro stations – Sector 122 and Sector 123 in Noida, and Sector 4, Ecotech 12 and Sector 2 in Greater Noida West. “NMRC had issued three tenders earlier, but we did not get suitable applicants. We have made some changes in the tender documents to attract more applicants/developers,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/metro-services-on-aqua-line-to-resume-from-june-9-101623089256619.html
07-06-2021||Noida||As Covid curfew restrictions ease, land acquisition process resumes in Greater Noida||GREATER NOIDA: As the partial Corona curfew has been rolled back in the district, the Greater Noida Authority said it is going to resume the process for land acquisition for its projects. The process to acquire land from farmers had been stalled on April 22, due to the rise in Covid-19 cases. The authority was supposed to acquire 600 hectares of land through camps in villages, where all formalities related with acquisition were to be completed.“As restrictions have been eased, we have resumed the camps to complete the process. The land is to be acquired to be sold to domestic and foreign firms to set up industrial units,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer of the authority.The authority has started with setting up a camp in Ladpura village.“There will be a total of 12 camps in as many villages organised from June 7 to July 2. One camp has been organised in Ladpura village,” said Chand.The remaining 11 villages include Powari, Sunpura, Bhola Rawal, Jon Samana, Kheri, Bhanauta, Imaliya, Vaidpura, Dhoom Manikpur, Muradpur and Dadupur.The camps will be organised from 10:30am to 4:30pm. Officials said farmers need to bring and sign a consent letter, land title documents such as Khasra-Khatauni, and a no-dues document. Once these are signed, the authority will process the applications and acquire the land. These camps will be organised in primary schools in all villages of Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/as-covid-curfew-restrictions-ease-land-acquisition-process-resumes-in-greater-noida-101623089196545.html
07-06-2021||Noida||Noida unlocks after 37 days||Noida: It was unlock 2.0 in Gautam Budh Nagar on Monday as curbs imposed in lieu of the partial Corona curfew were lifted after a gap of 37 days. Markets, government offices, religious places and public transport were allowed to resume operations.The relaxations have come into place outside containment zones between 7am and 7pm, while weekend as well as night curfews will continue to be in place.According to Ganesh Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), there was a 30% increase in traffic in the district compared to earlier.“Even when the partial curfew was in place over the last month, there was no restriction on movement of vehicles during the day, hence there has only been a 30% increase in traffic on the road on Monday. Most of the increase in traffic was of vehicles going to Delhi as government offices have reopened,” he said.He added that public transport drivers were sensitised regarding the guidelines. “Since it was the first day on Monday, traffic police sensitised and raised awareness among auto-rickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers regarding social distancing guidelines,” said Saha.Lal Babu, an auto-rickshaw driver in Noida and union leader of the Noida Auto Rickshaw Chalak Association, said auto drivers hoped for business near Metro stations in the city on Monday. “We have anyway been running with social distancing guidelines and do not take more than two passengers aboard. On Monday morning, there was a slight improvement in our daily earnings as Delhi Metro’s Blue and Pink lines re-started and there were a number of passengers who required transportation to go towards the Sector 15 area, where some government offices are located,” he said.Meanwhile, shop owners said that while shops opened up after more than a month, there was no uptick in sales. “Barely any customers visited the market on Monday. However, shop owners are hoping that by next week, sales will increase as auspicious dates for weddings are closing in,” said SK Jain, president of the Sector 18 Market Association.While most industries and factories were operational during the last one month of the corona curfew, Vishard Gautam, president of the Indian Industries Association, said that manufacturing units of domestic appliances such as refregerators, washing machines, etc., and light electronics such as computers, televisions, etc., had been shut as their operations only run when the markets are open.“Such factories started functioning from Monday but most of them are experiencing issues with labour resources, since a majority of the workers returned to their hometowns when the partial corona curfew was imposed. Now, factory owners have called them and they will be back by Friday only, after which operations will commence in full force,” he said.On the other hand, district magistrate Suhas LY said that as active cases in the district have gone down to 400, the curfew will remain suspended between 7am and 7pm. “The first day of the unlocking went on smoothly. Our enforcement teams have ensured that Covid protocols and guidelines issued by the administration are followed,” he said.The district on Monday reported 34 new cases of Covid-19 and discharged 216 people in the last 24 hours. The active cases in the district stand at 400. The death toll in the district is at 460, with one more fatality in the past 24 hours.As per a statement from the state government, Uttar Pradesh recorded its test positivity rate at lower than 0.3% on Monday. The TPR has been below 1% for more than two weeks in a row.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-unlocks-after-37-days-101623089137097.html
07-06-2021||Noida||Low turnout in Ghaziabad markets after curfew restrictions lifted||Ghaziabad: Markets in trans-Hindon and city areas in Ghaziabad witnessed a low turnout on Monday as the city opened up for the first time since April 30 after the partial Corona curfew was relaxed. The district police said that the crowd remained low at about 30-40% of the usual strength. The major markets of the city, including those in Turab Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Vasundhara’s Sector 15, Vaishali’s Sector 4, Indirapuram, and in Sahibabad witnessed low footfall as majority of shoppers were those who had come for urgent tasks.“I came to get my mobile phone repaired and also took my car to the mechanic. These things had been pending in light of the curfew,” said Lagan Gupta, a resident of Abhay Khand in Indirapuram.The partial Corona curfew was imposed from the night of April 30 and continued in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar till June 7. It was relaxed as the number of active cases in each of the districts fell below the 600-mark, which was a condition set by the state government. According to the state control room figures of Monday, active cases in Ghaziabad stood at 480 while it was 400 for GB Nagar.“The curfew went on for over a month, and people could not go out to markets, etc. I went to the market on Monday to purchase daily wear clothes and slippers, and also got some gadgets repaired which were lying defunct. It was a visit only for essential works,” said Seema Malhotra, a visitor at Vaishali Sector 4 market.As per government directions, the markets can remain open from 7am to 7pm while weekly closure would be on weekends which have been reserved, for cleaning and sanitisation of public areas.“Most people who came to markets were wearing masks and were visiting only for essential things, such as purchases for weddings or getting a haircut, besides others who came to buy daily-wear and daily-use items. The footfall was also affected due to the weather being on Monday. We have also asked our association members to observe all Covid protocols and request customers to observe the same,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of the Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram in Ghaziabad. Markets in city areas also saw sparse footfall.“There was no rush in markets, and this is helpful in a way to maintain social distancing. After having suffered during the second wave, people are still fearful of Covid and are avoiding going out, unless necessary. The footfall at Turab Nagar market was about 30%-40% on Monday, in comparison to normal days. Since the duration of opening markets has increased, there will be less rush now,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairperson of the Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal.“On the first day of re-opening, the traders and shop owners also took up cleaning activities for hours before the shops were opened for business,” he added. During the curfew, the shops of essential commodities were allowed to open up from 7am to 11am only. Police officers said checks are being conducted in markets. “We estimate the crowd strength was about 30%-40% or even less on Monday. Our teams conducted checks regularly and there were many who were found not wearing masks and were penalised. We will continue checking for erring persons; night checking will also continue,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).The police in May issued 86,249 penalties for not wearing masks while 19,579 were issued in the first six days of June.The district health department, meanwhile, said that the daily number of new Covid cases has come down.“The number of daily cases has come down and for the past eight days (since May 31) the fresh cases are below 50 each day. Even though the partial Corona curfew has been relaxed, we will continue with about 8,000 tests per day. The testing will be able to detect if the virus is spreading more after relaxations,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.According to the official figures of the district health department, Ghaziabad had a recovery rate of 98.29% on Monday, with a sample positivity rate at 0.44% so far in the month. The sample positivity rate in May was 7.65% while it was 8.84% in April this year. Sample positivity rate refers to the number of samples testing positive per 100 samples tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/low-turnout-in-ghaziabad-markets-after-curfew-restrictions-lifted-101623089077231.html
07-06-2021||Noida||Capacity enhancement proposed for new oxygen plants in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: The construction work of 10 new oxygen plants in the district is likely to get complete by the end of this month. However, two of them need capacity enhancement as per the state government’s new direction that the new plants should be a minimum capacity of generating 150 litres gas per minute (LPM), officials said. The two plants -- one at Sanjay Nagar district hospital and another at the MMG district hospital -- will have a capacity of about 140 LPM each. The MMG district hospital will have two oxygen plants, the officials said. The other plants are being developed at ESIC Hospital at Sahibabad , district women hospital, one each at four community health centres at Loni, Muradnagar, Modinagar and Dasna, besides one at Bhojpur primary health centre. These government facilities have a provision of 521 beds at present, said the officials. The decision to set up new plants was taken up after acute oxygen shortage hampered health-care services during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. “All the proposed plants have a capacity of 240 LPM each, except the one at Sanjay Nagar and one of the two at MMG district hospital. When the plants were proposed, there were no specific directions about their capacities. So, we will get one additional plant each installed at MMG hospital and at Sanjay Nagar hospital,” said Virendra Kumar, general manager of district industries department. Another official familiar with the development said that eight of the 10 oxygen plants were sanctioned through CSR funds. “If capacity enhancement is done, it would require roping in more CSR funds. So, it will be difficult to get more funds than already sanctioned by private organisations. Further, oxygen plants should ideally be built at district hospitals and not at the CHCs or the PHC. It would be better if through CSR funds, high capacity oxygen plants are installed at all district hospitals,” said the officer while requesting not to be identified.The health department officials explained that one oxygen bed requires 10 LPM of oxygen supply while one bed (with ventilator) requires 24 LPM of oxygen supply. “So, a plant of 140LPM capacity will be able to supply oxygen to only 14 oxygen beds. So, the capacity enhancement is required. Initial works like surveys and tenders are complete. It is expected that the plants will get complete by June 30,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. Meanwhile, at Sanjay Nagar hospital, an old oxygen plant lying defunct since last year was made operational. HT on April 24 had highlighted the issue. “The old plant is made operational with one-third of its capacity, as it still requires some equipment which is expected to arrive in another 3-4 weeks,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/capacity-enhancement-proposed-for-new-oxygen-plants-in-ghaziabad-101623089076553.html
07-06-2021||Noida||Vaccination camp for specially-abled, transgenders held in GB Nagar||Noida: The social welfare department of Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Monday held a special Covid-19 vaccination camp for the differently-abled, transgender persons and senior citizens in the city. As many as 200 people were administered Covaxin at the camp, officials said. The one-day camp, which was held from 10am to 4pm at Vikas Bhavan auditorium located in Greater Noida, has now been extended by a day, the officials said.Of the 200 people who received the jabs, 50 were specially abled, 70 were residents of the oldage home run by government in Dankaur, 11 transgenders and 69 workers of the Vikas Bhavan.“The district administration wants to ensure that all strata of the society should get vaccinated. Today’s vaccination camp has been successful and looking at the response, we have extended it by one day,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar.Vaccination at the venue was carried out by two teams of the health department. “Each person we vaccinated at the camp was asked to raise awareness about the Covid vaccine among their community,” said Shailendra Bahadur Singh, district social welfare officer, GB Nagar.Ram Kali, a transgender from the NGO Basera Samajik Sansthan NGO, also got vaccinated at the camp. “I could only convince around 10 people from our NGO to get vaccinated. Now that we are vaccinated, we can raise more awareness about the vaccination,” she said.Covid vaccination of youth with autismMeanwhile, vaccination of adults with autism was carried out at Felix Hospital in Sector 137, Noida. As many as 33 adults from the Sunrise Learning Foundation were vaccinated at the hospital.“It is our request to all the NGOs and organizations taking care of such adults to get them vaccinated at the earliest,” said Dr DK Gupta, founder of Felix Hospital.Dr Sonali Kataria, who runs the foundation, said, “Autistic people have issues with waiting and new places. Hence, we requested the private hospital to hold a special camp for them. We also sensitised the nurses who were giving the vaccination as autistic people need to be informed well in advance about the discomfort they are going to feel.”Meanwhile, a special vaccination booth for women has been created at the district hospital in Noida and the Greater Noida Institute of Medical Sciences for 18+ age group. Each booth has a total of 200 slots. As per Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, 10,469 people were vaccinated at various government vaccination centres on Monday. Covid care facility at Noida Stadium shuts down The temporary 50-bed Covid care facility that was created at the Noida stadium in Sector 21A last month by the Noida authority was shut down on Monday. The decision was taken after no new patients came into the facility in the past week. The facility was launched on May 8 and had so far treated 64 Covid patients, officials said. “The facility has been shut. A decision is yet to be taken regarding the medical equipment of the facility since it has been sponsored by different organisations,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO, Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccination-camp-for-specially-abled-transgenders-held-in-gb-nagar-101623089017165.html
07-06-2021||Noida||Five persons booked for unauthorised vaccination drive in Greater Noida high-rise||Greater Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police have registered a case against five persons for allegedly organising an unauthorised Covid-19 vaccination camp in a residential society in Greater Noida. District health department officials said that the organisers allegedly flouted rules as they got free vaccines from an urban primary health centre (UPHC) in Aligarh. The FIR was registered on Sunday night at Beta 2 police station on a complaint filed by the district’s additional chief medical officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi, police said, adding that further investigations are on in the case.GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that the vaccination drive, during which about 200 people got Covaxin jabs, was conducted in Jaypee Greens society on May 21 and 27.“The organisers had not informed us about the vaccination drive. It is not clear who had organised the camp. When the vaccinated people downloaded their certificates from Co-WIN portal, they got to know that the vaccine was designated for Naurangabad UPHC in Aligarh. We formed a committee for investigation and found that prima facie the allegations were true. We have filed a police complaint against five persons in this regard,” he said.In the police complaint, the additional CMO stated that 187 people were vaccinated at the unauthorised vaccination camp in the society in two days. “We visited the society for inspection on June 5 after we got the information about the anomalies. A resident of the society informed the health department team that five persons had organised the vaccination camp,” he said.All these five persons have been named in the FIR for organising the unauthorised camp, police said.Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the local residents had informed the health department about the irregularities. “The CMO formed a committee and investigated the matter. Following this, a case was registered on Sunday,” he said.The case was registered against the five persons under sections 420 (cheating), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and under Section 3 of the Epidemic Act.“Investigations are going on. We will take action against the people involved in this unauthorised vaccination drive,” Pandey said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-persons-booked-for-unauthorised-vaccination-drive-in-greater-noida-highrise-101623089016539.html
07-06-2021||Other||Civil defence staff who posed as a cop to extort money arrested from south Delhi||New Delhi: The police on Monday said they have arrested a civil defence volunteer for allegedly impersonating as a police sub-inspector in south Delhi’s Tigri. His interrogation led to the arrested of a cyber cafe owner, who allegedly prepared the forged identity card that the civil defence volunteer, Suneel Kumar, 31, was using, the police said. Besides the fake ID card, the police also recovered a police uniform from Kumar which he had purchased from a market. Police officers said that posing as a police officer,Kumar used to intimidate people and extort money from them. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said on June 6, the Tigri police station received information that a policeman who was at Bandh Road in Sangam Vihar was acting in a suspicious manner. A police team went there to check on him. They found that he was not attached to the local police station. When he showed his fake ID card, the police took him into custody, the DCP said.“The man turned out to be a civil defence volunteer. He disclosed that the ID card was prepared at a cyber cafe. The cafe’s owner, Naveen, was also arrested. The computer used in preparing the fake police ID card was also seized,” added DCP Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civil-defence-staff-who-posed-as-a-cop-to-extort-money-arrested-from-south-delhi-101623088656535.html
07-06-2021||Kolkata||Nurse saves newborns, mothers from fire at Chennai’s govt hospital||It was May 26, past 8.30 pm. 35-year-old, P Jayakumar, who finished his duty as a scrub nurse in a couple of C-section surgeries at the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children, was busy writing charts outside the operation theatre when he heard insistent screams.Jayakumar rushed to the spot and found a huge plume of smoke emerging outside the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) of the hospital. A fire had broken out from the AC in the duty doctor’s room adjacent to the NICU where there were more than 40 neonates, including three newborns on a ventilator. Initially, Jayakumar couldn’t see the source of the fire though he had entered the room of the fire.“I couldn’t even see the fire nor the person next to me,” he recalled. “But, I was only thinking of the babies because if it entered the NICU, it would have created a big disaster because neonates can’t tolerate that type of hazardous fog. They will collapse in ten seconds.”Having been trained for fire emergencies seven years ago, Jayakumar ran the operation solely before fire and rescue teams could arrive. When he found the source of the fire, his anxiety gripped him more. The floor below the source of the fire was also the manifold room where additional oxygen cylinders were stored due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This was a second potential disaster. The NICU staff had locked themselves from the inside, switched off all power and oxygen lines and began manual hyperinflation or ventilation for the babies.Jayakumar is asthmatic. “But, at that time I didn’t know from where I got the energy,” he said. “There was no time to give instructions to someone else. My mind was only thinking I’ve to stop the fire.” In half an hour he had emptied 12 fire extinguishers to put out the fire and reduce the thick smog. After bringing the situation under control, Jayakumar collapsed.He was treated in the ICU for five days for multiple problems after he had inhaled large amounts of carbon dioxide and toxic fumes. “My peripheral controls were low and I couldn’t even hold a cup to drink water for the first three days,” he said. He still has breathing difficulties due to his asthmatic condition and has reddish eyes. Despite wearing a PPE, his whole body has been covered with chemicals from the extinguisher. “It was unbearably hot and my skin turned into hash colour but it is getting better,” Jayakumar said.He lives in Ponneri, a town in adjoining Thiruvallur district with his wife and two daughters aged 5 and 3 respectively from where he commutes to Chennai every day.On Friday evening, Jayakumar received a call from state minister for Hindu religious and charitable endowments Sekar Babu, asking him to come with his family to chief minister MK Stalin’s home on the following day. Stalin honoured him for his bravery. “36 infants, 11 children, who were kept in incubators and their mothers were saved due to Mr Jayakumar’s actions,” an official statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/nurse-saves-newborns-mothers-from-fire-at-chennai-s-govt-hospital-101623086979040.html
07-06-2021||Gurugram||Five held for cyber theft of ₹1 crore from 45 Palwal residents||Five persons, including a record keeper from the revenue office of Palwal, were arrested on Sunday for allegedly defrauding over 45 Palwal residents of ₹1 crore in the past 10 days by using their Aadhaar numbers and cloning their fingerprints from records to withdraw money from their bank accounts.The police said the masterminds had prior call centre experience and allegedly bribed officials of the revenue department to gain access to the registry documents which would also contain the Aadhaar details and the fingerprints of those executing the registry. The fraudsters would use the records to shortlist persons whose bank accounts were linked to their Aadhaar numbers and then use cloning machines to duplicate their fingerprints from the records. Armed with this, the gang would carry out Aadhaar enabled transactions and siphon off money from bank accounts without the knowledge of the account holder, police said.The suspects told the police that they had learned the process by watching videos on the internet. The arrested men were identified as Rohit Tyagi (33) of Ghaziabad, Chitranjan (28) of Aurangabad in Bihar, Aamir Hussain (27) of Chapra in Bihar, Kiran (28) of Bihar and Tularam of Palwal. The police received over 45 complaints from Palwal residents between May 24 and June 2, wherein complainants alleged that money was fraudulently withdrawn from their accounts, using their Aadhaar details. Deepak Gehlawat, superintendent of police, Palwal, said, “We started investigations and a team of cyber police was formed on June 2. In all 45 cases, suspects withdrew money from customer accounts using their Aadhaar details. When the team started visiting banks, they were apprised that customers had lodged complaints with them as well,” he said. Gehlawat said they zeroed in June 3on a bank account to which some money was transferred recently and had a balance of ₹10 lakh. “We immediately got the account freezed and got the local address and contact details of the account holder. Meanwhile, we contacted all banks to check the exact amount of money siphoned off from each one of them,” he said. The police said that the account, registered to one of the relatives or acquaintances of the gang members, was being operated by Rohit Tyagi as his phone number was provided as the contact number. The police tracked Tyagiusing his call records, who, after being arrested, shared the whereabouts of his associates in Delhi and Palwal. During questioning, the gang members revealed that they had managed to get registry documents of more than 250 people from the revenue records office. Gehlawat said the suspects bribed a record keeper at the revenue office in Palwal to get hold of the registry documents. They used a machine to create a rubber clone of the fingerprints they lifted from the documents. They also created accounts with electronic transaction processing platforms (e-wallets etc) to facilitate the money transfer, he said.“The suspects checked which Aadhaar card numbers were linked to bank accounts, following which they used Aadhaar Enabled Payment System (AePS) to carry out transactions. As soon as the transaction is completed, the money is credited to the e-wallet from where the amount is transferred to their bank accounts,” Gehlawat said. The police said that Tyagi and Chitranjan were the masterminds and had previously worked in illegal call centres to dupe foreign citizens of money on the pretext of providing them technical support for software and appliances. According to the police, Kiran used to transfer the money from the wallets to the bank account that was operated by the masterminds. Gehlawat said Tularam worked as clerks in the revenue office and provided them property-related documents. The police recovered one biometric machine, debit and credit cards, rubber stamps, cloning machines, photo polymer gels, laptops, printer, scanner, lamination machine, 220 cloned fingerprints, passbooks, cheque books and electronic gadgets from their possession. Gehlawat said they have recovered the data of more than 500 people from the arrested men. “They recently bought a Hyundai Venue car for ₹12 lakh. They were planning to target Gurugram residents next and were trying to get hold of a person from the revenue department there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/five-held-for-cyber-theft-of-1-crore-from-45-palwal-residents-101623086919694.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls 2022: Hoardings backing Captain surface on Sidhu’s home turf||Hoardings backing Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s leadership in the state elections scheduled early next year have surfaced in Amritsar, which is the home turf of dissident Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu.This has come when Amritsar East MLA Sidhu and a section of Congress ministers and legislators are questioning Amarinder’s performance as the chief minister and cornering him for “lack of action” in the sacrilege cases, prompting the party high command to intervene.To counter this campaign against Amarinder’s leadership, his supporters in Amritsar have put up hoardings declaring “Punjab Da Ik Hi Captain” (Punjab has only one captain), while pitching “#Captainfor2022”. The hoardings were first put up by a Congress student wing leader, and now more and bigger ones have come up at all key points in the city, backed by Amritsar mayor and Captain loyalist Karamjit Singh Rintu.“As Congress workers are saying the situation is ambiguous in terms of the party leadership in the state, I have taken this step, just to clear it in the interest of the party,” said Rintu.The mayor said the Congress government has met the expectations of Punjabis in all aspects, and the opposition is left with no issue to corner it. “You cannot say that Captain Amarinder Singh has committed any kind of corruption. There is no charge against him. Second, he has left no stone unturned in terms of development in our city,” he said.Another local leader and Captain loyalist, who did not wish to be named, said: “One person (Sidhu) has vitiated the atmosphere, and following him, some more ministers and MLAs have opened a front against Captain. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar has already announced that the next polls will be contested under Captain. Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat has also endorsed him. To not let the rival parties and other detractors exploit this situation, installation of these hoardings is the need of the hour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-2022-hoardings-backing-captain-surface-on-sidhu-s-home-turf-101623086919173.html
07-06-2021||Gurugram||Residents of sectors 50-66 complain about open waste burning||Residents of sectors 50 to 66 complained to the authorities that open waste burning has increased in the city in the past few weeks of the lockdown.On Sunday, residents, under the banner of Citizens for Clean Air, wrote to the authorities about three different waste burning sites within a one-kilometre radius. The sites were identified near South City 2, a group of housing societies in the vicinity and Golf Course Extension Road. Sonali Venkatesh, a resident of Sector 66, said, “Despite several complaints to authorities, open burning of mixed waste in our sector around a nearby condominium happens very often. At least once a week, the collected waste is dumped in open areas and burnt.” Ruchika Sethi Takkar, another resident working for proper waste management in the city who complained about waste burning, said, “Within a one-kilometre radius of my house, waste was being burnt openly at three places on Sunday and what is shocking is that this happens in broad daylight as contractor-based waste collectors have made it a practice of handling waste.” The residents are now planning to write to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram for a systematic approach to end the problems. “Open waste burning is rampantly practised here, so we are asking authorities to conduct a waste mapping exercise of vendors and scrap dealers who burn different types of waste, and exploring if they can be reimbursed for the residue (like copper from wires of electrical waste) that they try to collect from the waste burning process. Another need of the hour is an integrated solid waste management plan for the city so that waste can be scientifically managed,” said Takkar. Meanwhile, teams from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram conducted ground surveys on Monday and said that rigorous awareness campaigns will be conducted against open waste burning. “We have been able to reduce open burning of waste in the city, but controlling it completely is difficult. We have been issuing challans regularly to the offenders and will be conducting sessions with different waste collectors in the city to make them understand the consequences of waste burning to the environment and health,” said a senior MCG official, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-of-sectors-50-66-complain-about-open-waste-burning-101623086917767.html
07-06-2021||Gurugram||DTCP razes under-construction farmhouses in Sohna||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Monday demolished two unauthorised colonies that were being developed to host illegal farmhouses. DTCP officials said that farmhouses were being developed in around 60 acres in Kiranki village under Sohna. DTCP officials said that action was taken on Monday by a team of the enforcement wing at Kiranki village, near Vatika resort in Sohna. RS Bhath, district town planner, Gurugram, said the two new farmhouse colonies were being developed in Kiranki and notices were earlier issued to landowners. “Around 60 acres of land was being converted into farmhouse colonies without any permission or licence from the department. We had issued notices to the landowners but they continued to lay road networks, construct plinths and boundary wall, but this is against all rules,” he said. These two colonies were at initial stages of development and a large road network, plinths and boundary walls were demolished on Monday by the team with the help of five earth moving machines. “The offenders were planning to carve out an illegal farmhouse colony in violation of rules. We want to inform the landowners that instead of developing illegal colonies, they should take advantage of the recently announced farmhouse policy and develop property legally,” said Bhath. DTCP officials said that camps will be organised in rural areas to make the landowners aware about the various schemes of the DTCP for development of land and real estate. “We are going to hold camps and also take action against more such colonies in and around Bhondsi where farmhouses are being developed illegally,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-razes-under-construction-farmhouses-in-sohna-101623086917051.html
07-06-2021||Gurugram||3 men attack Sapphire Mall salesman, rob ₹2,500 at gunpoint||Three unidentified men allegedly attacked a 22-year-old salesman in a meat shop at Sapphire Mall in Gurugram Sector 49 and took away his cellphone and ₹2,500 from the shop on Sunday evening. No arrests have been made so far, said police.According to the police, Roshan Kumar Sikdel of Nepal, who works in a meat shop at the mall was arranging goods along with his colleague Ram Bahadur around 7 pm on Sunday, when three masked men entered the shop and bought chicken curry masala worth ₹60 and left.Five minutes later, they returned with wooden sticks and a pistol, Sikdel said. “I was near the cash counter when they entered the shop for the second time. At gunpoint, they asked me to hand over all the cash kept in the drawer. However, even before I could raise an alarm, two of them went inside the counter area and took away the ₹2,500 kept inside the drawer.”They allegedly assaulted Sikdel and Bahadur when they tried to raise an alarm and pushed both of them on the floor and threatened to kill them. “When they could not find anything else from the shop, they took away my cellphone and left. They closed the door and pulled down the iron shutter of the shop from outside,” Sikdel added.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (Sadar), said that the victims called their employer 10 minutes after the incident, and informed him about everything. “The owner informed the police control room, and, meanwhile, reached the shop and opened the shutter,” Yadav said, adding that police have collected and scanned CCTV footage from several spots, and are trying to nab the robbers.A case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention), and relevant sections of the Arms Act was registered at the Sector 50 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/3-men-attack-sapphire-mall-salesman-rob-2-500-at-gunpoint-101623086916297.html
07-06-2021||Bangalore||K'taka to spend ₹1500 crore to upgrade 149 taluk, 19 district hospitals in view of 3rd Covid wave||The Karnataka state Covid task force has given its approval to upgrade 149 taluk hospitals and 19 district hospitals by spending ₹1,500 crore to prepare itself for the possible Covid-19 third wave, deputy chief minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Monday.He said that the upgradation has been given a time limit of maximum of 3 months.The government intended to provide maximum health facilities at the taluk level itself and up to 97 per cent special health services in districts.Out of the estimated ₹1,500 crore, around ₹800 crore will be needed for infrastructure, and the remaining ₹600-700 crore will be needed towards salary expenses which will be recurring every year, Narayan, who is also the head of the task force, said.This upgradation will require the appointment of about 4,000 doctors, 2-3 nurses per each doctor and other staff, and diagnostic facilities will also be augmented across the state correspondingly, the DCM was quoted as saying by his office in a release."District hospitals will have a minimum of 100 beds all oxygenated (25 ICU with ventilators 25 HDU beds 50 normal oxygenated beds) and taluk hospitals will have a minimum of 25 oxygenated beds," he added.The minister said that as per the National Skill Commission's guidelines, 6 skills have been listed under Covid management support skills. He said 5,000 people, who have passed 10th and 12th classes, will be trained under this programme.They will be given training for 3 months and a stipend of ₹5,000 per month will be paid for each trainee, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid-k-taka-to-spend-rs-1500-crore-to-upgrade-149-taluk-19-district-hospitals-101623085858665.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Hyatt suspends operations at Hyatt Regency, Mumbai||Global hospitality firm Hyatt Hotels Corporation has suspended operations at Hyatt Regency hotel in Mumbai, and said the property will remain closed till further notice."As a result of no funds forthcoming from Asian Hotels (West) Ltd, the owner of Hyatt Regency Mumbai, to sustain the operations of the hotel, a decision has been taken to temporarily suspend all operations for Hyatt Regency Mumbai," Sunjae Sharma, Vice President and Country Head - India, Hyatt said in response to a query from PTI.The hotel will remain closed until further notice, he added.Sharma, however, did not provide any details on since when funds have not been forthcoming."Future reservations through Hyatt booking channels will remain temporarily unavailable," Sharma said.At Hyatt, "our guests and colleagues are a top priority, and we are working closely with the hotel's owner to resolve this situation," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hyatt-suspends-operations-at-hyatt-regency-mumbai-101623086267284.html
07-06-2021||Gurugram||OPD services in govt facilities to resume today||The director general of health services (DGHS), Haryana, asked the Gurugram health department on Monday to resume out-patient department (OPD) services from Tuesday.“In view of the improved Covid-19 situation in Haryana, it was decided to start routine OPD services in the government healthcare facilities from Wednesday (June 8). However, the elective surgeries shall still be kept on hold till further orders,” read the order issued by Dr Veena Singh, the DGHS.Gurugram chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav had suspended the OPD services in April, amidst a spike in cases during the second wave of Covid-19. “The order will be implemented with immediate effect. It will take at least a week to start elective surgeries, only after the state issues the guidelines,” said CMO Yadav, adding that private hospitals can also make OPDs fully operational in the next few days.Dr Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute (FMRI), said that, at present, they are treating most of the OPD patients through tele-consultancy. “Patients are asked to visit the hospital only if there’s an emergency, to conduct a physical follow up. This includes cancer or tumour patients, who are undergoing therapies. Limited slots are booked for a day, to limit visits to the hospital.”Covid cases dipAt least 31 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported in Gurugram on Monday, the lowest since February 26, when 29 new coronavirus cases were reported. The active cases in the district have also dipped to 689, with the total tally at 180,343.At present, only 72 patients are admitted at private hospitals. About 616 are in home isolation, and one in district Covid care centre.At least four fresh deaths were reported on Monday, taking the total tally to 852. The daily test positivity rate has come down to 0.6%. The health department, with private labs and hospitals, has been conducting about 4,500 tests a day, said the officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/opd-services-in-govt-facilities-to-resume-today-101623086377008.html
07-06-2021||Gurugram||Vaccinations for 18-45 age group remain halted at govt centres||The vaccination for people in the 18-45 age group will continue to remain suspended on Tuesday due to the shortage of Covid-19 vaccine. It has been almost a week now that the inoculation for people above 18 years has been halted at all government facilities.Health officials, however, said that the shortage of vaccine will now be resolved as Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced on Monday that the Centre will take back full responsibility of vaccination from states, and from June 21, the jab will be given to everyone above 18 years for free.“The Gurugram health department did not receive any vaccine stock from the Haryana health department, for people in the 18-45 age group, for the past one week. However, private hospitals have started vaccination drives and are providing over 10,000 jabs to people above 18 years on a daily basis. Over 30,000 doses are available with the health department for people above 45, which is being inoculated at 37 government healthcare facilities,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer (DIO).Drive likely to resume from June 10According to senior health officials in Haryana, vaccination for people above 18 years is likely to resume from June 10, as the state is likely to get a vaccine stock.Until now, state and private hospitals could procure almost 50% of the vaccine stock directly from the manufacturers, while 50% was supplied by the Centre. State-level data as of June 4 showed that 5,898,869 out of the 6,632,380 doses, allocated by the Centre and state governments, have been administered.According to the health department data, 7,66,263 doses have been administered in Gurugram till now, of which, 12,482 doses were administered on Monday. Over 10,269 people in the 18-45 age group took the vaccine shots at private hospitals. About 1,243 people aged 45 years and above took their doses at government healthcare facilities, and 663 at private facilities. About 167 healthcare workers, and 140 frontline workers and their family members also took the jab on Monday.A special jab drive for two daysThe health department has also planned to conduct a special vaccination drive for people with disabilities, and thalassemia patients on Tuesday and Wednesday, despite the vaccine shortages. “We have been trying to cover the high-risk population group by holding a special vaccination drive in the past few days. At Rajiv Nagar, a camp will be set up for people with disabilities on Tuesday, and for thalassemia patients on Wednesday,” said DIO Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccinations-for-18-45-age-group-remain-halted-at-govt-centres-101623086376252.html
07-06-2021||Gurugram||Majority of restaurants to start operations by weekend||After the state government on Sunday allowed resumption of restaurants, hotels, and other hospitality services with 50% capacity, a majority of restaurant associations in Gurugram said on Monday that they will start operations by the upcoming weekend.Popular hubs of Cyber Hub, Sector 29, Horizon One, and Sohna Road continued to wear a deserted look on Monday even as they were allowed to open between 10am and 8pm. Restaurant owners said that the guidelines change often, and restarting operations require investment and logistical planning, with regard to the number of staffers to be recalled. They said that the industry is facing issues in terms of staffing, as most staff members have returned to their hometowns.Rohit Mann, director, Raise the Bar brewery at Clarens Hotel in Sector 29, said that they will keep a watch on the situation for a week before reopening their outlets. “The operation timings are odd as people will only visit during lunch hours. People are now working from home and going out for lunch is a task. People get free late evenings, but by then, the establishments will close and running costs also won’t be recovered,” he said.The footfall will increase in some time as the people won’t step out for dining facilities right now, said restaurateurs in the district.Varun Duggal, head, Alliances at Massive Restaurants Private Limited, said that they are planning to open this weekend. “We will start the operations, with limited staff, and their prime focus is to get the staff vaccinated first. With a limited eight-hour shift, we can only keep a limited staff in one shift. Will increase the same as the footfall increases.”The owners said they are working on the reopening strategy and rentals, to ensure that they do not suffer losses. There are hardly 10% stewards, waiters, and chefs available in Gurugram, the rest have left the district before the lockdown was announced this year. There are about 300 pubs, bars and restaurants, and 25 hotels, wherein liquor is available as part of dine-in services. All these establishments are facing challenges in terms of reopening and closing since March 2020, since the Covid-imposed lockdown.Pushpender Yadav, director, Quaff Microbrewery, said that they need at least 25 days to start operating. “We will have to call back our staff, especially the brewmaster. The cycle of brewing beer takes 25 to 30 days. It’s still easier for restaurants to start operating, but breweries need about a month to clean, set up, and other arrangements. We will resume operating in the first week of July.”Restaurant owners also said that most of the people will step out after they get both the vaccine doses, and they would also expect the restaurant staff to be vaccinated. According to them, it is not possible for the industry to resume business within a day’s notice. They will have to maintain arrangements for social distancing and new hygiene norms and make preparations accordingly, and this requires time.Mayank Bhatt, brand head of Social, said, “With businesses suffering and relying only on delivery, we’re finally starting, hoping all the markets open up and the timings are normalised. Only then does it makes business sense to us. We are also hoping the vaccination drive picks up and things open up properly for F&B establishments to thrive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/majority-of-restaurants-to-start-operations-by-weekend-101623086316931.html
07-06-2021||Gurugram||Aravalli encroachment in Faridabad: Residents seek rehabilitation, action against those responsible||After the Supreme Court on Monday ordered the eviction of thousands of slum dwellers encroaching on the Aravalli forest area in Faridabad district, residents are demanding temporary rehabilitation and action against those who sold land to them decades ago. As many as 10,000 houses are set to be demolished following the order, said residents.Biram Kumar, a resident of the village, said, “The authorities conducted demolition drives in September last year and April this year too, but the people living here are mostly those who used to work in mines and have nowhere else to go. After mining was stopped, they started working as daily wage labourers and construction workers, bought small plots here and built houses.” “If the whole process was illegal, then the land should not have been sold to them. Now, these residents do not have any savings and will soon be rendered homeless. The authorities should take action against those who were involved in duping the slum dwellers,” said Kumar. After the demolition of 300 houses in April, the dwellers of Khori village had approached the Supreme Court for protection, seeking rehabilitation before the demolition of their houses. On April 6, the Khori Gaon Residents’ Welfare Association had also organised a one-day peaceful protest outside the office of the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad and the deputy commissioner. The land in question is notified under special sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), which extends protection against land-use change to certain specified Aravalli areas, forests and trees. According to directives of the Supreme Court, the PLPA attracts protection under the Forest Conservation Act of 1980, which states that “no state government or other authority shall make, except with the prior approval of the central government, any order directing that any forest land or any portion thereof may be used for any non-forest purpose.” Nirmal Gorana, the general secretary of Bandhu Mukti Morcha, an organisation that is taking up the cause of the residents, said, “The orders of the Supreme Court must be complied with by the state government, but they should first understand its responsibility and provide temporary rehabilitation within two weeks, before demolishing their (villagers’) houses.” “These people are already facing the brunt of Covid-19 second wave with many losing their jobs and now, with this order, they will have no place to live. We appeal to the state government to provide rehabilitation to all families from Khori village,” said Gorana. When asked about whether rehabilitation will be provided to the dwellers, Garima Mittal, commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Faridabad said, “We will be following the orders of the Supreme Court. We are going through the details of it and take action accordingly.” The official did not clearly state if the authorities are planning to rehabilitate the residents. Meanwhile, environmentalists welcomed the decision and said that even if on small scale, encroachments from the Aravallis must be removed. Sunil Harsana, a wildlife researcher and resident of Faridabad, said, “All encroachments from the Aravalli should be removed as they are harming the ecology. We cannot look into whether this will affect the poor or the rich, as the degradation of the environment is the cost that we are paying here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/aravalli-encroachment-in-faridabad-residents-seek-rehabilitation-action-against-those-responsible-101623086316284.html
07-06-2021||Jaipur||PM should clarify which states demanded to buy vaccines : Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should clarify which states had demanded to purchase Covid vaccines for the inoculation of the beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group."To my knowledge, no state had made such a demand. The PM's advisors seem to have given him wrong information," he wrote on Twitter.Gehlot congratulated the Congress workers for the Prime Minister's announcement that the Centre will provide free coronavirus vaccines to the states for the inoculation of all above the age of 18 years."I am glad that looking at public sentiments, the PM had to reverse his old decision," he said in another tweet.Congratulating the MPs, MLAs, workers of the Congress and the general public who participated in the party's #SpeakUpForFreeUniversalVaccination online campaign, Gehlot said due to their spirit, the prime minister had to make the announcement, which is a victory of the public sentiment.In another tweet, he said free Covid vaccination by the Centre was the demand since the beginning and he too had requested the Prime Minister in a video-conference on April 23 that vaccination for all beneficiaries above 18 years of age should be conducted by the government of India for free.He said Congress president Sonia Gandhi, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and other leaders of the opposition have raised their voices against the wrong vaccination policies of the Centre and several states, including Rajasthan, had to approach the Supreme Court over this issue."As a result of this, the PM had to withdraw his wrong decision. However, he unsuccessfully tried to blame the states for his wrong decisions, whereas no state raised the demand or suggested to the Centre for the vaccination of beneficiaries of 18-44 years with their own budget. Better late than never," he said.Modi on Monday announced that the Centre will provide free coronavirus vaccines to the states for the inoculation of all above the age of 18 from June 21, and asserted that the vaccine supply would be increased significantly in the country in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/pm-modi-should-clarify-which-states-demanded-to-buy-vaccines-ashok-gehlot-101623084480669.html
07-06-2021||Gurugram||Haryana reports 640 new Covid-19 cases, 39 more deaths; tally nearing 763,000||Haryana reported 39 coronavirus-related deaths on Monday, bringing the toll to 8,751, while 640 fresh infections pushed the state's infection count to 762,931, according to a bulletin.According to the health department's daily bulletin, the fresh fatalities include four each from Gurugram and Hisar and three each from Bhiwani and Rewari districts.Jind reported 78 new cases of Covid-19 while 59 and 55 fresh infections were from Yamunanagar and Sirsa, respectively.The number of active cases stands at 8,024, while the recovery count reached in the state 746,156. Haryana has a Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.80 per cent and a cumulative positivity rate of 8.20 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-reports-640-new-covid-19-cases-39-more-deaths-tally-nearing-763000-101623084116219.html
07-06-2021||Pune||Woman in custody for killing husband in Narhe||A woman was remanded to police custody on Monday for killing her husband whose body was found in a water tank in Narhe area on Monday. The woman was identified as Gyanidevi Krishnaprakash (32), while her deceased husband was identified as Krushnakumar Gurucharan Prasad (28) both of whom lived on a construction site in Narhe. She has been remanded to police custody by a local court till June 10. “We got suspicious of her after the details she revealed before they were discovered. She said he left home around 9pm and she went to her neighbour’s house around 3:30am and started crying that her husband had left her forever. When she reported him missing, she also insisted that we search the water tank area. So, we started interrogating her and she finally agreed to have done it,” said police inspector (crime) Pramod Waghmare of Sinhagad road police station who is investigating the case. The two had allegedly married in a temple in Bihar after her first husband had learned about their affair. The woman had smashed her husband’s head and thrown the body in the tank. She had pointed to the police that the man’s footwear was lying near the isolated water tank, according to the police. “He did centring work and she did water work and both had been living in Pune for the past year. She had been married earlier and had three kids with the first husband in Bihar. Due to her affair with the now-deceased person, she left her family and came to Pune with him. However, he started bringing home another woman and used to break her phone if she tried to talk to her children back in Bihar,” said PI Waghmare. A case under section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sinhagad road police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-in-custody-for-killing-husband-in-narhe-101623083676030.html
07-06-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh extends ban on bus operations from 4 states till June 15||The Madhya Pradesh government on Monday extended a ban on operation of bus services to and from Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan till June 15 in view of the coronavirus pandemic, an official said.The order to extend the ban, which was to end on Monday, was issued by additional transport commissioner Arvind Saxena, he added.The ban includes vehicles with all-India tourist permits, the official said quoting the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-extends-ban-on-bus-operations-from-4-states-till-june-15-101623082482038.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: SIT questions retired Punjab DIG Khatra||The Punjab Police’s new special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing incident quizzed retired deputy inspector general of police (DIG) Ranbir Singh Khatra, then DIG Amar Singh Chahal and then Faridkot senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sukhmandar Singh Mann on Monday. Led by additional director general of police (vigilance) LK Yadav, the SIT is probing into the policing firing on protesters seeking action into sacrilege incidents, which left two men dead on October 14, 2015. It was constituted after the Punjab and Haryana high court on April 9 quashed all reports filed by the previous SIT headed by inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh.Retired SSP Charanjit Singh and inspector Pritpal Singh also faced the SIT members. After suspended Indian Police Service officer Paramraj Singh Umranangal showed inability to appear before the probing team by sending an application through his lawyer, he was allowed to appear on Tuesday. A fortnight back, the SIT was in Faridkot to quiz senior police officials who were present on the spot during the firing incident. Former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, who was grilled for at least four hours last week, has not been called in the current round of questioning. Other top officers who have been questioned include IPS Sahota and Rohit Chaudhary, who holds the charge of special director general of police. Former MLA Brar summoned too Mantar Singh Brar, former Shiromani Akali Dal legislator from Kotkapura, has also been summoned to appear before the SIT on Tuesday. With this, Brar becomes the first politician to be quizzed by the new probing team.The previous SIT had named Brar as an accused in the Kotkapura firing case, and later filed a challan against him under the charges of criminal conspiracy. The SIT had claimed that Brar exchanged 157 calls with the chief minister’s office, the DGP office and senior police and local administration officials on the night before the firing and directed the local authorities to disperse the protesters by using force. He was also accused of influencing the local police to not record the statements of complainants in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-sit-questions-retired-punjab-dig-khatra-101623082836453.html
07-06-2021||Pune||District collector orders inquiry into Pirangut fire incident||The district collector of Pune has ordered an inquiry into the fire accident that has claimed at least 18 lives in Pirangut area of Mulshi taluka of Pune on Monday evening. Officials of the Pune metropolitan region development authority (PMRDA) will be part of the four-member committee. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh after visiting the industrial unit where fire broke out, said, “I have ordered an inquiry into the fire tragedy. Sub divisional magistrate of Maval will head the committee, which will have officials from industrial safety unit of MIDC and fire brigade under PMRDA.” The inquiry committee will be headed by Sandesh Shirke, sub-divisional officer with magisterial powers, and will consist of an official of MIDC industrial safety department, and official of PMRDA, and fire chief of PMRDA, according to district collector. “Our line of inquiry will be about fact-finding - what caused the fire, what was the chain of events, how many were affected,” said SDO Shirke. When asked about a possible declaration of compensation and the inquiry findings, Shirke said, “Compensation, if any, will be a state government declaration. Our inquiry will not be involved with that. Plus, in such cases, company insurance, personal insurance should also be considered.” All the victims are from nearby localities. Therefore, relatives of missing workers were readily available for identification. However, the people who found the bodies could not even identify the gender of those found. “The bodies are so charred, it is difficult to look at them, let alone identify their gender. Only doctors can help here. The floor of the company in its entirety is destroyed,” said Shirke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/district-collector-orders-inquiry-into-pirangut-fire-incident-101623082836968.html
07-06-2021||Pune||Committee to probe fire accident at Pirangut industrial unit||Pune district collector has initiated an inquiry into the fire accident at an industrial plant that has claimed 18 lives in Pirangut area under Mulshi tehsil of Pune on Monday evening. Officials of the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) will be part of the four-member committee that will ascertain the cause of the fire and whether all safety-related compliances were in place.Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh after visiting the industrial unit where the fire broke out said, “I have ordered an inquiry into the fire tragedy. Sub-divisional magistrate of Maval will head the committee, which will have officials from industrial safety unit of MIDC and fire brigade under PMRDA.” The orders were given following instructions from deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.Pawar, who is also the guardian minister of Pune district, said in a written statement, “Even if the fire has been doused, the cooling process is on. Only after it is complete can the reason be determined. The inquiry will provide the reason for the fire and fix responsibility for it.”The committee will be headed by Sandesh Shirke, sub-divisional officer with magisterial powers, and will consist of an official of MIDC industrial safety department, and official of PMRDA, and fire chief of PMRDA, according to the district collector.”Our line of inquiry will be about fact-finding - what caused the fire, chain of events and how many were affected,” said Shirke.All the victims are from nearby localities. Therefore, relatives of missing workers were available for identification. However, the people who found the bodies could not even identify the gender of those found.“The bodies are charred and it is difficult to ascertain their identity. The floor of the company is also destroyed,” said Shirke.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/committee-to-probe-fire-accident-at-pirangut-industrial-unit-101623082655926.html
07-06-2021||Kolkata||Mumbai-Kolkata flight hits turbulence 15 mins before landing, 8 hurt||Kolkata: Eight people suffered injuries when a Mumbai-Kolkata Vistara flight experienced turbulence 15 minutes before landing at the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport on Monday evening. Three of the eight passengers on flight UK-775 were later taken to a hospital in Kolkata.“The three injured passengers were rushed to a private hospital in Kolkata in an ambulance as soon as the flight landed at the NSCBI airport. The other five passengers were discharged after being given some first aid,” said C Pattabhi, director of NSCBI airport.Doctors said Sudip Roy, 36, has a cut on his head, Anita Agarwal, 61, had a fracture on her arm and Timir Baran Das, 77, complained of spinal tenderness.A statement by Vistara, citing preliminary reports, said turbulence caused injuries to a few passengers who were provided first aid during flight and immediate medical assistance upon arrival in Kolkata.The flight landed in Kolkata around 4:25 pm.A squall was passing over Kolkata around the same time.“A squall passed over Kolkata at 4:25 pm from northwesterly direction with wind speed gusting up to 50 km per hour,” said a senior official of the India Meteorological Department’s regional office in Kolkata.8 die due to lightningAccording to reports, six people were killed and another six were injured due to lightning in Murshidabad’s Raghunathganj, around 250 km north of Kolkata. According to state government officials, about 12 people had taken shelter from a hailstorm in a tube-well room when lightning struck the structure. The victims were farmers who were in the field when the hailstorm hit the region.Two more persons died due to lightning in Murshidabad’s Berhampore area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mumbaikolkata-flight-hits-turbulence-15-mins-before-landing-8-hurt-101623082296696.html
07-06-2021||Pune||18 charred to death in fire at industrial plant near Pune||PUNE: At least 18 people, including 15 women, were charred to death in a major fire that broke out inside an industrial plant at Urawade village near Pirangut, around 40 kilometres from Pune, on Monday evening. Two persons found alive were moved to a private hospital on Karve road.According to officials, the fire broke out at around 4pm at the mid-size firm SVS Aqua Technologies, which manufactures chemicals used in water purifiers. The victims, all of them local villagers working at the plant, were trapped inside when the fire broke out. While the cause of the fire could not be ascertained, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar ordered a probe into the incident and a compensation of ₹5 lakh to the next-of-kin. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “We have constituted a committee to inquire into the incident and ascertain the cause of fire and safety related aspects.” The fire brigade department of Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) pressed eight fire tender units to douse the fire, which was brought under control by around 6:45pm. “We have so far recovered 18 people. The search is on to check if there is still anyone trapped inside,” said Sandesh Shirke, sub-divisional officer of Maval, Mulshi area at the time of the report going to press. The fire department had to demolish portion of walls to gain access to the spot at the firm. In the morning, 41 workers had reported to duty though 18 of them were trapped inside when the fire broke out. According to Shirke, all the victims were living in the neighbourhood of the industrial unit. “The company will be in a better position to tell why most of the staff were women,” he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the incident. “Pained by the loss of lives due to a fire at a factory in Pune, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families,” Modi tweeted. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also condoled the loss of lives. Suhas Diwase, chief executive officer, PMRDA said the bodies recovered by the fire department are beyond recognition and have been sent to Sassoon General Hospital. “We will be able to identify the bodies only after the medical examination,” said Diwase. Urawade has around eight industrial units, most of them engaged in producing chemicals, which according to locals was not inflammatory. Nikunj Shah, director, SVS Aqua Technologies, where the fire broke out, said, “The firm is involved in manufacturing chemicals required for the purification of water. The chemical is not inflammable and we suspect a short circuit as the cause of the incident.” “The company produces chlorine dioxide tablets for water purification. Police teams and fire brigade officials are on the spot,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of Pune rural police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/18-charred-to-death-in-fire-at-industrial-plant-near-pune-101623081935796.html
07-06-2021||Ranchi||Ranchi’s Birsa zoo on high alert; to conduct regular health check-up||Ranchi’s Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park, popularly known as Birsa zoo, was put on high alert after the recent consecutive deaths of a tiger and a sloth, both endangered animals, in two days amid Covid-19 pandemic.Following the deaths, the zoo authority has tightened the noose on animal handlers, and made monthly and annual health check-up of animals mandatory, officials said on Monday. The authorities, for the first time, have implemented a 26-point dos and don’ts for cage keepers or animal handlers with immediate effect. Animal handlers might lose their jobs if carelessness was found on their part, officials said. “We have drafted dos and don’ts for cage keepers or animal handlers to fix their responsibilities for the first time. Earlier, only verbal order was in practice. Every staff member of the zoo should have a clear idea of his or her job, that was earlier missing,” Birsa zoo director YK Das said.The initiative was taken after a 10-year-old tiger, suffering from fever, kidney and liver infection, died on Friday last. The animal was reportedly sick for four days before its death. On the very next day on Saturday, a sloth bear died following a fight with another bear in the zoo, officials said.In the case of tiger’s death, the zoo management, however, sent the swab, blood and few of its organs to Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly to find found out if the animal died of coronavirus-like disease, even though a rapid antigen test of the animal returned negative. Samples of 11 more carnivores were sent to IVRI, Bareilly for testing, officials said. Wildlife activists attributed the reason behind the deaths the two animals, which come under Schedule 1 (endangered species that need rigorous protection) of the Wildlife Protection Act, to carelessness on the part of the zoo authority. However, zoo officials denied the allegation.Meanwhile, the Ranchi zoo was taking measures to strengthen its health monitoring system. Its director said, “In a bid to strengthen the health monitoring system, we have decided to conduct two kinds of health check-up of animals that will take place monthly and annually. The monthly practice will be an external check up of the animals, while animals will go under thorough check-up annually. We have fixed the month of June for annual check-up for scanning health parameters, including blood pressure and diabetes.”Das further said cage keepers have been asked to treat animals like guests. “The cage should be neat and clean; besides their places must be disinfected. The food should be served properly, keeping animals’ interests in mind, and kitchen and utensils must be clean and washed properly,” he said.The keepers will be responsible for monitoring animal behaviour. “When an animal is taken into a squeezer cage, the keeper will clean and groom them, and observe if the animal has any wound or parasites on its body,” Das said.The zoo is currently closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the zoo staff will keep an eye on visitors’ behaviour too once it reopens, Das said. “If any visitor is found harassing any animal, he/ she will be booked under Wildlife Act,” he said.Besides, forest guards will keep an eye on cage keepers and animal handlers. “Three opportunities will be given if negligence is found on part of keepers. On first fault, warning will be given. Second time, his family members will be informed, and the third time he or she will be removed from the job,” the zoo director said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ranchis-birsa-zoo-on-high-alert-to-conduct-regular-health-checkup-101623080435695.html
07-06-2021||Ranchi||HC quashes JPSC’s 6th civil services examination merit list||In a major embarrassment to the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC), the high court (HC) on Monday quashed merit list of the 6th civil services examination, through which 326 successful candidates were appointed against different cadre positions, due to erroneous addition of marks.The bench of justice SK Dwivedi declared the final list of successful candidates as null and void, and directed the commission to issue a fresh merit list after making the required corrections within eight weeks. It also directed the state government to make cadre allocation of the successful candidates as per the new revised list within next four weeks.The bench found that the JPSC committed grave error by adding the marks obtained by candidates in mains qualifying papers (Hindi and English) to prepare the final merit list. “This was done against the prevailing rules,” the bench observed.The JPSC, in October, 2016, floated an advertisement to hold 6th civil services examination to recruit 326 candidates for different cadre jobs in the state government. The examination was conducted in three stages--preliminary, mains and viva voce. Based on the marks obtained by the candidates in mains and viva voce examinations, it published a final merit list of 326 successful candidates on April 23 last year. These candidates have joined service in different cadre posts.“The judgment is likely to impact the fate of candidates who have already joined the service. The new merit list will change the result, as there are chances that some candidates, who earlier qualified the exams, may not get through this time. There are also chances that cadres of some successful candidates may change after the new merit list is published,” said senior advocate Ajit Kumar, who pleaded the case on behalf of some petitioners.The matter came before the court in the form of 16 different petitions filed by many unsuccessful candidates, challenging the results on different grounds. The court, however, dismissed all these petitions, except the one filed by one Dilip Kumar Singh, pointing out the aforesaid error committed in preparation of the merit list.Earlier in February this year, the bench heard all the petitions at length and kept its order reserved.Pronouncing the judgment on Monday, the bench said the JPSC should fix responsibility on officials responsible for commission of this grave mistake. “Action should be taken against these officials to pre-empt recurrence of such flaws in future,” the bench said.EOMBOXES/POINTERSTotal number of vacancies in different cadres--326Jharkhand Administrative Service: 143Jharkhand Finance Service: 104Jharkhand Education Service: 36Jharkhand Planning Service: 18Jharkhand Cooperative Service: 09 Jharkhand Information Service: 07Jharkhand Police Service: 06Jharkhand Social Security Service: 03Events related to the examinationOctober 4, 2016: JPSC published advertisement for 6th civil services examinationDecember 18, 2016: PT exam heldFebruary 23, 2017: PT result declared in which 5138 candidates qualified for mains examinationAugust 11, 2017: Following high court’s order a revised PT result came in which 6103 candidates qualifiedJanuary 23, 2018: Controversy surrounding the JPSC result was raised in Jharkhand assemblyJanuary 25, 2018: Govt asked JPSC to postpone the mains exam scheduled from January 29, 2018January 27, 2018: JPSC postponed mains examinationFebruary 7, 2018: State cabinet granted approval for publication of a revised PT result after reducing the cut-off marksAugust 6, 2018: JPSC published a revised PT result in which 34,634 candidates qualified for mains examinationFebruary 28, 2019: Mains examination commencedFebruary 15, 2020: Mains result announced, 990 candidates qualified for interviewFebruary 24-March 6, 2020: Viva-voce heldApril 21, 2020: Final merit list published in which 326 selected||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/hc-quashes-jpsc-s-6th-civil-services-examination-merit-list-101623080255621.html
07-06-2021||Pune||DTE to use digital proctor for summer exams||The summer examination conducted by the state Department of Technical Education (DTE) is now going to be proctored digitally and it is going to be the first time when DTE would be holding exams in such a method. This decision was mainly taken to reduce the cheating practices done by students in the online exams. As per the timetable declared by DTE the practical exams would start from June 22 to July 3, while the written online exams would be held from July 13 to August 3. According to the timetable given by the DTE, the practical exams for the AICTE approved engineering and pharmacy colleges will be held between June 22 to July 3 and for the regular and backlog students online written exams will start from July 13 to August 3. In the online written examination, there would be 40 questions out of which students need to solve at least 35 questions, and the duration of the exam will be one hour. “Through the supervisors of the DTE monitoring of the exams will be kept on the students appearing for the exams through proctored method. The complete responsibility to hold the exams smoothly will be of the institution’s director.” said DTE secretary Dr Mahendra Chitlange. Through this proctored method, students can appear for the exams from anywhere by using smartphones, tablet, laptop or desktop computers and even from the internet cyber cafes. Due to Covid-19 pandemic as students would not be able to come physically to college or institute campus to give the written exams, this decision was taken to conduct exams through this method which is prominently used by IIT’s in the country. With this method, when a student logs in to give the exam through smartphone, laptop or tablet, all the digital movements of the student are captured and monitored by the system. If a student is cheating or found doing any suspicious activity, he/she is given warning three times after which the student will be disqualified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dte-to-use-digital-proctor-for-summer-exams-101623080196590.html
07-06-2021||Other||Cop held for consuming liquor||PATNAAn assistant sub inspector (ASI) in Patna was arrested Monday after a video purportedly showing him consuming alcohol in a police station on Sunday evening went viral.The ASI, Dinesh Yadav, was posted with Gaurichak police station in the state capital.Police sources said some locals filmed Yadav consuming liquor and uploaded the video clip it on social media. A breathalyser test on the ASI confirmed alcohol consumption after which he was arrested and sent to jail, police sources said, adding that investigations revealed Yadav would consume liquor frequently at his residence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cop-held-for-consuming-liquor-101623080195756.html
07-06-2021||Other||State BJP chief puts police in dock||BETTIAHBihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal has put the state police in the dock over alleged atrocities against people of weaker sections and Dalits. In a his Facebook post on Sunday, Jaiswal mentioned several cases in which people of weaker sections were allegedly assaulted by the members of minority community in East Champaran’s Dhaka block and one in Ramgarhwa that falls under his Lok Sabha constituency of West Champaran, besides cases in Kishanganj and Purnia districts of the state. “In three separate incidents, people belonging to Paswan, Sahani and Noniya communities were assaulted while they were taking out wedding processions in Dhaka. But instead of acting tough on culprits, the police victimised the victims and sent them to jail along with culprits,” said Jaiswal, a three-time MP from West Champaran. Referring to another incident under Palanwa police station in East Champaran, he said, “On June 5, information was received from Ramgarhwa’s Dhangarhwa village that Dalits were denied their right of passage where a brick wall has been built. The issue was resolved when the local station house officer and circle officer visited the spot.”“The administration needs to be vigilant everywhere. Situation does not spin out of control if public representatives take cognizance of the issue. But when the district administration stands aside and starts punishing the innocent, it sends out a very wrong message in the society,” he wrote.East Champaran superintendent of police Navin Chand Jha could not be contacted for comment. However, Dhaka police said a case was registered after two group clashed and offended religious sentiments of each other on May 15. “As many as 23 people were arrested in this connection,” said a police officer, refusing to be identified.Meanwhile, RJD termed the ruling JD(U)-BJP alliance as an unholy one to stay in power. “MLC Tunna Pandey was shown the door after he pointed a finger at CM. This time, your ally BJP’s state president has directly questioned the Bihar Police, which is directly under the control of chief minister. Will the party cut his hands now?” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-bjp-chief-puts-police-in-dock-101623080136319.html
07-06-2021||Other||Nepal citizen lynched in Madhubani, one held||PATNAThe police on Monday arrested a man from a village in Madhubani district after a Nepalese national was lynched there early morning.The arrested man has been identified as Kundan Mishra of Padma village under Ladania police station and the slain Nepalese man as Sikander Yadav, a native of bordering Hakpara village under Sarha district of NepalSantosh Kumar Singh, station house officer of Ladania police station, said, “The incident took place between 2 am and 3 am. Yadav was taken to the primary health centre by a police team and then to Sadar Hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead.” The incident took place when Yadav, along with his two others, reached Mishra’s house and allegedly tried to steal his tractor. As he turned the ignition on, villagers woke up and raised an alarm. A crowd gathered and nabbed Yadav while his aides fled. The SHO said Yadav was thrashed mercilessly by villagers. “Upon being informed, police reached the spot but he had almost become motionless by then,” he said. Yadav’s body body was handed over to his family members after autopsy. An FIR has been lodged against named and several unnamed persons based on the statement by village chowkidar Mohammad Alam. Madhubani superintendent of police (SP) Dr Satya Prakash said the claim by some villagers that Yadav was stealing is being investigated. Kundan Mishra has been sent to judicial custody, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nepal-citizen-lynched-in-madhubani-one-held-101623080135622.html
07-06-2021||Other||Proposed flyover plant bent to stay clear of Khuda Bakhsh library||PATNAThe heritage portion of Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Public Library (KBOPL) will not be bulldozed to pave the way for construction of a 2.20-km-long double-decker road from Kargil Chowk to National Institute of Technology (NIT) More over the congested Ashok Rajpath. The width of the proposed road would be slightly reduced near the library to save one of its heritage structures, George Curzon reading hall, from demolition. A portion of the reading hall of KBOPL, which a repository of ancient manuscripts, books and paintings, was earlier planned to be razed for the unique double-decker road being built by the Bihar Rajya Pul Nirmal Nigam Limited (BRPNNL). Amrit Lal Meena, additional chief secretary at the road construction department, said the BRPNNL had abandoned the plan of demolishing the part of KBOPL as of now. “However, this will have a bearing on width of the elevated road in a certain stretch,” said Meena, who is also chairman of the BRPNNL. Officials of the KBOPL, archaeologists and members of the civil society were up in arms against the BRPNNL ever since it disclosed its plans to build the double-decker road by razing parts of heritage buildings of Patna University and KBOPL and had staged protests and organised campaign against it. They had also written letters to the governor, chief minister and the Union ministry of culture to save the heritage structure. The reading hall of the library was named after then Viceroy of India George Curzon, who visited the library in 1905. The Central government has given library a tag of national importance and Unesco has granted it a heritage status. Meanwhile, the BRPNNL has shortlisted eight construction companies to evaluate their financial bids for the award of work. The proposed road would have three exists for the PMCH via their multi-level parking before terminating at NIT More. Up on its termination at NIT more, the road will connect to the upcoming Ganga Path via Krishna Ghat. The project is likely to cost around ₹369 crore. The PMCH will also have a four-lane connectivity with Ganga Pathway, which is coming up on the southern bank of river Ganga. Meena said ground work for the project would start in July, after the monsoon, and take around three years to complete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/proposed-flyover-plant-bent-to-stay-clear-of-khuda-bakhsh-library-101623080075601.html
07-06-2021||Other||Patna to have drive-in facility at two vaccination centres||PATNAThe Patliputra Sports Complex at Kankerbagh and the Patliputra Ashok Hotel on Beer Chand Patel Path have been identified for launching drive-in Covid-19 vaccination facility in Patna. These centres, to be operational from Tuesday, would offer 24x7 vaccination facilities to those above 18 years of age. Additionally, they would have the drive-in vaccination facility. “We are trying to introduce the drive-in vaccination facility at these two inoculation centres most probably from tomorrow,” said Chandrashekhar Singh, Patna’s district magistrate (DM). “Those who pre-register for vaccination on the Co-WIN portal, can drive in at the designated parking slots at any of the two vaccination centres, take their shots, wait for some time in their vehicles and drive away. The facility will be available 24x7,” the DM said. “Our idea is to speed up the vaccination process and at the same time extend as much convenience as possible to the people, while also offering them a safe environment, so that they feel encouraged to take the vaccine. Many people believe they may contract the SARS-CoV-2 virus at vaccination centres, where many people come to take their shots. As such, we decided to have the drive-in vaccination facility for them,” said Singh. The two centres would cater to the vaccination of 18-45 years as well as 45 years and above, said Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, Patna’s civil surgeon. The morning slot of 9 am to 5 pm would ideally be to inoculate the 18-45 years age group, having booked slots after prior online registration. The evening slot from 5pm to 9am will offer walk-in vaccination facility. It will be open to all above 18 years of age, said officials. The idea behind keeping the morning slot for those who pre-register on Co-WIN is to not keep them waiting in queues for long under the scorching sun. Those who opt for walk-in vaccination through on-spot registration can come after sunset, said the official. The Patna district offers 61 Covid-19 vaccination sites for those in the 18-45 years age group. Additionally, the four medical colleges in Patna, besides the New Gardiner Road Hospital, the Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan Hospital, Shastrinagar and the Rajendranagar eye hospital are among some other government centres, which offer vaccination facility to the elders. Having administered 11,55,199 doses till Sunday, Patna is the leading among Bihar’s 38 districts in terms of Covid-19 vaccination. Of these, 8,45,805 have been given the first dose and 3,09,394 the second shot of the vaccine. These also include 1,17,321 healthcare workers and 1,06,850 frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/patna-to-have-drive-in-facility-at-two-vaccination-centres-101623080016996.html
07-06-2021||Pune||Minor fire breaks out at NCL on Monday, no injuries||Fire broke out at laboratory number 180 of the National Chemical Laboratory (NCL), in Pune at 1.45pm on Monday afternoon. The moment the fire broke out, NCL employees used their in-house fire extinguishers and brought it under control along with firefighters from Pune fire brigade who arrived later and jointly exhausted the flames. The NCL authorities claimed that fire incident was ‘minor’ and have ordered an internal probe into the outbreak of the incident. No casualties were reported in the incident, both fire brigade and police officials said. According to the fire brigade officials, the fire broke out around 1.45 pm in the laboratory no. 180 of the main building of NCL which is located on Pashan road in Pune. At the time of the fire, the employees were out of the lab for lunch. The laboratory contained storage of highly flammable organic solvents, fire officials said. PMC fire chief Prashant Ranpise said that quick steps were taken to bring the fire under control. “The NCL fire was brought under control in five minutes. NCL has its own fire department, and its fire safety audit is done by the Institute from time to time.” Fire station duty officer Shivaji Memane said, “The NCL staff which had stepped out of the lab for lunch saw the fire from a distance and smoke billowing out in the afternoon. They immediately alerted the fire brigade control room at 1.50 pm. The fire brigade vehicles including water tenders reached the spot in five minutes. When we reached the spot, the NCL staffers had started removing the highly inflammable organic solvent containers to safer places and were also using fire extinguishers available on the premises to douse the flames. Together, we brought the fire under control within five minutes. Our team members also removed the solvent containers from the spot. A major damage was prevented because the flammable solvents were promptly removed to safety and fire could not reach them. Our team conducted cooling of wooden furniture that had caught fire by spraying cold water to ensure that there was no repeat fire. Both the NCL and fire brigade staffers displayed professional co-ordination.” Ganesh Rane, public relations officer, NCL said, “The fire safety committee is carrying out an assessment and trying to ascertain the cause behind the fire. Due to COVID 19 restrictions, the laboratory was functioning within limited capacity. Only students who are in need of laboratory work strictly for their research are presently being permitted to remain in the lab in small batches.” The NCL ‘Modular, Agile, Intensified and Continuous’ (MAGIC) lab had caught fire on the night of March 27, 2017. The fire destroyed the then 13-month-old lab, located in the pilot Plant III of the NCL campus. The NCL has witnessed many fire incidents in the past. The National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), Pune, established in 1950, is a constituent laboratory of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). CSIR-NCL as it is popularly known as a science and knowledge-based research, development and consulting organization. It is internationally known for its excellence in scientific research in chemistry and chemical engineering as well as for its outstanding track record of industrial research involving partnerships with industry from concept to commercialization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-fire-breaks-out-at-ncl-on-monday-no-injuries-101623080016299.html
07-06-2021||Patna||Owaisi’s Covid vaccine appeal reaches Bihar’s Seemanchal to counter ‘hesitancy’||An appeal by All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief and Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi in favour of Covid vaccination has come as a shot in the arm for officials in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal region in Bihar, where vaccine hesitation was reportedly high.Owaisi had taken the first jab of Covishield in Hyderabad on March 22 and had made a public appeal to Muslims to get inoculated against Covid-19, a video clip of which is now being used by officials in Seemanchal to boost vaccination campaign, although they would not place it on record.Seemanchal, which comprises Katihar, Araria, Kishanganj and Purnia districts, has a population of over 1.20 crore.The AIMIM won five seats in the 2020 Bihar assembly election.In Kishanganj districts, where two of the four MLAs are from AIMIM, district magistrate (DM) Aditya Prakash recently held a virtual meeting with elected representatives. “We requested all four MLAs to use their resources to speed up vaccination and dispel rumours and misinformation regarding vaccines,” said Prakash.“The initiatives taken by these MLAs have slowly brought about change and people are now taking jabs,” he said.Speaking on the condition of anonymity, officials in Kishanganj said Owaisi’s video clip was being used to encourage people to get the jab.Purnia DM Rahul Kumar said he was not aware of the video clip but conceded they were seeking help from religious leaders and people were now turning up for vaccination.The district administration has also reportedly uploaded Owaisi’s video clip in social media groups.Akhtarul Iman, AIMIM MLA from Amour, said, “We are convincing the people to get vaccinated and Owaisi’s appeal is proving to be very helpful.”Md Naseem (45) of Khushkibagh in Purnia said, “I have changed my mind after I saw the appeal made by Owaisi. I have taken the jab.”Purnia district JD-U president Sriprasad Mahto agreed the video clip was helping.Purnia district BJP president Rakesh Kumar said vans reaching rural areas had photographs of Muslim leaders taking vaccines and people had now started showing interest.In Seemanchal, about 10 lakh people have been vaccinated so far, with Purnia on the top with 3.94 lakh, followed by Katihar (3.04 lakh), Araria (2.44 lakh) and Kishanganj over 1 lakh.In Bihar 1.11 crore people had been vaccinated till June 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/owaisi-video-a-shot-in-the-arm-for-vaccination-in-seemanchal-101623079955642.html
07-06-2021||Pune||COEP to start M.Tech course in transportation||The College of Engineering Pune (COEP) is starting its very first course of Masters of Technical (M.Tech) in transportation engineering, which is the first of its kind post-graduate course starting from the next academic year. It is going to be the first such course in the state in transportation which would cover various types of transport syllabus right from road, metro, waterways and airways. COEP has applied for the course and after all permissions are granted, the course will start. “We have applied for a new programme in Master in transportation engineering. It would be first such programme based on transportation to start in Maharashtra among all engineering colleges. As of now we have applied for it, once we get the approval from AICT and the state government, the course will start from the next academic year,” said BB Ahuja, director of COEP. “In this course, the syllabus will address all the issues related to transportation, traffic, road construction and infrastructure. And when you talk of transportation it would be bridges, underpasses and all kinds of transport related infrastructure. Even there would be syllabus on railways, waterways and airways transportation. It would be generic post graduate degree and one could specialise in any of the domain,” he added. Talking about the ongoing metro railway projects and benefit of this course to students, Ahuja said, “Currently, the government is also investing huge funds in the transportation, infrastructural development, additional roads and metro train projects. 20 years ago, we were just listening about the metros but now it has become the reality and face of new transport system. It will help the citizens and so our course will benefit to students who want to pursue careers in transportation engineering in the future.” Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of students’ helping hand said, “There are so many new things and opportunities coming for students, but they are not aware of it. This course in transportation will make a new way of career for students and create many job opportunities for them in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/coep-to-start-m-tech-course-in-transportation-101623079895659.html
07-06-2021||Pune||Three female transexuals booked for robbing businessman on old Mumbai-Pune highway||Three transgender women were remanded to police custody for robbing a man along the old Mumbai-Pune highway on Saturday. The robbery happened when the complainant man was driving from Talegaon to Bhosari and was passing through a gorge along the way. The three were identified as Balika Abadas Bhoge (33), Diya Baburao Sharma (27) and Rahul Kailas Gaikwad (22), all residents of Pimpri. The three were remanded to police custody until Monday and will be produced again on Monday. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a man identified as Swain WIllian Ohol (45), a resident off Maskarnis Colony in Talegaon Dabhade area of Pune. The man owns a marble shop in Bhosari area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. The man was driving in a Tata Zest registered in Borivali, Mumbai when the three flagged down his vehicle. The transwomen approached him and “One of them stopped his vehicle and approached him to ask for alms. He gave her some money, but she kept asking for more. They had a verbal spat and then her two friends joined her. They beat him and pulled his chain. He got scared and fled the spot. We registered a case and found the three yesterday (Sunday). We have recovered the money and the gold chain from them,” said police sub inspector Mahesh Matkar who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 392 (theft), 341 (wrongful restraint), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-female-transexuals-booked-for-robbing-businessman-on-old-mumbai-pune-highway-101623077855451.html
07-06-2021||Pune||PMC temporarily shuts operations at 3 Covid-19 Care Centres as cases drop||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has temporarily shut down operations at three Covid-19 Care Centres amid a decline in cases. These centres were operative at Rakshaknagar Krida Sankul, Sant Dnyaneshwar Hostel, Yerawada and ITI Aundh.As per the information provided by PMC officials currently, five Covid-19 Care Centres are run by PMC and 211 patients are admitted at these centres. Also, new admissions have been stopped in the Covid-19 Care Centre at Maharshi Karve Stree Shikshan Sanstha, Karvenagar and operations here will be temporarily shut after 51 admitted patients get a discharge.According to the district health report, on June 6, there were 4,295 active Covid-19 cases in PMC limits. And as many as 2,295 were in home isolation and 2,000 in institutional quarantine or hospitalised.“When the Covid-19 cases increased, we had prepared 13 Covid Care Centres, out of which eight were utilised. Apart from this 14 centres were requisitioned, but didn’t turn into the Covid-19 Care Centres immediately because once they are converted the maintenance has to be done. Collectively we had prepared for 7,000 beds,” said Rajendra Muthe, PMC deputy commissioner.PMC is planning to reduce the bed capacity at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Boy’s Hostel Yerawada from 300 to 100.“The Covid-19 Care Centres at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Aarogya Seva Kendra (Yerawada), Gangadham (Bibwewadi), Late Ramchandra Bankar School (Hadapsar), SNDT College (Karvenagar) will remain open. PMC does not have a major load at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Aarogya Seva Kendra as it is run with help from an NGO,” said Muthe.As the number of patients has come down, PMC has already reduced the number of operational beds in the College Of Engineering Pune (COEP) jumbo facility from 700 to 400. In the second wave demand for oxygenated beds was more and the isolation centres without oxygen beds were mostly vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-temporarily-shuts-operations-at-3-covid-19-care-centres-as-cases-drop-101623077795432.html
07-06-2021||Bangalore||Will decide on unlocking after district-wise Covid-19 review: K’taka minister||Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday a decision on whether to begin the unlocking process in the state will be taken only after the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation is reviewed in all districts. He added the above decision will be taken after a meeting of senior ministers and officials headed by chief minister B S Yediyurappa.Speaking to reporters on Monday, Bommai said the state government received several suggestions for relaxation in the ongoing lockdown and they will be considered. “We have to take into account where the rate of positivity is low, which district has the lowest rates. There have been many suggestions from the industrial sector that there should be relaxation measures in such districts,” the Karnataka home minister was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Karnataka is currently placed under a lockdown till June 14. Hotels, shops, restaurants, cinema halls, schools, colleges etc continue to remain shut. All kinds of public gatherings are banned. Movement of people is restricted apart from emergencies and vaccination. Only shops selling essential items are allowed to open from 6am to 10am. The state government on Monday allowed district registrar and Sub-registrar offices to function in strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Chief minister Yediyurappa said on June 3 the decision to extend the lockdown was taken following the recommendations of experts, and urged all residents to follow Covid related protocol. He also announced a second relief package of ₹500 crore which would benefit over 62.50 lakh state residents.Karnataka on Monday recorded 12,209 new cases and 320 more deaths, taking the caseload to 2,695,523, according to the health department’s bulletin. Over 31,000 people have succumbed to the viral disease so far while 2,409,417 have recovered and the active cases have come down to 254,505. As Karnataka has still not gained full control over the second wave of the pandemic, Dr HM Prasanna, a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force told ANI on Sunday the state government needs more infrastructure development, including human resource appointments and an increase in oxygen beds and vaccination drive to curb the spread of the viral disease.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-decide-on-unlocking-after-district-wise-covid-19-review-k-taka-minister-101623076563084.html
07-06-2021||Kolkata||‘TMC will expand to other states, take BJP head-on’: Abhishek Banerjee||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) will expand its base in other states to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and win elections, Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee said on Monday afternoon at his first press conference after being elected the party’s new national general secretary on June 5.Banerjee said the TMC will come up with a national plan within a month and it would be different from what the party tried in the past.Thwarting the BJP’s allegation that his rise in the hierarchy established dynastic rule in the TMC, the young Lok Sabha MP said he will not become a minister in 20 years and dared the BJP to pass a bill in Parliament to prohibit a second member from a family from joining politics or any office. “You (BJP) do it and I will be the first to resign,” he quipped.On the expansion plan, Banerjee said, “Whichever state we start our unit in, be it a big state, a southern India, a northern India or one in the Northeast, we will take the BJP head-on and we will start our unit to win the state. Let me put this across to all of you.”Though he avoided questions on whether Mamata Banerjee will emerge as a candidate for the post of chairman of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), which is held by Congress leader Sonia Gandhi, Banerjee said, “We have received more than one than 1,00,000 emails till now. There is no state from where people have not congratulated us. Bengal has set an example. It did not surrender to the outsiders. Our target is not to defeat BJP. We want to save India. People from all states are saying Mamata Banerjee can save the values of the Constitution and she is the only one who can protect national institutions.”“This was an election between Mamata Banerjee and the BJP but it was a fight for people of Bengal and rest in India, be it Rajasthan or the Northeast. All were looking at Bengal. Now there is hope. Within a month, we will come up with a concrete plan on what TMC wants to do, which are the states where we want to start our units and what is our expansion plan,” said Banerjee.“This attempt of Trinamool to go national is going to be different from what it attempted in the past. If we go to any state, no matter how small or big, we will not go only to take part in elections, not to win one or two seats and not to increase vote share. We will do so to win that state. We want to be the platform of choice for people of that particular state. We don’t want to exist in the form of opposition,” he added.Banerjee said till the TMC works on its expansion plans he would not say whether it would forge an alliance with the Congress. Asked whether the TMC will contest polls in Gujarat, he said, “Till we formalize our plans, I will leave the speculation alive.”Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s national information technology cell, had tweeted that Banerjee’s elevation in the TMC established dynastic politics.Banerjee said, “On one hand, the BJP says TMC does not exist outside West Bengal while on the other hand, it is perplexed that Abhishek Banerjee has been made national general secretary. I have said this earlier also. I request Malviya to drive to his bosses in Lutyen’s Delhi and make a bill that every family will have one representative and nobody else from that family will be allowed to enter politics or any public office for that matter.”“What is stopping them from executing this? They are running the Central government. Why can’t they pass a bill on the floor of the House? You do it. I will be the first one to resign. Preach what you practice. You induct even turncoats from dynasties. You should stop talking,” said Banerjee in an indirect reference to the Bengal assembly’s leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari who switched sides in December last year and defeated Mamata Banerjee in the state polls. Adhikari’s father and brother are TMC Lok Sabha MPs from East Midnapore district.“You are exposing your own hypocrisy. First, you should remove leaders of your own party whose sons are MLAs and ministers. Amit Malviya does not need to teach me what is right and what is wrong. You split parties and take people who come from dynasties. You have the Union home minister and honorary secretary of the BCCI (Board of Control for Cricket in India) from the same family. Can Amit Malviya shoot the question to the home minister? I am saying on record that I don’t want to be in the state government or hold any ministerial berth in the next 20 years. Can Jay Shah come up and say he doesn’t want to be BCCI president in the next 20 years?” said Banerjee, referring to Amit Shah and his son.“Trinamool is the only party attempting to implement the one-man-one-post policy. Which other party has attempted this? We are at least trying to move in the right direction and you are talking about dynasty. Your entire campaign was on dynasty and you got the answer from people. Sometimes dynasty is better than being nasty. Take it that way,” Banerjee quipped.Reacting to his statements, Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “Amit Shah’s son is not in the race for chief minister. Banerjee cited an irrelevant example. People of India know what dynastic politics means.”Bhattacharya also described the TMC’s expansion plan as unrealistic.“It is overambitious adventurism. It may sound nice in India’s pluralistic society but nonviable,” he said.Banerjee also took on Adhikari for the latter’s recent statement that if post-poll violence does not stop then migrant workers from Bengal run the risk of losing jobs in other states. “I saw what he said about the four million Bengalis who work outside the state. People do not like this sort of statements. I advise him to refrain from such a campaign and do his work as an opposition leader. Banerjee did not utter Adhikari’s name.Banerjee said many BJP leaders, including some who won the recent polls, were willing to join the TMC. “Many BJP MLAs have contacted us, expressing their wish to return. Our working committee will discuss this at its next meeting,” he said.Without commenting on Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar’s reply to TMC MP Mahua Moitra’s allegation that the former has employed his relatives at Raj Bhawan, Banerjee said, “He should behave like a governor instead of working at the instruction of a political party. Why doesn’t he give names and details of the BJP workers who are alleged to be under attack? I request the media to help us fight the menace of fake news. There have been some incidents of post-poll violence but not a single incident took place after Mamata Banerjee took over as chief ministers. Our leaders are reaching out to people.”Banerjee met senior TMC MPs and party veterans on Sunday and Monday to seek their blessings and advice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-will-expand-in-other-states-to-win-polls-take-bjp-head-on-abhishek-banerjee-101623076716288.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds 10,219 new Covid cases; 730 fresh infections in Mumbai||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 10,219 cases and 154 more deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the caseload and the death toll to 5,842,000 and 100,470, respectively, according to the state health department’s bulletin. At least 21,000 people recovered on Monday and the cumulative recoveries have climbed to 5,564,348.Monday’s case count in the western state is 2,338 less than that of Sunday’s, when 12,557 people tested positive for the viral disease.The state capital Mumbai also continued to see a downfall in its daily Covid-19 disease tally with 730 cases recorded on Monday, taking the caseload to 711,373. The toll has climbed to 14,999 after 28 people died on Monday.From today, Maharashtra has started easing Covid-19 related restrictions and has come up with a five-level unlock plan on the basis of positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds in cities and districts.Areas with less than 5% positivity rate and 25% occupancy of oxygen beds are under level one. There will be no restrictions in these areas and several relaxations are being given. Markets and shopping malls can function as pre-lockdown timings. Restaurants, offices (both private and government), weddings, funerals, salons, spas, gymnasiums can also operate.However, those areas with more than 20% positivity rate and over 75% occupancy of oxygen beds are under level five. No public movement is allowed and shops selling essential items can operate till 4pm. Restaurants can only provide home delivery and cinema halls, malls and non-essential shops will be shut. Only family members are allowed to attend weddings while 20 can attend funerals.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday the state government took a calculated risk by easing the lockdown-like restrictions and urged residents to take care of themselves and all Covid related rules should be followed.“Neither a lockdown is required nor do we want to get knocked down by the virus. So all health related rules have to be followed,” Thackeray said while addressing a virtual meeting with top industrialists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-adds-10-219-new-covid-cases-730-fresh-infections-in-mumbai-101623074764095.html
07-06-2021||City||Tamil Nadu's seroprevalence down from 31% in first Covid-19 wave to 23% in April||(The second serosurvey was conducted in Tamil Nadu in April this year which showed that 23% of people had SARS-CoV-2 antibodies which is a decline from the first survey which showed 31% in October-November last year.“The first survey was initiated around four weeks following the peak cases reported in August 2020 during the first wave,” the report stated, adding that this time it was conducted close to the beginning of the second wave.“Waning of IgG antibodies during the time gap of five months between 1st and 2nd survey (November 2020 to March 2021) could be one of the valid reasons for low seroprevalence as reported by several studies published in international journals,” it said.The study was carried out by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine across all districts except Chennai. Out of 22,904 samples that were tested, 5,316 people had IgG antibodies against the novel coronavirus disease. The report also said various coronavirus variants, including the B.1.617.2 (Delta) of Indian origin, were detected in Tamil Nadu.The highest seropositivity was found in the Tiruvallur district at 49% and the lowest in Nagapattinam at 9%. About 756 clusters were picked and each cluster consisted of roughly 30 participants who were randomly picked from a village, rural areas, a street and an urban area.A similar survey was conducted for the first time. About 22,690 blood samples were drawn and 6,995 were found reactive to the antibodies. The report attributed the "sharp decline" from 31% last year to 23% now in the second survey to four factors - the timing of the serosurvey, waning of antibodies, vaccination coverage and the emergence of SARS CoV-2 variants.A third serosurvey is being planned for July-August. The department said it would be an appropriate time considering the current decline trend of Covid-19 cases combined with increased vaccinations for those above 18 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/tamil-nadu-s-seroprevalence-down-from-31-in-first-covid-19-wave-to-23-in-april-101623074576805.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Vax row: Akalis protest near Punjab health minister’s house||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Monday warned to lay siege to Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s residence if health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu is not dismissed by June 15. Led by president Sukhbir Singh Badal, the opposition party on Monday staged a two-hour dharna near the health minister’s house in Mohali, demanding his immediate removal for alleged irregularities in the sale of Covid-19 vaccines and purchase of medical kits. “Instead of giving free vaccines to the people, the Congress government sold vaccines at a hefty profit to private institutions and also allowed the latter to fleece the people further. This amounts to playing with lives and is reprehensible,” said Sukhbir while addressing the protesters.The SAD chief said that Balbir Singh Sidhu was directly responsible for this “corrupt act” and in case he is not dismissed from the government, “we will approach the governor as well as the courts for justice”. “It is also shocking that the chief minister refused to listen to our requests to open Covid care centres in all blocks and purchase vaccines worth ₹1,000 crore directly from the manufacturers to vaccinate the entire population within a period of six months,” he said. Claiming that the health minister was indulging in one scam after another, Sukhbir also alleged irregularities in the purchase of Fateh kits for Covid-19 patients. He said the price of medical kits was jacked up repeatedly by inviting one tender after the other despite the first tender being valid for six months. The SAD chief alleged the firm that was allotted the third tender didn’t even fulfil the criterion of having a medical licence. “We demand an impartial inquiry into this scam and exemplary punishment to the guilty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-row-akalis-protest-near-punjab-health-minister-s-house-101623074496187.html
07-06-2021||Pune||18 killed in fire at a company in Pune’s Pirangut||The local fire brigade officials have recovered eighteen dead bodies in a fire accident at a company in Pirangur MIDC area of Pune on Monday evening, Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) fire chief Devendra Potphode said."We have so far recovered 18 bodies. We are still searching if anyone is still inside," Potphode said.Suhas Diwase, chief executive officer, PMRDA said the bodies are too charred to tell how many of them are men and women.The fire was reported at around 5 pm from the company located in the Urawade area of Pirangut. It was reported to have been doused by the fire brigade by 6:43 pm. The cooling process has started and the fire brigade has started a sweep of the area to search, rescue, and recover bodies. The Pune rural police are also involved in the rescue and search operation.A total of 8 fire tender units were rushed to the spot, 6 by the PMRDA and 2 by Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC).Nikunj Shah, Director, SVS Aqua, where the fire broke out, said, “The firm is involved in manufacturing chemicals required for purification of water. This chemical is not inflammable and we suspect a short circuit as the cause of the incident. At this point, there are few more workers still trapped inside.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/12-killed-5-missing-in-fire-at-a-company-in-pune-s-pirangut-101623074256118.html
07-06-2021||Pune||Aundh government veterinary polyclinic to be converted into super-specialty hospital||The government veterinary polyclinic on Aundh road will soon be upgraded to a super specialty veterinary hospital, which will house all types of specialists to take care of animals. Ayush Prasad, CEO, Pune Zilla Parishad confirmed that this project is under consideration. “Meanwhile Dr Shital Mukhane, joint director of animal husbandry and Dr Shivaji Vidhate, Pune district animal husbandry officer had a visit to Hyderabad to study the best practice which could be applied here.” The government run veterinary polyclinic has been offering their services for free for the past three years. “We are lacking in offering speciality services like CT scan, MRI, laparoscopy, sonography as well as in-patient department, now with this hospital, this will be of benefit to the pet owners and pets for having all services under one roof,” said Dr Mukhane. This hospital will approximately cost around ₹768.90 lakhs, beside this there is an additional cost of ₹13.15 lakhs towards working staff of 15 personnel, additional 22 doctors and others on contract. The funds will be raised under the district annual plan.The new super speciality veterinary hospital will have a consultancy room, large operation theatre for treating big animals like bull, cow, horse, donkey, a small operation theatre to operate dogs, cats, sheep, goats. It will also have a diagnostics department, radiography department, pharmacy, anaesthesia and pre-operation room, conference meeting and training hall as well as an in-patient unit. This hospital will benefit animals of all sorts all under one roof, it which will increase the quality of veterinary services; it will also help for admission of critically ill animals to have an in-patient unit. This hospital will be helpful for all the districts in and around Pune and would prove of help for farmers and their livestock. This hospital will also take care of the government’s flagship schemes in the field of animal husbandry such as ‘Saath’ disease control programme, will improve animal husbandry through artificial insemination, and be of help to conduct awareness and training sessions for farmers. The facility will act as a catalyst for all districts in implementing schemes at regional level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/aundh-government-veterinary-polyclinic-to-be-converted-into-super-specialty-hospital-101623073776532.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Malerkotla inaugurated as Punjab’s 23rd district||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh inaugurated Malerkotla as the state’s 23rd district and laid the foundation stone of development projects worth ₹548 crore in the historic town during a virtual ceremony on Monday.Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar, revenue and rehabilitation minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Malerkotla MLA and water supply and sanitation and transport minister Razia Sultana and Punjab Youth Congress president Brinder Singh Dhillon along with local councillors, sarpanches and panches witnessed the event through LED screens installed at nearly 100 locations across the newly formed district.In his address, the chief minister said with the inauguration of Malerkotla as a district, a long-standing demand of the people of the region has been met and it epitomises its glorious heritage.The CM said that initially the subdivisions of Malerkotla and Ahmedgarh as well as Amargarh (which is being upgraded from a sub-tehsil) will be included in the district. Temporary offices of 12 departments have been set up at the district level and will be made operational soon, he said, adding that the district administrative complex and subdivisional complex will be constructed at a fast pace, for which ₹20 crore have been allotted. Also, as many as 192 villages, 62 patwari circles and six kanungo circles will be included in the district.Later, the CM digitally laid the foundation stone of Nawab Sher Mohammed Khan Government Medical College at Malerkotla at a cost of ₹500 crore. The first instalment of ₹50 crore has already been sanctioned. He also laid the foundation stone of Government College for Girls ( ₹12 crore), new bus stand ( ₹10 crore) and the women’s police station besides announcing a grant of ₹6 crore to ensure urban development under Urban Environment Improvement Programme.Jakhar said the move will help in all-round development of the region. He urged the CM to explore the potential to develop a few other districts, such as Abohar and Batala, as demanded by the locals. Local MLA Razia Sultana said that with the formation of Malerkotla district, the pace of development in the area will be accelerated, which started with the inauguration of several projects and the women’s police station. After the virtual programme, she along with deputy commissioner Amrit Kaur Gill and senior superintendent of police Kanwardeep Kaur physically laid the foundation stone of these projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/malerkotla-inaugurated-as-punjab-s-23rd-district-101623072335609.html
07-06-2021||Pune||12 killed in fire at chemical manufacturing firm near Pune, 5 feared trapped||At least 12 people were killed in a fire that broke out inside a chemical manufacturing plant near Pune. SVS Aqua Technologies, a firm near Urawade industrial estate, is around 40 kilometres from Pune."As many as 12 bodies have been recovered so far. Most of them are of women workers. Five persons still missing," Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) fire chief Devendra Potfode said."A major fire broke out at SVS Aqua company in Urawade villlage near Pirangut in Taluka Mulshi. The company produces chlorine dioxide tab for water purification. Police teams and fire brigade officials have reached the spot," Pune superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh said.Soon after the fire was reported around 5 pm, eight fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The fire was reported to have been doused by 6.43 pm. The cooling process has started and the fire brigade has started a sweep of the area to search, rescue, and recover bodies.More details will be added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/8-killed-in-fire-at-chemical-manufacturing-firm-near-pune-17-feared-trapped-101623071966839.html
07-06-2021||Dehradun||After black fungus, Aspergillus fungus reported in Covid-19 patients in Uttarakhand||Amid the rising cases of mucormycosis or black fungus infection in Covid-19 patients, at least 11 cases of another fungal infection named aspergillus have been detected in Dehradun, officials said. The cases of the fungal infection, which largely affects the lungs, have been detected in at least 10 Covid-19 patients admitted in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Experts said that the fungus becomes invasive in those with a weak immune system caused by Covid-19 infection. The experts, however, have found no relation between the fungus and Covid-19 infection so far. Covid-19 nodal officer and pulmonologist at Government Doon Hospital in Dehradun, Dr Anurag Agrawal said that it is not a new fungus and is known to the medical world for the last 30-40 years. “People who are old patients of tuberculosis (TB) or are suffering from Asthma are more susceptible to this fungus. In the case of TB, sometimes there is a cavity in the lungs of the patients in which this fungus starts developing in the form of a ball. Similarly, for those suffering from Asthma, this fungus causes allergy,” said Dr Agrawal, adding that “about 15 days ago, a patient with the fungal infection had come to him in at Government Doon Hospital.” He informed that Aspergillus fungus becomes invasive in the lungs when the immune system of a person is weak.Also read: Centre to shoulder remaining 25% of vaccine work done by states, says PM Modi“Amid this Covid-19 pandemic, this fungus is becoming invasive because of certain factors like a prolonged stay in the ICU, high dosage of steroids or immuno-suppressants which lower the immunity. In a serious condition, it causes a disease named Allergic Bronchopulmonary Aspergillosis (ABPA) which is treated with a drug named Voriconazole,” said Dr Agrawal. Informing on its mortality rate, he said that if not treated on time, the fungus can cause death as it has a mortality rate of about 20%. “It majorly affects the lungs,” he said. Another Dehradun-based pulmonologist and Covid-19 nodal officer, Dr Jagdish Rawat, while speaking on the Aspergillus infection, said that out of about 100 Covid-19 patients admitted in his hospital’s ICU, at least 10 have been detected with it. “This fungus is affecting the lungs of those Covid-19 patients who have high blood sugar level like in the case of black fungus. However, those Covid-19 patients who have recovered, are also vulnerable to it as their immune system is weakened,” he said. Dr Rawat said, “Covid-19 patients who have recovered but feel something unusual in the chest or during breathing should immediately consult the doctors and undergo proper tests to detect this fungal infection. Timely treatment is the key to contain the infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/after-black-fungus-aspergillus-fungus-reported-in-covid-19-patients-in-uttarakhand-101623071255355.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab extends Covid curbs till June 15, goes for graded unlock||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered the extension of Covid-19 restrictions in the state till June 15 with certain relaxations, allowing opening of shops till 6 pm and private offices to function at 50% strength. Night curfew will remain in force from 7pm to 6am on weekdays, including Saturday, but regular weekend curfew will continue on Sunday, the chief minister said. Also read: Centre to provide free Covid vaccines to states from June 21: PM ModiWith case positivity declining to 3.2% and active cases also coming down, the chief minister allowed gatherings up to 20 people, including weddings and cremations. Entry restrictions (negative Covid test/vaccination) for arrivals in the state have also been done away with. Recruitment exams will be allowed to be held subject to adherence to social distancing and other Covid-appropriate norms, though the chief minister said online mode should be preferred. Sports training for national and international events has been permitted and the department of sports and youth affairs will issue guidelines. Gyms, restaurants can be opened after a week Reviewing the Covid situation virtually, with ministers, senior police and administrative officials and health experts, the chief minister said the district administration may determine opening of non-essential shops, including on the weekends, on the basis of local situation, while ensuring that crowding is avoided. On government offices, he said that attendance can be decided by the head of the concerned office but co-morbid/disabled employees at risk may be exempted. Gyms and restaurants can be opened after a week with 50% attendance if the situation improves further. Owners and workers of the gyms and restaurants should get themselves vaccinated before the reopening, he said.Referring to the spread of black fungus (mucormycosis), the chief minister said there are 381 cases of mucormycosis in the state at present, of which 38 have already been cured and 265 are undergoing treatment. There is an adequate supply of drugs for treatment, he assured people. 30% patients have post-Covid complications Post-Covid complications should be studied carefully for better preparation to handle those, he said, citing the example of Flying Sikh Milkha Singh, who was discharged after Covid recovery but had to be again hospitalised. He said he had been informed that 20% of patients in hospitals in Patiala are similar cases of recovered patients being readmitted. Punjab’s covid expert group head Dr KK Talwar said that almost 30% Covid patients are having post-Covid complications and continue to be symptomatic. Patients are taking almost three months to get back to normal, and thus need to be strictly monitored, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-extends-covid-curbs-till-june-15-goes-for-graded-unlock-101623068554093.html
07-06-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh: Kin allege woman killed in fake ‘encounter’; cops call her Maoist||The family of an alleged Maoist cadre in Chhattisgarh, who was gunned down by security forces on May 31, has claimed that the police picked up Payke Veko from her house and killed her in Dantewada jungle after raping her. Police have denied these allegations, calling them baseless.They also said that autopsy confirmed the woman had not been raped.In the June 6 letter to the police, Payke’s family has alleged that she was picked up from her home in the middle of the night by personnel of District Reserve Guards (DRG) of the Dantewada district and killed after being raped. Her mother, Sukki Veko, said in the letter that the DRG personnel took the woman forcibly into the jungles where she was raped before being killed and branded a Maoist cadre. “There were bruises all over her body...marks of physical abuse,” said the letter. The family also identified seven DRG personals who allegedly barged into the house and took Payke with them.Refuting the charges, Inspector General of Police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P, said Payke was not picked up from her house. “On May 31, based on a tip-off about the presence of Maoist cadres from PLGA Platoon no 16, an operation was launched in Gumalnar area. An exchange of fire took place between Dantewada DRG and Maoists at around 6.30am. During a search operation later, a woman Maoist’s body was recovered which was identified as that of Peyko’s who carried a reward of ₹2 lakh. Two country-made weapons and improvised explosive devices IEDs were also recovered from the site,” he said. He added that Peyko was a member of platoon no 16 since 2013 and her name was in the interrogation records of all surrendered Maoists of Indrawati Area Committee of CPI ( Maoist) and her platoon. “As per National Human Rights Commission and Supreme Court guidelines, an autopsy has been done by team of doctors. Such allegations are being made against security forces only to defame and demoralize them,” he said. Sarpanch of the Chingi village, where the alleged encounter took place, claimed that no such operation took place and Peyko was picked up from her house. “Police came to village and picked her up when she was asleep with her mother. She was getting married on June 10. There were no arms and police planted them to brand her a Maoist...She was ealier with Maoists for two months but left the movement and was living with her family for the past seven years,” said village head Ram Lal Netam. Dantewada superintendent of police Abhishek Pallava said, “These allegations have come under pressure of Maoists. They held a meeting after the encounter on June 4 and forced the family to submit a complaint . All allegations are baseless.” Earlier also, in February this year, tribal activist Soni Sori and a group of villagers in Dantewada had claimed that a 20-year-old woman, who allegedly died by suicide a few days after her purported surrender, was not a Maoist and was forced to surrender, raising questions over the police’s claim. The police, however, dismissed the allegations as a campaign to discredit the special surrender drive launched in the Maoist-infested district. In March , arrest of suspected Maoist, Madkam Hidme, in Dantewada led to a conflict, with some locals claiming she was an activist who was booked in some old cases and arrested without any warrant. The police refuted the allegations and said Hidme was involved in serious cases of Maoist violence in the recent past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-kin-allege-woman-killed-in-fake-encounter-cops-call-her-maoist-101623067654298.html
07-06-2021||Pune||Pvt hosps in Pune jab more beneficiaries than govt centres||PUNE While private hospitals have been vaccinating thousands of beneficiaries in Pune, government sites have been vaccinating fewer numbers, despite having more vaccination centres open. In the past six days, private hospitals have vaccinated 98,000 beneficiaries, most from the age group of 18-45 years, at 256 sites.Government centres have vaccinated 54,000 beneficiaries at 871 sites. Almost all major hospitals in the city have started inoculation drives not just for those who have booked prior slots, but also in tie-ups with major industries who want to vaccinate staff. On one hand, when the government centres have to shut down, private hospitals are leading the drive with full force. On Sunday, while the PMC vaccination centres were shut due to a shortage of vaccines, vaccination at private sites continued. At the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute campus, the first session was held to vaccinate staff of a private company.Dr Sanjay Lalwani, medical director at Bharati Vidyapeeth hospital, said, “The private hospitals have got its first batch of vaccines only as it comes once a month; and it was less than what we had demanded. Most of the beneficiaries that come to us are those aged between 18-45 years, and the private industry staff that has a tie-up with the hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pvt-hosps-step-on-the-gas-for-vax-drive-jabbing-more-beneficiaries-than-govt-with-fewer-centres-101623065613266.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra chief minister puts agencies on alert after IMD predicts heavy downpour in Konkan region||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday issued instructions to all agencies, asking them to be vigilant, after a heavy rain warning was issued in all districts of the Konkan region by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).“The Meteorological Department has warned of four days of heavy rains in all districts of the Konkan region including Mumbai. The CM has instructed all agencies to be ready and vigilant,” said the chief minister’s office.The IMD predicted heavy rainfall in the Konkan region, including in the Mumbai metropolitan area, for a period of four days, starting from June 9 till June 12, the chief minister’s office added.Thackeray directed authorities to evacuate dangerous buildings, affected areas, as and when the need arises, while ensuring that no form of patient care including Covid-19 care is disrupted during this period, reported news agency ANI.The Shiv Sena supremo also directed units from the National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) to be deployed during these four days. Adding that all relevant central agencies including the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation should be alerted."NDRF and SDRF units should be deployed where necessary during this time of heavy rains and other central agencies including ONGC should be alerted about the heavy rains during this period," ANI said quoting Thackeray.On May 17, hours after cyclone Tauktae hit the Mumbai coast a barge belonging to ONGC, barge P305, capsized on the Arabian sea under an onslaught of extreme weather conditions, causing loss of 71 lives. Both the Shiv Sena and Congress demanded the resignation of Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan on moral grounds following this tragedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-chief-minister-puts-agencies-on-alert-after-imd-predicts-heavy-downpour-in-konkan-region-101623064563482.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab govt extends Covid curbs till June 15, orders 'graded relaxations'||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered the extension of the ongoing restrictions imposed to arrest the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) till June 15. However, the state administration granted certain relaxations, including opening of shops till 6pm and functioning of private offices with 50% strength."Night curfew will remain in force from 7pm to 6am on weekdays, including Saturdays, but regular weekend curfew will continue on Sundays, the chief minister announced," a press release issued by the Punjab government said.Noting the fact that the case positivity rate in Punjab has come down to 3.2% and the active cases are also declining, the state government has allowed public gatherings up to 20 people including marriages and funerals.Recruitment examinations will be allowed in adherence to social distancing and other Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, the release said adding CM Singh suggested that online mode should be preferred.The Congress-led state government has also allowed sports training for national and global events and the sports department has been ordered to issue necessary guidelines which will have to be strictly followed.The chief minister said that district administrations may determine opening of non-essential shops, including on weekends, on the basis of the Covid situation in their respective areas. However, they will have to ensure that there is no crowding in such shops."On government offices, he (the chief minister) said that attendance can be decided by the head of the concerned office but co-morbid/disabled employees at risk may be exempted," the release further stated.Gymnasiums and restaurants remain closed in Punjab for now and if cases continue to decline, they might open after a week with 50% capacity. Owners and workers at gymnasiums and restaurants should be vaccinated prior to re-opening, CM Singh said.Punjab has so far recorded 577,997 cases and 15,009 due to the Covid-19 disease. On Sunday, the state saw another low of 1,907 fresh cases while 79 more people succumbed to the viral disease. This is the second time that the daily cases remained below the 2,000-mark. Nearly 5.3 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far.The Punjab government is facing the ire of the Centre and opposition parties in the state over alleged vaccine profiteering.Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Saturday cited a state government communication and said Punjab procured Covishield doses for ₹412 per dose but sold it to private hospitals for ₹1,000 and they, in turn, charged ₹1,560 from the people."Government profiteering should stop. There should be a probe to bring facts in the public domain," Puri said.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, meanwhile, on Saturday said the Congress government in Punjab is trying to make money at the cost of people amid the Covid-19 crisis and demanded its dismissal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-govt-extends-covid-curbs-till-june-15-orders-graded-relaxations-101623064316784.html
07-06-2021||Patna||Project Dolphin steering panel member laments Bihar’s lost opportunity||Dolphin expert from Bihar, Dr RK Sinha, who was awarded Padma Shri in 2016 for extensive research on the mammal, was made a member of the Steering Committee for implementation of Project Dolphin, launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, 2020. The 15-member steering committee, to be headed by additional director general of forests (wild life) and director, wildlife preservation, government of India, will oversee the implementation of the Project and advise the government on strategies and modalities for its effective implementation.Sinha is one of the only three members, included in the steering panel in their individual capacity in recognition of their research on Dolphins. Presently the vice chancellor of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University in Jammu & Kashmir, Sinha studied the mammal during his working days with Patna University.“I am happy that I will get the opportunity to work for Project Dolphin, but I would have been even happier had my native state Bihar, which has half the population of all the river Dolphins in the world, been ready to take advantage of it. Unfortunately, the long-awaited National Dolphin Research Centre (NDRC) in Patna remains stuck for years for reasons best known to the authorities,” he said.Last year, chief minister Nitish Kumar laid the foundation stone of the centre ahead of assembly elections after a long wait and even sanctioned funds to the building construction department (BCD), but things could not move beyond that.“River dolphin is a highly endangered species under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and it was also declared the National Aquatic Animal in 2009. The NDRC would have been a big step forward for the mammal’s conservation, including in Bihar, which accounts for 50% of its global population,” Sinha added.With the Prime Minister announcing Project Dolphin on the lines of Project Tiger to focus on both river and sea dolphins, there was hope that the setting up of the proposed centre in Bihar will get greater attention.The erstwhile Planning Commission had sanctioned ₹28.06 crore for the Centre in 2013 and a year later in 2014, Bihar too released ₹19.16 crore to Infrastructure Development Authority (IDA) for its development. However, no development has taken place.Sinha said he felt sorry for Bihar. “Had the National Dolphin Research Centre been ready, Bihar could have become the centre of activity [under Centre’s Project Dolphin]. Now, the condition of Ganga in Patna, which has a 25-km long bank with the river, is also bad. The river is drifting away and ongoing constructions in the river bed may permanently block the river flow near the city. It has badly affected Dolphin habitat in and around Patna,” he added.In 2018-19, around 1,500 Dolphins were sighted in Ganga during a survey by experts. This also prompted the government to build India’s first Dolphin observatory, Vikramshila Gangetic Dolphin Sanctuary, for the mammals in Bhagalpur. Another such observatory in Patna is in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/project-dolphin-steering-panel-member-laments-bihar-s-lost-opportunity-101623063693665.html
07-06-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Unlocking Pune... State government takes a risk, links incentives with responsibilities||The wise men in the state have taken a call to bring normalcy back to Maharashtra. As part of the unlock plan, Pune is set to reopen today in a big way, that will bring back livelihoods to some degree, even as the economy will take time to regain momentum. As wheels of the city set to restart again, the challenge before the authorities at the local and state level, is to prevent another wave, or minimise its impact. This is the second unlock exercise Maharashtra has undertaken, after last year. There is, however, a difference this time. The government in its order has passed the responsibilities on to people, if they want to avail incentives by way of restarting activities. The original order, released by state government late on Friday evening and followed by local authorities in Pune and many other cities the next day, is open for a weekly review. This means if the positivity rate or bed occupancy of a city or district goes up, local authorities will downgrade it to another level, between 1 and 5, depending on the spread of infection. The higher the level, the lower will be the incentives. The new system risks leading to confusion as it is a departure from the previous method, when the state government used to wait till the infection spread, and then would ask local bodies to tighten restrictions. In Pune district for example, authorities have considered Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural parts as three separate units. The city, with a weekly positivity rate of 6.11% and oxygen bed occupancy at 27.47%, has been allowed to enjoy relaxations, along with Pimpri-Chinchwad. In the rural parts, curbs largely continue the way they were during previous weeks. As per the state order signed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, administrative units with a positivity rate between 5%-10%, or oxygen bed-occupancy of more than 40% will have level-3 restrictions. By restarting most services in one go, the government has taken a major risk barely a few days after the second wave has started ebbing. In Thackeray’s own words: “The government is taking a ‘calculated risk’ by relaxing Coronavirus-induced restrictions in the state.” Among the things the government has relaxed in cities like Pune and Mumbai, are gatherings. This was in contradiction to what the chief minister had said in his address on May 30, when Thackeray stressed going ahead cautiously. Social, religious and cultural gatherings with a cap of 50 attendees could have been avoided given that it was neither a demand from any quarter nor being helpful in anyway. With no strong mechanism to check each and every gathering, such programmes can become super- spreader events. With civic polls lined up in 10 major cities of Maharashtra early next year, these gatherings can turn into political events too. The state has already paid a heavy price during the second wave, the trigger for which, according to experts, was political events ahead of local elections in parts of Maharashtra early this year. Already, political parties and community outfits have started agitations on various issues in the run-up to polls. Taking away e-pass inter-district travel, allowing public transport buses to ply with limited capacity in cities like Pune and Mumbai and reopening of restaurants and hotels for dine-in, is also bound to result in crowding, though livelihoods too are important here. The unlocking is necessary and should be rolled out. However at the same time, government and local bodies like Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) should take a cue from previous experience and build a stockpile of medicines, while building new oxygen producing units. At the same time, it should aim for higher vaccination numbers. With the wave ebbing, fear among people, too, is on the wane. The government, however, can’t afford to be lax this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-unlocking-pune-state-government-takes-a-risk-links-incentives-with-responsibilities-101623062194153.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal buys record 10,065MT of wheat||The Himachal Pradesh government has already procured a record 10,065 metric tonnes (MT) of wheat during the Rabi marketing season (RMS), 2021-22, since it started on April 15 through Food Corporation of India (FCI) and local traders. This is the highest ever procurement of wheat in the state with a little less than a month to go before the procurement season ends. Also read: IMA writes to PM Modi, seeks ‘personal intervention’ on assault on doctorsState agriculture minister Virender Kanwar said the state government has set a target of procuring 12,500 MT of wheat for the FCI. “As on May 31, a total of 10,065 MT of wheat has been procured as against last year’s 3,129 MT, which is 3.2 times higher, he said. Eight procurement centres set up The minister said eight procurement centres had been set up in five major wheat-growing districts of the state. These centres were opened at Paonta Sahib and Kala Amb in Sirmour district; Haroli and Takarala in Una district; Fatehpur and Thakurdwara in Kangra district; Patta Ghumarwin in Bilaspur district and Nalagarh in Solan district. Kanwar said: “So far, 30,520 quintals in Una district; 29,839 quintals of wheat have been procured in Sirmour district; 27,270.50 quintals in Kangra district; 427.50 quintals in Bilaspur; and 12599.50 quintals in Solan district. State-owned FCI is the nodal agency for procurement and distribution of foodgrains in Himachal Pradesh. Local traders also purchase the crop. The bulk of the procurement that starts in April gets completed by June-end. More than 2,000 farmers benefited So far, 2,447 farmers have benefited this season. Farmers are being provided minimum support price (MSP) at the rate of ₹1,975 a quintal. A maximum of 785 farmers benefited in Sirmour; 721 in Una district; 545 farmers in Kangra district; 380 in Solan; and 16 farmers in Bilaspur. Wheat procurement started in Sirmour and Una districts on April 15 and April 29, respectively, while the process began in Kangra and Bilaspur on May 3 and in Solan on May 2. “At this rate, the state government is likely to cross its procurement target for this year,” Kanwar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-buys-record-10-065mt-of-wheat-101623061294865.html
07-06-2021||Bhopal||MP junior doctors end week-long strike as govt assures 17% hike in stipend||Thousands of junior doctors in Madhya Pradesh on Monday called off their week-long strike after the state’s medical education minister Vishwas Sarang assured a raise in their stipend. "They have ended their strike unconditionally," Sarang told news agency PTI.Vishwas Sarang said on Sunday the government has already agreed to give a hike of 17 per cent in stipend to them. "We have ended our protest after meeting Sarangji," Arvind Meena, the president of the Junior Doctors Association (JUDA), told PTI.Around 3000 junior doctors from six medical colleges across MP were demanding a hike in their stipends and reserved beds for them and their family members in cases of a Covid-19 emergency. Nearly 3000 doctors resigned from their respective duties on June 4 after the Madhya Pradesh High Court called the agitation "illegal" and directed the protesters to resume their duties. The state government also sent eviction notices on Saturday asking them to vacate their hostels.The development came ahead of a hearing in the Madhya Pradesh High Court on Monday over a petition regarding the junior doctors' strike.The junior doctors struck work on May 6 but resumed their duties a few hours later after the state government assured them that their demands would be met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-junior-doctors-end-week-long-strike-as-govt-assures-17-hike-in-stipend-101623060305243.html
07-06-2021||Bhopal||3000 junior doctors in MP call off strike after 7 days||Madhya Pradesh’s junior doctors called off their strike on Monday after the state government agreed to increase their stipend by 17%. The deadlock was broken after 7 days following a series of meetings between the Junior Doctors Association (JUDA) and medical education minister Vishwas Sarang on Monday morning.“We called off the strike as the state government has accepted all our demands and a written order will be released soon,” said JUDA president Arvind Meena.The minister said the government agreed with junior doctors’ “valid demands”. “Soon, an order [announcing an] increase in their stipend will be released,” Sarang said.Earlier, 3000 junior doctors had resigned in protest, which also had the backing from the Indian Medical Association and junior doctors from other states.The junior doctors’ association was demanding that hospital beds are reserved for junior doctors, who get infected while treating Covid-19 patients, and free medical treatment is provided to them and their families apart from the promised hike in the stipend.Junior doctor’s decision to strike during the coronavirus epidemic was declared illegal by the MP high court’s double bench comprising chief justice Mohammad Rafique and justice Sujoy Paul last Thursday. However, the striking doctors refused to follow the court’s order asking them to return to work within 24 hours. The court is now hearing a contempt plea against the doctors. The government has also withdrawn an earlier order to cancel their enrollment in the final year of MBBS and PG courses.Earlier, the junior doctors went on a strike on May 6, but resumed a few hours later after the state government assured them that their demands will be met.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/3000-junior-doctors-in-mp-call-off-strike-after-7-days-101623059793637.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||More women judges needed in judiciary||Former chief justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and incumbent NV Ramana recently said that the nation may soon have its first woman CJI. This is a welcome step and has raised the larger issue of more representation of women in the judiciary. The appointment of high court judges is made under Article 217 and those of the Supreme Court under Article 124 of the Constitution of India. These Articles do not provide any reservation for any caste, class or person, including women. But from time to time, the Government of India and the Supreme Court itself have been insisting on giving weightage and consideration to deserving candidates among women also, while making recommendations for the appointment as judges. In spite of that, the representation of women in higher judiciary is poor. Also read: On live-in relationship, not for us to judge couple’s decision: High CourtIn the Supreme Court, right from 1950, of the total 247 judges appointed so far, there have been only eight women judges. In 1980, Justice M Fathima Beevi became the first woman judge to be appointed to the apex court, 40 years after its establishment. Today, of the 27 judges in the Supreme Court, there is only one woman judge, Justice Indira Banerjee, with a total of seven vacancies. The situation is no better in the high courts. Of the total sanctioned strength of 1,079 high court judges, there are 426 vacancies with 653 sitting judges. Going by the figures available, at present, there are only 78 women judges in different courts, with 13 in the Madras high court, eight in the Bombay high court, seven in the Punjab and Haryana high court, six each in the Delhi and Karnataka high courts and five each in the Gujarat and Kerala high courts. Interestingly, there is no woman judge in the Patna, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura and Uttarakhand high courts. As far as the question of the CJI is concerned, going by the present incumbents, the position regarding the chief justices up to 2027 is clear. According to seniority, after CJI NV Ramana, Justice Uday Umesh Lalit is likely succeed him till November 8, 2022, Justice DY Chandrachud up to November 10, 2024, Justice Sanjiv Khanna up to May 13, 2025, Justice BR Gawai up to November 23, 2025, and Justice Surya Kant up to February 9, 2027. Therefore, at least in six years, there is no chance of any woman judge becoming the CJI. Unless there are certain appointment of women judges made against the seven vacancies of the Supreme Court, who are supposed to retire after 2027, there may not be any women CJI even after that also. Correct the patriarchal mindset Unfortunately, no serious attempt has been made during the past 70 years to give adequate representation to women either in the high courts or in the Supreme Court. In India, women constitute 50% of the total population and a large number of women are available in the Bar and in the judicial services for elevation but, in spite of that, the number of women judges is small. One can very well acknowledge the fact that India basically has been a male-dominated society and has not allowed women to play a role that they can play in different walks of life, including the judiciary. The Bill for giving 33% reservation to women in Parliament and state legislatives has not been passed till date, despite all major political parties publicly supporting it. The need of the hour is to correct the patriarchal mindset in recommending and approving the names of those who are to be elevated as high court judges and come out with more representation to worthy women lawyers and district judges for elevation. Unless women are empowered, justice cannot be done to them. It is high time that all those who matter in the appointment of judges to the high court and the Supreme Court, realise the need of giving adequate representation to women in the judiciary. In fact, the superior judiciary should also have horizontal reservation for women such as subordinate judiciary without diluting merit. Moreover, simply appointing a woman CJI in itself may not make much difference unless we have sufficient number of women judges in different courts. As of today, there are a total of seven vacancies in the Supreme Court and 426 vacancies in the high courts. If we really want to give due representation to women in the judiciary, it is high time that while making appointments against these vacancies, reasonable and adequate representation is given to them. Vacancies are an opportunity The vacancies of about 426 judges out of 1,079 (42%) and seven out of 34 judges in the Supreme Court (20%) is high. But it gives an opportunity to make up for the deficiency in the matter of representation to women in higher judiciary. The cause of the first woman CJI, in the present scenario, cannot be achieved for six years. However, during this period an attempt can be, and should be, made to give due and adequate representation to women both in the high courts and in the Supreme Court. That will be a step in the right direction of removing gender discrimination, which ultimately may lead to more social and gender harmony in the judiciary. Any step in this direction will be a benchmark for society with many more young women students coming forward and opting for law as a profession. The writer, a former Lok Sabha MP and an ex-member of the Law Commission, is additional solicitor general of India. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/more-women-judges-needed-in-judiciary-101623059014130.html
07-06-2021||Patna||Patna’s double-decker road to spare Khuda Bakhsh library’s heritage structure||The heritage portion of Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Public Library in Patna will not be bulldozed for construction of a 2.2km-long double decker road from Kargil Chowk to National Institute of Technology (NIT) over the congested Ashok Rajpath.However, the width of the proposed road will be reduced a little while crossing the library to save George Curzon reading hall from demolition. A portion of the reading hall of the library, a repository of ancient manuscripts, books and paintings, was earlier planned to be razed for the unique double-decker road being built by the Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL).Additional chief secretary, road construction department (RCD), Amrit Lal Meena confirmed the change in plan. “As of now, we have decided not to touch any portion of Khuda Bakhsh library for building the double-decker road. However, this will have its bearing on [the] width of the elevated road at [a] certain stretch,” said Meena, who is also chairman of BRPNNL.Khuda Bakhsh library officials, archaeologists and members of the civil society were protesting ever since the state construction authority unveiled plans to build the double-decker road by razing parts of heritage buildings of Patna University and Khuda Bakhsh Oriental Public Library. They had written letters to the governor, chief minister and the Union ministry of culture to save the heritage structures.The Patna chapter of the Indian National Trust of Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach) had planned to seek legal remedy to avert the planned partial demolition of Curzon reading hall, named after then Viceroy of India, George Curzon, who visited the library in 1905. The library has the tag of national importance given by the Centre and Unesco has granted it a heritage status.The bid to construct the double-decker road over Ashok Rajpath for providing easy access to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) from Gandhi Maidan side gained momentum on Saturday with the BRPNNL shortlisting eight construction companies for evaluation of financial bids for the award of work. The eight firms—Apco Infratech, Nagarjuna Construction, Rachna construction, Roya RCPL JV, SP Singla Construction, Gawar construction, Jandu Niraj JV and Welspun Enterprise—have been selected for the opening of financial bids.The proposed elevated road would have three exits for the PMCH via their multi-level parking before terminating at NIT More. The road will also connect to the upcoming Ganga Path via Krishna Ghat. The project is likely to cost around ₹369 crore. The PMCH will also get four-lane connectivity with Ganga Pathway, which is coming up on the southern bank of river Ganga.Meena said the groundwork for the project will start in July, after the monsoon, and take around three years to complete.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnas-double-decker-road-project-to-spare-khuda-bakhsh-library-s-heritage-structure-101623056193295.html
07-06-2021||Lucknow||Undertrial missing from UP jail housing Mukhtar Ansari, search operation on||A 22 year old undertrial inmate has been missing since Sunday night from Uttar Pradesh’s Banda district jail, which also houses don turned politician Mukhtar Ansari, triggering a search operation spanning several districts.“An inmate named Vijay Arakh who was lodged in barrack number 4 of Banda prison was reported missing at around 8:30 pm on Sunday. The inmate was last seen inside the jail at 6:45 pm. We have lodged an FIR regarding the matter at Kotwali police station of Banda and started operations to search him,” Sanjay Tripathi, deputy inspector general (DIG) of prison, Prayagraj Zone, said. Tripathi has been tasked to investigate the disappearance and submit a report to the prison department.Vijay, a resident of Girwa area of Banda district was lodged in the prison in February this year in a case related to theft and house trespass. On Sunday afternoon, Vijay, along with other inmates, was sent to work in the prison farm as per routine. He returned along with others at around 5 pm, claimed prison authorities.“We have alerted the police of nearby districts about the missing inmate and sought help in searching for him. The prison staff along with other inmates are also being quizzed about the incident,” said the DIG.Banda prison came into the spotlight earlier this year when Mukhtar Ansari was shifted there from a Punjab prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/undertrial-missing-from-up-jail-housing-mukhtar-ansari-search-operation-on-101623053673507.html
07-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal guv hits out at TMC MP who accused him of hiring relatives at Raj Bhavan||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday morning refuted the allegations of employing his relatives at Raj Bhavan in Kolkata, levelled against him by Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra . Dhankhar tweeted that the allegations were factually wrong, saying that none of them was a part of his close family, while four of them were not from his caste. Also Read | Dhankhar’s office is his ‘extended family’, Mahua Moitra shares document“Assertion @MahuaMoitra in tweet & Media that six coterminous appointee OSDs in personal staff are relatives is FACTUALLY WRONG. OSDs are from three states and belong to four different castes. None of them is part of close family. Four of them are not from my caste or state,” Dhankhar tweeted on Monday morning. In a scathing attack against Dhankhar, Moitra had on Sunday alleged that the former employed three of his relatives, two relatives of a former aide-de-camp (ADC) and one relative of his present ADC as officers on special duty (OSD) at Raj Bhavan. The governor said that the TMC MP’s tweets were a part of the “distraction strategy to divert attention from the deteriorating law and order situation in the state.”“This is unfolding of ‘distraction strategy’ to divert attention from alarming law and order scenario @MamataOfficial. Would continue undeterred and with zeal to serve the people of state and vindicate my oath of office under Article 159 of the Constitution,” he tweeted. Moitra said in successive tweets that the situation in Bengal will improve if the governor leaves with his “extended family”. Dhankhar assumed charge in July 2019. The acrimonious relationship between the governor and the TMC-ruled West Bengal government has been in the news since September that year. TMC leaders have time and again accused Dhankhar of being “an agent” of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and accused him of partisan behaviour. Moitra had tweeted the list (of six OSDs) on Sunday, shortly after Dhankhar accused the administration of inaction in the post-poll scenario and asked the chief secretary to meet him on Monday to discuss political violence. Moitra replied to Dhankhar’s Monday morning tweet within 20 minutes and asked him to declare the antecedents of the appointees. Addressing the governor as “Uncle Ji”, she demanded a prompt reply. “Asking Uncleji to lay out right here what antecedents of the appointees are & how each one got into Raj Bhavan. Do it NOW. BJP IT Cell can’t get you out of this one Uncleji.. And I don’t think Vice President of India also happening for you,” tweeted Moitra.Dhankhar did not reply to this tweet till 3.20pm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-guv-hits-out-at-tmc-mp-who-accused-him-of-hiring-relatives-at-raj-bhavan-101623053313237.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi unlock: Metro stations closed for short while to ensure social distancing||With Delhi Metro services resuming almost after a month on Monday, several stations had to be closed for a brief period to ensure social distancing due to high footfall.The Metro is running its services at 50% capacity. Some stations which were closed are Dwarka Mor, Uttam Nagar East, Vaishali, New Bus Adda, and Saket. “These closed in the morning hours for about 5 to 10 minutes each as a crowd control measure,” said a Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) official.DMRC tweeted, “Entry for a few of our stations are being intermittently closed and opened for short durations to ensure social distancing as part of our crowd control measures. Please bear with us and allow for extra time in your commute.”Also Read | Delhi unlock: CM Kejriwal urges people to follow Covid-19 normsThe rush at the station was also due to the fact that DMRC had pressed in service only 50% of its trains. The trains, DMRC officials said, were available at 5-15 minute intervals on different lines. The number of trains in service will be increased in a graded manner, DMRC officials said.“Entry at stations will continue to be regulated through identified gates as was the practice earlier. DMRC is also writing to appropriate authorities for maintenance of law and order outside Metro stations to handle the extra rush as the Metro services resume once again from Monday in the ongoing pandemic scenario,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-unlock-metro-stations-closed-for-short-while-to-ensure-social-distancing-101623052533142.html
07-06-2021||Bhopal||Black Fungus treating injections led to adverse reactions in MP, stopped||Madhya Pradesh government has stopped the use of Amphotericin B injections of a particular batch after 77 Mucormycosis infected patients in Sagar and Jabalpur districts suffered serious reactions following its administration, said a health department official. Amphotericin-B is used for treating patients suffering from severe mucormycosis or black fungus infections.The injections in question were supplied to two government hospitals in Sagar and Jabalpur district on Friday. Adverse reactions were first reported among 27 patients at Bundelkhand Medical College on Saturday night and among 50 patients at Netaji Subhash Chandra (NSC) Medical College in Jabalpur on Sunday. Hospital staff said patients fell ill a few minutes after Amphotericin B injection was administered to them, said the official, who didn’t wish to be named. He confirmed that all these injections were manufactured by the same company and belonged to one batch.“The patients showing adverse reaction to the injection complained of fever, vomiting, chills and fluctuation in blood pressure and were finally stabilised through symptomatic treatment,” said Dr Umesh Patel, public relation officer of Bundelkhand Medical College.Head of ENT (Ear, Nose, Throat) department at the NSC Medical College in Jabalpur, Kavita Sachdeva said, “We came to know that patients at BMC Sagar fell ill after an injection was given to them on Sunday. We immediately stopped the use of the antifungal injections, but [by then] about 60 patients had already [been] given the dose. Out of them, 50 complained of chills, fever, breathlessness and nausea. We started their timely treatment and all are in stable condition.”The state government provided new injection vials to both medical colleges on Sunday night and ordered an inquiry into the reasons behind the adverse reactions, said medical education minister Vishwas Sarang.With the rise in black fungus cases in the country, the demand for Amphotericin-B injections has shot up considerably. Several states have already started to witness its shortages. As per data available on Saturday, MP had 1,005 active patients of black fungus disease. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan had also stated that there was no shortage of the injection, considered critical in saving lives of patients suffering from severe infection. Earlier last week on Tuesday, the Centre imposed curbs on its export to meet the domestic demand.(with inputs from Anupam Pateriya)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/black-fungus-treating-injections-led-to-adverse-reactions-in-mp-stopped-101623052113181.html
07-06-2021||Patna||Army jawan, wife and son killed in a road accident in Bihar||An Indian Army jawan, his wife and 5-years old son were killed after a truck laden with stone chips overturned on their car, crushing it Sunday late evening in Bihar’s Kaimur district.35-years old soldier Pintu Kumar Singh, posted at Mathura in Uttar Pradesh, was driving home to Diha village in Gaya district with wife Kajal, 5-years old son Tejas and 8-years old daughter Shreya, when the accident took place on National Highway-2 near Khamidaura turning under Durgawati police station limits in Kaimur district, police said.Singh, along with wife and son died on the spot, police said. Mohania sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Raghunath Singh rushed to the spot and pulled the bodies out from the car with the help of locals. The injured girl could be pulled only after cranes were deployed. She was then admitted to a local government hospital.The bodies have been handed over to the jawan’s family after post-mortem examination at Bhabua, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/army-jawan-wife-and-son-killed-in-a-road-accident-in-bihar-101623048753623.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||AIIMS Delhi begins screening of children for Covaxin trials||The screening of children for trial of Covaxin, India's first indigenously developed COVID-19 vaccine, among those aged between 2 and 18 started at the AIIMS here on Monday.Also Read: AIIMS Delhi to start screening children from Monday for Covaxin trialsThe trial on children has already started at AIIMS Patna to see if the Bharat Biotech jab is suitable for children. Participants would be given the vaccine after their screening report comes.The trial is to be conducted on 525 healthy volunteers. In the trial, the vaccine will be given by intramuscular route in two doses at day 0 and day 28. "The screening of children for conducting trial of Covaxin has started. Participants would be given the vaccine after their screening reports come," Dr Sanjay Rai, Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine at AIIMS, said.India's drug regulator had granted permission for conducting the phase 2/3 clinical trial of Covaxin in the age group 2 to 18 years on May 12Covaxin is being used on adults in India's ongoing COVID-19 vaccination drive. The government last week cautioned that even though COVID-19 has not taken a serious shape among children till now, its impact can increase among them if there is a change in virus behaviour or epidemiology dynamics, and said preparations are being strengthened to deal with any such situation.A national expert group has been formed to review COVID-19 infections in children and approach the pandemic in a renewed way to strengthen the nation's preparedness, NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul had said at a press conference.The group has examined signs which were not available four-five months before, he said.It has also considered available data, clinical profile, the country's experience, disease dynamics, nature of the virus and the pandemic and has come up with guidelines, which will be publicly released soon.“While we have been systematically reviewing scientific developments in this area, the group has been formed to take an updated view of the situation," Paul said.Asked if the Pfizer vaccine, if it comes to India, will it be considered for children between the age of 12 and 15 years as being approved by the UK, Paul had said that the country has its own vaccines which are being readied for children."Child cohort is not a small cohort. My rough guess is that if it is between 12 to 18 years, this itself is about 13 to 14 crore population and for which we will need about 25-26 crore doses."We cannot have some people getting and others not getting. So we will have to take this into account when we strategise and make a decision based on how many doses of which vaccines are available. he said.He further shared that Zydus Cadila's vaccine is already being tested in children."So when Zydus comes for licensure, hopefully in the next two weeks, may be we have enough data to take a view on whether the vaccine can be given to children," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-delhi-starts-screening-of-children-for-covaxin-trials-101623047599658.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||1 dead, 5 injured in Bandra building collapse after midnight||One person died and five others were injured as a portion of a four storey structure fell on a house in Bandra’s Kherwadi area in Maharashtra’s Mumbai Suburban district at around 1.45 am on Monday, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)’s disaster control room.BMC officials said 17 residents were rescued safely following the collapse including six who were rescued by locals before the arrival of Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) on the spot.All the rescued and injured were rushed to Bhabha and VN Desai Hospitals. 28-year-old Riyaz Ahmad was declared brought dead at VN Desai Hospital.Five injured residents were identified as 21-years old Nural Haq Haidar Ali Sayyad, 22-years old Salman Atik Khan, 22-years old Rahul Mohan Khot and Rohan Mohan Khot and 48-years old Lata Mohan Khot.BMC officials said they will investigate the cause of the collapse and see whether recent rainfall in the city played any role in it.Local Congress MLA from Bandra East, Zeeshan Siddique tweeted this morning to allege inadequate help was received from the BMC during the rescue operation. “It’s past 6am now, locals have formed human chains and are helping the fire brigade clear the debris to make sure no one is stuck. I have been requesting the BMC for 3 hours now to send labourers, but only 2 are on site,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-dead-5-injured-in-bandra-building-collapse-after-midnight-101623047013094.html
07-06-2021||Patna||'Black fungus' rages in Bihar, doctors complain of dire shortage of drugs||As many as five coronavirus disease (Covid-19) patients, also infected with mucormycosis or 'black fungus', died in Bihar's capital Patna during the last 24 hours, while 11 others were admitted with the fungal infection on the same day, HT's sister publication Hindustan reported on Monday. All five cases of death were recorded at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS), Patna. Two of the patients suffering from the disease were admitted to the hospital, while the rest of the nine were admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in the city.Also Read: Black fungus also maiming asymptomatic Covid patients: StudyIGIMS superintendent Dr. Manish Mandal said that despite Sunday being an off day, a team of doctors had to work overtime and perform surgery on 14 patients suffering from black fungus infection. Twenty more patients have been marked for a similar operation on Monday, he said. Not a single patient admitted at either IGIMS or AIIMS got Amphotericin B doses at the hospitals due to non-supply of the drug from the state health department, Dr Mandal told the publication while speaking of the dire situation.‘Black fungus’, also known as mucormycosis, is considered to have deadly effects. The central government in an advisory stated that the fungal infection affects people who are on medication as it reduces their ability to fight environmental pathogens.Amphotericin B injection is being used in black fungus treatment. Dr. Mandal said that while around 585 vials of the medicine are needed per day, only 200 such vials arrived on Saturday, while not a single vial arrived till 9pm on Sunday. AIIMS' Dr. Kranti Bhavana also said that the patients did not get a single dose of Amphotericin B due to the non-availability of medicines. Some of the medicines already present in PMCH were given to more serious patients.Diabetes, prolonged consumption of steroids, and prolonged ICU stay are the major risk factors for this disease. Some of the symptoms of this rare disease include pain, swelling/redness around the eyes and nose, fever, headache, cough, shortness of breath, and bloody vomit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/black-fungus-rages-in-bihar-doctors-complain-of-dire-shortage-of-drugs-101623043979336.html
07-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal govt seeks students and parents’ opinion on holding board exams||The West Bengal government has invited people’s opinion on whether and how to hold class 10 and 12 board examinations amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The state government last week formed an expert committee to review the Covid-19 situation and recommend if board examinations could be held under the circumstances and how. If not, then it was tasked to come up with the evaluation criteria for announcing results.“While the expert committee is considering and discussing the matter, the government has invited views from the general public, parents and students on this,” said a senior official of the state education department.The government issued a notice on Sunday urging people to send their opinion by 2 pm today. The opinions may be mailed to pbssm.spo@gmail.com, wbssed@gmail.com and commissionerschooleducation@gmail.com.The announcement of the schedule for class 10 and 12 board exams in West Bengal was stalled at the last minute on Wednesday, a day after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and Indian School Certificate (ISC) board cancelled class 12 board exams keeping in mind the risk posed to children’s health during the ongoing nationwide second wave of the Covid pandemic. At least 12 states including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan have already decided to cancel the board examinations.Earlier chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced the decision to hold class 12 board examination in July end and class 10 board examination in August second week. She even said that the duration of the examination would be curtailed by 50% and it would be held at home centres.The daily Covid-19 cases count has come down from a peak of 20,846 on May 14 to 7,002 on June 6 in Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-govt-seeks-students-and-parents-opinion-on-holding-board-exams-101623045393025.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||As Metro trains resume, stations being closed intermittently. DMRC explains why||The Delhi Metro on Monday resumed operation after nearly a month due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curbs imposed in the national capital. As daily cases of Covid-19 continue their downward slide, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced relaxations in Delhi last week, leading to opening of malls, resumption of metro services and reopening of shops.However, the people of Delhi have been asked by the state government to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Kejriwal tweeted on Monday morning appealing to the people to not show any laxity.The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) issued an update on its Twitter handle to say that it is restricting entry of passengers at stations to ensure social distancing is maintained."Entry for a few of our stations are being intermittently closed and opened for short durations to ensure social distancing as part of our crowd control measures. Please bear with us and allow for extra time in your commute," the DMRC tweeted.Service UpdateEntry for a few of our stations are being intermittently closed and opened for short durations to ensure social distancing as part of our crowd control measures. Please bear with us and allow for extra time in your commute.The Delhi Metro has been permitted to resume operations with 50 per cent capacity while shops in markets and malls have been allowed to open on an odd-even basis from 10am to 8pm in Delhi government's plan to unlock the city. Metro services had been suspended on May 10.People who use Delhi Metro appreciated the step to open it to the public."The Covid-19 situation is now better, as compared to what it was before. There are some passengers in the metro but it is not crowded. The steps taken by the Delhi government to gradually unlock are good. I feel that Delhi is slowly moving towards normal conditions," Dhruv Singh, who came to Delhi from Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh on Monday, told news agency ANI.Metro trains are running with a frequency ranging from nearly five to 15 minutes on different lines.The Delhi government had also permitted private firms to open with 50 per cent staff. Thus, some employees of the private companies were also heading to work on Monday.On May 31, construction activities and factories were reopened as the first step towards relaxing the Covid-19 norms in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-metro-trains-resume-stations-being-closed-intermittently-dmrc-explains-why-101623044334739.html
07-06-2021||Bhopal||Man angry at wife for birthing girl pushes her, 2 kids into a well, one dies||A 42-year-old man allegedly pushed his wife and two daughters into a well in anger at not having a son, leading to the death of his 8- year-old child, police in Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh said on Sunday.Raja Bhaiya Yadav's (42) wife had given birth to a daughter three months ago and he was bringing them back along with another daughter from his in-laws' place in neighbouring Panna district on Saturday when he stopped his motorcycle near a well in Padoi village, Sub Inspector Rajendra Singh of Chandla police station said."He pushed his wife and two daughters into the well. The accused even threw stones at his wife as she struggled to come out of the well. His eight-year-old daughter died, while the woman and her three-month-old daughter were rescued by villagers who heard their cries," he said."His wife has told police that Yadav was angry at her for giving birth to a daughter again as he wanted a son," he said.Yadav, who fled from the spot, has been charged with murder and attempt to murder and a hunt was on for him, Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-angry-at-wife-for-birthing-girl-pushes-her-2-daughter-into-a-well-one-dies-101623044510781.html
07-06-2021||Noida||Covid curbs lifted in Noida from today: Malls, schools to remain shut||The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration has announced relaxations in the partial Covid curfew from Monday, after a gap of more than a month, as the number of new and active cases of the coronavirus disease came down in the district. The Uttar Pradesh government said in a statement that the number of districts where active Covid-19 cases have fallen below 600 has reached 71. According to officials, if the number of active cases of Covid-19 breaches the mark, the partial curfew will automatically come back into place in that district, bordering Delhi.Also read | Only Lucknow, three other districts remain under corona curfew in UP, review on TuesdayThe number of active cases of the coronavirus disease stands at 496 in Gautam Buddh Nagar as the district recorded 30 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday. According to an order issued by district magistrate Suhas LY, the relaxations will come into effect from June 7 and will be effective from Mondays to Fridays from 7am to 7pm. However, night and weekend curfews will continue. The restrictions were put in place on April 30.Here’s what the unlock rules in Gautam Buddh Nagar are:Markets and shopsShops and markets outside containment zones will be allowed to remain open from 7am to 7pm from Monday to Friday. Vegetable markets in the densely populated areas will function in open places. Cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, clubs and shopping malls will remain closed.Restaurants and eateriesRestaurants have been allowed only home delivery. Street hawkers and vendors allowed to sell their goods and will have to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.Government officesThere would be full attendance for frontline workers but for the rest of government employees, there would be 50 per cent attendance on rotation basis. A Covid help desk must be established at all offices, the order said.Private officesThe private sector has been asked to encourage the employees to work from home. None of the offices can allow any employee with symptoms of the coronavirus disease to come to office and setting up of a Covid help desk has been made mandatory.Passengers and vehiclesScreening of passengers has to be done as per appropriate guidelines. Two passengers have been allowed to travel in three-wheelers and three in e-rickshaw. Four people will be allowed to travel in four-wheelers and will have to follow proper distancing and wear masks.Schools, collegesAll private and government schools, colleges and other educational institutes will remain closed till further notice. “These institutions can continue with online classes for their students, including coaching centres,” Suhas said.IndustriesIndustrial units will stay open following Covid-appropriate guidelines with mandatory help deskReligious places and gatheringsThe order has said that not more than five devotees will be allowed inside a religious place at a time. Not more than 25 members allowed in a wedding function and everyone will have to follow social distancing norms and sanitisation will have to be carried. A maximum of 20 people will be allowed at a funeral procession, the order has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-curbs-lifted-in-noida-from-today-malls-schools-to-remain-shut-101623043848184.html
07-06-2021||Jaipur||Jaipur mayor, 3 councillors suspended for manhandling commissioner||Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation mayor and three councillors were suspended by the Rajasthan government on Sunday for allegedly misbehaving with the commissioner of the municipal corporation on Friday.Suspended mayor Somya Gurjar and two councillors, Ajay Singh Chauhan and Paras Jain, are members of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) while the third councillor, Shankar Sharma, is an independent. They are accused of manhandling, pushing and abusing commissioner Yagya Mitra Singh Deo in the mayor’s chamber, where he was attending a meeting related to a company engaged in door-to-door garbage collection on Friday, said people aware of the development.They said, a heated argument broke out between the two and the commissioner threatened to leave. In the middle of all this, the councillors allegedly manhandled and abused him.The suspended mayor says the action was politically motivated. “The allegations are baseless. I never thought that this would be the result of working honestly. The government’s act is due to political animosity. It is supporting those who are doing wrong things. I have full faith in the judiciary,” Gurjar said.BJP state president Satish Poonia said the party will fight for the three members. “The suspension of the mayor and the councillors is unfortunate. This will lead to the fall of the Congress,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/jaipur-mayor-3-councillors-suspended-for-manhandling-commissioner-101623043534410.html
07-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 293 new coronavirus cases, 838 recoveries||The state of Jharkhand recorded as many as 293 new Covid-19 cases, 838 recoveries, and eight fresh deaths from the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, according to the health department's daily update on Sunday.At present, there are 5,686 active coronavirus cases. The cumulative recoveries mounted to 3,30,478 while the death toll reached 5,054, according to the state health department's data.The total number of positive cases in the state stands at 3,41,218. The recovery rate improved to 96.85% while the case fatality rate dropped to 1.48%.India's daily caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) declined for a third straight day, as 100,636 infections -- the lowest in 61 days -- were detected in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) data, updated on Monday morning, showed. With this, the nationwide infection tally has risen to 28,909,975, as per the health ministry's updated data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-records-293-new-coronavirus-cases-838-recoveries-101623042460092.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi unlock: CM Kejriwal urges people to follow Covid-19 norms||As markets, malls and the Delhi Metro open for the public after seven weeks today, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal appealed to all to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.“Many activities are resuming in Delhi from today. But take all the precautions to prevent corona completely – wear a mask, keep social distance and keep washing hands, there should be no laxity at all. We need to curb the spread of Covid-19 while also opening bringing Delhi’s economy back on track,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.Also Read | Delhi unlock: Markets, shops reopen on ‘odd-even’ basis after nearly 2 monthsKejriwal on Saturday announced that restrictions, including those on markets and transport, were being eased starting Monday, after a seven-week lockdown necessitated by a devastating fourth wave of Covid-19 in the city.While shopping malls will be investing on managing footfall in real-time, officials of district administration said they will ensure stricter enforcement of distancing and mask norms. Delhi Metro also resumed services from Monday. However, only half of the trains have been inducted into service with a frequency ranging from nearly five to 15 minutes on different lines, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-unlock-cm-kejriwal-urges-people-to-follow-covid-19-norms-101623042932767.html
07-06-2021||Kolkata||Rakesh Tikait to meet Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday to talk over farmers' protest||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait is slated to meet West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on June 9 (Wednesday) in Kolkata, news agency ANI reported, citing sources privy to the matter. Tikait will discuss the strategy with Mamata Banerjee to further intensify the ongoing farmers' protest against the new central farm laws, the sources said."Rakesh Tikait will meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee on June 9. He will congratulate her on the massive electoral victory. They will discuss the farmers' protest," sources told ANI.Notably, Tikait had visited West Bengal before the state assembly elections and campaigned for Trinamool Congress (TMC).West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been very much vocal against the new farm laws and gave her support to farmers' protests. Several TMC MPs had visited the Delhi borders where farmers have been protesting since November last year.Since the Covid-19 situation is improving, the farmer leaders are planning to intensify the protest.Meanwhile, a large number of farmers led by farmer leaders Rakesh Tikait, Gurnam Singh Chaduni, and United Kisan Morcha leader Yogendra Yadav have been staging a dharna in front of Tohana Sadar police station in Fatehabad district of Haryana since Saturday night demanding the release of the arrested farmers.Farmers protesting against the Centre's farm laws have been protesting for the last six months. Many have camped at the borders of the national capital. Despite several rounds of talks between the Centre and the farmer leaders last year, the deadlock remains.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/rakesh-tikait-to-meet-mamata-banerjee-on-wednesday-to-talk-over-farmers-protest-101623041798928.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||'No laxity', tweets Arvind Kejriwal as relaxations come into effect in Delhi||As more relaxations came into effect in national capital Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal asked people to keep following all Covid-19 protocols. He said we have to protect ourselves from the coronavirus disease, as well as bring the economy back on track."Many activities are starting in Delhi from today. But take all the precautions - weak a mask, maintain social distancing and keep washing the hands, there should not be any laxity. We have to protect ourselves from Covid-19 as well as bring the economy back on track," Kejriwal said on Twitter in Hindi.आज से दिल्ली में कई गतिविधियाँ फिर से शुरू हो रही हैं। पर कोरोना से बचाव के सभी एहतियात पूरी तरह से बरतें - मास्क पहनें, सोशल डिस्टेन्सिंग रखें और हाथ धोते रहें, बिल्कुल ढिलाई नहीं करनी। कोरोना संक्रमण से बचकर भी रहना है और अर्थव्यवस्था को फिर से पटरी पर भी लाना है।The chief minister's message came as more relaxations will come into effect from Monday as announced by him on Saturday.As per the official circular by the Delhi government, shops in malls, markets, market complexes, standalone shops and neighbourhood shops have been allowed to open with restrictions of odd-even and timings.These states have eased or extended Covid-19 curbs. Check listHowever, cinemas and theatres, restaurants (except home delivery/take away), bars, gyms, spas, barber shops, saloons, beauty parlours and any shop pertaining to entertainment/amusement services have not been permitted to operate.Delhi Metro, which was suspended since last month, resumed services with 50 per cent capacity.The private offices have also been allowed to function with 50 per cent staff.With a dip seen in active Covid-19 cases, Delhi started the unlocking process from May 31 after the government permitted factories and the construction sector to resume operations.On April 20, Delhi registered the biggest spike of new 28,395 coronavirus cases since the pandemic began last year. On April 26, the city registered the highest ever positivity rate of 36.24 per cent. On Sunday, the national capital recorded 381 fresh cases of the infection and positivity rate came down to 0.68 per cent.The Delhi government imposed a lockdown in the national capital on April 19 at the peak of the second wave of Covid-19. The lockdown was extended a few times since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-laxity-tweets-arvind-kejriwal-as-relaxations-come-into-effect-in-delhi-101623038873287.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Light rain, cloudy sky today; AQI in moderate category||Today’s Delhi weather is likely to see light rain and cloudy sky, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 26 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 40°C. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 24°C – four degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was 38.1°C – two degrees below normal. Also Read | Delhi unlock: Markets, shops reopen on ‘odd-even’ basis after nearly 2 monthsMeanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6am stood at 148. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 134, also in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said, “A sharp increase in wind speed is forecasted for the next three days favourable for dispersion. However, at the same time an increase in the long-range transport of dust from the arid regions is likely as the transporting winds are becoming favourable leading to frequent short term hourly spikes in PM10 in the next three days. As AQI is an average of 24 hours, it would stay in the moderate to poor category with PM10 as the lead pollutant for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-light-rain-cloudy-sky-today-aqi-in-moderate-category-101623034712910.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi unlock: Markets, shops reopen on 'odd-even' basis after nearly 2 months||As India marks a turnaround from the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic with a diminishing tally of daily infections, national capital Delhi is undergoing a gradual 'unlock' process as more relaxations come into effect from Monday as per the directions issued by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Standalone shops, market complexes, and malls are set to reopen today after nearly two months (51 days, to be precise), albeit with some restrictions of odd-even timings.Also Read: Covid-19: ‘Unlock 2.0’ in Delhi from today, Metro services to resumeThe Delhi government first imposed the coronavirus disease-necessitated lockdown in the national capital on April 19 at the peak of the second wave of Covid-19. The lockdown was extended a few times since then. After a consistent decline in the daily infection tally for several days, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that the national capital will begin to unlock from May 31 in a phased manner.Market complexes, standalone shops, and shopping mallsShops in malls, markets, market complexes, standalone shops, and neighborhood shops will open with the restrictions of even-odd and timings from Monday, as per the official circular by the Delhi government.Markets and malls have been allowed to open on an “odd-even” basis from 10am to 8pm, while standalone shops can open on all days.Also Read: These states have eased or extended Covid-19 curbs. Check listAs per the circular, since liquor shops are not on the prohibited list in the original curfew order dated April 19, 2021, therefore it will be allowed on an even-odd basis and within prescribed timings.Delhi Metro to resume with 50% capacityDelhi Metro, which was suspended since May 10, will also resume services with 50% capacity, as announced by chief minister Kejriwal. In a tweet, the Delhi metro rail corporation (DMRC) also said that only half the number of available trains will be pressed into service on June 7 and will operate at a frequency ranging between five to 15 minutes on different lines.Delhi metro trains will be inducted in full strength from June 9, and, thereafter, services will be available as per normal frequency at which they were operating before the lockdown came into effect at 10pm on April 19 after being announced earlier in the day, the DMRC added.Government and private offices, construction work, and factoriesOffices in Delhi have also been allowed to open — government offices will work at a capacity of 100% for Grade-A officers while for officers below Grade-A, 50% strength has been allowed.Private offices in Delhi will also be allowed to function with 50% staff though work from home or staggered timings have been recommended by the Delhi government.The revenue services in a district-like registry will be functional. Self-employed persons such as electricians, plumbers, and repairing of water purifiers are already allowed vide DDMA order dated April 25, 2021.Construction works and factories were the first two sectors to be granted exemption from the lockdown and resumed services on May 31. E-commerce services can also resume while the status quo has been ordered on all remaining activities.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-unlock-markets-shops-to-reopen-on-odd-even-basis-after-nearly-2-months-101623031501728.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||CSE study identifies 14 new pollution hot spots in Delhi-NCR, points to local pollution||A fresh analysis of the pollution data in and around the National Capital Region (NCR) has revealed that 14 new locations recorded higher than average deterioration in air quality in winter time. The analysis has been done by Delhi-based think tank Centre for Science and Environment (CSE).The CSE said that these 14 hot spots recorded higher concentration of air pollutants than the mean of recognised hot spots - 197 micrograms per cubic metre. These locations are Alipur, DTU, ITO, Nehru Nagar, Patparganj, Sonia Vihar and Vivek Vihar in Delhi, Sector 1 and 116 in Noida, Loni, Sanjay Vihar and Indirapuram in Ghaziabad, Knowledge Park V in Greater Noida and Bulandshahr, according to the CSE study.The think tank said this points towards impact of local pollution.The CSE also said that lockdowns improved the air quality in Delhi-NCR this year as well but not as effectively as last year due to the 2021 curbs being shorter and lesser stringent."In 2020, partial lockdown started on March 12 with hard lockdown kicking in on March 25, which was lifted in phase-wise manner from May 18. Then the partial lockdown also brought PM2.5 levels down by 20 per cent, but the hard lockdown reduced it by another 35 per cent," the CSE said.Lifting of restrictions from May 18 had led to 28 per cent rise in PM2.5 levels, it said.Meteorology would be partly responsible for this trend, but it could also be a reflection of weakening of pollution control-measures and efforts in the city and region, it said.Traffic intensity was also comparatively higher in 2021, it added.The CSE analysis also showed that there were 27 "very poor" days in terms of air quality this February-March compared to 17 in 2020 and 12 in 2019.Days meeting the air quality standard also plummeted this spring to just two. The year 2020 had 16 and 2019 had six days when the standard was met, it said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cse-study-identifies-14-new-pollution-hot-spots-in-delhincr-101623031991452.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro resumes operations, commuters asked to follow Covid protocols||The Delhi Metro resumed operations from Monday morning as the guidelines for the second phase of Covid-19 unlock came into effect. As per the Delhi government's order the metros will run with 50 per cent seating capacity. Commuters will not be allowed to travel standing, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said in its guidelines.The Covid-19 situation in the national capital has been improving significantly over the last few weeks; in view of that, the Delhi government on June 5 allowed various activities including the resumption of metro services. The services have been completely suspended since May 10 this year.In 2020 as well, metro services were shut in March after a nationwide lockdown was imposed to curb the Covid-19 spread.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also allowed shops in local markets and malls to reopen on an odd-even basis.The metro services resumed at 6am and only half of the available trains were inducted into service. In the initial reopening, the train frequency is ranging from nearly five to 15 minutes on different lines, as per the guidelines announced by DMRC.The number of trains will be inducted in full strength in a graded manner by Wednesday and thereafter, services will be available as per normal frequency which was available before the lockdown."Public is also advised to take extra time for their daily commute and exhibit Covid-appropriate behaviour outside the stations also while waiting for their turn to enter the station," the DMRC said in an advisory.As per the revised guidelines, commuters will only be allowed to sit on alternate seats. Entry at stations was also being regulated through identified gates as was the practice earlier.Delhi's Covid-19 tally increased by 381 cases on Sunday, as per the daily Covid-19 bulletin by the health department. It was the lowest daily tally for the national capital in more than two and half months. The number of fatalities recorded over the last 24 hours was 34. After the addition of the latest cases, the cumulative case count has gone up to 1,429,244 and the death toll is at 24,591.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-resumes-operations-commuters-asked-to-follow-covid-protocols-101623031908543.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: ‘Unlock 2.0’ in Delhi from today, Metro services to resume||Delhi will begin unlocking further from the Covid-19 induced lockdown on Monday as more relaxations will come into effect on the day. The announcement in this regard was made by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday, who also announced the extension of the lockdown for now, except for the sectors in which relaxations have been announced.Also Read: AIIMS Delhi to start screening children from Monday for Covaxin trialsAs announced by Kejriwal, the Delhi Metro will resume operations at a seating capacity of 50%. In a tweet, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited (DMRC) said that only half the number of available trains will be pressed into service on June 7 and will operate at a frequency ranging between five to 15 minutes on different lines. The DMRC also said that trains will be inducted in full strength from June 9, and, thereafter, services will be available as per normal frequency at which they were operating before the lockdown came into effect at 10pm on April 19 after being announced earlier in the day.Also Read: India logs lowest daily Covid-19 cases in 2 months: DataAs for other exemptions, markets and malls have been allowed to open on an “odd-even” basis from 10am-8pm, while standalone shops can open on all days. Offices have also been allowed to open; government offices will work at a capacity of 100% for Grade-A officers while for officers below Grade-A, 50% strength has been allowed. Private offices can work with 50% staff though work from home or staggered timings have been recommended by the Delhi government. E-commerce services can also resume while status quo has been ordered on all remaining activities.Construction works and factories were the first two sectors to be granted exemption from the lockdown and resumed services on May 31.Also Read: Nine states underutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses: GovtOn the daily Covid-19 caseload front, the Capital on Sunday reported 381 new cases from the preceding 24 hours, taking its infection tally to 1,429,244. This was the city’s lowest single-day rise since 368 fresh infections were reported on March 15. Delhi also saw 1,189 new recoveries and 34 related fatalities, taking the total recovered cases and death toll to 1,398,764 and 24,591 respectively. Active cases, meanwhile, are at 5,889.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-unlock-2-0-in-delhi-from-today-metro-services-to-resume-101623026655782.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi University to hold final year exams online from today: All you need to know||The online examinations for the final semester students of undergraduate and postgraduate of Delhi University will begin from Monday. The exams are being conducted in open book examinations (OBE) mode, which the university opted for last year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.A meeting of college principals and nodal officers was held on Sunday to discuss the modalities of evaluation and results. Under OBE, students are allowed to refer to approved material to answer the questions in examination."The meeting was held to discuss how to tackle the issues that arise. We want to start the evaluation process on Tuesday. Earlier, the process would start late," said DS Rawat, Dean (Examinations).Here is everything you need to know about the DU exam:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-university-to-hold-final-year-exams-online-from-today-all-you-need-to-know-101623025808970.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Political fight escalates on ration delivery plan||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow the Capital’s government to launch doorstep ration delivery, citing how crowded shops could potentially turn into Covid-19 “superspreader” zones and adding that the CM’s name had already been dropped from the scheme.On Saturday, Kejriwal’s office said the Centre again “blocked” the Delhi government’s ambitious scheme days ahead of its launch, with Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal rejecting the scheme. The L-G’s office, however, said Baijal did not “reject” the scheme and only “advised for the constitutional scheme of things to be followed in letter and spirit”.“If pizza, burgers, smartphones and garments can be delivered to doorsteps of people, then why not ration?” Kejriwal said in a digital news briefing on the contentious issue on Sunday. He said the scheme should be implemented across the country in view of Covid-19.“In Delhi, a doorstep delivery of ration scheme was ready to be launched next week. All necessary tenders were completed, and arrangements were in place. It would have relieved millions of people in Delhi from crowds and long queues outside ration shops. For the last 75 years, the ration distribution system across the country has been looted by the ration mafia, leading to leakages in the system that deprive poor people of the food grains they are entitled to. Doorstep delivery would have been a revolutionary initiative,” said Kejriwal, citing his own days as a social activist and being allegedly attacked by people for his fight against “ration mafia”.Delhi currently has around 1.78 million ration card holder households which, according to government records, translate to 7.2 million beneficiaries. Ration to them is currently distributed through a network of 2,000-odd fair price shops.“The proposal has been turned down citing no approval from the central government. It is untrue. We have written to the central government five times, seeking their approval in this regard. Going by the law, we do not need any approval from the central government in this regard. State governments are capable of implementing such schemes. In March, you asked us to remove mukhyamantri (chief minister) from the name of the scheme, we obliged. We followed all your conditions,” said Kejriwal.A senior official in the central government said: “The Government of India has not asked the Delhi government to not distribute the ration the way they want to. They can do so under any other scheme. The Government of India can also provide additional food grains for that, as per notified||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/political-fight-escalates-on-ration-delivery-plan-101623013695809.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi hospital revokes directive on language use||A Delhi government-run hospital on Sunday withdrew a controversial order that barred its nursing staff from communicating in any language other than Hindi and English after backlash from political parties and health care workers, who alleged that the directive was “discriminatory” and “unconstitutional”.The Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research in central Delhi issued a circular to the nursing staff of the facility on June 5, saying that a “complaint has been received regarding Malayalam language being used for communication”.“... maximum patient(s) and colleagues do not know this language and feel helpless, causing a lot of inconvenience. So it is directed to all Nursing Personnel to use only Hindi and English for communication, otherwise serious action will be taken,” the order issued by GIPMER’s nursing superintendent Veena Verma said.Under fire over the circular, GIPMER released a statement saying it was pulling back the directive that had been issued “without any instructions or knowledge” of the hospital administration and the Delhi government.“This circular dated June 5, 2021 which was issued by Nursing Superintendent, GB Pant Hospital, without any instructions or knowledge of the Hospital Administration and Delhi Government stands withdrawn with immediate effect,” the statement said on Sunday.Congress MP from Wayanad, Rahul Gandhi, criticised the incident and wrote on Twitter: “Malayalam is as Indian as any other Indian language. Stop language discrimination!”Gandhi’s colleague and Congress lawmaker KC Venugopal on Saturday said in a letter addressed to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan that the hospital’s directive was “unbelievable” and “atrocious”. “I appeal the honourable health minister Harsh Vardhan to order an immediate withdrawal of the bizarre and unconstitutional circular...” he wrote on Twitter before the hospital overturned its decision.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) spokesperson Tom Vadakkan blamed the directive on the Aam Aadmi Party-led government in Delhi. “The order and it’s withdrawal in haste clearly indicates we have an anarchist Delhi Government for whom the Constitution of India and its recognised languages do not matter,” he said on Sunday.Delhi government officials did not respond to requests for comment.Nurses from the Malayali community condemned the order and said the circular showed complete “disregard for our mother tongue” despite health care workers working round-the-clock to fight the pandemic. “In the times of Covid, the hospital should be fostering a conducive environment for the nurses. Instead, the administration is bringing forth such unnecessary circulars. This would have affected the morale and harmony among nurses. Segregating people on the basis of language is not right. The administration has shown complete disregard for our mother tongue and this is not tolerable,” said Fameer CK, representative of the Delhi Action Committee of Malayali Nurses. He added that the hospital administration should not have taken such a decision without consulting the government first.The hospital has a staff of around 1,000 nurses. “The order did not make sense and has rightly been withdrawn. Why single out a particular language like this? ...this was an irrational order and was rightly highlighted, but there are other critical issues plaguing the nursing profession...” said Liladhar Ramchandani, president, GB Pant nurses association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hospital-revokes-directive-on-language-use-101623013385004.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Markets, malls, districts in sync as precautions take centre stage||As Delhi prepares for its second phase of reopening after seven weeks in lockdown, market welfare associations in the city said they are trying to vaccinate as many shop owners and employees as possible. While shopping malls will be investing on managing footfall in real-time, officials of district administrations said they will ensure stricter enforcement of distancing and mask norms.On Monday, around 250 enforcement teams of the Delhi revenue department will be deployed in markets and public spaces that are likely to see large crowds, said a senior government official.“Liquor stores will be under watch. They are likely to witness huge crowds for the next few days. If things go out of control, officers in sub-divisions have been directed to close the shops immediately for the day,” said the government official.Dharmendra Kumar, west Delhi’s additional district magistrate, said, “Enforcement will be scaled up. We have to ensure social distancing and high mask compliance at any cost. We cannot let Covid-19 cases go up again.”Pushpa Bector, executive director, DLF Shopping Malls and director of Shopping Centres Association of India, said the mall industry has been readied to reopen for some time.“Apart from the guidelines recommended by local authorities, we have got stringent measures now like live footfall trackers, apart from getting all mall employees vaccinated. It is important that we give an environment of safety to consumers and build staff confidence during these testing times. We hope that business will soon come back to normal,” said Bector.Yogeshwar Sharma, executive director and CEO, Select Citywalk, said the reopening has been mapped out, with extensive standard operating procedures in place, including temperature checks at entry points, sanitization across all public areas and retail outlets, and air-conditioning practices in accordance with government guidelines.“We will also work in tandem with our occupants to ensure best practices [are in place] for the safety of our visitors,” said Sharma.Atul Bhargava, owner of a store at Connaught Place and president of New Delhi Traders’ Association, said the body conducted a vaccination drive on Saturday for their staff and family members ahead of Monday’s reopening. “Our members paid for the vaccination of their staff,” said Bhargava.The Khan Market traders body also said the association is in touch with a private hospital to vaccinate staff.Sanjeev Mehra, president of Khan Market Traders’ association, said, “It will take another two or three days for us to streamline the vaccination process. We have taken care of other precautionary measures,” said Mehra. He said that crowding might not be a problem initially since people were unlikely to throng the markets in the first few days.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday announced that restrictions, including those on markets and transport, were being eased starting Monday, after a seven-week lockdown necessitated by a devastating fourth wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/markets-malls-districts-in-sync-as-precautions-take-centre-stage-101623012788548.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi's public dealing offices to be shut||The state government’s public dealing offices such as the regional transport offices (RTO), registry offices, and other windows in revenue department that issue documents such as caste certificates, income certificates and others will not open this week as part of the phased unlock plan for Delhi, a senior state government said on Sunday.Under the order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), government offices can open with an 100% attendance policy for Grade-I rank employees (senior officers) and 50% below that. In each case, head of departments have been entrusted with preparing the rosters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-public-dealing-offices-to-be-shut-101623012164563.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||4th Covid-19 wave forced more to seek state help||After losing her livelihood following the imposition of the lockdown announced by the Delhi government in April to contain the fourth wave of Covid-19 in the city, Uma Singh, a domestic help, was left with no means to arrange nutritious food for her two children until she managed to enrol them in an anganwadi centre last month with the help of a civil society organisation.The resident of northeast Delhi’s Yamuna Vihar said, “My son is three and my daughter is just one. None of them are enrolled in a school yet; otherwise they would have got dry ration from there. Some NGO people visited our locality last month to distribute food. When I told them about my issue, they put me in touch with an anganwadi worker who later helped me enrol my kids in a centre.” Singh, 28, is a single mother and lives with her parents.Like Uma, several thousand people have enrolled their kids in the city’s anganwadis after losing their source of income amid the pandemic. According to a recent survey conducted by the Delhi government, 247,293 children and pregnant/lactating women have enrolled in anganwadi centres across the Capital amid the lockdown enforced by the Delhi government in April. The trend, experts said, shows that the income of families has been more severely hit this time compared to the last lockdown.These anganwadi centres, part of the central government’s Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS), provide supplementary nutritious meals to children up to age six as well as pregnant and lactating women. They also provide pre-school education, health education, immunisation and medical check-ups for the children.While the city’s 10,755 anganwadi centres have been shut since March, the Delhi government’s department of women and child development (WCD) has been providing children and pregnant/lactating women supplementary nutrition through door-to-door services each fortnight.Government data seen by HT showed that in March last year, 534,741 children and women were enrolled in the ICDS programme, which increased to 782,034 (46.24%) by April this year. The latest survey report also stated that the coverage of supplementary nutritional diets also increased by 68% from the last lockdown.“As per the latest round of survey results from the DCPCR, 91% of the beneficiaries reported that they are receiving nutritional supplements whereas in May 2020 only 23% of the beneficiaries surveyed had reported that they received the ration,” the document stated.Dilshad, who lost his job at a garment store in Lakshmi Nagar in April last year, had initially registered his two children in a local anganwadi and recently enrolled his four-month pregnant wife as well. “My children — a four-year-old son and a five-year-old daughter — were enrolled in a private school in Seelampur. I had to pull out my children from there as I was unable to pay the fees in July. I am still out of work.”“I enrolled my children in an anganwadi in August. In March, I got to know that my wife is expecting again. I am still hardly earning anything by cleaning cars in Dilshad Garden... Therefore, I had to enrol her at the same centre,” he said.Senior officials said the increased enrolment in the programme was also because of the enhanced efforts of officials and workers engaged in these projects. “During the pandemic, maximum efforts have been taken to enhance the outreach services and make the workers serve the needs of vulnerable children in a holistic manner,” said a woman and child development department official.According to the latest data collected by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), at least 1,436 children lost either one or both their parents to Covid-19. Of them, 59 children lost both parents. The anganwadi workers were also asked to call on helpline number 1098 to report about children in distress. Officials said the number receives around 500 calls every day.The Delhi government, in its budget 2021-22 presented in March, announced setting up of 500 Saheli Samanvay Kendras (SSKs) for better outreach to vulnerable women and children. About 101 such SSKs have been made operational as of now. Dr Rashmi Singh, director of the women and child development department, said SSKs have emerged as emergency response centres for women whose livelihood and socio-economic condition have been hit by the pandemic and the lockdown.Meanwhile, civil society organisations in Delhi, said the number of enrolment in the ICDS scheme is still low.Amrita Johri of Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan said, “More effort needs to be taken to enrol every child and woman in distress under the scheme,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/4th-covid-19-wave-forced-more-to-seek-state-help-101623011106487.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A place for the invisibles||Quietness is the reigning monarch here. Greenery is entwined with solitude. Squirrels are frolicking about. Marooned in isolation, this secretive tree-filled place feels detached from all the news of the world.But gradually you notice them, the people, looking like an extension of the patchy grass they’re lying on, here and there.This expanse runs for a brief distance along the Outer Ring Road, just outside the Vir Bhoomi memorial of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi, here in central Delhi. It is arguably among the most surreal garden-spaces in the capital. This afternoon at least the place is shedding vibes of utter remoteness—although it is right in the city’s heart, close to the Yamuna river.A bare chested man is dozing off on the grass, his shirt heaped up beside him. Some men are lying towards the pavement (see photo), maybe because much of the ground is still wet due to yesterday’s showers. Not far away another man is covered in a muddy-white chaadar. There are quite a few other folks too. All are men, and all are still, like statues. Only one man seems to be awake. He is lying flat with his hand under his head, his eyes open. None of these loners is holding onto any possession—no bag or briefcase, let alone a lunch packet.Sone minutes later, one of the men gets up and walks towards the road. Looking passively at the traffic, he informs that most folks here, including himself, are without a home. “I walk around looking for work and money and food, and when I get tired I sometimes come to this ghaas-phoos (greenery) to pass the samay (time).” Nobody sleeps here at night, he says.Later, the man walks back and sits on the grass. And again freezes into motionlessness.The setting is filled with a sense of despair, but as these lonesome souls lie here in rest, the garden appears cloaked in empathy. Here one senses a kinder aspect of our huge city where it appears to be welcoming to our fellow citizens who otherwise tend to be hidden from plain sight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-place-for-the-invisibles-101623010492020.html
07-06-2021||Other||Farmers to gherao Tohana police station today||Demanding the release of two farm leaders who were arrested for gheraoing the residence of Jannayak Janata Party’s Tohana MLA Devender Babli, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders on Sunday decided to continue their sit-in at Tohana Sadar police station on Monday. Farmers from four districts– Hisar, Jind, Sirsa and Fatehabad – will be staging the sit-in at Tohana while station while farmers from the remaining 18 districts will gherao police stations in their respective areas from 11am to 3pm.Farm activists Ravi Azad of Bhiwani and Vikas Sisar of Hisar were arrested on the night of June 2 when they were protesting outside the MLA’s residence over a spat with him that took place a day before. On Saturday, however, the MLA had apologised to the farmers and even promised to take back the cases.The farmer leaders and administration also went into a huddle on Sunday, however, the talks were inconclusive. Activist Yogendra Yadav, who along with Bhartiya Kisan Union leaders Rakesh Tikait, Yudhvir Singh and others farmers, have been staging a sit-in at Tohana Sadar police station since Saturday night, said, “The administration had agreed to withdraw cases but they later took u-turn after which we left the meeting.”“MLA Babli agreed to withdraw two cases filed by his staff but the problem was with the third FIR in which police itself is the complainant. Police officials refused to take back the FIR so we left the meeting. The Samyukta Kisan morcha leaders and family members of the jailed activists have decided that they will not move the bail application until police withdraws the cases,” Yadav added. Rakesh Tikait, who has now emerged as the face of the farmers’ agitation, said Babli had decided to withdraw the cases and apologised for the incident. “We thought the matter was over and the administration would release the protesters but they did not agree even in today’s meeting. We will continue our dharna at Tohana Sadar police station until our activists are released. Farmers from four districts will join us while those from other districts will gherao local police stations,” he added.A senior administrative official, who attended the meeting, said two FIRs against farmers were registered by the MLA’s staff while the third FIR for surrounding the MLA’s house was registered on a police personnel’s complaint.“We will take legal action before deciding on the further course of action. We have told the same to the delegation of farm leaders in the meeting,” the official added.Gurnam Singh Charuni was also sitting on dharna on Sunday morning but had to leave to flag-off farmers’ groups headed to Singhu border from Ambala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-to-gherao-tohana-police-station-today-101623009271246.html
07-06-2021||Other||‘Dilli Kooch 2.0’: Charuni leads farmers’ contingent from Ambala to Delhi||To give a fresh zeal to their demand for repealing the three central farm laws, farmers affiliated to Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) moved to the protest site at Singhu border near Delhi from Ambala’s Shambhu border in a large number of vehicles on Sunday.The movement led to traffic chaos on both sides of the border from as early as 9am despite the presence of police. The farmers’ vehicles left around 11:30am with the union’s state president Gurnam Singh Charuni leading it. He claimed that more than 2,500-3,000 vehicles were part of the contingent.This even as another group of farmers were staging a sit-in outside the Tohana Sadar police station demanding the release of two of their activists who were jailed for protesting outside a Jannayak Janta Party legislator’s house. Farmers from Patiala and Mohali in Punjab also joined their Haryana counterparts in their march towards Delhi. Among them was a 11-year-old boy, Amanjot, who came with his father Harpreet from Mohali. When asked, he said he is aware of the gravity of the situation and hence came to support the farmers. “The government wants to suppress the protests in the name of Covid but no farmer will leave any protest site till the laws are taken back,” he said.Another agitator, an 81-year-old former Air Force officer, said he has been registering his protest by wearing black clothes since August 15 last year. “I have been wearing black clothes and a turban of the same colour as a mark of protest against these black laws,” he said.Will start mission UP soon: Charuni When asked about the possibility of talks with the Modi government, Charuni told reporters that even if there is no discussion with the government on a solution, laws have to be taken back.“They are more scared than us. Just look at their situation. Bharatiya Janata Party is losing everywhere. We showed them what we can do in West Bengal, now we are preparing for mission UP against them,” he said referring to the state polls scheduled next year. On the Tohana controversy, he said the matter had almost ended after an apology by JJP MLA Devinder Babli but farmers will agitate till their fellow activists are released.In November last year, farmers from most of the north-Haryana and Punjab region had gathered in Ambala to move towards Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dilli-kooch-2-0-charuni-leads-farmers-contingent-from-ambala-to-delhi-101623008551097.html
07-06-2021||Other||Work on checking waste discharge into Yamuna, Ghaggar still unchecked||Putting a complete check on industrial and domestic waste discharge into the Yamuna and Ghaggar rivers remains a tough task for authorities as work on these projects was found to be below expectation by the River Rejuvenation Committee (RRC) during its latest monthly meeting.It was found that out of 100.5 MLD (millions of liter a day) being discharged into the Yamuna catchment area from 155 locations, authorities were able to divert only 48.15 MLD from 90 locations. Besides, work is yet to be started at around 18 locations. Similarly, in the Ghaggar catchment area, out of the total 42.25 MLD being discharged from 56 locations, only 21.08 MLD from 28 locations has been diverted so far and work has not been started at 14 locations.Moreover, out of the 145 MLD to be diverted from Leg-I, Leg-II and Leg-III of the Najafgarh drain or Badshahpur drain in Gurugram, only 104 MLD has been diverted so far.It was also observed that out of the 126 sources of pollution identified along Yamuna, the action plan for 34 locations is pending. Along the Ghaggar, 69 out of the total 255 identified locations are yet to start taking corrective measures.The committee also took cognisance of the slow progress on laying of sewerage network at Ambala City, Ambala Sadar, Kaithal, Jakhal Mandi, Hisar, Jagadhari-Yamuna Nagar, Palwal, Rohtak, Faridabad, Karnal and Bahadurgarh.It was decided that the industries department will take a survey on shifting industries from several cities of Yamunanagar, Panipat, Sonepat, Rohtak and Faridabad.During the meeting, additional director, industries, also raised the issue of constructing a separate common effluent treatment plant (CETP) and carrying the effluent through tankers for treatment on the pattern of Ludhiana.But a top functionary of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) informed that transport through tankers is not a scientifically accepted method as the effluent is highly dangerous and toxic. HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan told Hindustan Times that the sewer network progress is regularly monitored by RRC as well as the chief secretary in the review meetings.“The progress has been delayed to a certain extent by the pandemic. But the RRC has advised the departments concerned to expedite the same to meet the timeline,” he added.Over the shifting of the industries, he said the Industries department will hold a survey to get the real picture of the number of units in non-conforming areas and work out a plan of action accordingly.It is pertinent to mention here that HSPCB had found groundwater at 38 out of 78 locations in Ghaggar catchment area was unfit while in Yamuna catchment areas, 10 out of 50 locations were not complying to the norms..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-on-checking-waste-discharge-into-yamuna-ghaggar-still-unchecked-101623008251340.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh slips to second position in 2019-2020 Performance Grade Index||After coming in first for two consecutive years, Chandigarh has slipped to the second position, behind Punjab, in the Performance Grade Index (PGI) rankings for 2019-20 released by the Union ministry of education on Sunday.As per the report, Chandigarh has scored 912 out of a possible 1,000 across five major domains with 70 parameters in total.The city has scored 160 out of 180 in “learning outcomes”, which deals with the scores of students in language and mathematics in Classes 3, 5 and 8 of government and aided schools. This is the only category in which Chandigarh is placed first, having been beaten by Punjab in the other four.Chandigarh has scored 77 out of 80 for “access”, which is related to net enrolment ratio, retention rate of students and transition rate from the lower to the higher classes.In “infrastructure and facilities”, Chandigarh has scored 147 out of 150. The parameter includes infrastructure in schools to enable adequate facilities for teaching and learning like functional toilets, availability of clean drinking water, science and computer laboratories.In “equity”, Chandigarh has scored 223 out of 230, which is based on comparative performance of learning outcomes of various categories of students (general category as compared to the other categories) and it also covers children with special needs.Chandigarh scored 305 out of 360 for “governance processes”, which covers management and administration of school education. The gap between Chandigarh and Punjab was highest here with Punjab scoring 346.Lowest score-wise improvement from 2018-19While Chandigarh was able to improve its score from 887 in 2018-19 to 912, this is the lowest score-wise improvement out of the other states and UTs that are placed in the first ten positions. An improvement of 76 points from the score published in 2019 to this year’s is also the lowest among the top ten.Speaking about this, former education secretary of Chandigarh BL Sharma said, “To continue to improve the score, the various domains of the rankings need to be studied and the system improved on those lines. School principals are especially important and they must adopt a leadership role and facilitate the teachers. The department must ensure that teachers can teach and students can learn without any distractions, which will solve most problems.”Former vice-chancellor of Panjab University Arun Kumar Grover added, “Chandigarh needs a committed bureaucracy. One of the reasons why Punjab has fared so well is because of the efforts of Punjab education Secretary Krishan Kumar. Officers here must treat education as something more than a department assigned to them.” Grover added that the city’s government schools also needed to be improved so more residents would send their kids there.Meanwhile, UT education secretary SS Gill said, “Chandigarh has performed really well, even in the recently released Sustainable Development Goals Index report by Niti Aayog. Rather than rote learning we want children to develop an analytical mind. This is why Chandigarh was chosen for Programme for International Student Assessment (PISA) and why Chandigarh education department is directly being represented at CBSE’s panel for developing the criteria to mark Class 12 children. We improved our score compared to last year and we will continue to improve.”The Performance Grade Index for states and union territories was first published in 2019 with reference to the year 2017-18. As per the ministry of education, the index would propel states and UTs, bringing about optimal education outcomes by helping them pinpoint the gaps and accordingly prioritise areas for intervention to ensure that the school education system is robust at every level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-slips-to-second-position-in-2019-2020-performance-grade-index-101623007891822.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Residents, MC, NGO join hands to make Chandigarh’s Sector 5 ‘puppy-free’ zone||To prevent the surge in dog bite cases during summer, NGO Peedu’s People with the cooperation of the residents of Sector 5 and some other parts of the city, along with the municipal corporation (MC), has made the areas puppy-free zones.District animal welfare officer Inder Sandhu, who runs the NGO and is heading the project, said, “By puppy-free, we mean that all adult dogs in the particular area have been spayed. In Sector 5, we started around September 2020 and counted 27 dogs. Each dog was individually rounded up and spayed and cared for, which took us till December. We have been monitoring the sector ever since to see if any new dogs have come. One female dog had come recently and was spayed as per procedure.”Sandhu said he was helped by the MC authorities in catching the dogs: “Some of the dogs can recognise the MC vehicles from afar and were hard to catch. We were able to spay up to 3-4 dogs in a day.”Sector 5 residents had collectively agreed to hire them. Sanjana Sehgal, a resident and animal lover, who was volunteering with them, said, “We had done our research and by this method, the dogs were treated more humanely. It is better for the dog’s health as well and residents in other bigger sectors can also come forward and tackle the stray dog problem through a step-by-step process.” She added that the residents had contributed around ₹2,000 per house for this.Project was undertaken at golf club last yearSandhu had also worked at Chandigarh Golf Club earlier on a similar project. They had spayed 52 stray dogs there from January to June 2020. Course manager of the club, Amritinder Singh said, “The project was successful and we still keep a count of the stray dogs here. A pregnant dog had come into the premises recently and was spayed later. Dogs have a lifespan of 5-10 years so the results will be visible after some time.”While the project has been successful in smaller areas, senior deputy mayor and local area councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu feels that implementing it in bigger sectors will present some problems. “Sector 5 has 79 houses and all members remain in touch on WhatsApp groups. This will be hard to emulate in bigger sectors. However, other resident welfare bodies can learn from citizen participation here.”Dr Kanwarjit Singh, joint director of the Chandigarh animal husbandry and fisheries department, said, “People’s participation can help the authorities identify dogs that need spaying. These people can also monitor the dogs after the operation and they can inform the authorities if their health deteriorates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/residents-mc-ngo-join-hands-to-make-chandigarh-s-sector-5-puppy-free-zone-101623007231120.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Dilip Kumar complains of breathlessness, hospitalised||Veteran actor Dilip Kumar, who was admitted to Mumbai’s Hinduja hospital early on Sunday after he complained of breathlessness, has been diagnosed with bilateral pleural effusion, said officials aware of the matter requesting anonymity.“He is stable and kept in the general ward. If he responds to the medicines, he will be discharged within 2-3 days,” said a doctor who is aware of the case.Pleural effusion is referred to as accumulation of fluids between the layers of the pleura outside the lungs.A tweet from the 98-year-old actor’s Twitter account, handled by his manager, shared an update on his health. “Dilip Sahab has been admitted to non-COVID PD Hinduja Hospital Khar for routine tests and investigations. He’s had episodes of breathlessness. A team of healthcare workers led by Dr Nitin Gokhale is attending to him. Please keep Sahab in your prayers and please stay safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dilip-kumar-complains-of-breathlessness-hospitalised-101623007024070.html
07-06-2021||Bangalore||Will not review transfer order of Sindhuri, Nag, says Yediyurappa||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday said that there is no question of reviewing the transfer of the two senior officials in Mysuru district after one of them threatened to resign from the administrative services alleging harassment from the other.“Because she (Rohini Sindhuri Dasari) has been transferred, she came. Once a transfer is done, there is no question of reviewing it and I have asked her to report (to her new role),” Yediyurappa said on Sunday.The statements come a day after the Karnataka government decided to transfer both Sindhuri and Shilpa Nag from their respective positions.Nag who was Commissioner of Mysuru City Corporation was transferred as director (e-governance) at the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj department. Sindhuri, who was serving as deputy commissioner, Mysuru, was transferred as commissioner for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments.Nag on Thursday announced her resignation in front of TV news cameras from the Indian Administrative Services, stating that she cannot work in a “suffocating environment”.“With deep sorrow and regret, I am hereby submitting my resignation to the Indian Administrative Service . I humbly ask your kind self to accept this and relieve me of my moral dilemma, pain and sorrow for the sacrilege of the sacred service we have taken oath to serve and protect,” Nag said in a press conference on Thursday in Mysuru, about 125 kms from Bengaluru.Nag made an apparent reference to Sindhuri, and has been at the receiving end of criticism from other political leaders including the Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Several political leaders have made scathing personal remarks against Sindhuri since Thursday and before, over earlier encounters with the officer.Sindhuri has been the target of several such attacks, which people aware of the developments said, was because she refuses to cave into demands by politicians trying to get contracts allocated to people related to them or usurp government land.The near public spat between the two officials gave opposition political parties more ammunition to target Yediyurappa over losing control of his own administration.“There is no coordination between ministers, there are differences between ministers, between officials. Administration has collapsed,” DK Shivakumar, the state president of the Congress said on Sunday.Sindhuri was also accused of ignoring desperate calls for help by her colleague from Chamarajanagar where 24 persons died due to shortage of oxygen. On Sunday, a purported voice call between Sindhuri and one of the district officials incharge of oxygen was played on loop by TV channels. In the call, a person believed to be Sindhuri is heard threatening to dismiss the official for supplying oxygen cylinders to neighbouring Chamrajanagar district.The veracity of the audio call recording could not be independently verified.The person believed to be Sindhuri is heard stating that oxygen supplies to all hospitals in Mysuru should be fulfilled at the earliest. It remains unclear when this purported call took place and the context of the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-not-review-transfer-order-of-sindhuri-nag-says-yediyurappa-101623006930365.html
07-06-2021||Bangalore||New-age Kannada comedy clubs take flight online||Bengaluru In a Kannada stand-up comedy show, uploaded on 24 May last year, Niroop Mohan, a young performer stands before a live audience. Known for his middle-class observational comedy references, Mohan recites a joke that features him and a friend. Mohan: I called a friend and told him to come for my stand-up comedy show. Friend: Can I get my girlfriend as well? Mohan: I said, of course bring her along, it is an extra ticket for me. Friend (slyly): Please get me two corner seat tickets. Mohan sighs: Is my show an old unsuccessful Kannada cinema? The audience, no more than 50 people, bursts into laughter at the joke, which he built up with a generous mix of the slangs and a colloquial version of Bengaluru Kannada, an anglicized version of the native language of Karnataka. The 9.25 min clip has 2.2 million views on YouTube and is one of the highest viewed for the company that handles Mohan, Multibox entertainment, which took flight months before the lockdown. New-age Kannada comedy has been taking wings for sometime now. With the booming smartphone market and cheap data costs, online video consumption was already seeing a sharp surge, which was further fueled by the Covid-19 pandemic that forced people to remain indoors and spend more time on their electronic devices. A report by E&Y, ‘Playing by new rules: India’s Media & Entertainment sector reboots in 2020’, published in March this year, shows that Indians spent 26.4 hrs on an average per month on YouTube in 2020 from 21.4 hours in 2019, the first time the entire planet went into pandemic-induced lockdown. Kannada comedy content, though not still in competition with English and Hindi content in the same genre, did still account for a sizable chunk of the traffic, people aware of the developments said. TharleBox, Namdu K and several other YouTube channels now operate in the online space, in which every artiste tries to bring in their own unique flavour to capture the diversity of Karnataka, where each of the 30 districts have distinct cultural features which these performers use to entertain a live audience. TharleBox has 315,000 subscribers while Namdu K has 160,000 subscribers. Charan and Lohit, the two people who founded Multibox entertainment, started with open mic’s a few years ago to identify new artistes and test the waters for new ventures. “We have 20 million views, 300,000 subscribers, 60,000 followers on and 10 million views on Instagram,” Geeth Jason Vaz, one of the directors of the company, told Hindustan Times, rattling off statistics which now acts as a stand-in for success of any online content. The company hosted a 12-hour marathon live show in which it got 60 artistes from various fields to be part of the event which was aimed at raising funds for Covid-19 relief. The show has raised around ₹1.3 lakhs and the donation link remains open for those who missed out. But like most other stand-up, Kannada content too depends on live audiences, tours to other cities and other forms of physical presence to perform and familiarise themselves with the masses. Covid-19 has rendered this option almost redundant for the time being, forcing the uploading of online content or re-plugging old ones. Demand has fueled the market and content in India. India’s online video market is estimated to grow to around $4.5 billion in the five years between 2020 and 2025, according to a report by India Online Video and Broadband Distribution by Media Partners Asia. But does online pay? People in the business say that there is a big market but money is hard to come by since views and ads among other parameters determine payouts unlike a live show which goes by just ticket sales, priced anywhere between ₹200 to ₹350. “Covid crisis has definitely taken the live shows away from our hands which has directly affected our livelihood, but we are positively taking this time to ideate and write content that will be produced once the opportunities come back,” Charan said. These companies also maintain strict vigil on uploading of content from these shows, as there is money to be made online as well. Having no control over uploading of content can seriously hamper income prospects, Gangavathi Pranesh, one of Karnataka’s most well-known comics said. “Most of my videos on YouTube have millions of views but I get nothing since it is uploaded by someone who recorded my live performance without my knowledge or consent,” Pranesh said. He said that when he questions this, there are times when people hit back saying that it was a public programme and that the comedian has no right on that content. Pranesh, who craftily blends his north-Karnataka dialect and uses it in almost everyday life references, is a huge crowd puller in most events, religious festivals and other shows across the southern state and has so far toured 415 regions and nine countries. Pranesh has now started to slowly take control over online content featuring his shows and has given only one Kannada TV channel permission to air his shows when they have a low news cycle for which he gets paid. His children have now set up an official YouTube channel, Pranesh Paryatne, which has over 80,000 subscribers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/newage-kannada-comedy-clubs-take-flight-online-101623006870382.html
07-06-2021||Bangalore||As cases dip, questions remain on Covid testing in Karnataka||Bengaluru With a steady decline in new infections, Karnataka’s Covid-19 positivity rate dropped further down to 7.71% on Sunday, an indication that the ongoing second wave is waning. But the visible decline has also come under question on more than one occasion which points towards the possibility of a smaller range of targeted testing for more desirable results. On Sunday, there were 158,274 tests conducted in the state, including 115,041 RT-PCR, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. “With 1,58,274 tests and 12,209 new cases in the last 24 hours Karnataka’s positivity rate falls to 7.71%. 25,659 recoveries were reported in the state today including 10,224 in Bengaluru taking the total recoveries to 24,09,417,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said on Sunday. In comparison, neighbouring Kerala continues to see a higher number of cases despite testing lower numbers, indicating the possibility if Karnataka’s testing strategy requires a re-look. Kerala reported a positivity rate of 14.27% with 1,02,792 tests on Sunday.Karnataka is currently focusing on targeted testing that include groups like primary and secondary contacts as well as symptomatic persons. However, there is little focus on random testing, raising concerns since the majority of all Covid-19 infected persons are asymptomatic and could be carriers of the virus. “Random testing has to be continued. No question about it. People who are reporting for duty from other places, that (testing) has to be made compulsory,” Dr CN Manjunath, cardiologist and director of Sri Jayadeva. Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research said. He added that people who work in Bengaluru but have since returned home due to the lockdown, should be tested as they could be “asymptomatic carriers.” The Congress party in Karnataka maintains that the decline in cases is “artificial” and does not represent the true picture on the ground. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on June 3 had said that the government will consider the lifting of the lockdown if the positivity rate comes down to below 5%. The average positivity rate over the last seven days in Bengaluru (as on June 5) is 5.20% but a majority of the districts have a significantly higher average, data from the state Covid-19 war room shows. The seven day average positivity rate (until 5 pm on June 5) in Mysuru is 25.16%, 22.77% in Chikmagalur, 19.94% in Davangere, 17.37% in Dakshina Kannada, 17.07% in Chamarajanagar, 16.85% in Chitradurga and 16.74% in Uttara Kannada, data shows. Like most urban centres globally, Bengaluru was among the first to witness a surge in Karnataka. But the infection spread to other districts since there is significant movement between large cities like Bengaluru, Mysuru and other places and small towns for various reasons including employment or business. Similarly, Bengaluru, which peaked early is also expected to decline faster than the others. But in a state like Karnataka, where a significant number of people from across the state travel to Bengaluru, experts worry about a reversal of the process. “Although the numbers are coming down, it has to be sustained for another week,” Dr Manjunath said. “Suppose if you uniformly lift the lockdown, then there is a chance that people will start coming from these districts to Benglauru and again cycle can be repeated,” Manjunath, who is also a member of Karnataka’s taskforce on Covid-19, said. He said, in his personal opinion, it would be better to extend the lockdown period beyond June 14 in some districts. Yediyurappa is expected to hold a significant meeting with the technical advisory committee (TAC), ministers and other senior officials in Bengaluru on Monday on the Covid situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/as-cases-dip-questions-remain-on-covid-testing-in-karnataka-101623006811488.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC set to spend ₹4 crore on house number boards||Even as the municipal corporation continues to face acute financial crunch, it plans to spend more than ₹4 crore to install stainless-steel house number boards. The civic body is tapping into the councillors’ ward development fund (WDF) to carry out the project and already floated tenders for some areas where the boards are to be installed. A tender worth ₹25 lakh has been floated for Sectors 39 and 40 and another for worth ₹8 lakh for Sector 29. A time of two months has been given for the installation. MC chief engineer Shailender Singh, said, “The boards are being installed in all the wards, as councillors have demanded it. For each ward, the estimated cost is around ₹25 lakh.” The current MC has 26 wards. The ward development funds are allocated to each councilor for development activity in his ward. MC has earmarked ₹80 lakh for each ward for the financial year 2021-2022. The floating of these tenders closely follows the MC general House’s refusal to fund the installation of new speed limit boards on roads under its jurisdiction. Citing fund issues, the House though had agreed to undertake the work, but only if the UT administration funds the project. The civic body had prepared a ₹2-crore tender for installing the sign boards on the roads under its jurisdiction after new speed limits were finalised. The agenda for it was tabled before the House on May 31, but wasn’t approved. The MC’s move to spend on number boards has also elicited some criticism. Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman of FOSWAC, said, “At a time when boosting health infrastructure and facilities related to it should be the priority, the MC is spending funds here. The MC has been in the habit of wasting precious funds even though it is said to be struggling to meet even its routine expenses.” Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO), said, “It seems that the MC has misplaced priorities. Though the boards are required and we have been demanding it, but at present the priority should be to spend on the city’s poor sanitation. For instance, the waste processing plant has been shut for the last one year and MC should use the funds to restart it.” Notably, MC had earlier installed boards in Sectors 16 and 35, but in other sectors it was stopped. Councillors of other sectors are also demanding the installation of the boards. Stating that the approval for installation of the boards in the rest of the wards has now come from the administration, Singh, said, “The UT chief architect has also approved the installation of the boards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-set-to-spend-4-crore-on-house-number-boards-101623006811015.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gang that duped patients in search of Covid drugs busted in Mohali||The cyber cell of Mohali police has busted a three-member gang that duped patients and their kin on the pretext of providing them remdesivir and amphonex injections, used in the treatment of Covid-19 and mucormycosis, respectively.The accused, Amit Kumar of Zirakpur, and Mandeep Singh and Kulwinder Kumar, both from Haryana’s Kurukshetra, used to lure people through fake advertisements on social media, said police.“All three are taxi drivers who came together to form a gang and cheat people looking for emergency drugs. Noticing the increased demand for medicines, they found an opportunity to make easy money and learnt the modus operandi from the internet,” said Gurjot Singh Kaler, senior superintendent of police (cyber), while addressing the media on Sunday.An alert about the fraud from Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand Police led to the arrests. Amit was the first to be arrested from Zirakpur, while Kulwinder was arrested from Kaithal, Haryana. “ ₹14 lakh in cash and five debit cards of different banks have been recovered from the accused,” the SSP said. Cash totalling ₹3 lakh and four debit cards were found in Mandeep’s possession, ₹6.5 lakh and one debit card was recovered from Kulwinder. Another ₹3.5 lakh was found in his bank account, which has been frozen, while ₹1 lakh was found in Amit’s account. “Most of the victims were duped through online transactions. We will try to reach them by tracing their bank accounts so that the money can be returned,” Kaler said. Posted advts on social media to lure peopleThe SSP said the accused circulated fake advertisements on social media, mainly on groups about selling injections at lower rates, even though they were not in contact with any medicine supplier to procure the injections or any other drug. “They used different mobile numbers on the advertisements and even formed a WhatApp group to widen their reach. The gang had been active for past couple of months when the Covid cases were peaking and demand for these drugs was high,” said Kaler. “After taking orders from relatives and patients, they would ask them to deposit the money in their bank accounts and would stop taking calls by blocking the mobile numbers,” he added.They mostly targeted people staying in remote areas of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. Mastermind used English skills to convince victims According to investigators, Kulwinder is the mastermind of the gang. Among the trio, Kulwinder is the most fluent in English and would talk to the victims over the phone. Amit was tasked with opening new bank accounts to receive the unwary victims’ money and Mandeep used to withdraw the cash. Used PoS machines to withdraw money To avoid being caught, they would visit various petrol pumps and use the point of sale (PoS) machines to swipe their debit cards and take cash in return. They were operating multiple bank accounts with different names in various branches of HDFC and IndusInd banks to manage the racket, the SSP said. The accused have been booked under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5 of the Disaster Management Act at the Zirakpur police station. They were produced before a court on Sunday and sent to four-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gang-that-duped-patients-in-search-of-covid-drugs-busted-in-mohali-101623006751004.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid effect: Children join virtual camps, learn new skills at home amid summer break||While some students are busy attending three-four hours long online classes, others, whose schools have declared summer break, have either signed up for virtual summer camps or are learning new skills at home.Students have stated that a lack of structured physical activity has been bothering them. The majority of them said that they miss outings with their friends and parents and have picked up bicycling, cooking, gardening, photography, and baking as hobbies amid the break. To relax, several students have incorporated yoga, warm-up exercises in their routine. They shared that they miss physical summer camps and watching movies in a cinema hall during vacations.Suhavi Sharma, a Class 9 student of Sacred Heart Convent International, Sarabha Nagar, said, “I miss attending weekly physical education classes and fine arts period as it was an escape from our monotonous schedule. Now, I have involved myself in various activities such as bicycling, playing the harmonium and baking, etc. Furthermore, I have also developed an interest in photography and am keen to learn more about it. This summer, my friends and I are planning to learn a new language by ourselves via platforms like Zoom.”Anuradha, a Class 11 student of Malwa Khalsa Senior Secondary School, said that her school had declared summer break from June 1 and she has been helping her mother with gardening and planting new saplings since then.She said, “Due to the fear of getting infected, I am staying at home during the vacation. I have involved myself in indoor activities. I do morning exercise, walk for 30 minutes, and then water the plants in our garden. I help my mother in the kitchen and learn to cook new dishes from her.” Harshpreet Singh Alg, Class 11 student of Sacred Heart School, Sector 39, Chandigarh Road, said, “I miss my practice sessions as I have been playing basketball for the last many years. I used to go to Guru Nanak Stadium for practice but the pandemic has ruined everything. Now to channelize my energy amid the summer break, I have set up a ring at my home and practice every morning. I have been helping my mother in gardening and have learned to make pizza, French fries, and burgers.”Schools divided on the need for summer vacationSeveral private school principals have stated that there is no need for summer break as the students are already attending classes from home. Rajesh Rudra, director of Green Land schools, “Online classes are going on and exams will start for all classes from June 26. As the teachers are taking classes virtually from home and students are also attending classes in the safety of their homes then what is the need of vacations.”Vandna Shahi, principal of BCM School, Dugri, said, “We have declared the summer break for students, and one-week online summer camps are going for students. The break was required for teachers as well as for the students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-effect-children-join-virtual-camps-learn-new-skills-at-home-amid-summer-break-101623006693541.html
07-06-2021||Bangalore||Will resign if high command asks: Yediyurappa||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday said that he would forgo the chief ministerial post if the central leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) asks him to step down. “Till I have the confidence of the Delhi high command, I will continue as chief minister till then. The day they say that we do not want you, I will step down that day and continue to work day and night for the development of the state. I am in no confusion over this,” Yediyurappa told reporters on Sunday. His statements indicate either a softening of his hard stance or the possibility that the BJP is likely to have agreed to continue with the 78-year-old helming affairs at least till the end of his current term in office. The statements come at a time when several ministers from his own government and legislators from the BJP continue to mobilize support for Yediyurappa’s immediate ouster. Yediyurappa has been sworn in as chief minister a record four times and has had to forgo the top chair well before completion of his term.The chief minister is trying to negotiate with the central leadership of the party to retain him at least till the 2023 assembly elections. With no credible alternative yet, the BJP at the centre has been patient in its handling of the simmering political crisis in Karnataka to avoid a repeat of the backlash they faced in 2013 assembly polls. A disgruntled Yediyurappa left the BJP in 2012 which reduced the saffron outfit to 50 out of the 224 seats in 2013 from 110 in 2010. R Ashok, Karnataka’s minister for revenue on Sunday said that the debate over a possible leadership change in the state should end since senior leaders from the party have clarified that Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister. “We need his leadership today as well as in the future as well,” Ashok, considered to be part of Yediyurappa’s close circles, said. He said that the party will now work toward building its image and that any speculation of a leadership change should end now. Yediyurappa has seen his own ministers and legislators take turns to rush to Delhi and meet the senior leadership to request for a change in leadership over the mishandling of the Covid-19 situation, corruption, poor performance in the bypolls and allegations that the chief minister’s son, BY Vijayendra is running a parallel administration in the state. People aware of the developments said that Yediyurappa is negotiating to remain in power till at least the next assembly elections and to placate his son within the government. Vijayendra is the state BJP vice president and enjoys significant clout in the government and party. Vijayendra had met BJP national president JP Nadda on Thursday. Several other BJP leaders also aired similar opinions backing Yediyurappa. “There is no proposal for change of leadership before the party,” Pralhad Joshi, the union minister of parliamentary affairs, coal and mines said on Sunday. Nalin Kumar Kateel, the state BJP president, gave an identical statement to reporters in Mangaluru. He said that there are no “rebels” within the party and the BJP will hold meetings with all legislators to hear their grievances this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-resign-if-high-command-asksyediyurappa-101623006631053.html
07-06-2021||Other||Stall staff says Mumbai corporator assaulted him||Bangur Nagar police registered a case against a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator on Saturday for allegedly assaulting a fast food stall employee at Malad last month. The food stall employee, Ramakant Muniji Yadav, was arrested for molesting the corporator and threatening her. After came out on bail, he filed a complaint of assault against her. According to the police, the incident took place on May 5, when Yadav was working at the stall in Malad (West). Yadav in his complaint said that he was handing out parcels of fast food by adhering to the lockdown guidelines, when around 5pm, a customer ordered a take-away but ate the food outside the shop. He then rinsed his mouth in the area, when the corporator arrived at the spot in her two-wheeler.“She first abused the customer and then assaulted him. He managed to flee from there. The corporator then entered the stall and started beating me,” said Yadav in his statement.He added that when his nose started to bleed, he tried to stop the corporator from assaulting him further but she had called some men by then, who allegedly assaulted Yadav and allegedly took ₹28,000 from his cash drawer and left.After the incident, Bangur Nagar police took him to the police station. He claimed he knew that the woman is a corporator only then. Yadav was arrested and remanded in judicial custody for seven days. “We had arrested Yadav for molestation. However, we also recorded his complaint as we are obliged to and are verifying it. No arrests have been made so far in the case,” said Vishal Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (zone 11).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stall-staff-says-mumbai-corporator-assaulted-him-101623006630409.html
07-06-2021||Other||Bombay HC to state: Pay kin of cop who drowned during duty||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state to accord the benefits that a family of a head constable who lost their lives during an operation are entitled to. Ganesh Chavan, a head constable with the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), was on duty at the Maoist-hit Gadchiroli district when he and three of his colleagues were asked to help take out a state transport bus stuck in mud near the Border Road Organisation camp at Medapalli. The four personnel reached the spot with a tipper truck to pull out the bus and successfully completed the rescue operation. However, while returning to the camp, the truck swept away in river Pamulgautam and all the four personnel died by drowning. As per a November 28, 2008, government resolution (GR), Chavan’s family received salary from SRPF, which he was earning while on duty. However, following an order of the state government in July 2019, the salary was discontinued. Aggrieved by the loss of the income, Chavan’s wife approached the Bombay high court (HC) seeking directions for the continuation of the salary and other compensatory benefits which Chavan was eligible to get. A division bench of justice KK Tated and justice NR Borkar, while hearing her petition was informed by advocate Vishwasrao Deokar that Chavan was the sole bread winner of the family and after his untimely death they had survived on his salary from the past decade. Deokar further informed the court that Chavan’s family was still awaiting the other compensatory benefits which have remained pending since his death. The state in its affidavit, filed through additional government pleader Karan Thorat, submitted that the director general of police (DGP), Maharashtra, had written a letter to the state on May 12, 2010, seeking appropriate orders over sanctioning compensation and other benefits to Chavan’s family. The state had sought details regarding help given to the families of the four personnel, the status of compassionate appointment to them and the status of a first information report (FIR) registered at Lahiri police station against the driver. The affidavit further stated that a magistrate court had found that the driver of the truck had been guilty of rash and negligent driving, which resulted in the vehicle getting swept away in the river and the four deaths, and hence, he was convicted. In light of this conviction, the state rejected the proposal of the DGP, and hence, the payment of the salary to Chavan’s family was stopped from August 2019. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that the driver’s conviction had nothing to do with the payment of salary and other compensatory benefits to the families of the four police personnel and the only question which arose was if Chavan had died during an anti-Maoist, anti-terrorist or rescue operation. As Chavan had died after carrying out the rescue operation, his family was eligible for compensation as per the 2008 GR and hence, the state was bound to pay the family. The court then set aside the July 2019 order of the government and directed the state to accord within two months the benefits that Chavan’s family are entitled to in the 2008 GR as also the arrears, and disposed of the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-to-state-pay-kin-of-cop-who-drowned-during-duty-101623006570341.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases drop below 200, a first in 93 days||The declining trend in the new Covid-19 cases continued on Sunday with tricity’s daily tally dropping below 200 for the first time in 93 days.Panchkula was the biggest contributor in the slump to 184, as only 20 people tested positive, down from 66 on Saturday and lowest since March 2.At 74, Chandigarh’s cases also dropped from 98 the day before and in Mohali 90 cases surfaced against 99 on Saturday.It was on March 5 last that 197 people had tested positive in the tricity and since then the number remained over 200 for 13 weeks, reaching the peak of 2,612 on May 10.On June 4, tricity’s daily cases had dropped below 300 for the first time since March 11 when 296 people had tested positive.Lowest deaths in Mohali in 52 daysIn terms of deaths, seven people succumbed to the virus in the tricity, compared to eight a day ago.Chandigarh led the toll with four fatalities, Panchkula had two deaths and Mohali 1, a first since April 15 when also one death was recorded.While tricity’s daily fatalities remained in the double digits for 41 days until May 31, hitting the record high of 38 on May 5, the figure has remained below 10 as many as five times since the advent of June.Compared to 154 deaths in the first six days of May, when the second wave was climbing relentlessly, this month the number has dropped to 48 in the corresponding period.Having seen no death on four of the past six days, Panchkula has the lowest deaths at five. As many as 24 people have died in Mohali and 19 in Chandigarh.Active cases drop below 3,000On another positive note, the active cases dropped below the 3,000 mark for the first time in over 11 weeks. From 3,223 active cases on Saturday, the number decreased to 2,883 on Sunday.At 1,579, Mohali has the most patients still getting treated, 833 are recovering in Chandigarh and another 471 in Panchkula.The recovery rate also continued to remain above 95% and the daily positivity rate below 4% across the tricity.Among those who died in Chandigarh were two men, aged 71 and 55, residents of Sector 42 and Ram Darbar, respectively, and two women, aged 70 and 62, from Sector 29 and Maloya, respectively.Chandigarh’s toll has reached 772, whereas the total infections are 60,659, of which 59,054 patients have been cured.With 269 people getting discharged in Mohali on Sunday, the district’s total recoveries reached 64,728.Mohali’s caseload stands at 67,294, of which 987 patients have lost their lives. Majority of cases on Sunday were from Mohali (22), followed by 21 from Kharar, 15 from Dhakoli, eight from Lalru, seven from Boothgarh, five each from Kurali and Dera Bassi, four from Gharuan and three from Banur.The latest fatalities in Panchkula included a 58-year-old from Sector 9 and a 68-year-old from Kalka.There are 30,325 cases in the district, of which 29,500 have been cured and 354 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-drop-below-200-a-first-in-93-days-101623006451002.html
07-06-2021||Other||No HSC exams: Mumbai Colleges brainstorm over admissions||After the Maharashtra education department on June 3 announced to scrap the Class 12 state board or Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exams for the 2020-21 academic year, colleges affiliated to the University of Mumbai (MU) are busy planning the next few months. While reopening of colleges for the current batches is their priority, many colleges are brainstorming on suggestions to the government on how admissions to undergraduate (UG) degree courses across higher educational institutes could be conducted for the upcoming academic year.“Every year, around 80% fresh Class 12 students and less than 40% repeaters clear HSC exam. But this year, there’ll be 100% pass percentage, which means that the government would have to ensure that all these students are accommodated in colleges,” said the principal of a suburban college. She added that like every year, the race to the top colleges will be a challenge and possibly more chaotic than to the rest of the colleges. With no clarity yet on whether admissions to UG courses will depend on Class 12 internal exam marks or a fresh common entrance test, colleges are trying to fill in the gaps at their own level. “We are waiting for the government to give better clarity on how admissions can be conducted for UG courses, but we too have been planning brainstorming sessions with our staff and officials,” said Naresh Chandra, principal, BK Birla College, Kalyan. He added that degree admissions are more tedious as compared to junior colleges admissions because of a barrage of courses available for the students, including vanilla courses as well as professional courses under the unaided sections of various colleges. “Admissions criterion will have to be well-defined by the state to know how scores will be calculated for students in open and reserved categories, for aided, unaided courses, professional as well as vocational courses, so that chaos can be avoided during admissions and every student gets an equal chance to admissions,” said Chandra and added that autonomous colleges are still unsure if they will be allowed to conduct admissions on an individual level.Some colleges, aware of the ambiguity surrounding exams, had ensured a series of internal exams for their Class 12 batches before the second lockdown was implemented this year. “We made sure that students attended the unit tests and preliminary exams. If future admissions depend on their internal test marks, we have them ready. We are also prepared for an entrance exam to confirm admissions,” said Ancy Jose, principal, Nagindas Khandwala Autonomous College, Malad.On June 2, the state cabinet had taken an in-principle decision to scrap the exams after most of the ministers supported the idea considering serious concerns over the health and safety of the students. The school education department then moved a proposal to the state disaster management authority headed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to take the final decision, which came through a day later. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad also welcomed the Centre’s decision to cancel the CBSE Class 12 exams last week.Around 1.5 million students appear for Class 12 exams in the state every year.The state had also cancelled the Class 10 board exams, and students will be promoted on the basis of their performance in Class 9 and Class 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-hsc-exams-mumbai-colleges-brainstorm-over-admissions-101623006391350.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 9 arrested as gang war between Shubham Mota, Puneet Bains turns ugly||Police arrested nine members of Shubham Mota and Puneet Bains’ gangs after their rivalry spilled out on the streets of Ludhiana with the two camps brazenly attacking each other over the last two days. The gangsters, who have been arraigned on a slew of charges, remain lodged in Ludhiana Cental Jail even as their aides carried out a series of vicious attacks across the city.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Pragya Jain said Prince of Iqbal Nagar, Ranjit Kumar of Gurmel Park, Pankaj Kapoor of Dharmpura, Neeraj Kumar of Gurmel Park, Piyush Kumar of Gurmel Park and Rohit Kumar, all members of Puneet Bains gang, have been arrested. They have also arrested three juveniles affiliated with Shubham’s gang in connection with the violent clashes. Four incidents were reported in two days, sending the police into a tizzy. Two back-to-back violent scuffles were reported in Hargobind Nagar on June 5. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Madan Lal said, “Members of both gangs assaulted each other with sharp-edged weapons and vandalised vehicles parked in the streets.”In the first case, the Division Number 3 police have booked one Karan Walia, Paras, Raja Bajaj, Harshvardhan, Laurence and 20 others affiliated with Shubham’s gang along with Bains’ aides Vishal Gill, Ajju and Akash Soni and 23 other unidentified accomplices. In the second scuffle, Bains’ gang members assaulted Rajvir Singh of Sikandari Road of Khud Mohalla. Rajvir said Bains’ aides had targeted him as he was a friend of Shubham. Cases have been registered under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 160 (committing affray), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 ( every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 427 (mischief causing damage), 506 ( criminal intimidation) and 120B ( criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been lodged against the accused, who fled when the police arrived at the scene. In a third incident, which also took place on June 5 , Shubham’s gang had targeted Akash Soni of New Hargbind Nagar in Gurmel Park area. The Tibba police had booked Raja Bajaj, Pindi, Karan Walia, Mani Laurence, Bharat, Paras and nine other unidentified accomplices.Soni was admitted to Christian Medical College and Hospital. The Tibba police had booked the accused under Sections 307, 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons ), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 323, 451( house-trespass in order to commit any offence), 506, 148 and 149 of IPC on the complaint of Hitesh Soni, the victim’s brother. The accused had also vandalised their car.On June 4, Shubham’s aides Arun Sharma of Guru Arjun Dev Nagar, Vishal of Daulat Colony, Mani Laurence, Raja Bajaj, Karan Walia and Himashu Verma had assaulted one Major Singh of Guru Arjun Dev Nagar, who had to be admitted to ESIC Hospital.The Division Number 7 police had lodged an FIR under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 307, 48, 149 and 506 of IPC. The rivalry between the two groups had erupted in February 2020 after Shubham and his aides had assaulted Bains. Later, Shubham and his accomplices had surrendered before the police. Bains, who was already wanted by police, was also arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-9-arrested-as-gang-war-between-shubham-mota-puneet-bains-turns-ugly-101623006390790.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab floriculturists hoping for post-Covid bloom||After facing losses in the last two harvesting seasons to Covid restrictions, floriculturists are worried about the future market prospects. Sowing for winter flower crops will commence in August-September.As a number of coronavirus infections have started showing a downward trend, floriculturists hope of improved market conditions in the religious and marriage season from October onwards, followed by state assembly elections early next year.Since the Covid-19 outbreak in March last year, the demand for flowers has almost dried up. Several farmers had to plough the standing crop of flowers twice in the last one-and-a-half years because of dearth of buyers in Punjab and other states.Gurvinder Singh of Khamano in Fatehgarh district cultivates gladiolus, marigold gerbera and other varieties on 20 acres. But as marriages turned into a low-key affair and there were restrictions on religious functions, Gurvinder suffered a loss of around ₹25 lakh.“I was sowing gladiolus on 12 acres but I had to plough a field on two occasions without harvesting flowers. As sowing will commence in August, I am planning to reduce area under floriculture by 60%,” he said.In Punjab, the area under floriculture remains between 2,100-2,400 hectares. Marigold, gerbera, gladiolus, carnation, rose, chrysanthemum and lilium are among main varieties of flowers.Jalandhar-based progressive farmer Karanvir Singh Sandhu said sowing and maintaining flowers on one acre involves an investment of ₹2.5 lakh. But there was hardly any sale from his seven-acre farm. To reduce loss, he used cultivated flowers to store seeds for the next season.Sandhu foresees a challenging time ahead as the market is now flooded with artificial flowers as a replacement for most varieties. “I had about 7 acres area under different flower varieties. This year, I avoided the summer sowing of marigolds, which is mainly used in marriages and religious events. In the last few months, I managed to supply some stock to the Delhi market but payments did not materialise,” said Sandhu.Another floriculturist Gurpreet Shergill from Patiala’s Majhal Khurd feels uncertainty in the market but plans to go ahead with preparing fields for the next crop.“Farmers are planning to decrease farming area to minimise losses in case of pandemic relapses later this year,” he said.Floriculture expert at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Dr Manjit Singh said: “Some units have started using dried marigold for manufacturing poultry feed. Farmers are being guided about this opportunity too. We hope that the flower industry will bloom again this season after Covid caseload has started witnessing a dip in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-floriculturists-hoping-for-post-covid-bloom-101623006272056.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Stopped from drinking, jobless man shoots brother dead in Chandimandir||Enraged over being stopped from drinking liquor at home, a 28-year-old jobless man shot his younger brother dead with his double-barrelled licensed gun at Chunabhatti village in Chandimandir on Saturday night.After firing two bullets at the head of the victim, Ajit Singh, 26, the accused, Satnam Singh, uploaded a video on his Facebook account, confessing to the crime and showing his brother writhing in pain.Their mother, Amarjit Kaur, witnessed the crime and alerted her husband, Pritam Singh, an auto driver, who was at a nearby house. But Ajit had died by the time he was rushed to a hospital. Satnam was nabbed on Sunday evening and was found in an inebriated condition, said assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Raj Kumar.Brothers lost jobs amid pandemic: MotherIn her statement to the police, Kaur said she had two sons and a daughter who is married. Both her sons were single and had lost their jobs during the Covid-19 pandemic, which had led to discord at home. Satnam used to be a bank security guard earlier and had a licensed gun.“Around 9pm on Saturday, Satnam came home with his friend and sat in his room. After a while Ajit also returned home. Suspecting that Satnam was drinking with his friend he requested him not to, as their father disapproved of it,” the mother said.Ajit then left to meet his father in the next house, while Satnam, feeling insulted, also walked out with the friend. “Satnam returned after an hour and locked his room from the inside. As he is quite aggressive, I bolted his door from the outside, but let him out on his request, as his cousin was arriving soon,” the mother said.After returning home, Ajit had dinner and lied down on a cot around 12am, when Satnam suddenly brought out his gun and shot Ajit twice in the head.The shocked mother ran to the next house to fetch her husband who alerted the police. The couple took Ajit to a hospital where doctors declared him dead.Satnam is facing a case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 25 of the Arms Act, registered at the Chandimandir police station on his mother’s complaint.‘Don’t want to live’In the video shared by Satnam on his Facebook account, corroborated by police, he confessed that he had shot his brother. Appearing to be in an inebriated condition, he moved the camera from his face towards Ajit, writhing in pain on a cot next to him, with bullet wounds on his forehead. Turning the camera back towards him, he said, “The government can hang me, I don’t care. I don’t want to live. Had I had more bullets I would have shot myself as well.”“This is a digital piece of evidence and will be investigated. Whether it was a Facebook live or an uploaded video, only further investigation will reveal,” said ACP Raj Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stopped-from-drinking-jobless-man-shoots-brother-dead-in-chandimandir-101623006270858.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||As 2nd wave wanes, 3 more succumb to virus, 203 test +ve in Ludhiana||As the deadlier second wave of the coronavirus ebbs, the district on Sunday recorded three deaths and 203 fresh cases. The last time Ludhiana recorded single-day cases below 203 was March 14, when 197 people were found positive, while an equivalent number of new deaths had last been recorded on April 13. Active cases in Punjab’s industrial hub have also dropped to 2,619. The figure had last been in the ballpark on March 26 when the district had 2,568 active cases. So far, Ludhiana has recorded 85,454 Covid cases, while the death toll stands at 2,029. The victims included two men — a 60-year-old of Mundian Kalan and a 55-year-old of Prem Nagar— and a 56-year-old woman of Urban Estate. The district’s fatality rate is 2.4%, while the recovery rate has shot up to 94.56%. At present, 32 patients are on ventilator support in the city.Special vax camp: Differently abled, transgenders get the jab A special vaccination camp was organised for differently abled persons and the transgender community at Hero DMC Heart Institute here on Sunday.The non governmental organisation, City Needs, had organised the camp, while Sachit Jain of Vardhman Special Steels and Prem Gupta, secretary, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) had donated the vaccine. Core committee member SB Pandhi said 65 differently abled and around 10 transgenders had received the first jab. “These segments of society were being neglected, so we decided to hold the camp with the help of the NGO and social activists. We plan to vaccinate at least 500 differently abled persons. They will also be provided the second dose.” Gift vaccines on anniversaries, birthdays: DC Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma thanked industrialists for organising the vaccine “langar” and urged people to gift vaccines on birthdays and anniversaries. “Sponsoring vaccines for the needy will be real service to mankind,” said Sharma. Gupta said they had vaccinated at least 75,000 people at DMCH and plan to vaccinate around 1 lakh more people over the next month. After getting the shot, transgender and social activist Mohini Mahant encouraged other members of the community to avail the benefit of free vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-2nd-wave-wanes-3-more-succumb-to-virus-203-test-ve-in-ludhiana-101623006211945.html
07-06-2021||Other||Lucknow family on the brink of poverty after Covid-19 causes triple tragedy||There is an unbearable weight on the shoulders of a 70-year-old retired Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) driver after Covid-19 triggered a triple tragedy for his family.Now, at an age when he has no pension, the future of his four grandchildren depends on him, and he doesn’t know how he will make ends meet.Residents of Lucknow’s Rajajipuram, the family of seven surviving members is on the brink of poverty after his two sons and a daughter-in-law died within 12 days between April 11 and 23 when the state capital was facing a serious shortage of oxygen and hospital beds.The two sons, one a shopkeeper and the other a privately employed driver, were the only breadwinners.“My younger son’s wife was the first one in the family who succumbed to Covid-19 on April 11. She was 35. We got her admitted in a hospital. She was responding well to medicines. But the next day, there was an acute shortage of oxygen and she succumbed. Who knew then it was just the beginning of a series of tragedies to follow,” he says.“When we returned home after cremating her, my younger son also fell sick. He, too, was admitted in hospital and succumbed to Covid-19 on April 16. He was 40. He was running a general merchant shop from our house at Rajajipuram,” he says.The elder son, a private driver, also died due to Covid-19 on April 23.The retired UPSRTC driver is looking for help from the state government for the survival of his grandchildren.“I will now have to look after the four grandchildren as I lost my two sons and a daughter-in-law to Covid-19. The younger son and daughter-in-law have a daughter aged six years and a son aged 13 years. The elder son has a 14-year-old daughter and a 17-year-old son,” he says.His 65-year-old wife is afflicted with paralysis. Their eldest daughter-in-law is now looking after the entire family.He claims the grandchildren have not been covered by the Uttar Pradesh government scheme meant for such orphaned children as they could not move the papers with government officials on time. Nevertheless, he wants the state government to help the family.Only recently, three of the children got admission at the St Joseph College as the manager of the school assured 100% fee waiver for the orphaned children and 50% concession to those kids who lost either of the parents to Covid-19.The Uttar Pradesh government on May 29 announced a welfare scheme for children who have either lost both of their parents to Covid-19 or the earning parent. Under the Uttar Pradesh Mukhyamantri Bal Seva Yojana, the government will provide a monthly financial assistance of ₹4,000 to a child’s guardian or caretaker till he or she attains adulthood, a spokesperson had said.Elaborating on the scheme, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had said, “Children who have lost both of their parents to Covid-19, a surviving parent, legal guardian in case the parents have already died earlier, will be included in this scheme. Children, who have lost the earning parent of their family, will also be included in the scheme. The state government is committed to better health, better education and for the bright future of the children.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-family-faces-grim-battle-for-survival-after-covid-19-causes-triple-tragedy-101623006030350.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus also maiming asymptomatic Covid patients: Study||With thousands of people successfully beating the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), only to be maimed by the “deadlier” mucormycosis or black fungus, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital is looking into the causes behind spurt in cases of this formerly rare fungal infection. The study, which is being conducted by the hospital’s medicine department, has so far revealed that even asymptomatic Covid patients, who required neither hospitalisation nor oxygen support, had been afflicted. DMCH medicine professor and member of Punjab’s Covid task force Dr Rajesh Mahajan, who is heading the study, says, “It was found that repeatedly reusing old masks that are often teeming with bacteria and moisture is responsible for rising black fungus cases among recovering Covid patients whose immunity has taken a hit.” Industrial oxygen not to blame “Excessive steam inhalation at home and injuries sustained while being put on oxygen support were also found to be contributing factors,” Mahajan said, adding that study had found that use of industrial oxygen was not responsible for the rise in cases. On why a formerly rare infection had suddenly started afflicting so many people, Mahajan said, “Mucormycosis is not an unknown phenomenon as the fungus is found in the environment. Earlier, too, we were receiving cases of the disease. However, its prevalence has increased amid the pandemic, especially among patients suffering from uncontrolled diabetes.” The virus causes weakness and lowers the immunity level, which is responsible for the greater prevalence of mucormycosis, he said. “It is an ongoing study. So far, we have studied nearly 100 cases,” said Dr Mahajan.Civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia says overuse of immunosuppressants, especially when taken without consulting a specialist, were responsible for rising cases amid Covid patients. 48 active cases Two more black fungus cases were reported in the district on Sunday, which has taken the case count to 94. There are now 48 active cases in the district. Twelve patients — four from Ludhiana and eight from other districts — have succumbed to the fungal infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-also-maiming-asymptomatic-covid-patients-study-101623005972042.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Roof collapse: Patiala MC to tighten noose around builders||Four days after four labourers were injured after a roof of an illegal under-construction building collapsed, the Patiala municipal corporation has decided to tighten noose around builders.The civic body has planned to hold special drive to identify such units in commercial areas so that stringent action, including demolition drives, could be undertaken. On June 3, roof of a 500 square yard building, being constructed illegally, collapsed near the Sanauri Adda area. Of every 10 complaints received by the MC, seven pertain to building bylaws violation. The corporation has issued notices to at least 700 defaulters since 2014.Patiala MC commissioner Punamdeep Kaur said a special team of the building department has been constituted, which has been tasked to carry out a survey to identify illegal buildings so that action can be taken against builders.Building bylaws prove ineffectiveTo check the mushrooming of unauthorised buildings under urban local bodies (ULB) limits, the Punjab local government department had introduced new building bylaws in December 2018. But these by-laws have turned out to be ineffective with rampant violations being reported. The new rules state that in the case of unauthorised development, the authority shall take suitable action, which may include demolition of unauthorised works, sealing of premises, prosecution and criminal proceedings against the offender. OTS scheme on holdWith the Punjab local government department putting the implementation of one-time settlement (OTS) of non-compoundable violations in unauthorised construction on hold for over a year-and-half now, violations continue unabated. Under the policy, illegal buildings that sprung up in the state before June 30, 2018, were to be regularised. The policy was conceptualised during the tenure of former local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, but was put in cold storage after Brahm Mohindra took charge in June 2019. Mohindra then termed the policy faulty and asked officials to revise it before re-implementing it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roof-collapse-patiala-mc-to-tighten-noose-around-builders-101623005911022.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Societies in Mumbai get flu shots for children||After holding Covid-19 vaccination drives for adults, societies in Mumbai have now started organising vaccination drive for influenza, also called flu shots, for children on their premises. This may help boost immunity among children to fight influenza, which has similar symptoms similar to Covid-19, said experts. Doctors have welcomed the move. Recently, several major private hospitals, including Bombay Hospital, Hiranandani and Lilavati, are receiving requests from societies to hold camps for flu shots. “We received two types of calls from societies – one to hold Covid-19 vaccination camps for adults and the other, to organise camps for flu shots for children. On a daily basis, we are getting around three-four queries regarding flu shots,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital and in-charge of Covid-19 beds in private hospitals. Dr V Ravishankar, CEO of Lilavati Hospital, said, “Many anxious parents want to give the shot to their children as at present, due to age restriction, children aren’t allowed for Covid-19 vaccination.” On Saturday, Atmosphere Society, Mulund held a camp for flu shots on their premises, where around 70 children got the jab. Talking to HT, Sanjay Nair, 53, the resident and organiser of the camp, said, “Covid-19 and flu have similar symptoms. So, even if a child contracts the flu, it makes parents anxious, which unnecessarily leads to chaos. Beds get filled with suspected paediatric patients. To stop such instances, we decided to give the flu shots to children.” Data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows that the Covid-19 infection among children doubled in April, compared to February when the second wave started. As of February 21, as many as 5,397 children between the age group of 0-9 years contracted the infection, which rose to 10,883 on April 30, the month when the pandemic curve was at its peak. In May, the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) recommended giving annual flu shots to all children below 5 years. In fact, Maharashtra’s paediatric task force made a similar recommendation to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray which may be fruitful in the fight against Covid-19 in a possible third wave. Dr Subhas Prabhu, who heads the paediatric task force, said the symptoms of Covid-19 and seasonal flu are similar. So, taking the shot might help control the mental anguish of parents if their children develop a flu. “There is no scientific evidence that the third wave would hit the children more. So, I can’t comment on it. But if taking the shot may help control development of influenza, it would decrease the unnecessary burden on the hospitals. This is just a precautionary measure,” he said. Dr Meenakshi Girish, head of the paediatric department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Nagpur, said that the shot will not provide any protection against Covid-19, but may help in boosting immunity among children. “Every year, during monsoon, we witness a heavy load of paediatric patients with influenza. The jab helps strengthen their immunity which may help control such infections.” The cost of the shot varies between ₹1,200 and ₹1,400 which makes it unaffordable for many. State task force expert Dr Sanjay Oke has suggested the state make the flu shot free for children coming from poor economic backgrounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/societies-in-mumbai-get-flu-shots-for-children-101623005790341.html
07-06-2021||Other||Health dept aims to administer 30,000 Covid vaccine doses in Lucknow daily||The health department plans to increase the number of Covid vaccine doses being administered in Lucknow to an average of 30,000 every day after the 10-lakh (one million) dose mark was crossed here two days ago.The department is also planning to increase the number of vaccination booths and mega vaccination camps in the state capital.“We had set a target of 23,000 doses (daily) and we have achieved that on Friday (June 4). Now, we wish to take the average daily vaccination to 30,000,” said chief medical officer (Lucknow) Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar.Lucknow has administered over 7.76 lakh first doses and over 2.30 lakh second doses to the beneficiaries. The state capital is the first district in the state to achieve this feat.“We have to vaccinate about 30 lakh people. To reach this target early, the average daily vaccination needs a boost,” said Dr Bhatnagar.Currently, mega vaccination camps are being run at the Ekana and KD Singh Babu stadiums and the Chhota Imambara.Only four private hospitals are administering Covid-19 vaccines in the city and their number will also go up soon.“Private hospitals can contribute up to 10,000 vaccine doses in one day, which will help the health department to exceed their average daily target,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.At least 70 private hospitals have registered with the health department for conducting the vaccination and they are waiting for the doses to arrive.While the health department had provided private hospitals with the vaccine doses earlier, they need to purchase them from the manufacturers directly now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/health-dept-aims-to-administer-30-000-covid-vaccine-doses-in-lucknow-daily-101623005730350.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 65 deaths, 1,593 new Covid cases||ChandigarhWith 65 more Covid-related fatalities, the death toll reached 15,076 in Punjab on Sunday, while 1,593 fresh infections took the tally to 5,79,560, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases dropped to 22,160 from 24,454 on Saturday.Seven deaths each were reported from Bathinda and Muktsar, six from Patiala and five each from Jalandhar and Sangrur among the fatalities which took place in the last 24 hours.Ludhiana reported 203 cases, followed by Hoshiarpur 148, Bathinda 134 and Jalandhar 115.The state’s positivity rate dropped to 2.54% from 2.84% on Saturday.With 3,790 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured people reached 5,42,324, according to the bulletin.There are 276 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 684 other critical patients and 3,255 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 96,60,801 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Meanwhile, Chandigarh on Sunday registered 74 new cases, taking the infection tally to 60,659, according to the medical bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-65-deaths-1-593-new-covid-cases-101623005371005.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||7 held for illegal mining, theft in Amritsar village; 5 tipper trucks, JCB impounded||AMRITSARSeven persons have been arrested for illegally excavating soil from private and government land at Pandoori village, 15 km from the district headquarters.The accused have been identified as Harpal Singh of Ekalgadda village, Balwinder Singh of Mundapind village, Manjinder Singh of Seikh village in Tarn Taran, and Baldev Singh of Warring village in Jalandhar. The identity of three others is yet to be ascertained, said police.Police have also recovered five tipper trucks and a JCB (earthmoving machine) during a raid in the village. A case under various Sections of the Mining Act and Section 379 (theft) of the IPC has been registered against the accused at the Chatiwind police station.The raid was conducted on the basis of a complaint lodged by Gurmeet Singh, sub-divisional officer (SDO), river works and mining, Amritsar. “The accused were found to be involved in digging up government and private land in the village outskirts,” said Chatiwind station house officer Manmeetpal Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7-held-for-illegal-mining-theft-in-amritsar-village-5-tipper-trucks-jcb-impounded-101623005253470.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||School education: Punjab tops performance grading index||Punjab topped the national performance grading index of school education for 2019-20 released by the Centre on Sunday. Punjab, which has improved its showing from 13th position it attained in 2018-19, topped the charts this time among all the states and union territories with a score of 929 out of 1,000, followed by Chandigarh (912) and Tamil Nadu (906). The performance grading index ranks the states on a set of 70 parameters relating to learning outcomes and quality, access, infrastructure and facilities, equity and governance processes to catalyse transformational change in the field of school education, according to a school education department official. “Happy to share that Punjab has been ranked as top performer among all States and UTs in school education in the Performance Grading Index 2019-20. This is the result of focus, hard work and commitment of all our teachers and administrators,” chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh tweeted after the rankings were released by the Union ministry of education. Neighbouring Haryana and Himachal Pradesh are at 11th and 13th positions. Shot in the arm in poll yearThe national school education grading comes as a much-needed boost for the Amarinder Singh government ahead of the state elections, as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the principal opposition party, is trying to corner the ruling Congress on school education. The AAP has been repeatedly comparing the state of government schools and their performance in Punjab with that in Delhi, where its national convener Arvind Kejriwal heads the government, telling Amarinder to learn from him. Punjab is the top performer whereas Delhi is at number six in theses rankings, giving the former an upper hand. The assembly elections in Punjab are due early next year. Stands out in school infra, accessThe state has done well in infrastructure and facilities in schools, access and governance processes as compared to previous years, the ministry report showed. The school education department has given a facelift to many of its schools across the state, improving the available infrastructure and facilities, and has scored the maximum 150 points. Similarly, it is on top in access to school education, governance reforms and providing equal opportunities to disadvantaged sections, including girls and differently abled children. Education quality a concernDespite its enormous leap in rankings, Punjab remains a laggard in learning outcomes and quality of education. The state has ranked 27 in this category with a score of 126 out of 180, according to the report. It lags behind Rajasthan (169), Chandigarh (160), Karnataka (160), Jharkhand (156), Gujarat (152), Andhra Pradesh (154), Himachal Pradesh (140) and Haryana (134). However, the state has done better than Delhi, which has a score of 124. The scores are based on annual assessments and National Achievement Survey, which was last carried out two years ago. Result of sustained efforts: MinisterPunjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the state’s top ranking in the performance grading index was the result of sustained and concentrated efforts of the state government. “The government has not only taken new initiatives but also introduced several reforms which brought the much-desired optimal education outcomes at every level,” he said in a statement. Among these initiatives, he listed the smart school policy, online teacher transfer policy, introduction of pre-primary classes, teacher recruitment, online education and distribution of free smartphones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/school-education-punjab-tops-performance-grading-index-101623005251437.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM virtually meets corporate honchos over economic revival||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday held discussions with leading corporate honchos and film and TV producers, following the unlocking rules set by the state government, to be imposed from Monday. He asked the business leaders to develop health facilities for the employees, on the lines of field hospitals developed by the state government. CM said that even in the case of a third wave and a subsequent lockdown, the daily activities of industries should not be impacted. In a separate meeting, he asked the film and TV producers to be more careful while restarting shooting activities and extra precaution while filming mob scenes as they require a large number of people.“I want to set an example of running the industries, by taking all the necessary precautions amid the Covid-19 pandemic. We neither want lockdown nor knockdown, thus everyone is expected to follow Covid rules. We have taken a calculated risk and will have to be careful while unlocking. We want to kill the snake without breaking the stick,” the chief minister said in a virtual meeting with the corporate leaders, on Sunday.The state government has decided to relax lockdown restrictions in cities and districts by imposing a five-level unlock plan which is based on positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy in hospitals. The areas coming under level 1 and 2 will be allowed to restart all the regular activities and will be free from most of the restrictions. However, experts have also predicted third wave in the state by August.“Even if a third wave hits the state and lockdown has to be imposed, there should be no impact on the industrial production. Industries need to develop health and residential facilities, the way the state government has developed field hospitals. Those employees travelling from other states should be tested and isolated. Staggering of duty hours, multiple shifts and lunch breaks should also be staggered to ensure a large number of employees will not be gathered,” suggested the chief minister.The corporate honchos expressed happiness with the state government’s decision on unlocking. However, they want the general public to be allowed to travel through local trains as it is the most convenient mode of transport in Mumbai and surrounding cities. They were also of the view that the IT sector should continue with the work from home (WFH) model,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named.Harsh Goenka, chairman, RPG Enterprises said that the Maharashtra model is worth emulating by all the states across the country. After meeting with the chief minister, Goenka tweeted, “The very sensible and scientific graded opening of lockdown from tomorrow ‘Maharashtra Model’ is worth emulating by all states. CM Thackeray very well put today ‘It’s a balance between lockdown and knockdown — the disease has to be contained and the economy has also to prosper.”The industry leaders who attended the meeting comprised Uday Kotak, former president Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Sanjiv Bajaj president-designate CII, Dr Naushad Forbes, Amit Kalyani, Ashok Hinduja, Dr Anish Shah, Ajay Piramal, Banmali Agrawala, Sunil Mathur, Ujjwal Mathur, Sanjeev Singh, Boman Irani, Niranjan Hiranandani, Asim Charania, Sulajja Firodia Motwani etc. State industries minister Subhash Desai was also present along with senior officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-virtually-meets-corporate-honchos-over-economic-revival-101623004950427.html
07-06-2021||Other||Thane on level 2: Hotels, cinema halls and malls will operate at 50% capacity||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has issued an unlock notification based on the level 2 guidelines of the state government, which will come into effect from Monday. The Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) has also issued a level 3 unlock notification in its limits. In Thane, the hotels, cinema halls and malls will be operational with 50% capacity. Local services are not allowed, while public places, open ground and morning walk are permitted. All the government and private offices can be opened, sports complexes will be allowed from 5am to 9am and 5pm to 9pm for indoor and outdoor activities all day. Shooting will be allowed on regular basis. Social and cultural gatherings will be allowed at 50% capacity. Marriages will be allowed with 50% capacity of the hall with a maximum of 100 people, while funerals will be allowed without any restrictions. Election and meeting of local bodies will be permitted at 50% capacity, while e-commerce, construction and agriculture work is allowed. Gym, spa and beauty parlour allowed with 50% capacity and public transport is allowed with 100% seatings. In Kalyan-Dombivli, with the level 3 unlock imposed from Monday onwards, non-essential shops will remain shut during the weekend, while the duration to open the shops, have been increased to 4pm. Malls, theatres, multiplexes, auditoriums will remain closed. Restaurant, hotels can remain open from 7am to 4pm with 50% capacity and home delivery allowed after 4pm. Public places, grounds and cycling are allowed from 5am to 9pm.Private offices to be allowed on weekdays till 4pm with 50% capacity, sports to be allowed on the ground between 5am to 9pm and 6pm to 9pm, social and cultural gatherings allowed with 50% capacity till 4pm. Marriages are allowed with 50 persons, while 20 persons are allowed at a funeral. “Even though the positivity rate is less than 5%, our oxygen beds occupancy is borderline. So as per the state government, the local civic bodies can decide on how to much allow and not. The decision un unlocking will be taken after reviewing the situation for a week,” said Vijay Suryavanshi, commissioner, KDMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-on-level-2-hotels-cinema-halls-and-malls-will-operate-at-50-capacity-101623004830292.html
07-06-2021||Other||Newborn who tested Covid positive dies after six days||The infant girl, after battling for life for six days at Nashik Civil Hospital, succumbed on Saturday. The baby girl was a pre-mature, eight-month born, and had tested positive for Covid in the rapid antigen test (RAT), while her RT-PCR report was negative. However, her mother had tested negative, in Palghar. The infant was born on May 31 in Kanta Maternity Hospital and weighed 1.5 kg. Dr Pankaj Gajare, senior paediatrician of the Civil Hospital, Nashik. “She was put on a ventilator and kept in the neo-natal ICU ward. She died on Saturday due to septicemia (infection of the blood), as her lungs, heart, liver and other vital organs were not developed fully.”Dr Rajendra Chauhan, the gynaecologist in charge of the patient, said, “The baby girl tested positive in the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT), while her mother was negative. We are unsure of the RAT as later her RT-PCR report was negative. The infant’s mother had hepatitis and high blood pressure. We suspect during her pregnancy, the immunity of the unborn child was compromised, and she gave a pre-term birth.” The mother was unable to feed her baby as the infant was admitted to the Civil Hospital at Nashik, and the baby was administered saline since her birth.The infant was first rushed to the Rural Hospital in Palghar and later shifted to the Government Cottage Hospital at Jawhar, in Palghar district. The infant was later shifted to Nashik.The mother, Ashwini Katela, resides in Darshet, Palghar and her husband, Ashok, is a daily wager.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/newborn-who-tested-covid-positive-dies-after-six-days-101623004770261.html
07-06-2021||Noida||GB Nagar, Ghaziabad get respite from Covid curfew||/Ghaziabad: With the number of new and active Covid-19 cases declining, the Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad administrations announced relaxations in partial Covid curfew in the districts from Monday, after a gap of 37 days.The restrictions had been put in place in the two districts on April 30. On May 30, however, the state government had said that districts which had less than 600 cases may lift restrictions. So far, 71 of the 75 districts in the state, including Ghaziabad and GB Nagar, have managed to bring down the number of active cases to below 600-mark.If the number of active cases breaches the mark, the partial curfew will come automatically into place, state officials had said.The joy of lifting of restrictions, however, comes with riders and might be a short-lived affair. With 91 fresh cases detected on Sunday in GB Nagar, and 30 new cases detected in Ghaziabad, the tally of active cases reached 583 – only 17 short to come under the partial curfew bracket once again – in GB Nagar, and 496 – only four short of the 600-mark – in Ghaziabad.“Due to this rider, we will keep enforcement at a heightened level and will also conduct checks in high case-load areas like Indirapuram, Vaishali and Sahibabad, among others. From now on, efforts will be directed towards keeping the tally of active cases below 600. Discussions were held with residents, transporters, market associations and other stakeholders and they were told that it is the collective responsibility of all to check the spread of the virus,” said Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city), Ghaziabad. Despite the relaxations coming into place, weekend as well as night curfews will continue to be in place in both districts, officials said.“All directions issued by the UP government on May 30 regarding the curfew relaxation will apply to the district. The weekends will be observed as days of closure while night restrictions will remain in place from 7pm to 7am (next day) every day,” the ADM added. “During the weekend, cleanliness, sanitisation and fogging will be conducted. A maximum of two passengers will be allowed in three-wheelers, three in e-rickshaws, and four in four-wheelers, with proper masking and social distancing,” said GB Nagar DM Suhas LY. Shops and markets outside containment zones are allowed to remain open from 7 am to 7 pm, while vegetable markets located in densely populated areas have been told to function in open places. “All cinemas, gyms, swimming pools, clubs and shopping malls will also remain closed during this particular relaxation span,” Suhas said.Besides, eateries cannot allow in-house dining. “Restaurants can only offer home delivery,” Suhas said. Suhas said that while it is mandatory for all frontline workers to be present in their offices, the remaining government offices will function with 50% attendance on a rotational basis. “It is mandatory for all offices to have their own Covid-19 helpdesks. Industrial units can also operate, following Covid-appropriate guidelines. Private sector firms, meanwhile, have been asked to encourage their employees to work from home. None of the offices can allow any employee who had Covid-19 symptoms to come to office. Setting up of a Covid helpdesk has been made mandatory for all of units,” he said.All private and government schools, colleges and other educational institutes will remain closed till further notice. “These institutions can continue with online classes for their students, including coaching centres,” Suhas said. Suhas also said that only five devotees will be allowed inside a place of worship at a time. “A maximum of 20 people will be allowed for funeral processions, while only 25 members will be allowed at wedding. However, in any case, the attendants will have to follow standard Covid-19 protocols of social distancing and sanitisation,” the DM said.“The traders have decided that they will not deal with customers who come without face masks. On our part, we will provide masks to such customers. If they still do not wear it, we will not entertain them. Since markets are opening after a long time, there will be a huge crowd but authorities must ensure strict enforcement. We do not want that active cases go up and we have to shut shops once again,” said Rajneesh Bansal, chairperson of Turab Nagar Vyapar Mandal, a traders’ association.The Ghaziabad industries’ federation said it has already set up Covid help desks and isolation rooms for workers. “The arrangements will continue as the virus has not gone away and we must observe all precautions. Further, we want that vaccination for workers in industrial units should also take place,” said Anil Gupta, general secretary of the federation.The overall tally GB Nagar was 62,734 by Sunday. With two more fatalities the death toll has reached 459. It is fifth in UP in most number of active cases. Only Meerut, Lucknow, Saharanpur and Gorakhpur have over 600 active cases now.Ghaziabad’s tally reached 55,248. The district saw three new fatalities, its toll now at 451. “We are conducting about 8,000 tests per day, and will continue this trend even during relaxation days. Our focus is now on testing and at present about 30% testing is done daily in rural areas,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.“Since restrictions will be relaxed, utmost precaution and enforcement will be needed to keep active cases below 600. The authorities should also strengthen health infrastructure so as to deal with post-Covid problems,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president, Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). “It will be a challenge, but we will continue with enforcement. This will be against people not wearing masks. We will continue night checking and barricading,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1), Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-ghaziabad-get-respite-from-covid-curfew-101623004710291.html
07-06-2021||Other||UP min slams oppn for criticising Yogi’s Covid control model||LUCKNOW: Minister of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), Sidharth Nath Singh on Sunday slammed the opposition for criticising the UP model of Covid management by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.“Those who questioned the efficiency of UP model of Covid management should first take note of its success as UP has outperformed many states including Delhi and Maharashtra in curbing Covid cases and deaths,” he said.Singh asserted that the Covid Cases in the most populous state has seen a drastic decline, because of effective implementation of an aggressive T3 (test, trace and treat) regime and planned partial corona curfews by CM aimed at saving both ‘lives and livelihood’.“It is quite evident from the UP’s COVID figures being reported since the beginning of May that the raging disease has been tamed and controlled,” said Singh.“Delhi and Maharashtra having not even half of UP’s population have registered a massive spike in daily Covid cases in the second wave, whereas UP with a population of 240 million has brought down the daily caseload to nearly 1,000 cases now,” he said.“Swift measures, alertness and bold decisions coupled with presence of medical resources and planned short-term partial corona curfews have resulted in limiting the outbreak in UP, whereas in Maharashtra and Delhi even with complete lockdown have not been able to limit the number of fresh cases and Covid Deaths,” he claimed. The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) has also been at 1.2 percent in Uttar Pradesh, while on the contrary, CFR of Maharashtra stands at 1.71 percent and Delhi’s CFR is 1.7 percent, he said.Deaths per million have been the highest in Delhi (313), followed by Maharashtra (127) as compared to Uttar Pradesh (26), he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-min-slams-oppn-for-criticising-yogi-s-covid-control-model-101623004651510.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Rajasthan bizman arrested for raping 24-year-old on the pretext of marriage||Juhu police have arrested a 30-year-old businessman from a five-star hotel near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai for allegedly raping a 24-year-old on the pretext of marrying her.Juhu police officers, who had put out a look-out notice for the mobile spare parts dealer, were informed that the accused was to return to Mumbai from his hometown in Rajasthan on flight. The police apprehended the accused as soon as he entered his room in the five-star hotel.“The man was in Mumbai for a business meeting and was to return to Rajasthan in a few hours as he was aware that he was a wanted,” said senior inspector Shashikant Mane from Juhu police station.According to Juhu police, the woman had come across the accused on social media. After a few months of dating each other, the accused proposed to the complainant. The businessman then rented an apartment at Vile Parle and raped the victim on several occasions after promising to marry her. He had also borrowed ₹35 lakh from the complainant for his business.On May 29, however, when the accused stopped answering the complainant’s calls, the woman approached Juhu police and registered a complaint.“A local court on Sunday remanded him in police custody till Thursday,” said Mane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rajasthan-bizman-arrested-for-raping-24-year-old-on-the-pretext-of-marriage-101623004650888.html
07-06-2021||Other||Panvel on level 3: Offices, shops can stay open till 4pm; malls, theatres shut||Panvel City Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has announced unlocking of the area in its jurisdiction, under Level 3, as per the levels of restrictions issued by the state government and Raigad collector under its BreaktheChain order.Nidhi Chaudhari, Raigad collector, said, “The positivity rate in the region and the oxygen beds occupancy has been taken into consideration to decide the unlock level.”He added, “The order will come into effect from 7am on June 7 and will be in force till 7am on June 14. We will take further action next week after reviewing the situation.”“While we have allowed the relaxations in the city, however, minimal movement post restricted timings on weekdays and weekends will be the guiding principles,” Chaudhari said.The notification permits the opening of all essential and non-essential shops till 4pm. Non-essential shops will, however, remain shut on weekends. Malls and theatres will remain completely shut. Restaurants have been allowed on weekdays till 4pm at 50% capacity. Home deliveries and parcels have been allowed.Local trains have been restricted for medical and essential services and women passengers. Travelling in public transport buses is allowed without standees.Residents can go out for walks and cycling in public places and open ground from 5am to 9am.All private offices apart from those permitted will be allowed to function till 4pm, with specified capacity. Except for Covid-related offices, all government private offices will function with 50% employees.Outdoor sports have been permitted from 5am to 9am and 6pm to 9pm all through the week.Film shoots have also been allowed with restrictions till 5pm.Social, cultural and entertainment gatherings and election meetings, have been allowed at 50% capacity till 4pm only on weekdays. There will be a restriction of 50 people for weddings and 20 for funerals.Gyms, salon, beauty centres, spas and wellness centres can operate at 50% capacity, only through appointments till 4pm. Air conditioning is not allowed on the premises.Inter-district travel through all modes has been allowed, except when passing through level 5 areas for which e-pass will be required.Construction activities have been allowed till 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panvel-on-level-3-offices-shops-can-stay-open-till-4pm-malls-theatres-shut-101623004650291.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Dilp Kumar diagnosed with pleural effusion, condition stable||The 98-year-old veteran actor, Dilip Kumar has been diagnosed with bilateral pleural effusion. He was rushed to Hinduja Hospital, Khar on Sunday morning after he complained of breathlessness. Pleural effusion is referred to as accumulation of fluids between the layers of the pleura outside the lungs.He is undergoing treatment under the cardiologist, Dr Nitin Gokhale. At present, he is stable but kept under oxygen support due to his breathlessness.As per sources from the hospital, firstly, they would try to improve his condition through medication. If it doesn’t work, they would have to suck out the fluid from his lungs with the help of chest tubes.“He is stable and kept in the general ward. If he responds to the medicines, he will be discharged within two-three days,” said a doctor who is aware of the case.A tweet from the actor’s verified Twitter account, stated, “Dilip Sahab has been admitted to non-COVID PD Hinduja Hospital Khar for routine tests and investigations. He’s had episodes of breathlessness. A team of healthcare workers led by Dr Nitin Gokhale is attending to him. Please keep Sahab in your prayers and please stay safe.”Last year, Dilip Kumar’s brothers Ehsan Khan, 90, and Aslam Khan, 88, succumbed to Covid-19, at Mumbai’s Lilavati Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dilp-kumar-diagnosed-with-pleural-effusion-condition-stable-101623004591532.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Leaders got new homes, what about people, asks Sena||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Central Vista project, in his weekly column RokhThok in Saamana, saying “the PM calls himself a fakir, but the action to move into a 15-acre residence doesn’t fit one”. The Sena MP asked what people got amid the pandemic, even as leaders are getting homes. The party has been critical of the Central Vista project that envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common Central Secretariat and the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate and new residences for the Prime Minister and the vice-president. “A new Parliament House, a new home on 15-acre plot for Prime Minister and a new residence for the vice-president are being built in Delhi in times of Covid-19. The Centre must clarify if these homes are corona-proof. Currently, our prime minister resides on 7, Lok Kalyan Marg, a residence spread across 13 acres. As per the new plan, he will reside in a 15-acre home. The Prime Minister considers himself a fakir, but all this does not fit into fakiri, such criticism has started now... Our leaders got new homes. What did the people get,” Raut asked in his column. He further said that crores of people have lost their jobs and are staring at poverty due to the pandemic. “Because of Covid-19, 97% of the people are on the threshold of poverty. In April 2020, 13 crore people lost their jobs. People have lost the jobs that were considered safe. Everything is shut; only crematorium and burial grounds are open 24 hours,” he added. Reacting to the column, Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said the project is not for Narendra Modi but for India as well as the Prime Minister of India. “It has become a habit of people who are against Modi to criticise him without gathering all facts. This has been going on since [alleged] Rafale [jet scam] to GST [rollout] and now the Central Vista project. The idea is to have a bigger Parliament, considering the future. He is not building a home for himself, it is the PM’s residence,” Upadhye said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/leaders-got-new-homes-what-about-people-asks-sena-101623004590930.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Maratha quota: BJP MP to start stir in Maharashtra from Jun 16||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament (MP) Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, also a descendent of Maratha king Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, will begin from June 16 an agitation in Kolhapur for reservation to the Maratha community in education and government jobs. He made the announcement at a function at Raigad Fort in Mahad, on the occasion of the coronation day anniversary of the Maratha king on Sunday. On May 5, the Supreme Court quashed the 12% and 13% reservation given in education and jobs to the Maratha community under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018. The state then appointed a committee of retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale to study the ruling and suggest a way forward. In its report submitted on Friday, the committee has recommended the government move a review petition in the SC challenging its verdict. The BJP MP had given an ultimatum till June 6 to the state to decide on the demands. The demands include review and curative petitions in the Supreme Court against its order to scrap the quota, as well as a petition to the Centre for the reservation. Besides, he had also demanded other benefits such as hostel facilities and scholarships for the community’s students and revival of Sarthi — a Pune based institute — to ensure educational and social well-being of the Maratha youth. Chhatrapati said the agitation will start from Shahu Samadhi Sthal, resting place of social reformer Rajarshi Shahu Maharaj, who is also a descendant of King Shivaji. He will also organise a long march from Pune to Mumbai, if the demands for reservation to the community and other ancillary benefits are not met. “I have decided not to stay silent until the Maratha community gets its reservation. The state government has done nothing since the ultimatum was issued. The agitation is now certain. Our first rally (morcha) will be organised at Shahu Samadhi Sthal, (resting place of Rajarshi Shahu Maharaj) in Kolhapur,” Chhatrapati said, in his address to the community from the fort, after paying homage to Shivaji Maharaj on the anniversary of his coronation as Chhatrapati in 1674. “I will then visit all 36 districts of the state, along with leaders from Sakal Maratha Samaj, an umbrella body of various Maratha organisations, and all public representatives right from ministers, MLAs and MPs will have to tell us how they are going to get justice for the community. If the state does not accept our five-six demands even after Covid-19 is over, the entire Maratha community will long march from Pune towards Mumbai. You still have time, do not force us to bring that situation,” he warned. The Rajya Sabha MP said he was not interested in the political blame game started by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government as well as his own party — BJP — after the Supreme Court struck down the quota in jobs and admissions to Marathas last month. “We are interested in the options and want to know the roadmap on how to restore the quota for the community in education and jobs,” he said. On Sunday, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the state government was making all possible efforts to grant reservation to the Maratha community without disturbing the existing quotas of other communities. “I would like to assure people, especially from the Maratha community, that the MVA government is making efforts to ensure they get reservation without disturbing the quotas of other communities,” Pawar told reporters in Pune on the sidelines of Shiv Swarajya Divas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-bjp-mp-to-start-stir-in-maharashtra-from-jun-16-101623004590290.html
07-06-2021||Other||Pvt hosps in districts other than Pune offer no vax for 18-45-year age group due to stock shortage||PUNE Of the five districts in Pune division, only one, Pune, has multiple private hospitals undertaking the vaccination drive against Covid-19. The other four districts, Solapur, Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli, have only one, or no private hospitals offering vaccinations. Since the vaccination drive for the age group 18-45 years began, the state government has stopped supplying vaccines to private hospitals and has instead empowered them to get vaccine stock directly from manufacturers. However, while major districts like Pune, Mumbai and Thane have seen almost all big hospitals begin the Covid-19 vaccination drive, smaller districts are still awaiting their quota. On Saturday, Pune district saw 30,000 vaccinations, of which, 22,000 got the jab at private hospitals. However, in the neighbouring district of Kolhapur, only one private hospital has been able to start the vaccination drive. Dr Farukh Desai, district immunisation officer at Kolhapur said, “Although we have been granted permission to start Covid-19 vaccinations at 70 private hospitals, only one private hospital, Aster Aadhar hospital, within the corporation area has started the drive. It has a capacity to vaccinate 250 people daily.”Similarly, in Satara too, only one private hospital has begun the drive. Uday Shelar, officer from the district immunisation department said, “Only one private hospital, Sahyadri hospital, has begun the vaccination drive in the entire district. Although we have permitted 48 hospitals to begin, due to no stock available hospitals have not started the drive.” While Kolhapur and Satara have at least one private hospital where the drive has begun, the districts of Solapur and Sangli do not have any private hospital offering vaccinations for the 18-45-year age group. District health officer Shital Jadhav said, “We have permitted 63 private vaccination centres, including two within the corporation areas. Of these, 47 are private hospitals while others are the workplace tie-ups between hospitals and industries. However, as there is no vaccine available to these hospitals, they have not been able to start the drive. Many have already placed orders, but are yet to get any stock.”In Sangli the situation is the same as none of the private hospitals have begun vaccinations. Dr Vivek Patil, district immunisation officer said, “We have granted permission to four hospitals and we have more hospitals in the queue, whose permissions are under process. However, as there is no vaccine available, they have not yet begun the drive. Of the four, two have MoU’s with major industries and two would probably open for the general public with slot booking.”BJP MLA Ram Satpute from Solapur alleged that there has been discrimination by the MVA government with regards to smaller districts. He said, “Only metropolitan cities like Pune, Mumbai and Thane are getting stock while in smaller districts and in rural areas the younger population is not getting any vaccines. This is the working population which needs to be vaccinated. At least in rural areas the government can provide free vaccination for the younger age group.”As of Saturday, the cumulative vaccination in these districts is much lower than that of Pune (31,05,186). In Kolhapur it is 12,05,469, in Solapur it is 5,89,174). In Sangli it is 7,48,794 and in Satara it is 7,82,662.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pvt-hosps-in-districts-other-than-pune-offer-no-vax-for-18-45-year-age-group-due-to-stock-shortage-101623004531949.html
07-06-2021||Lucknow||Protesting against farm laws:Farmer groups stage sit-in in Pilibhit, Shahjahanpur||: After Rampur, farmer groups have also started protest in Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur districts against the controversial farm laws.A group of farmers reached the Collectorate in Pilibhit on Saturday, violating prohibitory orders, to stage protest against the controversial farm laws. The farmers were stopped by the local police from entering the premises and warned of action. While most of the farmers returned after the protest but around a dozen of them continue to hold a sit in.Similarly, a group of farmers in Tilhar area of Shahjahanpur district on Sunday began a sit in. The protesting farmers are members of Bhartiya Kisan Union which has openly opposed the farm laws. “The government must realise that the farmers will not accept the laws. We will continue our struggle till the three laws are taken back,” said Dalbeer Singh, a BKU member of Pilibhit district.While farmer groups have begun their protest, local district administration is planning to initiate action against them. The district administration of Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur has decided to issue notices to the farmers who are participating in the protest. The notices will be sent on Monday, sources said.The protests in Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur come two weeks after farmers in Rampur blocked a toll plaza in protest against the farm laws. Over two dozen farmers continue to hold a sit in near the toll plaza in Mudapande area of Rampur. The Rampur district administration has issued notices to families of about 30 farmers warning them of legal action if they fail to discontinue their protest. The notices have so far failed to deter the protesting farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/protesting-against-farm-laws-farmer-groups-stage-sit-in-in-pilibhit-shahjahanpur-101623004531336.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan gets shelter for transgenders||Urmila Kamble, 58, a transgender person from Ambernath, was in search of a shelter after her retirement as a sweeper at Ambernath Municipal Council (AMC). She used to live with her relatives and family members, but was not supported by them. The newly opened dedicated shelter home for members of the transgender community at Kalyan’s Dawrli Naka came as a relief to her. The shelter home named Garima Greh is the first one for transgender persons in Maharashtra, of the three sanctioned so far. The shelter has been set up by the National Institute of Social Defence (NISD).“My family members neglected me after the retirement. I used to stay with them but somehow I wanted to leave and be independent. I retired four years ago, and since then it was a struggle on a daily basis. The shelter home comes as a major blessing to me. Now I don’t have to worry about being asked to move out,” said Kamble, who now has a steady roof over her head. “We had been planning to open a shelter home for transgender persons since the last four-five years. A year ago, a proposal was made for the same to NISD, and now the shelter home is ready and we are running it,” said Neeta Kene, 43, president of NGO Kinnar Asmita. The shelter home presently has 25 residents who came from different cities like Nashik, Ambernath as well as states such as Uttar Pradesh. “There are several transgender who end up either begging or doing sex work. They do it due to the situations they face. We are trying to find out such people and bring them to the shelter,” added Kene. The shelter home will have learning activities for residents such as candle making, baking, beautician course, paper bag making. The products will then be promoted it in the market for sale. “This is just a start. More such shelter homes should come up in different cities so that not a single transgender is left out. They should get equal opportunity to learn and earn. We want more transgender persons to come and take shelter here,” said Tamanna Kene, 32, a resident of the shelter home. NGO Vanya Foundation has decided to provide computers to the shelter home and start a training programme for the residents. “The shelter home was their dream. Now that it is available, we have decided to make sure each resident from it and also create job opportunities for themselves,” said Rekha Thakur, secretary of the foundation. An official from NISD, who did not wish to be named, said, “A total of three shelter homes have been sanctioned, of which the one in Kalyan is inaugurated. Another one in Raigad is yet to be built as the finalisation of location is underway. It was delayed due to the lockdown. And the one in Goregaon is ready and is expected to be opened soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-gets-shelter-for-transgenders-101623004530797.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BEST to resume bus services for general public from Monday||Citizens in Mumbai will be able to travel by Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses from Monday. This comes after the state government, through BreakTheChain initiative, decided to impose a five-level unlock plan. The cities and districts are classified according to their positivity rate and bed occupancy rate.Mumbai that comes under level three of the unlock plan, can have passengers travelling in the buses without any standees. Earlier, the employees of essential services could commute by BEST buses.The state government also made it mandatory for the passengers to wear masks for travelling in BEST buses.The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) stated that they will be introducing additional buses from Monday, in order to cater to the increasing number of passengers.“As per the notification issued by the government of Maharashtra, BEST has been allowed to carry passengers with full seating capacity. No standing passengers will be allowed. We will be operating more bus services after inspecting the demand.” said a senior BEST official.Meanwhile, despite the curbs on non-essential travel, the BEST has witnessed an increase in its passengers. As per data available with BEST, 1.6 million people travelled on its buses in the city on April 19, a rise from the 1.3 million passengers on April 17.The state government, under the BreakTheChain initiative, had not suspended the city’s public transport but had imposed strict restrictions in April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-best-to-resume-bus-services-for-general-public-from-monday-101623004530227.html
07-06-2021||Pune||31 gardens in Pune reopen in first phase of unlocking of parks||PUNE With the city ready to unlock from June 7, 2021, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will also reopen 31 gardens for residents. The PMC has built and maintained 204 gardens, but as a precaution and to reopen in a phase-wise manner, 31 gardens will reopen on Monday.Ashok Ghorpade, chief superintendent, PMC’s garden department, said, “We will be opening 31 gardens, which are equipped with jogging tracks. Those who follow all norms will be allowed inside the garden. There is no seating on benches allowed and no using of gym equipment. Also, no groups to be allowed inside the gardens. Those above the age of 65 years, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 years will not be allowed entry. We have appointed two personnel from the staff for scrutiny and have orders to ask people to leave for not following rules.”Parshuram Kadam, a resident of Aundh, welcomed the reopening of the public gardens. He said, “We have been at home for a long time without any exercise, and are waiting to breathe in the open air.”Regulars at Sarasbaug will be disappointed as this garden will be opened only in the second phase. “We are all regulars at Sarasbaug, but since the gardens were closed, we have found alternative ways to keep fit. We are happy that this unlock will see other gardens opening up, after all the only way we can keep our mind and body fresh and healthy is by exercising,” said Anand Saraf. In 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the PMC had closed all its gardens and parks from March 23. After the restrictions were eased, PMC reopened 33 gardens on June 3, 2020, for two hours in the morning and evening, for walking and jogging. As citizens were violating Covid norms, PMC decided to close the gardens after a week.The gardens again reopened on November 1, 2020. In the first phase, it was 81 and after that, 60. In February 2021, 141 gardens were reopened. Then in March 2021 as the second wave kicked in, all the gardens were closed again. 31 gardens reopening are:Damodar Vagaskar udyan (garden/park), Koregaon park, lane 6,Mangal Prakash udyan, B T Kawde roadAayappa udyan, TingrenagarLumbini udyan, MHB colony, YerawadaPragati udyan, TingrenagarRohan Jagdish Shinde udyan, Dhanori,Surendra Hasraj Anand udhyan, DhanoriSwami Vivekanand udyan, Vimannagar (only jogging track)Damodar Ravji Galande Patil joggers‘ park, KalyaninagarBhaskarraoji Sakhoji Shinde, Chandannagar,Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj udyan, WadgaonsheriMarutirao Gaikwad udyan, AundhSanjay Mahadev Nimhan, Pashan,Vithoba Balaji Murkute, Baner,Jaibhavani udyan, Sutarwadi,Panchavati, PanchvatiSambhajiraje udyan, ShivajinagarKamla Nehru park, ErandwaneHirwai garden, Prabhat roadBhimsen Joshi udyan, Bhusari colonyTatyasaheb Thorat udyan, KothrudPradeep Thatwade, Karve nagarDr Shamaprasad Mukherjee udyan, Pathwardhan baugPruthak Barate udyan, WarjeRaja Mantri, ErandwaneBaburao Walvekar udyan, Saharkar nagarAhilyabai holkar udyan, KatrajSinhagad Vikas udyan, WadgaonHemant Karkare udyan, satavwadiSwami Vivekanand udyan, KondhwaUdaan Jaivividha Udyan, Viman nagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/31-gardens-reopen-in-first-phase-of-unlocking-of-parks-101623004473857.html
07-06-2021||Other||Dine-in allowed, but most restaurants waiting for staff to return from hometowns||PUNE With the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) allowing restaurants to operate dine-in facilities at 50 per cent capacity, hoteliers in the city are now waiting for staff to return from their hometowns. Most restaurant staff in Pune returned to their native cities, towns and villages after the lockdown on the industry was announced in the first week of April.The PMC order, issued on Saturday, stated tha, restaurants, bars, and food courts are allowed to open for dine-ins, at 50 per cent capacity, till 4 pm between Monday and Friday. Post 4 pm and on weekends, home delivery and parcel services will be allowed until 11 pm.A spokesperson from Roopali hotel on FC road, said, “We are yet to decide on starting dine-in on Monday. Parcels will continue as we have adequate staff for the delivery service.”There are 8,500 restaurants in Pune registered with the hoteliers’ association, with a total staff of 60,000.“It is a very good decision that the administration is allowing us to function at 50 per cent capacity. However, the order came on Saturday night and we will take two-to-three days for preparation before we start dine-in, “ said, Karan Kripalani, owner of Hippie@heart restuarant.After the first Covid wave in 2020, the administration had allowed hotels to reopen with 50 per cent occupancy after October 5.“We will start dine-in operations after four-five days as service staff is currently not available. I have staff members from Ratnagiri, Dapodi, Kolhapur, and Uttar Pradesh. Parcel service will continue,” said Santosh Shetty, owner of Swarnaa in Warje.“It has been a year of too many ups and downs. The decision is welcome, but we hope we get the permission for 100 per cent occupancy soon,” said Abbas Ali, manager, Goodluck Cafe, Fergusson College road.A spokesperson for a bar and restaurant on FC road said, “We will start the dine-in facility from Monday, as adequate staff is available with us right now. We are happy to resume our dine-in facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dinein-allowed-but-most-restaurants-waiting-for-staff-to-return-from-hometowns-101623004473201.html
07-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra breaches grim mark of 100,000 Covid-19 deaths||Maharashtra on Sunday went past the grim mark of 100,000 Covid-19 fatalities, 15 months (447 days) after it recorded its first death due to the virus on March 17, 2020. Maharashtra, which added 618 deaths (including 385 as part of reconciliation of figures) to its tally on Sunday, contributes nearly 29% (28.87%) to the country’s Covid-19 fatality count .If Maharashtra were a country, it would have ranked 10th in the world, just after France (109,973 deaths) and before Colombia (91,422), in terms of Covid-19 deaths, according to data collated by worldometer. The United States of America (612,209) tops the list of fatalities, followed by Brazil (472,629). India ranks third (346,784).In India, the gap between the state with the most fatalities and the second-most affected state is 68,800 fatalities. Karnataka, as per the data of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, ranks second with 31,260 fatalities.The state breached the 10,000-mark in Covid-19 fatalities on July 11, 2020 (see box), and went on to cross an additional 10,000 every month till it crossed the 40,000-mark on October 10, 2020. As the first wave receded, the deaths were fewer between October and January.It took 91 days to go from 40,000 to 50,000 deaths, which happened on January 9, 2021. Subsequently, it took 99 days to cross the 60,000 mark. In the past 50 days alone, the state had added nearly 40,000 deaths. On April 18, the state breached the 60,000 mark in Covid deaths. Since then, it has added 39,657 fatalities. State bureaucrats, officials and experts attributed the high number of deaths to more Covid-19 cases and transparent reporting of data.Officials added that lack of treatment protocol, logistics issues have also contributed to some of the deaths in both the waves.Dr Avinash Supe, chairman of the state’s death audit committee, said that in the first 10 months (between March and December 2020) of the pandemic, Maharashtra saw nearly 50,000 deaths. In the next five months, the state added over 50,000 deaths due to Covid-19. Between March 8, 2020, when the first case was reported, and December 31, 2020, the state saw 49,521 deaths. Since January 1, the state has added 50,609 deaths.“If you see the pattern of the deaths, it was really high, percentage-wise, in April, May, June [2020], as we were not very prepared. Patients were dying on arrival. In the second wave, we have seen double the patients we saw in the first wave,” he said.“In 2020, we had 19 lakh cases, now (this year) we have nearly 40 lakh cases. Nearly 50,000 deaths happened in the first year. Among the 40 lakh cases, we had an equal number of deaths. So, it is important to see that even after cases doubled, the fatalities remained the same. However, the deaths in this year have come in a shorter time,” Dr Supe added.A senior bureaucrat, who did not wish to be named, added, “Initially, many patients died of comorbidities in the hospital on arrival or in 24-48 hours. When they were tested, they were found to be positive [for coronavirus]. We have included such cases in our tally as well. We have remained transparent in reporting deaths and cases.” N Ramaswami, commissioner of health services (Maharashtra), said one cannot look at the absolute numbers. “Definitely we have a high number of deaths, but one can’t see the absolute numbers. We have higher deaths because we have more cases. However, our CFR is very much under control,” he said.Despite having a set treatment protocol, acceptability among people about the disease, and medical infrastructure, the state saw over 50,000 deaths in 2021. Health experts attributed it to virus mutation, late arrival at the hospital and logistical issues. “Mainly patients have died after being admitted to ICUs. Of course, logistics issues, including people not getting beds [at the hospital], delay in medicines and oxygen, could have contributed to the deaths. However, the overall mortality rate has gone down. This year, the CFR is 1.2%, which was 2.3% in 2020,” Dr Supe said.The second Covid-19 wave hit the rural and semi-urban districts in Maharashtra the hardest with a sharp increase in the number of deaths as compared to the first wave. Sindhudurg, Nandurbar, Beed, Parbhani, Nanded, Amravati, Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Washim and Gadchiroli saw the number of deaths double from the first to the second wave. In contrast, in Mumbai, Pune, Thane, the number of deaths has reduced by half despite a massive surge in infections in the second wave.The senior bureaucrat further added that the state administration has worked to supplement the primary and secondary infrastructure in the tier two cities and rural areas. “While most of our cities and other major towns are prepared for the possible third wave. These areas have been looked into to strengthen its medical infrastructure, training people, etc,” he said.Meanwhile, as Maharashtra is moving towards gradual unlocking from Monday depending on set parameters, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a virtual meeting with district collectors and municipal commissioners and directed them not to relax any restriction by buckling under pressure from anybody. Thackeray during the meeting reiterated that the state is not fully lifting its lockdown-like restrictions and the parameters set for allowing activities must be followed by the administration.Thackeray directed the administration that there should not be any crowding in places where restrictions would be relaxed as it would be an invitation to the third wave. Thackeray, while cautioning them, said that the district and city administration should consider and review all the factors before allowing relaxations. Thackeray pointed out that last year had witnessed an increase in cases after the festive season. “Secondly, mutation of viruses led to spreading of more infection. Hence, we should take more care this time, else the third wave of Covid would be challenging for us,” said Thackeray.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-breaches-grim-mark-of-100-000-covid-19-deaths-101623004472636.html
07-06-2021||Other||Travel e-pass no longer needed, except for level 5 districts||PUNE As the city re-opens from Monday after nearly two months of lockdown, the mandatory e-pass for inter-district travel will no longer be a requirement.An e-pass will only be required if traveling to level 5 district.The state government had imposed a restriction on inter-district and interstate travel on April 23, afrter which it has been mandatory to obtain an e-pass from the police department for travel.Joint commissioner (law and order), Ravindra Shisve, said that he would further study the order and then comment.District collector Rajesh Desmukh confirmed that the e-pass condition has been relaxed and was applicable only for travel to level 5 districts. This is allowed only in the case of medical emergencies or for persons performing essential duties, the government order states.Over two month, a total of 0.15 million Puneites had applied for e-passes, wherein 55,000 applications were rejected by the Pune city police. Citizens in need of an e-pass must apply on covid19.mhpolice.inDocuments like a Covid-19 negative report and Aadhar card should be uploaded with this form. Permission is granted or rejected within 24 hours of submitting the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/travel-e-pass-no-longer-needed-except-for-level-5-districts-101623004471971.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Akal Takht head priest justifies pro-Khalistan slogans at Op Bluestar anniversary||The 37th anniversary of Operation Bluestar at the Golden Temple passed off peacefully on Sunday even as Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh justified pro-Khalistan slogans raised on the occasion by a section of Sikh hardliners, saying that the Sikhs mitigate their pain by uttering the secessionist slogan.“This is a deep wound on Sikhs, which gives pain throughout the year. On its anniversary, we reduce this pain by uttering ‘Khalistan Zindabad’. It can never be forgotten. It will be part of our memory forever,” said the acting jathedar, amid echoes of slogans during his customary address from the highest temporal seat of Sikhs on the anniversary of the military action at Golden Temple in Amritsar.Even during his address last year, the jathedar had stated that every Sikh wanted Khalistan and if the government offers them the formation of a separate nation, “they will accept it happily”.“The Indian Army attacked Akal Takht just like it battled against China and Pakistan during wars. However, the treatment given to Sikhs was more oppressive and brutal than one given by the winning side to the losing side in a battle,” said Giani Harpreet Singh on Sunday.The acting jathedar claimed that he had received a lot of emails seeking June 6 be declared as “Amritsar Genocide”. “However, we should remember that the Indian Army not only attacked the Sikh shrine in Amritsar, but also 37 other gurdwaras,” he said, while adding that the term genocide should rather be used for the killing of Sikhs in Delhi and other cities after Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s assassination in November 1984. “The community has already recognised the Operation Bluestar as another ‘ghallughara’ (holocaust),” he said, adding: “We know how this deep wound is to be treated, and where its medicine lies, but how this medicine is to be arranged, we never tried to think over it by sitting together.”This ‘josh’ keeps community alive: SGPC chiefReplying to a query on the sidelines of the function, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur endorsed the jathedar’s views on pro-Khalistan slogans. “This is an expression of the Sikh youth’s ‘josh’ (vehemence). As Singh Sahib (jathedar) stated the youngsters demonstrated their sentiments and healed their pain on the occasion,” she said. “This ‘josh’ suggests that the Sikh community is alive and acts independently. A community losing ‘josh’ is considered dead. When the youths raise these slogans, they demonstrate that they are competent to fight the enemy. So, we have no objection to it,” said the head of the apex Sikh body.The same leniency was also shown by the SGPC while imposing no restrictions on the Sikh hardline and splinter Akali groups, such as Simranjit Singh Mann-led SAD (Amritsar), and allowing them to carry on with their activities on the anniversary, including displaying of placards with separatist demands and portraits of militants killed during the operation.Event passes off peacefully amid huge gatheringDespite Covid-19 weekend lockdown imposed in the city, the gathering was much bigger than that seen in recent years. However, no untoward incident was reported. “The anniversary passed off peacefully as we had made unprecedented arrangements across the city,” said Parminder Singh Bhandal, deputy commissioner of police (law and order). Sarbat Khalsa-appointed parallel acting jathedar Dhian Singh Mand also read out his message outside the Akal Takht. In a goodwill gesture, Giani Harpreet Singh presented “siropas” (robe of honour) to Dal Khalsa leaders inside the Akal Takht, though they accepted it reluctantly. Names of the rival Sikh leaders were also mentioned in the press note released by the SGPC.While kin of militant leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and Amrik Singh were honoured, names of other prominent militants were left out. The Sikh hardliners termed it a “fiasco” on the part of the SGPC. Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, the prime accused in the Red Fort violence case who is out on bail, also made his presence felt along with his supporters. A book authored by Malkit Singh Bhawanigarh on the army action at 37 other gurdwaras in Punjab was released. A function was also organised at Damdami Taksal’s headquarter Gurdwara Gurdarshan Parkash at Chowk Mehta in Amritsar.SGPC to reprint white paper on Op BluestarSGPC chief Bibi Jagir Kaur said the apex Sikh body will reprint the white paper on Operation Bluestar, which has been out of print for decades, to tell the people “truth” behind the army action at Golden Temple in 1984. Speaking about the Sikh soldiers who left the barracks in protest against the operation, she said the SGPC has provided aid to these “Dharmi Faujis”. In case, any soldier was left out, they should contact us, she said. “The SGPC will also provide free education to children who have lost their parents due to Covid-19 pandemic and children of farmers who died during the ongoing protests against the central laws,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akal-takht-head-priest-justifies-pro-khalistan-slogans-at-op-bluestar-anniversary-101623004471365.html
07-06-2021||Other||Gyms, salons reopen with demand for some fiscal aid from government||PUNE Gymnasium and salon owners in the city are happy with the decision of the administration to allow operations to restart with a 50 per cent capacity rule.However, these business owners now expect the government to offer some financial aid.After the first wave, gyms were given permission to restart operations in October 2020, after seven months of closure. Between March 2020 and May 2021, gyms and salons have been closed for a total of nine months.The new “break the chain” order states that gym, salons, beauty parlours, spas and wellness centres can operate till 4pm at 50% capacity and only on an appointment basis, with no air-conditioner operating.“It’s a welcome move and we will restart operations from Monday. However, many trainers will re-join in two-three days. Getting clients is also a task. The few who are fitness freak have already confirmed their time slots,” said Ayesha Nagargoje, RC Fitness club, Wagholi.The fitness and wellness industries have pegged their total losses in the nine months of closure at Rs500 crore.“Government should give us concessions on taxes, and electricity bills. Big gym owners manage to survive, but the smaller ones are in bad shape and have already started other part-time jobs for survival,” said Nilesh Kale, president of Pune the Fitness Club Association.Hairstylist Hiral Shah said, “The decision is welcome, but now many have got used to home service and they feel more secure instead of coming to salons. The decision will be boon to small outlet owners.”Muskan Shaikh, who runs spa in Fatima nagar, said, “The timing could had given allowed till 6pm. We are praying a third wave does not hit us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gyms-salons-reopen-with-demand-for-some-fiscal-aid-from-government-101623004470211.html
07-06-2021||Noida||Two persons arrested for carrying about 50 liquor bottles in luxury car||Greater Noida: Two persons were arrested on Saturday night for illegally transporting 47 bottles of liquor, which was for sale in Delhi only, in a luxury car in Greater Noida, police said. The suspects were identified as Pravesh Kumar (30), a resident of Parthla village in Noida and Naman Mishra, a resident of Supertech Eco Village 1, Greater Noida West. The duo was arrested from Badalpur, police said.Vivek Kumar, sub-inspector at Badalpur police station, said that police received a call that a luxury car had hit an auto-rickshaw near the railway crossing in Badalpur. “When a police team reached the spot, it found that two persons in the luxury car were demanding the auto driver to pay for the damage,” he said. Police said that it appeared both the car occupants were under influence of alcohol. “The auto driver claimed that the car had hit his auto and he was not at fault. Following this, the police team checked the car and found 47 liquor bottles inside the vehicle,” the sub-inspector said. During questioning, the suspects said that they had bought the liquor from Delhi, police said. A case was registered against the duo under sections 60 and 63 of the Excise Act. The suspects were produced in court on Sunday and sent to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-persons-arrested-for-carrying-about-50-liquor-bottles-in-luxury-car-101623004350964.html
07-06-2021||Other||Forced to dance by drunk groom, woman calls off marriage in Pratapgarh||: A woman refused to marry after the groom, in an inebriated state pulled her hand to force her to dance with him. The incident took place in Tikri village under Mandhata police station of Pratapgarh district on Saturday night where the groom and all the guests from the groom’s side were held hostage by bride’s kin. They were released after the groom’s side paid ₹5 lakh as compensation for the expenses incurred on marriage function. According to the locals, problem started soon after the ‘baraat’ (marriage procession), arrived at one Samar Bahadur Verma’s house, where the ‘baratis’ (guests from groom’s side) clashed with kin of bride including bride’s brother twice before the ‘jaimal’ (garland ceremony). Elders had intervened to sort out things then but around 11.30 pm the groom caught the hand of the bride and forced her to dance, a gesture that the bride disapproved of and refused to marry claiming that the groom was in an inebriated state. Subsequently, bride’s kin held the groom and ‘baratis’ (guests) hostage. The guests were released later but the groom and family were allowed to leave after they paid ₹5 lakh to compensate for the expenses by the brides’ family. Police also reached the spot and attempted to pacify the angry bride who however stuck to her decision to not marry a youth who arrived for the wedding in an inebriated state. SHO Mandhata Shravan Kumar Singh said no police complaint was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/forced-to-dance-by-drunk-groom-woman-calls-off-marriage-in-pratapgarh-101623004350278.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab power regulator pulls up PSPCL||The state power regulator has pulled up Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) for failing to control transmission and distribution losses, in line with the trajectory suggested in the tariff orders in previous years.The Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) in its tariff order, dated May 28, for the 2021-22 financial year said: “PSPCL has failed to bring down losses to the desired level despite huge capital investments allowed by the commission. PSPCL is again directed to identify high-loss feeders and areas and take corrective measures to achieve distribution loss trajectory.”For example, against the target of 11.54% transmission and distribution (T&D) losses in 2019-20, PSPCL recorded 14.35% losses (see box). In the current fiscal, the commission has asked it to bring down the loses to 10%.‘12 subdivisions can cut overall losses by 2%’ In the tariff order, PSERC noted that though the number of feeders with more than 15% T&D losses has come down from 2,697 (in 2019- 20) to 1,526 (in 2020-21, up to December 2020), the number of high-loss feeders (with losses more than 50%) have gone up from 180 to 230 and those with losses more than 90% have increased from four to nine.Referring to 12 power subdivisions, which recorded maximum T&D losses in the state, PSERC said if the losses here are brought down to 15%, an overall reduction of 2% will be achieved. These subdivisions are: Amritsar West (50.49%), Amritsar South (38.18%), Ajnala (49.42%), Tarn Taran City (41.26%), Patti, Bhikhiwind (76.66%), Patran (45.65%), Lehragaga (44.64%), Zira (51.15%), Bhagtabhaika (48.36%), Baghapurana (45.86%) and Malout (35%). ‘Act against officials for failure to curb theft’“It is a matter of great concern that rampant theft is being allowed in these areas, which is not possible without the connivance of PSPCL officials and officers. Disciplinary action should be taken against delinquent officers and officials for failure to control power theft under intimation to the commission,” said the order.PSPCL clarified that to curb thefts, surprise raids are conducted despite the fact that employees are gheraoed and manhandled. As many as 1,13,470 connections have been checked and 8,823 theft cases have been detected in these divisions, and revenue losses worth ₹19.02 crore have been detected till December 2020. ‘Expedite shifting of meters outside premises’ According to the tariff order, there were 5.47 lakh meters waiting to be shifted outside consumers’ premises by December 2019, and the number stood at 4.51 lakh in December 2020, pointing to the fact that only 96,000 meters were shifted in one year. “PSPCL is directed to complete shifting of meters outside consumer premises to cut losses,” said the regulator. The commission also observed that not much progress has been made by PSPCL to achieve 100% metering and directed it to resubmit a plan. The project for shifting meters has been on for at least 15 years. PSPCL said that 1.04 lakh meters in the high-loss divisions are yet to be shifted outside the premises, mainly in view of stiff resistance faced from farmer unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-power-regulator-pulls-up-pspcl-101623004231778.html
07-06-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram won’t dismantle temporary health infra||To tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19, Gurugram will not dismantle temporary health infrastructure in the district. Around 16 buses that were converted into temporary Covid care centres with oxygen beds have now been kept at the depot and will be used if needed during the upcoming wave, according to the officials.Rajeev Nagpal, general manager, Haryana Roadways Engineering Corporation (HREC), said, “As we know, that a third wave might hit us in the near future, we are not dismantling the temporary Covid care centres set up inside the 16 buses. These buses were equipped with six beds each, oxygen supply, AC and other medical facilities for Covid-19 patients. If required, we will set up more such buses.”The HREC had converted old buses into temporary Covid care facilities to be used at government hospitals, and five minibuses were converted into ambulances, during the peak of the second wave of Covid-19. Last week, the district administration decided that temporary Covid-19 hospitals with oxygen supply in Gurugram will also be used treating non-Covid patients.On May 17, 2021, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated a 300-bed facility in the city to aid in the fight the coronavirus at the Tau Devi Lal stadium. Officials said that the government facility in the stadium was launched with an aim to treat patients in rural areas that were witnessing a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases.Meanwhile, the Gurugram administration is working on increasing the number of beds and healthcare professionals at these centres, to cater to the demands of non-Covid patients, too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ggm-won-t-dismantle-temporary-health-infra-101623001050727.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi: New Covid-19 cases drop below 400 for first time since mid-March||In a positive sign for Delhi a day before several lockdown restrictions are lifted, the daily Covid-19 case count in the Capital on Sunday dropped below 400 for the first time since mid-March as Delhi continued to recover after a devastating surge of infection between April and May.The city added 381 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday after conducting 76,857 tests, which means that just 0.5% of all people tested had contracted the infection. This number — known as the test positivity rate — is crucial to understand the degree of infection spread in a region.Daily deaths of the viral infection also fell to their lowest in nearly two months. On Sunday, 34 more people died of the infection, the lowest daily toll since April 8, when 24 people succumbed to the infection. Over the past week, on average, 63 people died in Delhi died of Covid-19 a day. Just a week ago, this number was more than double. In the week ending May 30, data from the state health bulletin showed that an average of 136 people died of the infection in the city.The Capital has added an average of 522 infections each day over the past week, less than half of the 1,246 average cases it added seven days ago. At the height of the fourth wave, the seven-day average peaked at 25,294 cases on April 23.Tracking a region’s positivity rate can serve as a good indicator for whether infections are likely to increase or decrease in the coming days.Delhi’s test positivity rate has dropped nearly every day since early-May, though the fall built momentum in the second week of that month. Sunday’s test positivity rate is the lowest in 90 days, going back to early March, in clear signs that the fourth wave of infections is now well and truly ever, which experts attested to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-new-cases-drop-below-400-for-first-time-since-midmarch-101623000930106.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||75-year-old woman strangled to death in Delhi’s Hari Nagar during robbery bid||A 75-year-old woman was assaulted and strangled to death allegedly by three men, including her husband’s caretaker who was employed two days before the incident, during a robbery at her home in west Delhi’s Hari Nagar last week. The police on Sunday said they arrested all three suspects and recovered the stolen items — a pair of earrings and ₹2,000 cash.The elderly woman’s husband, who is a cancer patient and has been diagnosed with mental health illnesses, was in the flat when the murder and robbery took place. However, due to the severity of his mental illness, the man is aware of neither the robbery nor his wife’s murder, said deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel.The incident came to light when on the afternoon of June 1, the couple’s neighbour went to check on them and found the woman unconscious and the caretaker, identified as Monu, missing. Upon being informed, the police took the woman, Savitri Sharma, to a hospital, even as Monu returned to the house. The woman died during treatment and doctors informed the police about strangulation marks around her neck.“Monu was questioned, but kept changing his statements, which made us suspect his involvement in the incident. Investigations revealed that two other people were in the house when the incident took place,” said Goel. Monu later confessed that they killed her during the robbery, she said.Monu’s interrogation led to the arrests of the other two suspects — Vishal and Naveen Kumar — who told the police that Monu began working at the couple’s house on May 30 to take care of the man, identified as Jaipal Sharma. He was hired through a placement agency.The police said that on May 31, Monu called Vishal and told him his employers had received a large payment. They chalked out a robbery plan and included Naveen in it. On the same night, Monu and Vishal went to the flat, assaulted Savitri and asked her about the cash and other valuables. Naveen kept watch outside.“When she resisted, the duo strangled her to death. They stole ₹2,000 and a pair of earrings and fled. Apart from the stolen items, we have also recovered a motorcycle they used in the crime,” Goel added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/75yearold-woman-strangled-to-death-in-delhi-s-hari-nagar-during-robbery-bid-three-arrested-101623000870160.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Aid dries up, baba back at his dhaba||On a hot May afternoon, Kanta Prasad and his wife Badaami Devi make for a picture of despair as they wait for customers at Baba ka Dhaba, a nondescript roadside eatery in south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar. The sight is a far cry from just a few months ago when a social media campaign, which saw help pouring in from across the country, seemed poised to end their troubles.Prasad and his dhaba had become famous overnight last year after a city YouTuber shared a video showing the octogenarian Prasad in tears, telling him how he struggled to make ends meet as business dried up. The viral video led to thousands of people making a beeline to the couple’s eatery for food, selfies and donating money.Soon, he opened a new restaurant, added a new floor to his house, settled his old debts and bought smartphones for himself and his children. However, life has since come a full circle, as the new restaurant closed in February and Prasad and his wife are now back at their old dabha where the sales, which saw a 10-fold jump after the initial YouTube video in October, have slumped drastically over the past few months.Also Watch | Viral video prompts people to help elderly couple running roadside eateryPrasad said the fourth Covid-19 wave in Delhi, which forced the closure of their old dhaba for 17 days and further affected the sales, have led them to penury -- again. “The daily footfalls at our dhaba have declined because of the ongoing Covid lockdown, and our daily sales have come down from ₹3,500 before the lockdown to ₹1,000 now. The income is not sufficient for our family of eight,” said a dejected Prasad, as he waited for customers.There are some signs from his glory days. The old dhaba, that looked like a portacabin, now has three CCTV cameras and the live footage can be accessed on Prasad’s smartphone. And a fancy board atop displays the dhaba’s name, the year it was established, photographs of the elderly couple, two mobile numbers, and proclaims Indian and Chinese menu for lunch and dinner. However, the dhaba currently serves only Indian food such as rice, pulses, and two types of vegetables – the same menu that the couple had at their dhaba before the viral video earned them fame – for lunch and it closes before dinner.Prasad had opened his new restaurant with much fanfare on a cold December morning and for the first few days, it was a roaring success. Unlike at the dhaba where Prasad rolled out rotis for his customers, he and his wife and their two sons sat behind a new gleaming counter, collecting payments as his employees — two cooks and waiters — flitted about serving customers. For a while, it seemed the octogenarian’s pains were a thing of the past.After the initial frenzy, customers, however, started disappearing slowly and soon, the expenses were more than the income.Prasad said he invested ₹5 lakh in the restaurant and hired three workers. The monthly expenditure was around ₹1 lakh -- ₹35,000 towards rent; ₹36,000 to pay salaries of three employees; and ₹15,000 for electricity and water bills, and to procure food ingredients. “But the average monthly sales never crossed ₹40,000. I had to bear all the losses. In hindsight, I feel we were wrongly advised to open a new restaurant,” he said.The new enterprise collapsed in three months. “Of the total investment of ₹5 lakh, we managed to recover only ₹36,000 from the sale of chairs, utensils, and cooking machines, after the restaurant shut down,” said Prasad, blaming Tushant Adlakha, a social worker who, he said, had encouraged and helped him to open the new restaurant at a rented place.“Essentially it was he (Adlakha) and his team who managed and supervised everything, including the investment and sales. He said he would make it a success, but he never gave enough time for the restaurant,” said Prasad.But Adlakha denied the allegations and blames Prasad and his two sons for the new restaurant’s failure. “From setting up the restaurant to bringing customers and orders for home delivery of food, we did everything. What else could we do? Prasad’s two sons took charge of the restaurant, but they hardly ever stayed at the counter. There were enough orders for home delivery, but the two failed to deliver them,” he said.In November, Prasad had filed a cheating case against YouTuber Gaurav Wasan, who had shot the viral video of the octogenarian’s plight. Prasad alleged that Wasan had collected large sums of money from good Samaritans, but handed him only a small part of it.Wasan denied the allegations and claimed that he gave to Prasad all the donations -- ₹4.20 lakh -- he had received. Prasad’s allegations against the YouTuber polarised opinion on social media, with many saying that he was unfairly targeting his benefactor.Wasan said he held no grudge but was hurt by Prasad’s allegation questioning his selfless motive. “I was heartbroken and was mentally stressed for a couple of months, as the allegations had affected my reputation. Baba has since called me a few times on my mobile phone but I never responded. I have moved on,” said Wasan.Prasad and his wife, on the other hand, claimed that they still do not know how much money was collected from the people by Wasan. A senior police officer, who did not want to be named, said, “The investigation into the case is still on.”Prasad’s wife Badaami Devi said they are back to square one. “All our money is gone. Our children are unemployed and we are old and cannot run the dabha anymore. We hope the government will help us in some way,” she said, as Prasad nodded in agreement.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader Somnath Bharti, who is also the MLA from Malviya Nagar, attributed Prasad’s failure to multiple reasons, including his inexperience in handling fame and success, and managing the financial assistance and resources he got through various channels.“I personally believe that there should be a proper system in place when it comes to helping people like Prasad. Expecting an old man like him to start a new business is always risky as there will be people who would try to get benefits out of their situation and circumstances. That’s why I feel that help should come through a proper channel and the objective is to help such people grow. I had also offered to help Prasad and I am still available -- both in my personal capacity and through the Delhi government,” said Bharti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/youtube-star-customers-help-dry-up-baba-returns-to-his-old-dhaba-101623000812135.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||If malls can open, why not us?: Delhi’s weekly markets||With Delhi bracing for a wider unlock starting from Monday, associations of weekly markets in the capital, which were not exempted from curbs in the latest Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) orders, have pressed the government for permission to operate.Market associations said the government was ignoring small vendors who were more severely affected even as bigger markets are allowed to reopen. Market associations have also lodged a petition seeking compensation from the government.As per the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order outlining curfew relaxations, shops in markets and malls can reopen on an odd-even basis from Monday while weekly markets will continue to remain closed.Ramesh Kumar, head of the South Delhi Weekly Market Association, said the new restrictions will adversely impact the already dwindling incomes of small traders, many of whom are now unemployed. Kumar pointed out that most vendors of weekly markets lived a hand-to-mouth existence and were yet to receive any financial support. “Nearly 2,700 weekly markets operate in the city routinely. So many families are dependent on these markets for their survival. The government should have opened our markets as well with staggered timings,” said Kumar.Pointing out the number of fresh cases have dropped below 500, Kumar said, “Delhi was completely open when it was recording thousands of cases last year. The caseload has reduced but weekly markets continue to remain closed.”Kumar claimed said the government was depriving weekly markets run by small traders of a chance to get back on their feet. “We follow all SOPs. Our shops are also organised in open areas. It doesn’t make any sense to open malls while weekly markets are ignored,” said Kumar.Weekly market associations have also lodged a petition in the Delhi high court seeking financial support from the government in view of the losses incurred over the last year. The court has given Delhi government 10 days to respond to the petition.“Before all our weekly markets could bounce back from the loss incurred last year, the lockdown was imposed again. In the past 15 months, our situation has gone from bad to worse. We urge the government to open the markets for us since so many families are going through a crisis,” said Kumar.Sunil Kumar Shah, head of Delhi Pradesh Weekly Market Association, said nearly 95% weekly market vendors led a hand-to-mouth existence.Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/if-malls-can-open-why-not-us-delhi-s-weekly-markets-want-exemption-from-lockdown-curbs-101623000810777.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Unlocking Capital: Delhi Police help shops implement new guidelines||From assisting shopkeepers and volunteers in marking shops on an odd-even basis and chalking out circles for social distancing, from holding meetings with representatives of the market and resident welfare associations (RWA) to educating people about the new rules, the Delhi Police personnel were spotted on the streets throughout Sunday as part of their preparedness to implement the new guidelines of unlocking Delhi and the night curfew that will continue till June 14.The city police have decided to use non-coercive methods while implementing the new guidelines issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday. As per the new guidelines, restrictions on stand-alone shops, markets and shopping malls have been eased and private and government offices have been permitted to open with half their strength. Police officers said that their primary focus will be on ensuring normalcy and ensuring the public adheres to Covid appropriate behaviour, such as wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, sanitizing and washing hands.“We (police staff) spent our day (Sunday) distributing free masks among people not wearing one, greeting violators with flowers as a token to remind them about Covid-19 guidelines, and holding meetings with market associations and RWAs. Some individuals and shopkeepers also took a pledge to observe Covid appropriate behaviour,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parminder Singh.As there is no clarity on whether people visiting shops or markets need e-passes like shopkeepers and their employees, many police officers said those giving valid reasons will not be prosecuted while action may be taken against those found unnecessarily stepping out of their homes.In a meeting with senior police officers, Delhi Police chief SN Shrivastava directed them to devise non-coercive methods and involve traders associations for ensuring Covid appropriate behaviour through their volunteers. Accordingly, meetings between the police and traders associations were held on Saturday and Sunday where the shopkeepers were told to open their units on “odd and even formula”, place sanitiser dispensers and chalk out markings for social distancing outside their shops.DCP (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said all station house officers (SHOs) and beat police staff have been briefed about the new guidelines and the steps that they should be taking while implementing the rules on the ground.“We are marking the shops with numbers 1 and 2, meaning the number 2 shop will remain closed on the day number 1 is open. The shops will remain open only between 10am and 8pm and those in shopping malls and market complexes will be allowed to operate with 50% strength. No encroachment or subletting of shops in the premises of the authorised shops will be allowed. Bamboo barricading and fencing has been done in vegetable markets for social distancing,” he said.Officers said they are also encouraging shopkeepers to get themselves and their employees vaccinated and always remain properly masked up while dealing with customers. Regular announcements through patrol vans and motorcycles are also being done to educate people about the new norms, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unlocking-capital-delhi-police-help-shops-implement-new-guidelines-101623000810126.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Longer wait for residents as Delhi’s slum rehabilitation hits policy roadblock||For Abdul Hameed, 42, a daily wager, the possibility of owning a house in the national capital became a reality when he deposited Rs1.42 lakh with the Delhi government’s Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) in 2019, for allotment of a house under the rehabilitation policy.Today, while the bank has started deducting instalments against the loan he took, his dream is still far from turning into a reality. “For the past three months, a monthly instalment of ₹2,1,65 is deducted from my account. But there is no clarity on when we will get the possession of the flat,” said Hameed, who is struggling to feed his family of six due to the coronavirus pandemic.“Due to the lockdown, I didn’t have any work. I don’t know how I’ll pay the installments,” said Hameed.Hameed’s family is among 69 that were rendered homeless after the slum cluster they lived in near RML hospital in central Delhi was demolished in 2009. The families moved court and, on court’s intervention, were relocated temporarily to Delhi government’s Punjabi Academy building in Paharganj. After a decade-long battle, the Delhi high court ordered in April 2019 that the displaced families be rehabilitated.“What was meant to be a temporary shelter, for around six months, has been our home for over a decade,” said Kafeel Ahmed, 48, who works in a private firm.Advocate Jayashree Satpate, who represented families evicted from near RML hospital in the high court, said, “It’s been over a decade now and they are yet to get rehabilitated. They are living in a precarious conditions, facing problems related to safety, water, electricity and other socio-economic rights.”Like these 69 families, there are 287 families living along the Barapullah drain near East Kidwai Nagar who had made the payments two years back, but are awaiting relocation. DUSIB had planned to relocate these families to its housing complex in Dwarka’s sector 16-B.The roadblockWhile the pandemic delayed the rehabilitation process last year, DUSIB officials said it has now hit a roadblock due to the Centre’s new scheme to provide houses on rent.DUSIB officials said that the plan to rehabilitate these two clusters was stalled due to the Centre’s Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHC) scheme, which was approved by the Cabinet in July last year. Under the ARHC scheme, houses constructed under the UPA-era schemes such as Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) and Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) are to be provided to migrant workers on rent.As per the information available on housing and urban affairs (HUA) ministry’s website, of the 88,099 flats constructed under JNNURM and RAY, 29,245 are in Delhi.DUSIB member Bipin Rai said, “We had to put the rehabilitation process on hold due to the Centre’s rental housing scheme. As the flats where these people were to be rehabilitated were constructed under JNNURM, in which part payment was done by the Centre, we were told to give these flats under the new rental scheme. But we are against the rental scheme as it will not work in Delhi. We had written to the Centre in this regard earlier, but they refused to allow allotment of these flats under our rehabilitation policy.”In a letter dated March 22, 2021, DUSIB has given a list of slum clusters from where relocation charges from land-owning agencies and slum dwellers have been collected as per the rehabilitation policy. There are around 13 clusters where a large number of eligible beneficiaries have made the payments.Rai said, “We have written to the Centre to allow us to allot flats to those who have already deposited the money under the rehabilitation policy. So far there is no response on it.”When contacted, a senior HUA ministry official confirmed that they have received the communication from DUSIB. “We are in touch with DUSIB officials and the matter is under consideration,” said the official.Pandemic make matters worseCurtains divide the two halls on the ground floor of the building into small spaces for each family at the Punjabi Academy centre. Sudesh, 45, who worked as a private security guard till last year, said, “We don’t have enough space and proper facilities here. The situation was really bad during the lockdown, as everybody was staying inside all day long.”Mathura Prasad, 52, a mason, who lives along the Barapullah drain near East Kidwai Nagar, said there has been no work for months now. “I had no option but to stay at home, as construction activity was closed during the lockdown. Even now, it is difficult to find work. We are using our savings to feed the family,” said Prasad.There are many who lost their livelihood during the pandemic and were hoping for a fresh start near their new homes. Raj Kumar, 50, who had a small shop which he had to shut last year, said he is jobless for the past one year. “I was hoping to start something near our new house in Dwarka, as we were told that we will be shifted soon. But then the pandemic happened and now there is no clarity on when the process will start.”Social worker Shakeel Abdul, convenor of Basti Suraksha Manch, said, “These people have waited for so long and completed all the formalities, including payments. Most of these people have taken loans from banks or relatives. During the lockdown due to the pandemic, so many of them were rendered jobless or are struggling to make ends meet. The government should start the rehabilitation process at the earliest.”The families at these two clusters, social activists say, are in such dire need for a proper accommodation that they have agreed to go to the outskirts of the city. Tripti Poddar, another advocate who represented families evicted from near RML hospital said, “Their conditions have been so dire for the past decade that many of them are willing to shift to Baprola despite having worked and lived in the heart of the city. The families themselves have approached all possible avenues of advocacy but despite that, multiple court orders, and complying with all prerequisites, including payment, they are still being made to wait, even through this deadly pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/longer-wait-for-residents-as-delhi-s-slum-rehabilitation-hits-policy-roadblock-101623000752962.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||BJP wants India’s ration beneficiaries to suffer, says Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of favouring large-scale theft of food grains meant to be distributed under the public distribution system (PDS) across states, turning the political heat on the Centre for “blocking” the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme.Hours after a press conference by BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra on the issue — which came soon after a press briefing by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal — Sisodia took on the BJP for attacking the AAP government on the scheme, which has become yet another point of contention between the Delhi government and the Centre.In his briefing on Sunday morning, Kejriwal urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow the state government to launch the doorstep ration delivery scheme, a day after Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal rejected the scheme. Baijal’s office has, however, disputed this claim and said the L-G did not “reject” the scheme, but only “advised for the constitutional scheme of things to be followed in letter and spirit”.Sisodia refuted Patra’s allegations that Kejriwal was “misleading people” on the matter.“Patra made two large points on doorstep delivery of ration. He said the current system is efficient enough. So, he means the BJP is fine with theft and pilferage in the PDS system. So, the BJP will resist any proposed change. They want 80 crore ration beneficiaries across the country to suffer because of large-scale theft of ration,” Sisodia said in a video briefing.“Then he (Patra) alleged that we (the AAP) are trying to make money out of the scheme by levying additional charges on ration beneficiaries. He does not know that the central government orders allow states to charge ₹3 per kg for processing wheat under PDS schemes. In Haryana, the BJP government charges ₹3 for providing flour to PDS beneficiaries. In Delhi, we proposed a charge of ₹2 for processing wheat as well as ensuring doorstep delivery. Patra hardly said anything about such things and chose to invest his time on misleading people and ranting against Arvind Kejriwal,” Sisodia said.This is the second time this year that the long-pending scheme has been stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre. The scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumers affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections to the scheme — the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism in the NFSA requires an amendment that can be done only by Parliament.Patra said no state government has the right to tweak central government schemes.“If Arvind Kejriwal wants to distribute ration outside the national programmes under the central government, he can purchase grains at notified rates and do it. But no state has the right to tweak a central scheme being implemented uniformly across the country.”Referring to Kejriwal’s statement that ration shops may turn “super-spreaders”, Patra said, “Arvind Kejriwal does not see potential super-spreaders when it comes to supporting large gathering of farmers in Delhi’s borders and misleading them against the central government, but he sees potential super-spreaders in ration shops.”He also said that by not implementing the “one nation, one ration card” scheme, the Delhi government has deprived millions of migrant workers of subsidised food grains.Patra further claimed that the Aadhaar authentication record fared poorly in Delhi when compared to the national average of 80% and that the Kejriwal government also stopped the operation of electronic point-of-sales (e-PoS) machines that allow biometric verification. “We will never know whom Arvind Kejriwal is giving ration to. He wanted to launch a ration diverting system. He wanted to start a big scam as the ration would not reach the right person and nobody knows where it might have gone. The Centre has prevented a big scam from taking place,” said Patra.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and other senior leaders of the party on Sunday criticised the Delhi chief minister for accusing the Centre for stalling the doorstep delivery of ration.“The Centre has said that the ration given under the central government schemes, which is applicable in the entire country, can’t be used for doorstep delivery. The CM should tell people why the ration given by the Centre under PMGKAY has not been distributed completely,” said GuptaOn Saturday, Delhi food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain labelled efforts to stall the scheme “politically motivated”.“The L-G has rejected the scheme on two grounds – that it is not approved by the central government, and that there’s an ongoing court case on the scheme. No approval to launch such a scheme is required as per existing law. Nevertheless, we have written six letters to the Centre since 2018 apprising them of this scheme at every stage. We also changed the name of the scheme according to their letter dated May 19. What further approval is required? It makes even less sense to stop the roll out of this revolutionary scheme due to an ongoing court case. There have already been two hearings on this case and no stay has been ordered by the Court. Moreover, Central government is a party to the same case and in their affidavit too, they haven’t objected to rollout of the scheme,” the Delhi minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-wants-india-s-ration-beneficiaries-to-suffer-says-sisodia-as-war-of-words-over-ration-delivery-escalates-101623000752308.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||Amid shortage, all jab centres in Delhi told to give only 2nd dose of Covaxin||The Delhi government on Sunday issued an order making it mandatory for all vaccine centres -- both government facilities and private sector -- offering Covaxin to beneficiaries in the 18-45 years age group to only administer second doses of the vaccine till the end of June. HT has seen a copy of the order.“Directions have been issued to all government Covid-19 vaccination centres to administer Covaxin only to those people who are eligible for receiving the second dose of vaccination in respect of the age group of 18-44 years during the month of June 2021, or until further orders,” said the government order.It further said, “The Delhi High Court in an order dated June 4, 2021... has instructed the Government of NCT of Delhi to consider issuing an order by exercising its power under Disaster Management Act, 2005, for mandating the private hospitals and nursing homes which are vaccinating using Covaxin, to strictly reserve vaccination for the purpose of second dose in respect of people of age group 18-44 years in the month of June 2021”“...the state executive committee of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority in exercise of powers conferred under Section 22 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, hereby directs that all private hospitals and nursing homes functioning as Covid-19 vaccination centres...shall ensure that the Covaxin shall be used for vaccination to only those people (of age group 18-44 years) who are eligible for receiving second dose of vaccination during the month of June 2021 or until further orders, whichever is earlier,” read the order.The decision, said senior government officials, was taken in the light of a severe shortage of vaccines for the 18-45 age group, which has already led to temporary suspension of 368 vaccine sites for more than two weeks now. A limited consignment of Covaxin -- comprising around 92,000 doses -- is likely to arrive for the 18-45 age group at the state government-run centres in June, even though the private ones have independent stock.Government data said around 150,000 doses of Covaxin have been administered to people in the 18-45 age group, all of whom have their second doses due in June. “It shows that there is a demand supply gap. The government has to ensure people do not miss out on their second dose of Covaxin. Hence, this step was necessary. The gap can widen if the vaccine centres in the city continue administering first doses of Covaxin without assurances of future supplies,” said a senior government officials who did wish to be identified.On Friday, the Delhi government was pulled up by the Delhi high court for letting government centres administer such high number of first doses of Covaxin, despite there being a shortage of the particular vaccine and no assurances of supply.“For the first two weeks in May, the vaccination for 18-45 years mostly happened in the government sector. Now, if the private sector keeps all the doses for the second shot, who will get it? Around 30% of the people are unlikely to get the vaccine even if given for free, another 30% who might have got the first shot at a government centre will not be able to pay ₹1400 for a dose in the private sector. And, this will slow down vaccination. Till the time doses are unavailable in the govt sector, the govt should subsidise the doses for at least those who are from the economically weaker sections,” said Girdhar Gyani, director general of Association of Healthcare Providers (India).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-shortage-all-jab-centres-in-delhi-told-to-give-only-2nd-dose-of-covaxin-101623000751556.html
07-06-2021||Delhi||With schools shut, bus service providers in Delhi struggle to make ends meet||Sixteen months after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country forcing schools and colleges into shutting down, several thousands of buses plying to these institutes across the national capital still continue to remain off the roads. This has put hundreds of bus service providers in dire financial straits as they are struggling to make ends meet and also pay their employees.All the schools in the national capital are physically shut for students since last March. Even as the Delhi government allowed schools to partially reopen for classes 9 to 12 between January and February, transportation services did not resume.The Delhi Contract Bus Association, an umbrella organisation of over 1,700 contractors who ply 45,000 to 50,000 small and big buses for schools in Delhi and NCR, on Friday wrote an open letter to the Central government requesting a “relief package”. “Schools and colleges all over India are closed from 22 March 2020 till date... Thousands of operators have been rendered unemployed and thousands of buses, on which bank loans are still outstanding, are getting rusted for one and a half years...As per the Supreme Court guidelines, the design of the buses which are under contract with any education institution is completely different and cannot be used for any other purpose,” they said in the open letter addressed to Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari.The association has warned the government that they will surrender the keys of their vehicles to the office of the Union transport ministry if it doesn’t come out with a “relief package” for them in the next 30 days.In February, the association moved the Delhi high court seeking exemptions from payment of road tax and levy of penalty post-December 2020, in view of the losses suffered due to the Covid-19 outbreak. The court, in March, directed the petition be treated as a representation by the respondent.Members of the association are scheduled to have a virtual meeting with the Delhi transport department officials on Monday regarding the matter. “The matter is sub-judice. Delhi government will provide every possible help to those affected by the pandemic,” said a senior government official.Harish Sabharwal, general secretary of the association and owner of Sabharwal transport, said his company owns 168 school buses and employs over 300 people. “Service providers like us could still manage to pay the salaries to our drivers, conductors, and helpers despite zero earnings till now; the smaller ones are struggling to even make their ends meet. Many of them have started selling their vehicles, and in some cases, banks have confiscated the buses after they failed to pay the EMIs. Now, we do not have money to pay our employees,” he said.Sabharwal said that the insurance of all these buses have expired though they did not ply on the roads in the last 16 months. “The rubber parts of the buses need to be lubricated every four months. Now, all these parts and batteries have been destroyed in the last one and a half years. Whenever the schools reopen and transport services are allowed, the operators will have to spend at least ₹1.5-2 lakh per bus, including ₹70,000-80,000 as insurance renewal fees,” he said.Vimal Wahi, owner of Jupiter travels, said he has to repay a loan of ₹1.6 crore he took for running his bus service. His agency owns 65 school buses and employs around 200 staffers. “We had been provided a loan moratorium till last September and after that, we had to pay everything. We have no money to pay instalments now.”Some service providers said they have been receiving notices from banks after failing to pay the EMIs. Manik Chawla, the owner of Chetan travels, said he has to pay ₹40 lakh as monthly instalment to banks for his 110 buses operating for some prominent schools in Delhi. “I have not been able to pay the instalments since April last year. I have my family responsibilities and also have to pay something to my staff also. Right now, I do not have money to even pay the fees of my own child. The schools have also not provided us anything,” he said.Several private schools said the government order barring them from collecting anything other than tuition fees have put them in a difficult situation. “At a time when we are struggling to pay the salaries of our teachers who have been working continuously , how can we pay transport service providers whose services we have not taken since last year? Our hands are tied,” said a principal of a private school requesting anonymity.The Delhi High court earlier this week quashed the Delhi government’s fee order, yet schools are not allowed to charge transport fees from students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-schools-shut-bus-service-providers-in-delhi-struggle-to-make-ends-meet-101623000750220.html
07-06-2021||Pune||400 PMPML buses on the road from Monday||PUNE The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will operate at least 400 public buses on Monday, as the city unlocks from the Covid-19 restrictions.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued its guidelines for the unlock process with public transport buses allowed to run at 50 per cent capacity. “We are all set to begin after a gap of almost two months. At least 400 buses are scheduled to run on 300 routes, on Monday in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Accordingly, arrangements have been made at all major bus stands and depots. Looking at the response, we will increase the fleet this week,” said Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML chairman and managing director (CMD). Since strict restrictions began in the state in the first week of April, public transport buses were only allowed for emergency services. Prior to that, PMPML was earning revenue of ₹1 crore per day. “Last year, after the countrywide lockdown ended, we had to suffer major losses and after that we were somehow coming on track in terms of revenue generation. When we started getting good revenue in the March and April, suddenly this state lockdown started. Till now we have had losses of ₹80 crore,” added Jagtap.While passengers are happy about public transport restarting, Archana Jadhav, who works in a private firm said, “I am working in a private logistics office in Yerawada and I stay on Sinhgad road. For the last two months my husband was dropping me to work. It was becoming very difficult to travel. Now it will be a relief as public transport buses are starting again.”Pune to Lonavla local trains on standbyAs the state government has not given any clear guidelines about the starting of local trains in the state, the locals from Pune to Lonavla will not be operational on Monday. Currently, local trains are making four trips between Pune and Lonavla, but only for emergency service staff. “We have not yet got any guidelines or instructions from the state government to start local trains for public. Once we get it we will immediately start. Our preparations are already done and we can start the service any time,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/400-pmpml-buses-on-the-road-from-monday-101622996790024.html
07-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab inks pact to launch emissions trading||The Punjab government has announced partnership with Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL), South Asia, and Energy Policy Institute at the University of Chicago (EPIC), India, to launch the use of an emissions trading scheme to design and establish pollution markets in the state. The collaboration was announced by the departments of industry and commerce and science, technology and environment on World Environment Day on Saturday.Emissions trading scheme (ETS) is a market-based approach to controlling pollution by providing economic incentives for reducing the emissions of pollutants. A central authority allocates or sells a limited number of permits that allow a discharge of a specific quantity of a specific pollutant over a set time period. Polluters are required to hold permits in amount equal to their emissions. Those who want to increase their emissions must buy permits from others willing to sell them.According to a government press release, the partnership includes providing technical assistance and capacity building to public officials to effectively use data and research evidence from established and functioning emissions trading market at Surat.First: Scheme for 200 dyeing units in LudhianaAs a first step in the partnership, the state government and Punjab Pollution Control Board will launch an ETS to regulate emissions from 200 dyeing industries in Ludhiana besides reducing particulate and greenhouse gas emissions in the state.“Pollution reductions can be delivered. The world’s first ETS for particulate pollution in Gujarat has already shown this. Punjab is now becoming the second Indian state to adopt this pioneering vision. For various other Indian cities battling polluted air and expensive regulations, ETS has the potential to improve air quality and health, reduce the regulatory burden on industries, and decrease government enforcement expenditures,” said Michael Greenstone, the director of EPIC and co-chair of energy, environment and climate change at J-PAL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-inks-pact-to-launch-emissions-trading-101622901624754.html
