08-06-2021||Mumbai||‘Monsoon to arrive in Mumbai two days before date of onset’: IMD||The southwest monsoon is likely to arrive in the city on June 9, two days earlier than its normal onset date of June 11, officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. “The conditions for the onset of the monsoon have become very favourable over Mumbai and the larger Konkan area. It may happen within the next 24 hours,” said Shubhangi Bhute, meteorologist with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre, on Tuesday afternoon. The north-most limit of the monsoon, as of Tuesday afternoon, was continuing to pass over Alibag and Pune. “A Low-Pressure Area is likely to form over North Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood areas around June 11 2021. Under its influence, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is likely,” said the IMD.Heavy showers are expected in Mumbai for at least three days between June 9 and June 14. The IMD has also issued an orange category, ‘severe warning’, alert for the entire Konkan coast on June 12.For the day, Mumbai received 19.6mm of pre-monsoon rainfall as per data from its observatory in Santacruz. However, several other parts of the city received as much as 40mm of rain, as per data with the municipal corporation. Till June 8, Mumbai received 27 per cent of its monthly average for the season at 136 mm rain (as against the monthly average of 493.1 mm).As per the IMD’s seven-day forecast for Mumbai, “generally cloudy sky with heavy rain” has been forecast till June 12, after which the intensity of showers may reduce for a period. The city’s maximum daytime temperature was 32.1 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 25.5 degrees Celsius, both 2 degrees below normal. Mumbai has now seen two consecutive days of below normal diurnal temperatures.Despite intense spells of rain being in the forecast, independent meteorologists pointed out that IMD’s doppler radar has not been functional for at least three weeks now, since the passage of cyclone Tauktae. “The monsoon is set to arrive in Mumbai and coastal Maharashtra very soon, but the radar at Mumbai continues to be out of order. The entire coast is set to witness a lot of rain from this weekend. In the absence of this radar, real-time monitoring of heavy rains is impossible,” independent meteorologist Akshay Deoras tweeted. IMD officials in Mumbai were unable to clarify when the radar will be up and running again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/monsoon-to-arrive-in-mumbai-two-days-before-date-of-onset-imd-101623176928588.html
08-06-2021||Other||Friends, relatives, co-workers... tragic story of lives burnt beyond recognition in Pirangut fire||The mortal remains of the 17 workers who died in the Pirangut fire incident awaited identification on Tuesday, as relatives stood in a line at the Sassoon General Hospital since 11am. The blood relatives of the deceased wallowed in despair and the afternoon heat, as a vial of their blood was required to identify the deceased, after the fire had charred all 17 bodies beyond recognition.Families of the victims, who were mostly women, arrived from far flung districts of Osmanabad, Beed, and Solapur, among others, to provide DNA samples. The families also stood close to the Covid-19 treatment building of the district hospital, as the police and hospital staff failed to provide any explanation for hours. Seven of the 17 victims, mostly women, were from Urawade village, where the company is located. Their job at the company had formed an unlikely kinship among them. Saved by a parcel Vainkat Kawade had left the company premises only minutes before the fire broke out and returned to billowing flames that consumed his wife on Monday. “I had gone to drop a parcel in Pirangut itself around 3pm. Nobody told me anything. I returned and saw that sight. Our children were in a company accommodation merely a few feet away from the company. Only my wife was inside,” said Kawade. His wife, Archana Kawade (36), and her younger brother Sachin Ghodke (24), both died in the fire. The helpless man helped them gain employment in the company. Kawade had started seeing red by the time the clock struck 3:30pm on Tuesday as neither the police, nor the hospital staff or his employer, had any answers about when he could see whatever remained of his wife. Friendship of labourThe trio of Trishla Sambhaji Jadhav (32), Shital Dattatray Khopakar (43), and Sangitla Ulhas Gonde (43), lived in a residential area at the end of a narrow dirt path located around 4km from SVS Aqua Tech company, where they breathed their last.“Trishla Jadhav lived in a house above ours for a long time. The fact that she had a job was quite celebrated. Our neighbour or someone in the neighbourhood who had a vehicle would drop and pick her up every day, since her employment began during lockdown when public transport was shut. Sometimes the three women walked back home together after their shift,” said Sunit Joshi (32), a housewife living in the building where Jadhav used to live.The three were among various women who lived in the area and sought employment in the industrial units nearby.Husband escaped, but could not save his wifeMangal Baban Margale (29), had returned to work after sick leave of one month. She, like many women working in the company, had gained employment during the lockdown months in 2020.Margale and her husband’s aunt Suman Sanjay Dhebe (38), worked together, along with Margale’s husband Baban Haribhau Margale (34), at the company.“She had been working in packaging in the back room and I was in the front room. There were some routine floor tasks going on when something burst, and the fire started. We ran out the front door and assumed everyone would. By the time I realised that my wife was not among those who had come out, the fire had spread too much,” said Margale, whose eyes were blood red due to the smoke he had been around.His uncle, Sanjay Dhebe (38), worked as a delivery executive and was lost for words. He said, “I was delivering a package when I got his call, and he was crying loudly. It was difficult to make out what he was saying. By the time I changed vehicles and reached here, the fire had engulfed everything.”Fireman finds familiar name among victimsRizwan Faras (26), was among the firemen who doused the fire and cooled the place down while looking for bodies that were charred beyond recognition.Him and his friends were discussing the events of last night and looking at videos of themselves during the fire operation shot by locals. When asked about the most difficult part of the operation, Faras listed logistical problems before saying, “And then I saw a familiar name on the list. Dhanashree Shelar (22). She is a native of Nele in Javeli and is a relative of a friend of mine in Satara. She was young and had recently started working here.”Shelar was the youngest victim of the tragedy. Her parents arrived from Satara to provide blood samples to identify her remains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/friends-relatives-co-workers-tragic-story-of-lives-burnt-beyond-recognition-in-pirangut-fire-101623176926973.html
08-06-2021||Other||Students return to “unlocked” Pune, much to relief of hostels, messes||PUNE It’s has been tough for the last two months for Sachin Kudale, staying back in his village and preparing for further studies. Now as the unlock process has started in the state, he returned to Pune on Monday and began his preparations for second semester examinations. “The major problem is internet connectivity in our village, as it is in a remote area of Ahmednagar district. I had to travel to other villages to appear for my online exams for the first semester. I didn’t have enough study material with me. Now I have come back to Pune to my hostel, where all my books and other necessary things are there,” said Kudale, a second-year law student. Many students who went back to their villages and hometowns have started returning to Pune. There is an entire ecosystem of messes, hostels, books and stationary stores and many things, dependent on these students. Another student, Resham Chintal, who is preparing for competitive exams said, “I come from Beed district and there are no facilities. Even electricity supply is not regular. It impacted my scheduled timetable for the forthcoming exams. Due to the strict lockdown and inter-district closure of transport I got stuck in my hometown. When the unlock began, I immediately came to Pune by a private tourist bus along with my father and have been staying in a hostel.” In Pune, especially in the peth areas, there are many private hostels, paying-guest facilities, study centres, private coaching classes, food messes and snacks centres, which provide for students coming from outside the city limits. Similar is the case near college campuses like Bharati Vidyapeeth, MIT College and D Y Patil in Chinchwad. Santosh Gadhave, owner of a food mess in Navi peth, said, “Our complete business is dependent on students who come here for studies and have two meals at our mess. As the lockdown started in April, the students started going back and hardly 10 to 12 students stayed back, which impacted our business. Now students are returning, and we hope to have better business.” Dinesh Shah, owner of a small girls’ hostel in Bharati Vidyapeeth area said, “There were seven girls at our hostel before April and then all of them went back home. It’s the same all over in Katraj. We didn’t take rent for these two months. Now slowly, one by one, students are returning to join the hostel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-return-to-unlocked-pune-much-to-relief-of-hostels-messes-101623176867683.html
08-06-2021||Other||NDRF team holds medical camp on Kashi ghats||: A medical team of NDRF is providing care to the people living along the Ganga ghats in Varanasi. The medical team led by Dr Pankaj Gaurav and Dr Amit Nandal Tripathi arrives at the ghats daily on water ambulance to organise medical camps. In these camps thermal scanning and medical check-up of the people is done. Free medicines to the sick are also provided. The medical team also distributes sanitisers and masks to the people and makes them aware of measures to keep corona infection away. The team members motivate the people for vaccination also.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ndrf-team-holds-medical-camp-on-kashi-ghats-101623175966806.html
08-06-2021||Other||Video of youth being stripped, thrashed goes viral, FIR lodged||: A video that went viral on social media on Monday night showed a youth being thrashed with sticks, tortured and forced to take off his clothes at Beli Kachhar area under Cantonment police station on June 4. SSP Sarvshrestha Tripathi said an FIR had been lodged in this connection and raids were being carried out to arrest the assailants seen in the video. Primary investigations have revealed that the incident took place on June 4 and was fallout of an earlier clash between two groups on May 31, he added. The video showed that a youth in scanty clothes was being assaulted by some persons with sticks who were using abusive words. The victim in the video was seen asking for mercy but the assailants kicked him on his face and pinned him to the ground. The accused then forcibly removed his undergarments as well and assaulted him even as the victim desperately pleaded for mercy. In the video, the victim was heard referring to the assailants as Sonu and Imran while assailants were heard dropping names of Rajapur and Beli localities in the video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/video-of-youth-being-stripped-thrashed-goes-viral-fir-lodged-101623175847785.html
08-06-2021||Other||‘Unusual’ waterspout fascinates Goa beachgoers; usually harmless say scientists||An unusual waterspout (a columnar vortex) that emerged amid wet, gusty weather along the Goa coastline at the Calangute beach left citizens amazed, yet worried after the video of the incident went viral, HT has learnt.Scientists have, however, sought to reassure that the phenomenon is likely local and not as unusual as people expect. “It is a type of a whirlwind that occurs when cool air above comes in contact with warm water over the sea. It isn’t particularly dangerous,” Dr Ramesh Kumar, former weather scientist at the National Institute of Oceanography, said. “It is quite unlikely that the phenomenon is recent in nature. It is more likely that with recording devices being more readily available and technology having improved that we are able to witness these,” he said, adding that curiosity in the occurrence has also increased over the years. The tornado-like vortex was seen on Monday evening reaching down from the sky amid overcast conditions, swirling over the waves and reaching right up to the clouds, people who saw it first hand described as having witnessed it for the first time. Meanwhile, a lifeguarding agency named Drishti has warned beachgoers that the safest way is to move perpendicular to the direction the whirlwind is moving. “A waterspout is a vertical funnel of high-velocity wind and condensed water moving over the sea; there can be two kinds of tornadic or fair-weather and they usually last 5-10 minutes with speed up to 100kmph. As in the case of Baga, they can move to or from land. To stay safe, move at a 90-degree angle to its movement and do not go closer to explore,” the agency stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unusual-waterspout-fascinates-goa-beachgoers-usually-harmless-say-scientists-101623175847327.html
08-06-2021||Other||Allahabad University to issue digital marksheets to students||: The students of Allahabad University and its constituent colleges would be issued digital mark sheet which they would be able to download from the university’s official website.The students will have to enter their roll numbers and enrollment numbers and would get the digital marksheet in all-new format. On Saturday, the marksheet of final year back paper examination of UG courses was released in digital mode by the controller of examination.“Till now the examination results which were issued on the website had the roll number, names and marks of 25 students on one page. Now the students will get the result in the new format after entering their roll number and enrollment number on the official website of the University, said Prof Ramendra Kumar Singh, controller of examinations (CoE), AU.“This will be a digital marksheet wherein in addition to the subject wise marks, the marks obtained in the previous year and the total marks will also be mentioned. This digital marksheet would be valid for submission by students as an attachment for competitive exams as well as admissions. The original mark sheet would be made available from the department later,” said Singh. The results of the promoted students of the final year (of UG courses) will also be released on the website soon. This result is set to be released before June 15. Students stage protest A group of student leaders, belonging to National Student Union of India (NSUI), gheraoed the Controller of Examinations on Tuesday in support of their five-point charter of demands.The student leaders submitted a memorandum to the CoE wherein they have demanded that the first-year students of yearly courses (BA, BSc and BCom) as well as the results of first and final semester exams of PG courses should also be declared, and students should automatically be promoted sans exams.They have also claimed that the criteria for promoting the students had not been clearly explained.Besides, the third-year students should be promoted by awarding them 60 per cent marks and if students are not satisfied with the awarded marks, he or she should be given a chance to appear in the examination, said Abhishek Dwivedi a student leader of NSUI.After about half an hour agitation, the CoE heard their demands and assured that a decision would be taken in around a week’s time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-to-issue-digital-marksheets-to-students-101623175726813.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Activists seek easier access to vaccines for transgenders, sex workers||Several activists and NGOs have demanded easier access to vaccines in “community friendly settings” and assistance in booking slots working for transgender persons and sex workers in the Capital.“Most of the transgender persons are severely hit by the pandemic. They have literally no money left for survival and on top of that, now they have no avenue to get vaccinated. Many are not comfortable visiting the usual vaccination centres because of social ostracisation. My partner has failed to get a slot till date. We know there’s a shortage of vaccines, but even those who are above 45 years in our community are finding it difficult to book slots. Some of them do not have Aadhaar cards, they need a helping hand and the government should come forward,” said Amrita Sarkar, advisor, transgender wellbeing and advocacy at India HIV/AIDS Alliance.They also pointed out that many in these communities are already suffering from HIV, complications fromsex reassignment surgery and hormone intake, and drug addiction, making them vulnerable to Covid-19. Delhi had at least 55,633 female sex workers and 9,496 transgender persons, who are covered as “High Risk Groups” under the National AIDS Control Programme of the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The All India Network of Sex Workers (AINSW), a collective of 5 million sex workers in India, last week wrote to the Delhi government demanding better access to vaccines for the people of these communities.“The community of sex workers and transgender/hijra persons are not only at high risk of Covid-19 infection, but are also vulnerable on account of their socio-economic status, the stigma, discrimination and exclusion that they face in society, as well as a lack of information, services, resources and support. Lack of identity documents, including documents with date of birth, residence proof and self-identified gender identity is another barrier in accessing services such as Covid-19 vaccination,” the AINSW said in its note to the Delhi government.The AINSW urged the Delhi government to deploy volunteers and healthcare workers to register and vaccinate sex workers and transgender persons in community friendly settings. To address vaccine hesitancy, which is high among these communities, it sought dedicated awareness programmes to address myths and misconceptions.A Delhi government spokesperson said a special vaccination drive for such communities is under active consideration. “This is under consideration. Once we have sufficient vaccination, we will vaccinate each and every citizen of Delhi,” the spokesperson said.Dr. Rashmi Singh, director of Delhi government’s department of women and child development (WCD) said, “It does not necessarily need a specific government order to implement this. Each district has a district task force which can on its own take such initiatives. But yes, as of now, there are no such drives or vaccination centre for transgender persons and sex workers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/activists-seek-easier-access-to-vaccines-for-transgenders-sex-workers-101623175606714.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Implement One Nation One Ration Card in Delhi at earliest: Centre to AAP govt||The Union government has asked the Delhi government to speedily implement the “One Nation One Ration Card” programme, which helps beneficiaries, especially migrant workers, to avail of subsidised food commodities from anywhere in the country, pointing out that the scheme was already functional in 32 states and Union Territories.The move comes a day after the Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party asked the Delhi government to implement the scheme if its aim was to make life better for migrant workers -- a response to a claim by Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party government that the Union government was stalling its doorstep ration delivery programme.The One Nation, One Ration Card programme is a national platform that digitises ration cards, details of beneficiaries, monthly quota of ration under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013, and allows withdrawals through electronic point of sale machines, thereby allowing the mobility of ration benefits. India provides cheap foodgrains to nearly 800 million beneficiaries across the country under the NFSA 2013.Delhi has not yet implemented the scheme, which was first tried in four states in August 2019. A Delhi government spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment.In a letter to Delhi chief secretary on June 8, food secretary Sudhanshu Pandey said Union food minister Piyush Goyal, in February 2021, had urged the state government to “consider expeditious resumption” of electronic point of sale (e-PoS) devices in all fair price shops in Delhi for transparency in distribution of foodgrains and also to implement One Nation One Ration Card plan. “However, progress in this regard is yet to be made,” the letter said.Delhi had suspended the installation of e-PoS devices, which are similar to card swiping machines, but has resumed the process, which is critical to One Nation One Ration Card plan. There were also disruptions due to the pandemic.The past week saw differences arising between the Centre and the Delhi government over the new mechanism proposed by the Delhi government to distribute subsidised foodgrains.The Delhi government has proposed home delivery of ration, which the Aam Aadmi Party, which rules Delhi, had promised in its election manifesto.Nearly 7.2 million people in Delhi are eligible for some form of subsidized food at present, including 1.7 million ration card holders and nearly 3 million priority households, besides other additional food insecure categories identified by the Delhi government.“The Centre’s stand is that the Delhi government can offer foodgrains to beneficiaries the way it wants to, under any scheme it chooses at notified prices, but the existing national system under NFSA should not be disturbed because it is a countrywide programme under a national law,” a senior Union government official said, requesting that he not be quoted. The Centre can offer additional grains to Delhi for any new scheme it may wish to launch, he added.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that it was a waste of resources to have two schemes trying to do the same thing. “Will there be double expenditure on the same subject in a state? This means in Delhi, the Centre and state will spend ₹2000 crore each for ration distribution? Will that be a rational arrangement?” he asked in the letter, requesting the PM to allow the state’s home delivery scheme “:in national interest” and as a way to “eliminate the ration mafia.”Most of Delhi’s working-class and daily wager population includes migrants, who cannot withdraw their quota of subsidised grains unless the digitised system (e-PoS devices) is functional, the official said.The One Nation One Ration Card programme is now functional in 32 states and Union Territories, covering 690 million beneficiaries, or 86% of those eligible for food security cover. Food distribution happens through a network of fair price shops that act as the final points of delivery.“A portable public distribution system (PDS) envisaged by the One Nation One Ration Card is a boon for beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act who lose out on their monthly quota of subsidised food when they migrate out,” said Ananya Ghosh Dastidar, a former consultant with the Food and Agriculture Organisation.A novel cohort-based migration metric, a statistical tool developed by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian, revealed an annual “interstate migrant population of about 60 million and an interdistrict migration as high as 80 million” between 2001 and 2011. Subramanian had called for full portability of all welfare doles.Many economists say while a digitised system undoubtedly helps plug pilferages of foodgrains, over-centralisation can have welfare costs too. “Food should be available at the most convenient point, especially to those who are not still documented. This calls for a certain amount of decentralization of the PDS network,” said Rajinder Chaudhury, an economist who formerly taught at MD University, Rohtak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/implement-one-nation-one-ration-card-in-delhi-at-earliest-centre-to-aap-govt-101623175546802.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Court orders protection to witnesses in murder case against Sushil Kumar||A local court has ordered both Delhi and the Haryana police to provide round the clock protection to all the four witnesses in the wrestler Sagar Dhankhar murder case, in which Olympic medallist Sushiil Kumar is one of the accused.A committee headed by Swarn Kanta Sharma, principal and sessions judge, Rohini district court, on Monday directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), northwest Delhi and Haryana police to provide security to the witnesses and install cameras, alarms and fencing outside their homes.The committee passed the order after analysing a police report which said that the threat perception to the witnesses in the case is “real”.“The analysis report clearly indicates that the threat perception to the witnesses is real. Considering the same, DCP northwest has already provided interim protection to the witnesses who are residing in Delhi and also sent letters to SSP, Sonepat, Hansi (Hisar), Jhajjar and Rohtak --- all in Haryana -- to provide adequate interim protection to the victims/witnesses in their respective districts with immediate effect,” the committee noted in the minutes of the meeting.The committee, in accordance with the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018, passed the order of protection after the Delhi high court, on June 2, asked the State to file an application before the competent authority for protection of the witness within one week.The high court said that the competent authority will take a decision within one week of filing of the application and till a decision is taken, Delhi Police will provide interim protection to the witness.Following this, the police moved to the committee seeking an application to provide protection.Advocate Ajay Kumar Pipaniya, appearing for all the four witnesses, said his clients have been scared even to share their addresses with the police in the wake of the threat. Pipania said police’s threat analysis report also said that wrestler Sushil Kumar may use his money and clout to influence the witnesses.Taking note of the threat report and the counsel’s submission, the committee ordered that all steps will be taken to protect the witnesses, while also asking the police to submit a fortnightly report. It also asked the police to undertake regular checks around the house of the witnesses.Sushil Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted Sagar Dhankhar, and two of his friends Sonu Mahal and Amit Kumar, at the Chhatrasal stadium on May 4 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankhar, 23, succumbed to the injuries later.Sushil was arrested on May 23. The court initially remanded him to six days of police custody, which was later extended by four more days on May 29. On June 2, he was sent to judicial custody.One of the witness, who was one of the persons allegedly beaten up by Sushil, has claimed that he fears for his life as “the Olympian has links with hardened criminals”.Advocate Pipaniya told the court that his client’s parents were being influenced and threatened continuously by goons not to give any statement or testimony against the wrestler.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-orders-protection-to-witnesses-in-murder-case-against-sushil-kumar-101623175486874.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Blue diamond, conserved||It is not just blue, it’s not turquoise, it’s not lapis, it’s not even cerulean. It actually is somewhere between turquoise and lapis. These tiles on the dome of the centuries-old Sabz Burj are looking as fresh as the morning dew.So are the multicoloured patterns on the neck of the dome.Sabz Burj’s conservation is finishing this month. The project began four years ago by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture in partnership with Havells India.In the custodianship of the Archaeological Survey of India, the 16th century tomb remains one of Delhi’s most mysterious souvenirs. Who built it for whom? We don’t know yet. The grave is missing. Older than Humayun’s Tomb nearby, it stands at the intersection of Mathura Road and Lodhi Road. Many Delhiwallas mistakenly call it Neela Gumbad —the blue dome. (To deserve its name, Sabz Burj should have looked sabz, or green.)Back in the colonial times, the Brits turned the tomb into a police station. The garden around was razed down to make way for a busy avenue. Subsequently, it withered into a ruin, reduced to a traffic roundabout.The retouch will alter that perception. The tomb still is subtly melancholic, just no longer run-down. This afternoon the top half is glistening with restored colours. The facade is draped in a protective green net, swaying like a sultan’s kaftan in the afternoon breeze.“Master craftsmen restored the facade’s missing ornamentation, conservators unearthed the painted ceiling underneath a later cement layer, stone carvers put back the sandstone lattice screens, handmade glazed tiles were put up where those were missing,” says Ujwala Menon of Aga Khan Trust.The new tiles on the dome haven’t come at the cost of the original. Those ones had fallen off long time ago, or had lost their glaze, and were replaced by a set of inappropriate blue tiles in the 1980s. In fact, the leftover historic tiles in multicoloured patterns just below the dome weren’t touched, even where they had lost the glaze; only the missing portions were replaced.Inside, the ceiling with its regained floral drawings—in “pure gold” and lapis—evokes a scene of artists hanging from the scaffolding with brushes in their hands. A bygone era suddenly seems a touch away. Every year the semal trees inside the tomb enclosure briefly bloom with pulpy flowers, lending a shade of red to the monument. That missing colour will be restored in spring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-blue-diamond-conserved-101623175319461.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Despite shortage, Delhi has highest proportion of inoculations with Covaxin||Despite shortages of Covaxin doses, Delhi has used the indigenously developed vaccine to immunise over 30% of people administered shots against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Assam, with 19.2% Covaxin usage -- a difference of over 10 percentage points, comes second, and is closely followed by Andhra Pradesh, with 18.5% of its doses being Covaxin.In absolute numbers, however, Andhra, where over 2 million of the 11 million shots administered were Covaxin, comes first, and is followed by Delhi, which administered 1.7 million Covaxin doses out of a total 5.78 million doses, according to data on the government’s CoWIN portal.On Sunday, the Delhi government ordered all vaccination centres – government and private – to stop administering first dose of Covaxin to those between the ages of 18 and 45 years. This was done to ensure everyone who received the first shot in May got their second dose within the stipulated four to six weeks.Delhi, which administered the vaccine to over 162,000 persons between the ages of 18 and 45 years in May when the vaccine drive was opened for them, has received just 40,000 doses of Covaxin in June.“There is no strict upper limit for when the second dose needs to be administered. However, with inactivated virus such as Covaxin, the second shot needs to be given as early as possible because the first dose provides very limited protection. This needs to be boosted by the second dose. Otherwise, they might get a natural infection between doses,” said Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, independent epidemiologist and vaccine expert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-shortage-delhi-has-highest-proportion-of-inoculations-with-covaxin-101623175428314.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||On Day One of Unlock Delhi, police fined 1,053 persons for not wearing masks||On Monday, the Day One of a gradual unlocking process in the national capital after over a month-and-a-half long (51 days, to be precise) lockdown, Delhi Police fined 1,053 persons for not wearing masks, 229 for not adhering to social distancing norms and three persons for holding large gatherings.Police said while metal barricades were removed from roads on Monday to facilitate the smooth flow of traffic, their teams still checked vehicles, and patrolled the markets and busy roads to ensure social distancing norms were followed.On Saturday afternoon, two days before the lockdown norms were eased, all police stations were directed to form teams to conduct checks at market places.The Delhi District Management Authority(DDMA) has allowed markets to open from Monday with shops directed to open on an “odd-even” basis while standalone shops can open on all days. “Our police commissioner has directed all district deputy commissioners(DCPs) to devise non-coercive methods and take steps to ensure normalcy while ensuring social distancing. All police stations have been asked to be in touch with market welfare associations and vendors. All shops that are open have been directed to have sanitisers ready and ensure that there is no crowding. Senior police officers are also monitoring the activities on the ground,” said DCP Chinmoy Biswal, who is also the Delhi Police spokesperson.On June 12, there is another meeting of the police brass, in which they will review the Covid-19 violation by citizens during the first five days after the lockdown norms were relaxed.Based on the review, each district will present a plan on how to ensure that citizens followed Covid appropriate behaviour.Trader associations said they are asking shopkeepers to remain cautious and follow rules. Ashwani Marwah, general secretary of Lajpat Nagar Traders Association, said,” We have instructed all our members to follow the odd-even scheme for opening shops. Every shop is displaying its address at a visible spot for easy identification. There are a few buildings that have the same number and multiple shops and such shops are being marked as odd and even and every alternate shop is being allowed to open on a given day.” He said all shop owners have been told to encourage their staff to get vaccinated. “ We are also planning to organise a mass vaccination camp in Lajpat Nagar, where all shopkeepers , their staff and family members can get vaccinated without the hassle of booking slots or standing in queues,” Marwah said.The government had clamped a lockdown in the national capital on April 19, to control the spread of Covid-19, as Delhi was reporting over 25,000 Covid-19 cases daily at that time, with a daily positivity rate -- samples that came positive among the total tested -- of over 30%. This meant that one in every three persons who were tested for Covid, was positive for the infection.Currently, the city’s positivity rate is below 1% and the daily cases are also below 500. On Tuesday, according to the state government’s health bulletin, Delhi had 316 fresh cases after conducting 71879 tests and recorded a positivity rate of 0.44%. The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that to contain the spread of the infection in an area, the positivity rate has to remain below 5% for at least 14 days consecutively.During the lockdown from April 19 to June 7, police issued 104,440 fines for mask violations, 18,034 for violation of social distancing norms, and 1,529 for holding large congregations. All forms of social/political/entertainment/academic/ cultural events, which have mass gatherings and could be potential super spreader events, are still banned in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/onday-one-of-unlock-delhi-police-fined-1-053-persons-for-not-wearing-masks-101623175427586.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots accused Asif Tanha gets interim custody-bail to appear for exams||The Delhi high court has granted interim custody-bail to Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested in a case related to the northeast Delhi riots last year, for two weeks to appear in his exams scheduled for June 15.A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani allowed Tanha to stay at a hotel for studying and appearing in his exams, noting that it is imperative for him to take his three remaining backlogs or compartment examinations to complete his BA (Hons) (Persian) programme.The court said that Tanha would be released on interim custody- bail on the morning of June 13 and shall be brought back to prison by guards on the evening of June 26.As agreed by the counsels for the state and Tanha, he will be staying at a hotel in Kalkaji under the custody of two prison guards deputed by the jail superintendent. Tanha has undertaken to bear all the expenses to be incurred there, including food and lodging.“During the period of interim-custody bail, the applicant shall not invite to the said facility any visitors or guests, including family members, friends, classmates or any other person,” the bench said.As the exam will be conducted online, the court asked Tanha to arrange for a laptop, a basic mobile phone and a dongle for internet connection through a pairokar (representative pursuing his case). The devices will be first checked by the police officer concerned before it is delivered to him.The court also allowed Tanha to make a phone call to his family or counsel for 10 minutes a day during his stay at the hotel. It also directed him to not use the devices for any other purpose except studying and also not to erase or tamper with the browsing history on the laptop or SMSes and call records of phone.“It is clarified that even before the commencement of interim custody-bail, the applicant is permitted to receive all books and reading/study material, as he may consider necessary, through the jail superintendent, after being checked as per usual procedures.“During the period of interim custody-bail, the applicant shall be entitled to receive all books and reading/study material that he may require for his examinations, at the said facility, which would be delivered to him after being checked by the SHO, police station special cell... unless there is a compelling reason to do otherwise, the SHO shall permit all such books etc,” the court.It also noted that the books and reading material may be in Persian or Arabic and asked the authorities to not withhold them for that reason alone.The court said Tanha shall not in any way misuse or abuse the guarded liberty granted to him and added that the period spent by him in interim custody-bail would be counted as a period undergone in prison as an undertrial.In December last year, the high court had granted a similar relief to the accused by directing the jail authorities to take him to a guest house to enable him to study and appear in exams.Tanha was arrested on May 19 last year in the case for allegedly being part of a premeditated conspiracy in the riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-riots-accused-asif-tanha-gets-interim-custody-bail-to-appear-for-exams-101623175366734.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||DDA modifies building by-laws to allow oxygen plants in hospitals||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has modified the building by-laws to allow the installation of oxygen plants in hospitals in the national Capital, in a meeting chaired by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday. The meeting also approved the norms for planned development in 1,731 authorised colonies.Talking about the norms for setting up oxygen plants in hospitals, a senior DDA official said until now, there was no provision in the Unified Building By-laws (UBBL 2016) to install such plants.“The DDA has been getting queries from hospitals regarding development norms in this regard,” the official said, asking not to be named.The official said such plants have become essential, especially after the city faced an acute oxygen shortage during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic from mid-April to mid-May. With many patients gasping their last for want of piped oxygen, the Centre and Delhi government had decided to augment the medical oxygen facilities in the city so as to prevent a repeat of such a crisis, and the DDA decision on Tuesday is to facilitate this augmentation, the official said.The Delhi government plans to install 57 oxygen plants, including eight pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants sanctioned by the Centre, to meet the oxygen requirement in the days to come.A second senior DDA official said, “No notice and building permit will be required from the sanctioning authority for installation of PSA plant or liquid medical oxygen plant (LMO) or similar related infrastructure in hospitals if it is in an open or setback area. However, fire safety clearance, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO) approval and other mandatory clearances, wherever applicable, will be required. These plants will be free from the building’s floor area ratio and ground coverage norms.”DDA officials said for installation of PSA without any compressor, there is no requirement of a licence or approval from PESO. “For installation of PSA with a compressor, the PESO approval is needed. Installation of an LMO plant also requires PESO clearance,” said the official quoted above.In other decisions taken during Tuesday’s meeting, the DDA said it will not increase the rates for additional FAR and conversion charges while computing the misuse charge during conversion of property from leasehold to freehold.Another important decision taken in the meeting was regarding allowing planned development in 1,731 authorised colonies in Delhi.HindustanTimes had reported in January this year that the DDA had drafted the norms for redevelopment of these colonies. “Now the norms will be sent to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry for notification,” said the second senior DDA official.The DDA has proposed two approaches for planned development -- a regeneration scheme and regularisation of existing areas.DDA officials said regeneration or redevelopment scheme will help residents. “Amalgamation of plots will be permitted. The minimum area required for availing of the benefits under the scheme is 2000 square metres (sqm). For this, residents have to pool land and form a developer entity and submit a regeneration scheme to the local authorities for approval,” said the official.The second option is for regularisation of existing colonies whereby people can get the layout plans prepared and individual building plans approved by the DDA. “The unauthorised colonies will have to meet certain planning requirements such as having adequate access for fire tenders, open space for evacuation for effective disaster management, structural safety of buildings at plot level, provision for social facilities like healthcare and education facilities nearby etc,” said the second official.The developer entity or the RWA or the plot owner will have to pay for civic infrastructure development charges (sewer, water etc) to the service providing agency.The DDA has also approved a proposal to allow construction of small flats up to 60 sqm on some of the group housing plots on a freehold basis. A third senior DDA official said, “This will cater to the demand for 40-60 sqm affordable housing for small families. The small format houses are in line with the National Housing Policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-modifies-building-by-laws-to-allow-oxygen-plants-in-hospitals-101623175306716.html
08-06-2021||Other||Govt, MCD schools to trace students who fell off the grid||With schools across the national capital gearing up to restart virtual classes after the summer break, officials of the Delhi government and civic schools said they have a major task at hand -- tracking missing students, and ensure they attend the semi-online classes.Amid an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government had in April ordered schools in the Capital to close -- three weeks earlier than planned -- for the summer vacation till June 9. While corporation schools are reopening virtually from Thursday, the Delhi government is yet to announce dates for resumption of its online classes.Several principals of Delhi government schools said that they have not been able to trace some students since last March and fear that the number of such students might increase when they resume online classes. The majority of missing students, they said, are those who were promoted from primary schools run by the municipalities at the end of the last academic session and admitted to class 6. As per the official data, only 76% of the students transferred from municipal schoolslast year could be traced.“Around 40 of our students, most of them shifted from municipal schools, are still out of reach since last year. This year, another batch of students have been transferred to government schools in class 6. It will be even more challenging to focus on two such batches,” said Awadesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed School in Rohini.Every year, around 100,000 students move from municipal schools, which offer education till class 5, to government ones in class 6. Due to the pandemic, the induction of such students happened online since last year, on the basis of names sent by municipal schools.In February, HT had reported that over 166,000 students enrolled in government and municipal schools across Delhi were out of contact with their schools since the pandemic hit the Capital in March last year. Officials at these schools said they were unable to trace these students despite several efforts, including door-to-door visits, sending letters and assignments to addresses on their records, and forming peer groups to locate the students.Officials at several other government schools raised the same concerns. For instance, at a government girls school in Tilak Nagar, around 10-12 students are untraceable since last year. Similarly, the principal of another government school in Yamuna Vihar said that at least 30 of their students have been missing since last year.“The situation is likely to worsen now since the second wave of the pandemic has hit more people both in terms of personal and financial losses. We do not know how many children will be in the condition to join online classes. Extensive outreach programmes need to be launched to trace each and every student,” said the principal of a government school in Yamuna Vihar.According to the latest data collected by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR), at least 1,436 children lost either one or both their parents to Covid-19 in Delhi. Of them, 59 children lost both parents, 467 lost their mother and 910 lost their father.“Many children have lost their loved ones, including parents, amid the pandemic. At least 10 students in my school lost their parents. So many people have left for their hometowns amid the second lockdown enforced by the government in April to contain the spread of the pandemic. We will have to track them all,” Jha added.HT had last month reported that at least 800,000 migrant workers travelled from Delhi to their home states in the first four weeks of the second lockdown in the Capital.Schools run by the three civic bodies -- east, north, and south-- also raised similar concerns. Vibha Singh, principal of an east municipal corporation school in Gandhinagar, said 32 students at her school were untraceable since last March. “The number is likely to increase this year. Once the school reopens, we will start monitoring students on the basis of their online attendance and collection of worksheets from school,” she said.The principal of a north civic body-run school in Jahangirpuri, who wished not to be named, said, “We could not trace at least 40 students since last year. All of them are not living at their registered addresses. We have no idea how the situation will be this time when we reopen.”Meanwhile, both the Delhi government and three civic bodies are planning to launch extensive programmes to track students soon. Shailendra Sharma, the principal advisor to Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia, said government schools will take steps to connect with children and understand their circumstances before commencing teaching-learning activities in any form. “Renewed efforts will be made to connect with students who will join Delhi government schools from municipal schools this year in class 6. Last year, we had difficulty tracing many students but our teachers proactively reached out to them and managed to establish two-way communication with nearly 76% of them towards the end of the session. This year, while we will make every effort to get the correct contact details of children coming from MCD schools, the engagement with those moving to class 7, most of whom are yet to even see their school, will also be deepened,” he said.The Delhi government is likely to issue guidelines to its schools on how to reach out to students on Wednesday.Officials of the three municipalities also said they will soon launch outreach programs to reconnect with students. Sujata Malik, additional director of north civic body’s education department, said, “We had started a survey to relocate and trace our students in April but the work had stopped following the second wave of the pandemic. But it will be a challenge to trace those who are not in the city and don’t have access to mobile phones.”Meanwhile, experts said that both the Delhi government and municipal schools should start extensive drives with the help of NGOs and civil society groups to track students. Sanjay Gupta, director of NGO Chetna (childhood enhancement through training and action), said, “The second wave definitely was a bigger disaster than the earlier one and hence, extensive efforts need to be taken to prevent our children from dropping out. Besides extensive door-to-door drives, the authorities need to involve NGOs, and district child protection units to trace these children. The government can also take the help of volunteers of the national service scheme (NSS) in tracing students in every locality. We cannot expect students to join online classes without understanding their circumstances and providing required support first.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-classes-restart-govt-mcd-schools-will-have-to-trace-students-who-fell-off-the-grid-101623175246818.html
08-06-2021||Other||2 civil defence volunteers held for robbery, another arrested for posing as cop to extort mask violators||New Delhi Two civil defence personnel were arrested for allegedly robbing a man outside a mall in the Narela Industrial Area on Monday night. In a separate incident, another civil defence personnel was arrested in south Delhi’s Sangam Vihar for allegedly posing as a police official and extorting people caught without masks. Police also arrested a cyber cafe owner for helping the man forge a Delhi Police ID card.Civil defence personnel are volunteers of the state government who work under the district magistrate of each district in Delhi and help government in their day-to-day activities. They do not have the authority to arrest or fine anyone, and often help in managing security at hospitals, vaccination centres and creating awareness on government’s initiatives, such as odd-even road rationing scheme. In the first incident, police said two men – Gaurav(20) and Ayush(21), identified by their first names in police records – had robbed a Sonepat resident, Vikas Kumar, who was on his way to a bus stop along with his friend. The victim had reached MSP Mall in Narela when the two accused stopped Kumar, assaulted him and snatched his cell phone. A police officer, privy to the case details, said that a team of police constables, who were patrolling in the nearby area, heard Kumar shouting for help and rushed to his aid. “The accused tried to flee but our team members chased and arrested them at the spot. We found that they were civil defence volunteers,” the officer said.In the second case, police arrested another volunteer Suneel Kumar (31), who was allegedly posing as a Delhi police sub inspector and “fining people” for mask violations. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said police had received information about a man in Sangam Vihar “who looked suspicious”.“A police team observed the man’s activities and found that he wasn’t from the police station. The team members approached him and asked him to show his ID card. The man showed his ID card but it looked fake. He was taken into custody and questioned. The man turned out to be a civil defence volunteer and disclosed that the ID card was prepared at a cyber cafe. The cafe’s owner, Naveen, was also arrested. The computer used in preparing the fake police ID card was also seized,” added DCP Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-civil-defence-volunteers-held-for-robbery-another-arrested-for-posing-as-cop-to-extort-mask-violators-101623175187572.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||SAD leader among BJP’s three mayor nominees||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta on Tuesday announced the names of three councillors each for the mayoral and deputy mayoral elections in the city’s three municipal corporations — north, south and east.Gupta nominated GTB Nagar ward councillor Sardar Raja Iqbal Singh (North MCD), Sagarpur ward councillor Mukesh Suryan (South MCD) and Raghubarpura councillor Shyam Sundar Aggarwal (East MCD) for the mayoral elections.Raja Iqbal Singh is a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor from GTB Nagar ward. His nomination comes months after the SAD had severed its ties from the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over three contentious farm laws.BJP and SAD contested 2017 municipal elections in an alliance. SAD won five seats. Last year, when SAD parted ways with the BJP, SAD councillors resigned their posts but Singh, who was then the chairman of Civil Lines Zonal committee, stayed. He continued his association with the BJP and has now been nominated for the post of mayor in North corporation.The candidates filed their nomination papers on Tuesday, the last day to do so. The elections to the post of mayors, deputy mayors and standing committee chairpersons will be held on June 16.Kiran Vaidya (EDMC), Archana Dilip Singh (Noth DMC) and Pawan Sharma (SDMC) have also been nominated as candidates for posts of deputy mayor in the three municipalities. Vaidya had contested Delhi assembly elections in 2020 from Trilokpuri seat on a BJP ticket but was defeated by Aam Aadmi Party’s Rohit Kumar Mehraulia.Municipal officials said that the mayoral and deputy mayoral elections should see a smooth win for BJP as it is in the majority in all the three civic bodies.BJP also announced the names of candidates for the posts of standing committee chairpersons. Jogi Ram Jain, Col BK Oberoi and Veer Singh Pawar have been nominated for the the posts of standing committee chairpersons in North corporation, SDMC and EDMC, respectively.The Delhi Municipal Corporation Act provides for the election of mayor and deputy mayor from among the councillors of the civic bodies in the first meeting of the House every year. Mayors and deputy mayors get a year-long term in Union Territories.This year, elections of mayor and deputy mayor were to be conducted in April but the process was postponed by two months due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-leader-among-bjp-s-three-mayor-nominees-101623175186764.html
08-06-2021||Other||Want to sell crop grown on temple land? Produce deity’s Aadhaar, priest told in UP’s Banda||A priest in Uttar Pradesh’s Banda district was in a bind after the Aadhaar cards of “gods” were sought if he wanted to sell crops grown on land belonging to a temple.The unusual situation came to light after the caretaker priest of the Ram Janki temple in Attara tehsil’s Kurhara village in Banda arrived at the government mandi to sell the crops grown on the temple land. It was then that he was asked to produce the Aadhaar card of the deity in whose name the land was registered.The seven-hectare land is registered in name of the deity, in this case Ram and Janki.Mahant Ramkumar Dass, the priest and chief caretaker of the temple, said he wanted to sell 100 quintals of wheat in a government mandi (market). He had done the online registration with the help of others.When it came to actual sale, he was asked to produce the Aadhaar card of the land owner—the deities.“The registration was cancelled as I could not produce the Aadhaar card, where do I get Aadhaar of Bhagwan (God)?” he asked.He said he spoke to the sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Saurabh Shukla.“He told me the registration cannot be done without Aadhaar; that is why it has been cancelled by his office,” he said.Last year, he said, he sold 150 quintals of produce at the government mandi. He said he has been selling the produce for the last several years, but never faced a situation like this.District supply officer Govind Upadhyaya said the rules were clear that produce from mutts and temple could not be bought. The purchase policy did not have any such provision either, he said, adding earlier “khatauni” (land records) were admissible but now registration had become compulsory. And for registration, one must have the Aadhaar card of the person on whose name the land was registered.SDM Shukla said the Mahant was not asked to produce the Aadhaar card of the deity, but he was explained the process.“The policy has been decided at the government level and purchase was being done on the basis of that policy,” he said.But Dass is worried: “How are we to meet the expenses and get our food if we cannot sell the crops in the mandi?” No option in sight, he said, he would have to sell the produce to the “aarathiyas” (commission agents) at a pittance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/want-to-sell-crop-grown-on-temple-land-produce-deity-s-aadhaar-priest-told-in-up-s-banda-101623173989654.html
08-06-2021||Kolkata||Adhikari meets Shah, Nadda over Bengal violence; TMC turncoats trouble state BJP||A day after Abhishek Banerjee, the new national general secretary of Trinamool Congress (TMC), said that many Bharatiya Janata Party (TMC) leaders in Bengal, including some who won the recent assembly polls, were eager to join the ruling party, TMC turncoats caused concern for the saffron camp even as it raised voice against post-poll violence, HT has learnt.“People will not accept the constant threats of Delhi and imposition of Article 356 being posed to a government that has come to power with an overwhelming mandate. We should rise above politics and stand by people affected by the Covid pandemic and Cyclone Yaas,” former state minister Banerjee wrote on his social media page after skipping a crucial meeting of state office bearers called by state president Dilip Ghosh on Tuesday afternoon. Rajib Banerjee joined the BJP at the Delhi residence of Union home minister Amit Shah before the assembly polls.At the meeting, Ghosh, who recently faced agitation by local leaders in two districts, formed a three-member committee to control dissidence in the ranks and monitor anti-BJP social media posts by party leaders. Rajib Banerjee’s post appeared hours after leader of the opposition in the state assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, met Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda in Delhi to complain about post-poll violence in Bengal. The meetings came close on the heels of a two-day national office bearers’ meet over the weekend that was chaired by Nadda where the BJP’s performance in the assembly elections held in March was discussed threadbare. The BJP bagged only 77 of the 294 seats while the TMC won 213. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has also expressed concerns over post-poll violence in the state. At its recent meeting in the capital, the issue of “extremist ideology” taking root in Bengal was discussed. “I personally feel that the situation in Bengal is much worse than what is required to enforce Article 356. However, our party has not taken a formal stand on this issue yet. Wait and see,” said Adhikari who will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday.“Those indulging in violence must remember that Bengal is a state in India and not an independent country,” he added. In Kolkata, Ghosh said, “I do not know why our central leaders met Adhikari in Delhi. We will start a state-wide agitation against post-poll violence from June 23 and meet President Ram Nath Kovind with a petition. More than 30,000 of our supporters have fled their homes and gone into hiding because of the terror unleashed by TMC.”Before the polls, Ghosh said if people of the state demand Article 356, the Centre will have to think about it.BJP Lok Sabha member Arjun Singh, however, demanded President’s rule. “The situation calls for immediate enforcement of Article 356. A time will come when people who are not being able to save their families will retaliate,” he said. TMC leaders dismissed the allegations. Some ruling party leaders said Adhikari was meeting Union ministers and top BJP leaders in Delhi to save himself from being prosecuted in criminal cases such as the 2016 Narada sting operation being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the recent theft of tarpaulin in East Midnapore, which is being investigated by the state police. “BJP’s strategy on the face of its depleting control is clear. BJP cannot fight TMC and Mamata Banerjee politically. Defeat stares them in the face all around. Hence, bogey of President’s Rule being raised in Bengal even by Tarpaulin Thief to divert attention. HIS MASTER’S VOICE !” tweeted TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy. Rajib Banerjee, who lost his Domjur seat in Howrah district, wrote the post days after Subhranshu Roy, son of BJP national vice-president and Bengal leader Mukul Roy, wrote on his social media page that self-criticism is more necessary than criticising a government elected by peopleWhile Mukul Roy won the Krishnanagar North seat in Nadia district in the recent assembly polls, his son, Subhranshu Roy, was defeated from the Bijpur seat that he held in North 24 Parganas district. Mukul Roy, who was the TMC’s founder member and a close aide of Mamata Banerjee, joined the BJP in 2017. His son switched sides two years later. Mukul Roy, too, skipped the party’s meeting in Kolkata on Tuesday. “He could not come because his wife is admitted in hospital,” said Ghosh, who faced agitation by party workers on June 4 at Chinsurah in Hooghly district where people demanded the expulsion of district unit president Gautam Chatterjee. On Monday, the BJP state leadership issued a show-cause notice to Subir Nag, the former district president, amid allegations that he engineered the agitation. Reacting to the dissidence in the BJP, Abhishek Banerjee said, “BJP leaders should put their house in order instead of bringing false allegations.” In a unique incident, some TMC workers, who joined the BJP prior to the polls at Labhpur in Birbhum district, went around a village in an auto-rickshaw on Tuesday and announced over the public address system that they made a mistake and would like to return to the ruling party. Several leaders who attended the BJP’s state officer bearers’ meeting in Kolkata pointed out issues that they said led to the party’s defeat in the assembly polls. Those who attended the meeting told HT on condition of anonymity said some leaders opined that campaign speeches of Hindi-speaking leaders from north Indian states failed to touch public sentiment.Others said senior leaders from other states intervened too much in campaign policy without having any knowledge of ground reality. Questions were also raised on the selection of candidates. “The profile of candidates led to dissidence in the ranks at some seats even before the polls were held,” said a leader who attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/adhikari-meets-shah-nadda-over-bengal-violence-tmc-turncoats-trouble-state-bjp-101623173989214.html
08-06-2021||Lucknow||First year UG, PG students in Uttar Pradesh to be promoted without examinations||The state government on Tuesday decided to promote all first-year and first semester students of the undergraduate and postgraduate levels enrolled in universities and degree colleges across Uttar Pradesh without exams in view of the Covid-19 situation.Only the final year, final semester or those second year students who were promoted last year (when they were in the first year) without an exam will have to appear in truncated examinations, which will have a shorter duration of 90 minutes instead of three hours with 50% less questions, in August, announced deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma here on Tuesday.Sharma said there were more than 4.1 million students enrolled in UP universities and affiliated degree colleges and the decision was taken keeping in view the health of students. He said the first-year students who were promoted to the second year last year without exams will have to appear in exams this year. He also said universities were required to draft the promotion formula by June 18.According to Sharma, the first year or first-semester students who will be promoted to the second year or the second semester without exams will be assigned marks of the first year on the basis of the marks they score in their second-year exam in the future in 2022.Sharma said barring final semester or final year, marks of students will be awarded either on the basis of their previous year’s results or on the basis of their performance in upcoming examinations.For students in the second year, who have appeared in the first year examinations in 2020, their marks can be decided based on the score in the first year, and accordingly they can be promoted to the third year, he said in a statement.The deputy chief minister said there will be no practical exam and viva will be held online. The marks obtained in the theory exam will be proportionately awarded in the practical exam.He added it was being suggested to the universities to make a single question paper comprising questions from all subjects that can also take the form of multiple choice or be OMR (optical marks recorder) based.The universities were asked to declare results by August 31 and the new academic session (2021-22) would start from September 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/first-year-ug-pg-students-in-uttar-pradesh-to-be-promoted-without-examinations-101623173146423.html
08-06-2021||Other||Algal bloom in Ganga: Experts collect water samples in Varanasi||An expert team constituted by district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma to find out the cause of algal bloom in the Ganga in Varanasi did a spot inspection and collected samples of the river water on Tuesday, regional pollution control officer Kalika Singh said. The algal bloom had given the river a green look.Besides Kalika Singh, the team comprises Ganga Pollution Control Unit general manager PC Agarwal, assistant commissioner of police (Dashashwamedh) Awadhesh Pandey and two other officials, the district magistrate said.Sharma said, “The team will complete the investigation within three days and submit a complete factual investigation report, along with pictures and video clip of the Ganga (stretches having algal bloom), by June 10 evening. The team members will suggest options to solve the problem.”Ganga conservation activist Rajesh Shukla said the algal bloom in the river in Varanasi was first seen around 20 days ago but it was washed away by rain after two days. The algal bloom returned around a week ago due to which the Ganga water looked green in certain stretches.“But most of the algae has been washed away now. At present, only 10% of the algal bloom is left,” he said.Prof Vijay Nath Mishra, neurologist at Banaras Hindu University who has also worked for the cause of the Ganga, said, “The Ganga’s flow is very slow due to which the water is nearly stagnant, causing the algal bloom. This bloom hinders the entry of the sun’s rays into the water. If the condition continues for long, the concentration of nitrate and phosphorus is most likely to increase in the water. It may be dangerous for aquatic animals.”He said efforts should be made to increase the flow of water and a test should be done to find the cause of the algal bloom resurfacing in the Ganga.“To the naked eye, it appears to be a bloom formed by an alga named microcystis. It is found in stagnant water. In the Ganga, it may have come from some side drains or stagnant sources during rain. It will disappear with the increasing flow of water. If the condition persists for long, it may cause fish mortality because the neurotoxin microcystin is produced by this alga, which is harmful to aquatic animals,” said Prof BD Tripathi, chairman of Mahamana Malviya Research Centre for Ganga, River Development and Water Resource Management (MMRC for Ganga), BHU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/algal-bloom-in-ganga-experts-collect-water-samples-in-varanasi-101623172786471.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi University official under lens for embezzlement||A senior assistant working in one the administrative departments of Punjabi University, Patiala, is under the scanner for fund embezzlement, which went unchecked for at least six years and is suspected to run into crores of rupees. The university is likely to rope in the vigilance bureau for a thorough investigation into these irregularities, which came to the fore when the internal audit department and varsity’s finance wing flagged five bills, amounting to ₹6 lakh, submitted by a science department. The stamp and signatures of the department head were fake, and even the names of research scholars and assistants against whom the bills were raised turned out to be bogus, said an official privy to the development, on the condition of anonymity.Submitted bills in name of fake research scholarsAccording to the preliminary probe, the senior assistant — who handles funds provided to the university under various heads and was posted in the same department for over a decade — used to create and submit fake bills in the name of “ghost” research scholars and assistants and siphoned off the money.The funds mainly included those provided by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for development schemes, non-UGC grant for research projects and scholarships given by the ministry of human resource development besides those received under Rashtriya Uchhchatar Shiksha Abhiyan. According to the university’s budget, it has received around ₹70 crore in such grants in just the past three years.Taking swift action on the complaint received last week, vice-chancellor Professor Arvind formulated a high-level fact-finding committee to file an interim report. The committee will also look into the exact amount of funds siphoned off during all these years. “The committee is likely to look into the bank details and other financial transactions of the employee as well,” said the official.Registrar Varinder Kaushik, who is part of the fact-finding committee, said investigations are still at the preliminary stage and he could not divulge any details. “The matter is serious in nature. The V-C has directed us to conduct a thorough inquiry. The interim report will be submitted at the earliest, following which the V-C will take further action,” he said. Other members of the committee are dean (research) Ashok Tiwari and finance officer Rakesh Khurana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-university-official-under-lens-for-embezzlement-101623172488407.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh family donates ancestral land to build mosque in Malerkotla village||Setting another example of communal harmony in the Muslim-majority Malerkotla, a Sikh family from Jitwal Kalan village in the newly created district’s Ahmedgarh subdivision has donated its ancestral land to build a mosque. Until now, around a dozen Muslim families residing in the village, situated about 15 kilometres from the district headquarters, had to go to neighbouring villages to offer prayers during Eid and other occasions. Jagmail Singh, 40, whose family owns a large tract of land, on Tuesday announced to donate 6 biswa (around 8,000 square feet) in the centre of the village to construct a mosque. Muslims from Malerkotla and other villages also assembled at the spot to offer prayers.“There are around 12 Muslim families in the village. They have to go to other villages to offer prayers. I knew they could not buy land, as they mostly work as labourers and are poor,” said Jagmail Singh, whose family has been associated with Muslims in the village for three generations.Iqbal Singh, 33, another member of the family, said: “The construction of the mosque will start after relaxations in Covid-19 restrictions. We will also try to provide financial aid for its construction.”Roshan Khan, 61, a local Muslim, said they have a long association with the Sikh family and have been living peacefully in the village for decades.Abdul Rashid, 40, a truck driver, said, “We are poor and could not purchase land for building a mosque. Our Sikh brothers have shown a big heart.”Gurwinder Singh, a local, said: “Malerkotla has been known as the land of Sikh-Muslim unity for centuries. The initiative to donate land will cement our brotherhood further.” A historic town, Malerkotla is known for communal harmony since Nawab Sher Mohammed Khan had protested against the torture and bricking alive of the younger Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh. The area also remained peaceful during the Partition in 1947.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-family-donates-ancestral-land-to-build-mosque-in-malerkotla-village-101623172487059.html
08-06-2021||Gurugram||MCG to begin beautifying stretch linking Museo Camera, Galleria Market, Super Mart by June-end||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is likely to start beautifying a 1.3-kilometre stretch linking Museo Camera, Galleria Market, and Super Mart, along the Galleria Boulevard Road by the end of June 2021, officials said on Tuesday.As part of the project, the MCG will make street arts, set up green belts, and use concrete bollards to barricade a section of each carriageway for pedestrians, and traffic management purposes. The MCG will also fix potholes, and level the stretch. According to the officials, the civic body has floated tenders for this project, bids for which will end on June 12.Galleria Market, established in DLF Phase 4 in 2001, is one of the most iconic landmarks in the Gurugram, with more than 100 shops, restaurants, pubs, and offices. A private real estate firm report in December 2015 and December 2017 had put Galleria Market as the third most expensive market in regard to retail rental space in India.Museo Camera, a camera museum opposite Galleria Market, opened at Chakkarpur village in August 2019. The museum operates out of a renovated community centre of the MCG, and it has over 2,500 cameras and photos, some dating back to the 1860s.Super Mart is a marketplace with over 50 shops, restaurants, eateries, liquor stores, and supermarkets.“We want to set up the 1.3-kilometre stretch as a model road. We will beautify the roads leading up to all three landmarks and ensure the existing civic infrastructure such as roads, streetlights, footpaths, and drains are also repaired simultaneously. We aim to start the groundwork by June 25 this year,” said MCG executive engineer Tushar Yadav, who is overseeing the project.Yadav also said that concrete bollards will be placed parallel to the main carriageway so that pedestrians and cyclists are safeguarded with a dedicated path, instead of travelling on the main road and block the movement of vehicles resulting in snarls.The MCG officials, privy to the matter, said that the project is expected to cost around ₹40 lakh, and be completed in three months from the date of commencement.“The project is likely to start around the time when pre-monsoon showers commence. It is likely that the bitumen-related work, as well as street arts, will begin from September and be done by October-end. It depends on when the monsoon arrives in the city, and the extent of work which can be completed in that short window,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-to-begin-beautifying-stretch-linking-museo-camera-galleria-market-super-mart-by-juneend-101623172306300.html
08-06-2021||Gurugram||Number of Covid-19 beds halved as cases continue to dip||The reserved bed capacity for Covid-19 patients was reduced from 60% to 30% of the total bed capacity, while reservations in intensive care units and beds with ventilator support decreased from 75% to 50% in all private and government health facilities, according to an order issued by the district administration on Tuesday. The chief medical officer of Gurugram, Dr Virender Yadav, said that due to a constant decline in Covid-19 cases and a high recovery rate, of almost 99%, hospital beds are now vacant. “Except for the ICU and ventilator beds in private hospitals, where patients with severe infections are undergoing treatment, the reserve bed capacity will remain 50%. If required, it will be increased to the maximum capacity of 75%,” said Yadav. On Tuesday, deputy commissioner Yash Garg issued the order based on the recommendation of the health department, as the Covid-19 curve has flattened in the last two weeks. The weekly test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the sample tested, is currently at 0.7%. The district reported at least 33 new cases on Tuesday, taking the active case count to 642. Of these, 55 are critically ill patients in ICU or ventilator support system. In the last eight days, only 432 new cases of coronavirus infection have been reported.According to the Gurugram Covid Combat Companion (GC3) portal, of the 3,865 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients, at least 3,198 beds are vacant. It includes 2,887 oxygen beds in over 105 hospitals, of which at least 2,544 are vacant. Likewise, of the 703 ICU beds, 483 are empty and out of 275 ventilator beds, at least 171 are not being utilised. The district administration previously revised the bed capacity for Covid-19 patients on April 22, when active cases in the city reached a high of 3,553 cases in a day. As the positivity rate peaked to almost 35% on May 22, the healthcare infrastructure of the district was overwhelmed with patients who required immediate oxygen and ventilator support systems. At that time, of 491 ICU beds, only nine beds were available while two out of 233 ventilator beds were available. With increased hospitalisation, fatality also increased, with more than 15 deaths being reported in a day, despite allegations of underreporting. To address the crisis in April, Garg issued an order under National Disaster Management Act, 2005, reserving at least 60% of the total bed capacity in general wards and 75% of ICU and ventilator beds. Also, to accommodate the patients, makeshift hospitals with at least 800 beds were in the construction phase. According to Yadav, a decision is yet to be taken as to how these makeshift hospitals will be utilised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/number-of-covid-19-beds-halved-as-cases-continue-to-dip-101623172247695.html
08-06-2021||Gurugram||Ahuja takes charge as MCG commissioner||Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, a 2009 batch IAS officer, took charge as the commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Tuesday.Ahuja held an introductory meeting with senior MCG officials at the civic body’s Sector 34 office, visited the Badshahpur drain and Bandhwari waste plant, and took stock of monsoon preparedness measures in the Aravallis on his first day. In his first meeting, Ahuja directed the MCG’s IT wing to develop an online system for monitoring all civic works of the MCG.“My top priority would be to rectify the cleanliness system and get the public grievances resolved in a timebound manner. A zero-tolerance policy will be adopted in cases of corruption. The citizens of Gurugram make complaints to the MCG through various means and these complaints will be resolved on a priority basis,” said Ahuja.Ahuja and former MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, a 2011-batch IAS officer, have swapped places, with the latter moving to Panchkula as its new deputy commissioner. Their transfers were part of a major administrative shuffle by the Haryana government last Friday, when 42 officials were transferred from across the state.Ahuja, who is holding a position in Gurugram for the first time, will also serve as the chief administrator of the Shri Mata Sheetla Devi Shrine Board.Ahuja took stock of the MCG’s progress regarding the removal of 2.5 million tonnes of legacy waste from the Bandhwari waste plant, and also examined the portion of the Badshahpur drain where the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is widening it. The GMDA is clearing a bottleneck that reduces its carrying capacity from 2,300 cubic foot per second (cusecs) to 800 cusecs, causing flooding along parts of National Highway 48 during monsoon.MCG officials said that Ahuja had a long conversation with GMDA officials regarding monsoon preparedness measures near Shiv Nadar School. “GMDA officials apprised the MCG commissioner that they are building check dams, four creeks, and ponds near the site to ensure run-off rainwater from the Aravallis is contained and groundwater is recharged, while also ensuring the nearby Golf Course Road is not flooded,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.Ahuja was also apprised by officials about MCG’s property tax system, Swachh Bharat Mission, cleanliness measures, sewerage and drainage system, enforcement measures, sustainability, graded response action plan (GRAP), advertising, larvicide activities, mobile medical units, C&D waste management, door-to-door waste collection, issues related to mobile towers and the civic body’s multilevel parking project, among other civic issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ahuja-takes-charge-as-mcg-commissioner-101623172246336.html
08-06-2021||Gurugram||Lift and loot: Robberies along highway on the rise again||Gangs of robbers posing as cab drivers offering rides to commuters along the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway have resurfaced despite earlier crackdowns, senior police officials said, with two incidents reported over the last two days and four incidents in this month so far.The police said the gangs mostly target commuters between Shankar Chowk and Kherki Daula, with as many as 100 gangs from Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and the neighbouring district of Nuh estimated to be operational at present. A total of 14 such incidents have been reported this year.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “Robbers take advantage of the situation and people fall prey to their tactics due to a lack of public transport. We have already busted six gangs this year and arrested over 20 people. However, cases are still on the rise and gangs have become active again.”The police said that despite several crackdowns in February and March, the gangs continue to operate by changing their modus operandi. Also, the vehicles used in the crime are stolen or robbed, and the robbers change the registration number plates to mislead the police. They also change cars frequently, the police said. In the latest incident of robbery on Monday, a 55-year-old dairy owner was assaulted and robbed of his belongings at gunpoint around 6.30am when he tried to hitchhike from Rajeev Chowk to Kotputli in Rajasthan.Harun Qureshi, a resident of Hira Nagar in Sector 11, said that he recently bought cattle through a dealer in Bansur village of Rajasthan, located over 120 kilometres from the city. He was on his way to make a payment of ₹2.58 lakh when the incident took place.Qureshi flagged down a private car at Rajeev Chowk and boarded the car. Four people, including the driver, were already inside, he said. “I told them that I was going to Kotputli following which they asked me to board the car. After five minutes, two of the commuters suddenly attacked me and asked me to hand over my belongings. They kept on hitting me and snatched my mobile phone and nearly ₹2.6 lakh. It all happened within a few minutes and I could not even retaliate,” he said.They took the U-turn before Kherki Daula toll plaza and drove towards Hero Honda Chowk and they pushed him out of the moving car and drove towards Delhi, the police said.A case under sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was filed at the Sadar police station. The police said they have recovered CCTV footage from three spots and two of the suspects have been identified.The police said that such cases have increased since lockdown curbs were eased and most of them are reported from Iffco Chowk, Shankar Chowk, Rajeev Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk and Kherki Daula in the early morning or late night hours.Sangwan said that officers in plainclothes have been deployed at different locations to track such gangs. Usually, they change more than two cars in Gurugram to evade the police and sometimes, also travel on motorbikes after committing crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lift-and-loot-robberies-along-highway-on-the-rise-again-101623172186437.html
08-06-2021||Lucknow||16 dead, around 30 injured as bus collides with three-wheeler in UP's Kanpur||As many as 16 people were killed and around 30 sustained injuries when a bus they were travelling in collided with a three-wheeler light carriage vehicle at Sachendi locality in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur on Tuesday.The injured have been taken to the Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital.According to police, the death toll could rise further as many of those who were injured were stated to be in a critical condition.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the accident and instructed the officials concerned to be present on the spot and provide all possible help.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/16-death-around-30-injured-as-bus-collides-with-loader-in-up-s-kanpur-101623170872155.html
08-06-2021||Other||With less than half the Covid-19 cases as compared to Pune, Nagpur has most black fungus cases in state||PUNE As of Monday, the state state has reported a total of 6384 mucormycosis cases out of which currently 4088 are undergoing treatment, 1732 have been recovered, 523 declared dead and 41 who took leave against medical advice (LAMA). Out of the total cases of mucormycosis reported the state, maximum number of cases have been reported from Nagpur which has reported half the number of Covid19 cases reported in Pune which has reported the highest number of infection cases in the state. Nagpur has reported 1,132 cases of mucormycosis (black fungus), of which 463 have recovered, 97 have been declared dead and 560 are still undergoing treatment. However, the district has reported 0.491 million Covid-19 cases, while Pune with 845 mucormycosis cases has reported a total of 1.26 million Covid-19 cases, as of Monday. The rare, but serious, fungal infection has caused serious trouble for the administration because of its high fatality rate among patients wo have recovered from Covid-19. The state government had declared it a notifiable disease, and announced free treatment schemes for the infection. The districts with the highest number of black fungus cases are Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad, Mumbai, Nashik and Solapur, in that order. Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, district civil surgeon, said, “We have about 55 hospitals, including 11 which are MPJAY-affiliated . Since mucormycosis requires multi-specialists, only major hospitals treat patients. As per our report, we have 586 patients under treatment, whereas the state report says there are 699 patients. There may be some difference in the state and district data, since there could be duplication of names and also updating issues.” The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has also started a dedicated ward for mucormycosis at its Dalvi hospital. Dr Kiran Bhise, hospital in-charge, said, “We started the ward this month and we have three patients currently admitted. The first operation will take place tomorrow. The treatment and medicines is completely free at this hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-less-than-half-the-covid-19-cases-as-compared-to-pune-nagpur-has-most-black-fungus-cases-in-state-101623170745992.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana police SI booked for raping national-level weightlifter||A sub-inspector deputed in the traffic wing of Ludhiana police commissionerate has been booked for raping a national-level weightlifter on the pretext of getting her a job in the department. Identified as Jagjit Singh, he has been suspended. Two of the 39-year-old victim’s male relatives have also been booked for threatening her and conspiring with the cop. No arrest has been made so far.The case comes months after a head constable was arrested for raping a 24-year-old woman at a police post in Ludhiana in January. The cop had allegedly threatened to implicate her husband in a false case.A mother of three, the woman in the present case alleged the sub-inspector (SI) had been raping her for the past nine months. He allegedly also recorded her objectionable pictures and videos and had been blackmailing her.The woman had lodged a complaint with police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal on June 3, who had marked an inquiry to additional deputy commissioner of police Pragya Jain. The FIR was lodged following the probe. Police said the woman had won silver medal in weightlifting and powerlifting at national level and had been seeking a government job under sports quota. Her uncle, who is one of the accused, introduced her to the SI in August 2020. He assured to get her a job in the police department and called her to a restaurant in Ludhiana, where he allegedly raped her.The woman alleged that the accused threatened to share her objectionable pictures and videos on the social media and kept raping her at various restaurants. When the woman sought help from another male relative, he too allegedly started threatening her at the SI’s behest.ADCP Pragya Jain said a case has been registered against the men under Sections 376 (rape) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-police-si-booked-for-raping-national-level-weightlifter-101623169846618.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura police firing: SIT quizzes then MLA Mantar Brar||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the police firing in Punjab’s Kotkapura in 2015 on Tuesday questioned former Shiromani Akali Dal legislator Mantar Singh Brar among others. With this, Brar, who was then Kotkapura MLA, became the first politician to be quizzed by the new probing team.The previous SIT had named him as an accused in the case, wherein police had opened fire on people protesting against sacrilege incidents at Kotkapura in Faridkot district, leaving two men dead on October 14, 2015. However, the Punjab and Haryana high court on April 9 quashed all reports filed by the previous SIT, headed by inspector general of police Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, following which a new SIT was constituted under additional director general of police (vigilance) LK Yadav.According to sources, suspended Indian Police Service officer Paramraj Singh Umranangal also appeared before the SIT on Tuesday. He had shown inability to appear before it on Monday and had sought a day’s time. The SIT has not revealed any details about the line of questioning. Umranangal who was then the Ludhiana police commissioner was sent to help cops in maintaining law and order at Kotkapura. He was considered close to the then director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini. In February 2019, after the Congress government took over the state’s reigns from Shiromani Akali Dal, Umranangal along with other police officers was booked for negligence in duty and failing to control the situation. Subsequently, he was suspended. According to the previous SIT, Mantar Brar had made 157 phone calls to the chief minister’s officer, then DGP Saini and other senior officers of the civil administration on the night before the firing. In the chargesheet, he was accused of influencing the local police to not record the statements of complainants in the case.This was second consecutive day that the new SIT grilled people linked to the case. Others who were questioned include Gurcharan Singh, then officer on special duty in the CMO; IAS officer VK Meena, who was then divisional commissioner; and then Faridkot SSP Sukhmander Singh Mann. An officer who at the time posted as the Kotkapura subdivisional magistrate also appeared before the team. The SIT has visited Faridkot a fortnight back and had grilled police officers who were present at the time of firing on the protestors. Former DGP Saini was also questioned last week. The SIT is expected to resume questioning shortly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-police-firing-sit-quizzes-then-mla-mantar-brar-101623169726553.html
08-06-2021||Other||Stalin writes to 12 CMs to seek loan repayment moratorium for MSMEs, small biz||Chief minister MK Stalin on Tuesday wrote to his counterparts in 12 states, urging them to write to the Union finance minister and the Reserve Bank of India on the need for a moratorium on loan repayment for MSMEs and small businesses.Stalin’s letter was addressed to the chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana and West Bengal.Stating that he had taken this up with the Government of India, Stalin requested the states to write to the Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India, Shaktikanta Das, on the issue. Stalin, who has been in office for a month, urged his counterparts “to prevail on them to offer a moratorium on repayment of loans for at least the first two quarters of 2021-2022 to all small borrowers with outstanding up to ₹5 crore in view of the lockdowns induced by the second wave of Covid-19.”Citing the example of how the states’ collective effort in asking for vaccines to be procured centrally and distributed free of cost to states led to the Union government to revise its position accordingly on Monday, Stalin urged for states to come together once again. “We need to show our collective strength at this hour of great need,” Stalin said in his letter.Previously, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had written to 11 non-BJP ruled states, including Tamil Nadu, to put up a joint effort to get vaccines from the Union government. Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik also followed suit. Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had written to Vijayan for states to speak in a single voice regarding the vaccines.During April-May last year, when the Union government announced the nationwide lockdown, a moratorium was offered on repayment of loans for such borrowers. “However, in April-June, 2021, when lockdowns are being imposed based on local conditions by the respective states, similar relief to borrowers is not being provided for,” Stalin said, adding that the absence of such relief measures would force many businesses to close leading to economic distress. “These MSMEs and small businesses are the mainstays of our economy and employment generation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stalin-writes-to-12-cms-to-seek-loan-repayment-moratorium-for-msmes-small-biz-101623169366990.html
08-06-2021||Other||Odisha announces ₹29 cr package for street vendors, second time amid pandemic||With the prolonged lockdown in the state in the wake of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic impacting the livelihood of street vendors, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday sanctioned an amount of ₹26.29 crore from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund as Covid-19 assistance for 87657 street vendors in urban areas, a statement from the chief minister’s office said.The street vendors will receive financial assistance of ₹3,000 each. “The Covid-19 wave has had a profound effect on public life. It had the greatest impact on livelihoods. Street vendors in urban areas are suffering financially due to lockdowns meant to control the infection,” the statement read. Last year too, the state government announced financial assistance worth ₹3,000 each to over 65,000 street vendors across 114 urban local bodies to deal with the Covid-19 lockdown. Lat year, the Central government sanctioned ₹8.2 crore collateral-free loans for street vendors in Odisha under PM SVANidhi Yojana.However, Pratap Sahu, president of Odisha Utha Dokani Mahasangha, a body of street vendors, said that the package should be further extended because there are above 22 lakh roadside vendors across the state.“The impact of Covid-19 has been very harsh on informal workers like street vendors who have exhausted their capital and earnings in trying to feed themselves during the extended lockdown period. The government stimulus package, while a welcome step, is insufficient in the nature of relief as only registered vendors are eligible, which leaves out the majority of vendors in the state,” said Sahu.Sahu said vendors need to be able to resume vending for survival and the government should take steps to begin to reopen markets and allow vendors back on the streets. “Vending zones should be designed keeping in mind the need for social distancing and for sufficient hygiene facilities. Besides, all street vendors should be vaccinated in keeping with the promise made in March this year,” he added.Nupur Patnaik, a sociologist at Central University, Koraput, said the Street Vendors Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending Act, 2014, if implemented, would have helped the street vendors. “A vital and a thriving economy is the one that takes care of its foot soldiers or those at the very bottom and yet forms the most important constituent of the economy. The Act acknowledges that 2.5% of the city’s population are street vendors and they should be absorbed into the vending zones. But 7 years that the law came into place, it is yet to be properly implemented and the gap in the implementation of the act is also the primary reason why street vendors today are facing a crisis in the pandemic,” she said....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-announces-rs-29-cr-package-for-street-vendors-second-time-amid-pandemic-101623168646258.html
08-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,306 new Covid, 24 deaths||Pune: On Tuesday, the state health department reported 1,306 new cases of Covid-19 cases in the district in the last 24 hours. With 24 more deaths the toll in the district went up to 13,532 and progressive cases up to 1.029 million Covid cases of which 0.994 million have recovered, 20,747 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 734 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 295,468 and with 16 more deaths the death toll stood at 4,420. Pune city reported 362 new cases which took the progressive count to 487,613 and with eight more deaths the toll went up to 7,175 while PCMC reported 210 new Covid cases the progressive count went up to 245,876 and with no more death the toll stood at 1,874. The state reported that 16,577 patients have been discharged on Tuesday and totally 5,580,925 Covid patients have been discharged after full recovery until Tuesday. The recovery rate in the state is 95.35%. Also, 10,891 new cases and 295 Covid deaths were reported in the state on Tuesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.73%. Of 36,907,181 laboratory samples 5,852,891 have been tested positive (15.86%) for Covid until Tuesday. Currently, 1,153,147 people are in home quarantine and 6,225 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-306-new-covid-24-deaths-101623167925570.html
08-06-2021||Pune||No change in school fees despite online classes, parents allege||As admissions for the new academic year resume, many parents allege that schools have either maintained the same fees from last year or hiked it despite online education induced by Covid-19 restrictions. Parents have alleged that various charges for amenity, transportation and snacks are also included in the fee for students. However, like last year, this year as well schools will mostly function online. Speaking about the amenity charges, a Pune-based parent said that the school has charged ₹7,000 annually for snacks. “As online classes are ongoing, why does the school need to charge for snacks and transport? The student will not be using them anyways. During this pandemic, the fee hike is not justified as parents are struggling financially. We understand that our schools are good, but schools should also understand the situation of parents,” said a parent. Another parent of two daughters in kindergarten and nursery said that the fee hike for nursery has schools has been around 25 per cent. “As compared to last year, the fee hike is more than 25 per cent. The tuition fee, admission fee and the deposit has been increased. The deposit has been increased from ₹10,000 to ₹30,000. The admission fee was around ₹10,000 which is not ₹15,000 whereas the tuition fee was ₹65,000 which is now ₹72,000,” said the parent. The parent noted that the fee hike for nursery during online academic year is not justified at all. Rajendra Singh, president of Independent English Medium School Association (IESA) said that schools have maintained the fee structure from last year. “Even though the cost for online education has increased, many schools have maintained the fee structure from last year. This year, parents and teachers both agree that students should not lose out on learning during online education. We have to provide teachers with laptops and schools have to involve a third party for assessing students and evaluating them. These are costs incurred by schools. Despite that, schools have not increased fees,” said Singh. He added that students need to be disciplined during the online classes to avoid learning loss. “Students should wear their uniforms and not be disturbed when online lectures are going on. If the video of the child is not on, then how can the teacher check if the child is attentive? This leads to learning loss of the child and hence it is important to discipline the child,” said Singh. In March this year, the Bombay high court (HC) vacated the stay on the government resolution (GR) that restrained schools from hiking fees for the academic year of 2020-21 in view of the pandemic. However, the HC said the state may initiate action against a school in case of complaints from parents or even take suo moto action in case of alleged exploitation by a school. The bench also directed the state to address complaints of parents or take suo moto action against schools that violated the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) (MEIR) Act. It also restrained schools from taking coercive actions like expulsion or not being allowed to attend classes, against students whose parents had lodged complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-change-in-school-fees-despite-online-classes-parents-allege-101623167926211.html
08-06-2021||Pune||Four arrested for blackmarketing of anti-fungal injections||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have busted a gang engaged in the black marketing of anti-fungal injections and arrested four persons on Monday afternoon. Amongst the arrested includes a woman who aided the trio in the crime. The police have recovered three vials of D Liposomol Amphoterein B injection from their possession. The accused arrested have been identified as Gaurav Jaywant Jagtap (31), a resident of Kalakhadal road in Wakad, Amol Ashok Manjrekar (39) , a resident of Sus road, Pashan, Ganesh Kaka Kotme (32),a resident of Janta Vasahat and Mamta Devraoji Jalit ( 24) from Rupeenagar in Nigdi. The fifth accused identified as Basavraj, a resident of Solapur is still at large, and a team has been sent to arrest him. The anti-goonda squad led by assistant police inspector Harish Mane received a tip off regarding the arrival of the accused for selling the injections in the black market. Accordingly, a trap was laid, and the accused taken into custody. API said “The accused were found selling the anti-fungal injections in the market far above the market price without any doctor’s prescription. We have seized three vials of injections estimated to be worth ₹1.15 lakh from them and all of them have been arrested.” Bhagyshree Abhiram Yadav (44), an inspector attached to Food and Drug Administration (FDA) office has lodged an FIR against the accused at Wakad police station. The accused have been charged under IPC 420 (cheating) and relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the drugs (prices control) order 2013, the essential commodities Act, 1955 and the drugs and cosmetics Act 1940, illegal purchase of injection without doctor’s prescription and selling above the prices. It may be recalled that the Pimpri-Chinchwad police had arrested four persons including two siblings - one from Aundh-based private hospital and public hospital and another from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Baner for the black marketing of Remdesivir injections which are used in the treatment of Covid-19. The accused were found to selling the injection at a price of ₹11,000 and it was the first case in Pune where the police had acted against black marketing of the medicine at a time when there was severe shortage of the injection for the patients. According to the police, currently with the rise in number of Mucormycosis patients, the black-marketing of Amphotericin B-injection IP 50 mg, which is used to treat Mucormycosis, a fungal infection had increased. The police have cautioned citizens not to purchase medicines and injections that do not have authentic details especially bonafide medical prescription.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-arrested-for-blackmarketing-of-anti-fungal-injections-101623167865552.html
08-06-2021||Pune||10% symptomatic samples in Pune that test negative in RAT confirm positive in RT-PCR||Pune: As per the data compiled from the state health department, 10% of the symptomatic samples tested negative in rapid antigen tests (RAT) were later found to be positives. Of the total tests conducted in Pune district, 38,533 had tested negative in RAT. As of June 5, 4.848 million tests were conducted and 22.7% tested positive. The district’s contact traced 12.92 contacts for every positive case while the state average is 15.03 contacts for each new positive case.The report states that 4,848,804 tests were conducted of which 1,102,987 or 22.7%tested positive and 3,745,817 (77.3%) tested negative. Pune’s record for tests per million is 413,895 and 94,151 tested positive per million. While the administration does rely on RAT tests to ensure early detection during super survey tests and also for emergency-like operations, RT-PCR is considered as the gold standard for testing. As of June 5, the district had 21,216 active cases of which 78.7% were asymptomatic, 12.4% were mild symptoms and 8.9% were critical patients. The data states that Pune’s average contact tracing is lower than the state. While the district tested 3.53 high risk contacts and 9.4 low risk contacts for every positive case, the state average is 5.69 high risk contacts and 9.34 low risk contacts. Pune traced 1,003,824 or 98.2% of the contacts while 21,534 or 1.8% are pending. Of those traced, 3,621,725 are high risk contacts and 9,640,694 are low risk contacts. Pune constitutes 17.6% of total positive cases of Maharashtra with a cumulative positive case count of 1,026,717 as of June 5. A total of 10,608 new cases were reported in this week as compared to 16,941 in the previous week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10-symptomatic-samples-in-pune-that-test-negative-in-rat-confirm-positive-in-rtpcr-101623167505458.html
08-06-2021||Pune||Land acquisition for ambitious Pune-Nashik high speed rail begins||The land acquisition process for the Pune- Nashik high speed railway has begun. The Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (MahaRail) and revenue officers have begun negotiations with landowners for the ambitious project between Pune and Nashik. MahaRail’s managing director Rajesh Kumar Jaiswal said, “The land acquisition for the project started on ground two weeks ago. It started on a whole stretch and the concerned collector office, and our officers are carrying out this process. We published the material in Marathi and handed it over to the landowners and project affected villages. The project’s benefits are listed in it.” Jaiswal said, “This is the first high speed project on broad gauge in India. We are preparing the design for it. We’ve even made some videos and the Maharail floated the tender for appointing a consultant for preparing the design of tunnels in all respects in connection with the broad-gauge double railway line project.” Jaiswal said, “As Covid -19 pandemic is going on, we did not fix any deadline for land acquisition, but we are hoping to get it done early. We are preparing all other administrative works. Once the land is acquired, the project would get executed in record time. It’s our dream to complete this project in record time as it is India’s first high-speed railway route on broad gauge.” One of the senior officers from the collector’s office said on condition of anonymity, “There is a good response for the land acquisition. It started in all three districts, Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik. The local officers are carrying out this process. It’s not a traditional land acquisition process, the administration is approaching only the affected landowners instead of issuing notices to all villages. There is direct dealing with the landowner and government machinery.” One of the senior officers said that to avoid land acquisition in Pune city, some part of this project is overhead on existing railway lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/land-acquisition-for-ambitious-pune-nashik-high-speed-rail-begins-101623167445569.html
08-06-2021||Pune||Crime branch arrests duo involved in chain snatchings and vehicle theft||The Pune city crime branch has solved five cases of chain snatching and arrested two accused in connection with the incident. The action comes in the wake of strict orders issued by Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta to carry out quick detection of petty crimes like chain snatching and vehicle theft which according to him had been affecting the citizens the most. The accused identified as Deepak Parshuram Mali (22) and Mukesh Sunil Salunke (19), both residents of Mundhwa were arrested by the crime branch sleuths of Unit 5. A tip off regarding their arrival at Ravidarshan in Hadapsar was received by policemen Ajay Gaikwad and Chetan Chavan and accordingly a trap was laid, and the duo was arrested. During their interrogation, the duo revealed that there were involved in four cases of chain snatching and one vehicle theft which took place under the jurisdiction of Chaturshringi and Yerawada police stations respectively. The crime branch officials have recovered 57 grams of gold and three bikes totally estimated to be worth ₹4.13 lakh from their possession. The police later arrested jeweller Samrat Hukum Singh Bhati for accepting buying stolen jewellery from the accused. Salunke is one of the wanted accused in a spate of chain snatching incidents in Hadapsar while Mali has as many as sixteen cases of chain snatching lodged against him at different police stations in the city, crime branch officials said. The entire action against the accused took place under the guidance of police inspector Hemant Patil and his team members under the guidance of Add CP (crime) Ashok Morale. Additional CP Morale said that the crime branch has been working to ensure that maximum numbers of chain snatching cases in the city were detected swiftly and the stolen jewellery recovered and returned to the victims. “We are getting good results as our different units are working on leads and ensuring that the culprits are arrested and citizens’ life is made safe through speedy detections and return of their stolen property at the earliest ,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/crime-branch-arrests-duo-involved-in-chain-snatchings-and-vehicle-theft-101623167325508.html
08-06-2021||Pune||RTE admission process to resume on June 11||After a delay of two months, the admissions under the Right to Education (RTE) will be resume from June 11 providing relief to parents who have been waiting for the admission process to restart. For the academic year 2021-2022, there are 982 RTE registered schools in Pune. Around 14,567 students were selected in Pune during the online lottery of the 55,813 applications that were filed. Across Maharashtra, there are 82,129 students selected under RTE during the online lottery for this academic year. The lottery under the RTE was declared on April 7, however, the document verification and other procedures were stopped due to the lockdown which continued until May end. Under RTE, 25 per cent seats of the unaided private schools are reserved for students from economically backward sections at entry level of preschool and Class 1. Parents and activists have been demanding that the RTE process should restart quickly so that children begin school soon. Students who have been selected have received a text message regarding their selection. These parents now have to take all the required original documents and photocopies of the same to the respective schools for verification. Director of primary education Dattatray Jagtap in an official statement said that the document verification process will continue for 20 days ahead of June 11. “Parents are requested to take all original documents and photocopies of the documents to the school for verification along with them. Parents should also not forget that even though Covid cases have reduced, the pandemic is ongoing. We urge parents to maintain social distance and not gather in crowds at school premises. Parents should follow Covid protocols like wearing masks while going to the schools,” said Jagtap. He further added that schools should not give admissions to selected candidates who have not filled the distance between residential address and school correctly. Under the RTE act, the distance between residences of the student and the school should be less than 3 kilometres. The act states the limits of neighbourhood schools as 1 km walking distance from the habitation of a child at the primary level that is for Classes 1 to 5 and within 3 km walking distance for upper primary level that is for Classes 6 to 8. “Schools can hold admission for now for students who have filled the distance between school and residence incorrectly. These parents should visit the taluka level committee and the education department to resolve the matter,” said Jagtap. He further added that after the admission process for these selected candidates is completed, the students in the waiting list will get admission on seats that are remaining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rte-admission-process-to-resume-on-june-11-101623167265520.html
08-06-2021||Pune||Airport police book contractor for causing death of labourer at construction site||The airport police have booked a contractor on charges of negligence which led to the death of a labour on the construction site. According to the police, Malesh Basappa Chalwadi (28), a labourer from Lohegon was working at the construction site located in survey No 882 in Lohegaon when he slipped from the under-construction building, sustained head injury and died on May24. According to the FIR, the contractor did not provide the mandatory helmet, safety net and safety belt to the labourer while getting the work done at the construction site. PSI Ashok Gandhale who is the investigating officer in the case said that the contractor had been booked on charges of negligence which led to the untimely death of the deceased. The police have invoked IPC section 304A (causing death by negligence). According to the section, whoever causes the death of any person by doing any rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both. No arrest has been made so far. Sarang Dale, a police constable has lodged an FIR in connection with the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/airport-police-book-contractor-for-causing-death-of-labourer-at-construction-site-101623167205493.html
08-06-2021||Pune||PMPML to convert diesel buses into CNG due to rising fuel prices||Similar to residents, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is facing the heat of the rising fuel prices. The organisation has now taken an important decision to convert its diesel buses into CNG buses. Looking at the hiked prices of diesel fuel, impacting on its daily expenses over fuel, the organisation is converting its 200 buses into CNG. It would be the first time PMPML would be changing its diesel buses into CNG, for which they have put in a request to Maharashtra Natural Gas Limited (MNGL) to carry out the process. “With the hiked diesel prices and having a major impact on our daily expenses, we have put in a request to MNGL demanding to convert our 200 buses from diesel to CNG. We had a preliminary discussion with their officials and accordingly we are now working out on a plan to convert these buses. There is a cost of around ₹4 lakh to convert one bus into CNG fuelling system,” said PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap. “It is just like installing a CNG kit to a car, similarly the buses will be installed CNG kits, and it will save our huge fuel expenses. Our talks are going on about the same with MNGL officials, its formalisation and proposal making process is going on,” he added. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the PMPML is already facing huge losses since last year. Even in the last two months as services were closed for public, the transport body reported losses of over ₹80 crore. When asked about funding of this project, Jagtap said, “We are not in a condition to bare the costing of converting these buses to CNG, but certainly if both the municipal corporations help in providing funds it will save lot of money in future over fuel. Once we get good response to this project, later on other than purchasing new buses and to save money we would convert more diesel buses into CNG.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-convert-diesel-buses-into-cng-due-to-rising-fuel-prices-101623166845448.html
08-06-2021||Pune||Three arrested for assaulting police personnel on Covid duty||The Sinhagad police have arrested three persons including two women for assaulting policemen and violating Covid-19 guidelines on Monday. According to the police, the accused identified as Ritesh Manik Jagdhane (28), a resident of Sanjay Gandhi Society in Wadgaonsheri and the two women picked up a quarrel with police patrol team on Covid duty at Ganpati Chowky in Dhairi. According to the FIR, Jagdhane and the accused were going a car wherein seven persons were seated beyond the prescribed rules and regulations of Covid. When objected, Jagdhane grew furious along with the two women who threatened the policemen on duty and even snatched away the receipt book from one of the constables. They also manhandled a policeman and a woman constable, according to the complaint. The police have invoked IPC 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty ), 332 ( Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty ), 323 ( voluntary causing hurt ),504 ( intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace ),506 ( criminal intimidation ), 188 ( Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant ), 34 ( Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention ). PSI Deepak Khedkar is investigating further in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-arrested-for-assaulting-police-personnel-on-covid-duty-101623166725425.html
08-06-2021||Other||Chatra: CRPF jawan shoots colleague dead before killing self||A central reserve police force (CRPF) jawan on Tuesday shot dead one of his colleagues before shooting himself to death by his own weapon, police said. The incident took place at a Covid-19 isolation centre at ITI college campus in Chatra district.Some family dispute was the reason behind the incident, Chatra superintendent of police (SP) Rishav Kumar Jha said. The deceased CRPF jawan was identified as Kaalu Ram Gurjar from Rajasthan, while his victim colleague was identified as Ravindra Ram hailing from Haryana.According to the police, Gurjar shot dead Ram when the latter was trying to pacify the agitated jawan. “In a fit of rage, Gurjar opened fire, killing his colleague. He then shot himself dead. Both died on the spot,” the SP said.The duo was deployed with CRPF-190 battalion for security of isolated Covid-19 patients at the centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chatra-crpf-jawan-shoots-colleague-dead-before-killing-self-101623166605457.html
08-06-2021||Pune||PMPML proposes fresh business plan to generate revenue||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has come with a new business plan to increase its revenue and improve the service to passengers, it’s the third such plan which the transport body has prepared. The organization even got the approval from its board of directors, but when it comes to implementation stage many such business plans have gone for a toss in the past. “Our main aim to prepare this business plan is to increase our revenue and reduce our expenses. Apart from that it aims to make strategies, how to increase our ridership, mobile ticketing and daily pass system revision and many more things are introduced in this plan. It has been approved by the board of directors and is available on our official website for public.” said PMPML chairman and managing director (CMD,) Rajendra Jagtap. In the past three such business plans were prepared by the then CMD’s and several changes were also made in it. But sadly, till date none of them came to the implementation stage. One of the plans was even reheated by Tukaram Mundhe in 2017. Talking about these business plans, Sanjay Shitole, a transport activist and member of PMP Pravasi Manch said, “There is lack of transparency and trust while making these plans. Earlier also such plans were made, huge funds were spent over it and then nothing happened. PMPML should involve transport organisations, experts and other stakeholders while making plans rather than giving it to a private company.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-proposes-fresh-business-plan-to-generate-revenue-101623166485467.html
08-06-2021||Patna||Denied bail, 7 escape from Danapur court||Seven out of nine accused escaped from Danapur court premises after their bail was rejected in an electricity supply dispute, on Tuesday.The incident occurred when the accused surrendered in court. “As they came to know that their bail was rejected, they fled away from the premises. It seems that some help was arranged from outside. A case has been registered against them,” said a police officer. Those who escaped have been identified as Sonu Yadav, Lalu Yadav, Sidhnath Yadav, Upendra Yadav, Chandan Kumar, Mukul Kumar and Raju Kumar. In-charge Siogri police station Subodh Thakur said that as they came to know of the incident, the search operation was carried out. However, the accused could not be traced so far, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/denied-bail-7-escape-from-danapur-court-101623166425400.html
08-06-2021||Other||Bihar lifts lockdown after 35 days, night curfew to stay||PATNA Bihar lifted the statewide lockdown on Tuesday, 35 days after it was first imposed on May 5 to control the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic, but allowed the night curfew to continue. Chief minister Nitish Kumar announced the decision soon after the meeting of state’s crisis management group, which he chaired.Under the new arrangement, offices, government as well as private, will be allowed to function with 50% attendance till 4 pm and all shops can remain open on alternate days till 5 pm. Use of private vehicles will also be allowed.However, all education institutions, religious places, parks, malls, gyms and cinema halls will remain closed till further orders.The government will review the situation next week before it takes any decision on opening educational institutions. Till then, it has advised for continuation of online classes.The restrictions imposed on marriages and last rites rituals will continue. The night curfew will remain in force from 7 pm to 5 am. “There is still a need to avoid crowding,” Kumar said.Visitors will not be allowed in government and private offices while shops will open on alternate days, as per the directions given by district collectors.The lockdown, which started on May 5, was extended four times, the last being on June 2.The Covid situation in Bihar has improved during the lockdown. Positivity rate has dropped to less than 1% and while recovery rate stands close to 98%.RestrictionsEducation institutions, religious places, parks, malls, gyms and cinema halls will stay shut till further ordersOffices, government as well as private, will be allowed to function with 50% attendance till 4 pm All shops can remain open on alternate days till 5 pm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-lifts-lockdown-after-35-days-night-curfew-to-stay-101623166366036.html
08-06-2021||Other||Poor response by pvt players to Covid vaccination programme||PATNAThe government’s move to decentralise vaccine procurement has failed to kindle the interest of private players in Bihar to participate in the national vaccination mission. Only 11 private health facilities have shown interest to set up vaccination session sites since the Centre decentralised its vaccine procurement policy in May, before changing it again on Monday. It has asked private health facilities to correspond directly with the vaccine firms for supplies against the 25% production share available to them. While allowing them to charge people for vaccination, it capped the service charge to a maximum of ₹150 per vaccine dose, in addition to the cost of procuring the vaccine. Patna is the lone district among 37 others in Bihar to have shown some interest. Among some big private health facilities to have applied for government permission for vaccination are the Paras HMRI Hospital, Ruban Memorial Hospital, BIG Apollo Hospital, Mahavir Cancer Sansthan, Mahavir Aarogya Hospital, Mahavir Vatsalya Aspatal, Kurji Holy Family Hospital and the Tripolia Hospital, Gulzarbagh. The number of private players in Bihar now willing to participate in the Covid vaccination programme has fallen sharply as compared to over 100 private players during the National Covid Vaccination Programme between January 16 and April 30. As many as 40 private health facilities in Patna had participated in the mission earlier. Only 11 have sustained the interest now. “There is demand among our patients for the vaccine. Already, a few companies like the Reliance, HDFC Bank and the ICICI Bank have approached us to vaccinate its employees. We are happy with the service charge the government is offering us. We have been granted permission to host a vaccination session site at our hospital after the civil surgeon inspected our premises. We are hopeful to get the vaccines in July,” said managing director of the Ruban Memorial Hospital, Dr Satyajit Kumar Singh, who was earlier averse to the idea of hosting a vaccination session site at his hospital, after the government changed its policy of giving free vaccines to private players in May. The Ruban hospital, he said, had administered an average 200 to 450 doses of vaccine a day between January 16 and April 30. The state government had granted permission to the three hospitals under the Mahavir temple trust, said its secretary Acharya Kishore Kunal. “We have been allotted the centre code after inspection of our premises and indications are that the vaccines will be made available to us next month,” said Dr Upendra Prasad Sinha, nodal officer (vaccination) at the Mahavir Vatsalya Aspatal. Some other hospitals expressed skepticism about footfall at private centres for paid vaccination after the Prime Minister Monday announced that the Centre would provide free vaccines to states and union territories for vaccinating the population above 18 years of age, while asking private players to procure them directly from firms and allowed them a service charge of ₹150 per dose. The Centre had last month expressed concern that none of the private hospital from Bihar had entered into contract with manufacturers. A letter, dated May 31, from Dr Manohar Agnani, additional secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, to Bihar’s additional secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit had asked him to encourage better performing hospitals under the Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana to sign an agreement with the two vaccine manufacturers. “This would enable the state to secure more vaccines for Covid-19 vaccination,” said Dr Agnani in his letter, a copy of which was with the Hindustan Times. Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar, did not respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/poor-response-by-pvt-players-to-covid-vaccination-programme-101623166365392.html
08-06-2021||Pune||Fire at chemical plant near Pune: Culpable homicide case lodged against owner||A day after 17 workers, most of them women, were killed in a fire at a chemical plant in Pune district, a case of culpable homicide was registered against one of its owners on Tuesday.Fire safety measures such as installation of emergency exits had not been taken at the plant, the police alleged.A case was registered against Nikunj Shah, one of the owners of SVS Aqua Technologies, under IPC section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) at Paud police station, said Abhinav Deshmukh, Superintendent of Police, Pune rural.Shah was questioned during the day and has been detained, he said.The case was registered following an inquiry report submitted by a committee headed by Sub-divisional Magistrate (SDM) Sandesh Shirke, the SP said.Also Read | Pune fire not because of short circuit: Maha home ministerThe preliminary probe showed that the company had not followed fire safety norms and building permission rules, he said.There were no emergency exit doors and open space (where people can take refuge in case of fire), Deshmukh alleged.According to some of the workers, the doors of the section where the fire started got locked, and local people had to use JCB machines to break down the walls and rescue those inside."In a nutshell, the company officials did not take necessary precautions despite knowing that thematerials they were using were combustible," SP Deshmukh said.Asked about the cause of the fire, he said the material used in the manufacturing of chlorine dioxide is combustible, and heat due to friction or a spark might have acted as trigger."We have some witnesses who also endorse that there was some spark or friction," he said.Forensic experts have taken samples and the chemical report will tell what kind of chemical reaction took place, the police officer said."But at this juncture, gross negligence on the part of the firm is being seen, and on that basis, an offence has been registered," he added.Asked if the company manufactured sanitisers, Deshmukh said it did not seem so. A small quantity of sanitisers was found but it could be for the use by the employees, he said.Some locals had alleged that the company was also making sanitisers -- which are inflammable -- without license."It does not seem like the fire was caused due to sanitisers. As of now it seems that the fire was caused due to some material used in making chlorine dioxide," he said.Chlorine dioxide is used for water purification.Deshmukh also maintained that the death toll was 17. SDM Shirke had earlier put the death toll at 18.As per the company officials too there were 17 workers inside the section when the fire started around 3.30 pm on Monday.As the bodies were charred beyond recognition, blood samples of relatives have been taken for DNA matching to identify the deceased, Deshmukh said.To speed up the procedure, samples are being sent to an Aurangabad laboratory besides the Pune one, the SP said.The identification process was expected to be completed in four days, the SP added.The plant is located in the Pirangut industrial area of Mulshi tehsil, near Urawade village, 40 km from Pune city.Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar had said an inquiry would be conducted and a compensation of ₹5 lakh each will be given to the next of the kin of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-at-chemical-plant-near-pune-culpable-homicide-case-lodged-against-owner-101623164808744.html
08-06-2021||Bangalore||Less than 10,000 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka since April 14, active caseload at 225,000||With 9,808 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, Karnataka recorded less than 10,000 daily new infections for the first time since April 14. So far 2,717,289 positive cases have been detected in the state, a bulletin from the health department on Tuesday showed. Also, 179 people succumbed to their infection which pushed the death toll above the 32,000-mark (32,099 exactly), the bulletin also showed.Today's Media Bulletin 08/06/2021Please click on the link below to view bulletin.https://t.co/xKWqQUPxqs @CMofKarnataka @drashwathcn@GovindKarjol @LaxmanSavadi @mla_sudhakar @BBMPCOMM @DC_Dharwad @DCKodagu @dcudupi @DCDK9 @mysurucitycorp @mangalurucorp @CEOUdupi pic.twitter.com/emprCrD2cKActive caseload also continued to decline and currently stands at 225,004, the highest among all states in the country. It witnessed a decline of 13,820 cases from the 238,824 reported earlier on Monday.Meanwhile, the number of daily new recoveries continued to stay above the number of new cases. As many as 23,449 patients were discharged on the day taking the total recoveries to 2,460,165, data from the bulletin showed.Also read | Bengaluru volunteers battle overcharging in hospital amid pandemicOn Tuesday, 130,224 tests, comprising 45,714 Rapid Antigen Detection tests and 84,510 RT PCR and other methods, were conducted by medical workers. So far, 30,862,227 samples have been tested for the disease in the state.Among the districts, Bengaluru Urban with 2,028 new Covid-19 cases, Mysuru with 974 new cases, Shivamogga with 703 new cases, Hassan with 659 new cases and Tumakuru with 589 new cases reported the highest in the last 24 hours. In terms of the active caseload, Bengaluru Urban (101,965 cases), Mysuru (14,059 cases) and Hassan (10,461 cases) remain the worst affected districts in the state.On the Covid-19 vaccination front, 178,538 first doses and 15,708 second doses were administered on the day until 3.30pm. Also, the cumulative coverage stands at 15,676,863 doses (including 12,769,175 first doses and 2,907,688 second doses), the government bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/less-than-10-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-since-april-14-active-caseload-at-225000-101623165040901.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to ensure govt jobs for 2,000 persons with disabilities||The Punjab government will fill at least 2,000 vacancies announced in various departments this year with persons with disabilities.Social security, women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary on Tuesday said the government will ensure that the 4% reservation in place for divyangjans (persons with disabilities or PwDs) is met while filling 50,000 vacancies announced for the year. Presiding over a meeting of the state advisory board for PwDs at Punjab Bhawan in Chandigarh, Chaudhary said the state government has already announced to enhance social security pension for all sections, including PwDs, from ₹750 to ₹1,500, from July 1. The minister also directed the officials concerned to identify 35 acres of land for a stadium for para players at the earliest so that the construction could start soon. Reviewing the progress of welfare schemes, Chaudhary instructed the officials to ensure provision of disabled-friendly facilities in parks, bus stands and other public places. Chaudhary asked the officials of education, sports, transport and other departments to regularly review programmes and schemes for PwDs and inform her department immediately. The departments were also directed to expedite the digitisation of various cards for the disabled, such as Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Card and Job Card. The social security department has so far received 3,54,478 applications for Unique Disability Identification (UDID) card, of which 2,11,848 have been processed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-ensure-govt-jobs-for-2-000-persons-with-disabilities-101623163785597.html
08-06-2021||Bhopal||Digvijaya Singh’s PIL blames MP govt for Dec clashes, court seeks govt response||Bhopal: The Indore bench of the Madhya Pradesh high court has asked the MP government to reply to a public interest litigation (PIL) that accuses the authorities of negligence in dealing with communal clashes following a campaign to collect funds for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, the state government’s senior law officer said on Tuesday.“We received the copy of the PIL on Monday so I requested the court to grant time to reply. The court has given (the state government) six weeks to submit a counter reply,” Madhya Pradesh’s additional advocate general Pushyamitra Bhargava said.The 33-page petition filed by senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh said the MP government did not take steps to stop the clashes that erupted in December 2020 in three MP districts, Indore, Dhar and Ujjain, after a campaign to mobilise funds for the Ayodhya temple.“This left a trail of communal violence, breach of peace and communal harmony and destruction of immovable-movable property of the victims and otherwise,” the former chief minister’s petition said.Singh said he supported the “pious work of construction of Shri Ram Mandir at Ayodhya” but the collection of funds must be voluntary. Also, he said, members of the minority community “should not be coerced or threatened to pay donation for this pious purpose”.Some organisations targeted “members of the minority community of Madhya Pradesh in order to show their dominance and breach communal harmony in the State of Madhya Pradesh,” the petition said, referring to some incidents of violence when the rallies passed through Muslim-dominated areas.The state government and the police appeared to have been “inactive and negligent in performing their statutory and administrative duties”, he said, arguing that the communal violence in the three districts demonstrated an attempt to spread the violence.Singh’s petition said the government officials concerned not only acted negligently but at certain places, witnessed the entire episode without acting against the culprit.Lawyer Ravindra Singh Chhabra, who filed the petition for Singh, said he had submitted video clips, WhatsApp chats and other documentary evidence to back up his charge.Madhya Pradesh director general of police, Vivek Johri refused to comment. “The matter is in court now so I can’t comment on it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/digvijaya-singh-s-pil-blames-mp-govt-for-dec-clashes-court-seeks-govt-response-101623162945562.html
08-06-2021||Other||Kannur strongman K Sudhakaran is new Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee chief||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Tuesday appointed K Sudhakaran, a member of parliament from Kannur (north Kerala), as president of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) after intense deliberations, the party said in a statement.“I know it is a big challenge. My priority is to strengthen the party at the grassroots level. I am sure the party will be in the reckoning soon, bypassing recent setbacks,” he said in Thiruvananthapuram. Many senior leaders, including Chandy, Chennithala and VM Sudheeran, hailed his elevation and said his selection will give the right message to the party rank and file.Following the defeat in the recently-held assembly elections, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and PCC chief Mullapally Ramachandran had resigned. Senior leader VD Satheesan was later appointed the opposition leader in the assembly but the selection of the PCC chief was delayed due to pressure from different groups.An opponent of faction politics, Sudhakaran (73) wields good support among young cadres of the party. Known for his strong position against the CPI(M), he survived two attempts on his life. A grassroots leader, he always stood with party workers through thick and thin. A fiery orator, his acerbic tongue and blunt talk often landed him in trouble but young party workers always cherished it and he became an icon among them.Two powerful groups in the party, one led by former CM Oommen Chandy and the other by Ramesh Chennithala, opposed his elevation strongly but the party insiders said leader and MP Rahul Gandhi threw his weight behind Sudhakaran.He started his political career through Janata Party in the 1970s and later joined the Congress on the initiative of veteran leader K Karunakaran. He was a legislator from 1996 to 2009 and was a minister in the AK Antony cabinet. He was elected twice from Kannur parliament seat. A post-graduate, he’s also a fitness freak.After the elevation of the new PCC president, three new working presidents were also appointed by the AICC - Kodikunnil Suresh MP, PT Thomas MLA and T Siddique. The present working president KV Thomas has been removed from the post, said the release issued by AICC general secretary (in charge of organisation) KC Venugopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kannur-strongman-k-sudhakaran-is-new-kerala-pradesh-congress-committee-chief-101623162047206.html
08-06-2021||Other||Pirangut fire: Owner of industrial firm arrested, charged with culpable homicide||PUNE A day after a fire inside an industrial plant at Pirangut claimed 17 lives, the Pune police, on Tuesday, arrested the owner of the firm, Nikunj Shah, for negligence.Shah, director at SVS Aqua Technologies, has been charged with culpable homicide not amounting to murder, covered under section 304 of Indian Penal Code (IPC), in the FIR lodged at Paud police station. The police action came after a probe committee constituted by district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, under sub-divisional magistrate Sandesh Shirke, highlighted several lacunas in its preliminary report, submitted within 24 hours of the incident. Seventeen workers, including 15 women, were charred to death in a major fire that broke out inside the industrial plant at Urawade village near Pirangut, around 40 kilometres from Pune. Following the tragedy, Deshmukh constituted a four-member team, headed by Shirke, to inquire into the cause of the fire, along with safety related aspects. The committee found negligence on the part of SVS Technologies on various counts, including no fire-safety mechanism, despite combustible material being produced at the mid-size plant. The committee highlighted a total of 12 points in its report, accessed by Hindustan Times. “The firm did not follow norms needed to be adhered to on the industrial estate. This included fire safety, building permission-related norms along with provision of entry-exit points and open spaces needed to be allotted. The committee also found that SVS Technologies did not take necessary precaution, especially as it was producing combustible material like chlorine di-oxide,” said superintendent of police, Abhinav Deshmukh. The report of the committee will now be part of the investigation against Shah and his firm. According to eyewitnesses who survived the blaze, there were sparks at a machine used for processing chlorine di-oxide, which the firm was using to make a powder for purifying water. The committee has recorded statements of the eye witnesses, which will now be part of police investigation. Before his arrest, Shah, after the fire, had denied his company was producing any inflammable material. “The firm is involved in manufacturing chemicals required for purification of water. This chemical is not inflammable, and we suspect a short- circuit as the cause of the incident,” Shah had said on Monday. The police also ruled out that the company was producing sanitisers, as alleged by relatives of the victims. “Although we found some barrels of sanitisers, it is a small quantity and possibly brought for the use of workers during Covid,” the police said. Earlier in the day, Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil, during his visit to the site of the incident, said that a short circuit did not cause the fire. Meanwhile the administration has revised the death toll in the fire tragedy to 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pirangut-fire-owner-of-industrial-firm-arrested-charged-with-culpable-homicide-101623162045515.html
08-06-2021||Other||Short-circuit did not cause Pirangut fire: Walse-Patil||PUNE Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil said on Tuesday that a short-circuit did not cause the fire at the Pune-based firm, SVS Aqua Technology, that killed 17 persons. “A product caused the fire at the plant in Pirangut. Fire-audit wise, definitely more caution should be taken. I will ask all MIDC officials to take precautions to avoid such incidents,” said Walse-Patil, during his visit to Pirangut, where he met families who lost their kin in the incident. The minister also said that DNA tests will be carried out to ascertain the identities of victims, as the fire at the chemical manufacturing firm at Urawade in Pirangut was so devastating, that it has posed a major challenge to authorities to identify the deceased.On Tuesday, the administration also revised the death toll in the tragedy to 17. “Due to the blast inside, some bodies were found in parts. Initially it seemed like there were 18 victims. However, now we have crossed-checked with the company officials and found only 17 missing. Everyone else is accounted for. Therefore, the death toll is 17,” said Abhay Chavan, tehsildar of Mulshi area Bodies of the deceased were recovered from the site after a two-hour operation on Monday. “All bodies are completely charred due to severe burns. They cannot be identified clearly. A DNA examination of all bodies will be done for identification. Blood samples of relatives will be taken,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of police, Pune Rural. An official at the mortuary of Sassoon General Hospital, under condition of anonymity, said on Tuesday morning, “Doctors could only barely identify the gender, but even that cannot be confirmed. Without DNA tests, it will be difficult to say anything.” A team of doctors performed post-mortems on the bodies overnight. However, the bodies have not yet been handed over to the relatives. The blood relatives of missing victims are being called in from various parts of Maharashtra. The samples will be sent for DNA testing at the government laboratory in Pune. Names of victims Confirmed list of those missing and assumed deceased: Archana Vaikant Kawade (36), Sachin Ghodke (24), Sangita Maruti Polekar (43), Mangal Baban Margale (29), Surekha Manohar Tupe (45), Suman Sanjay Dhebe (38), Sunita Rahul Sathe (28), Mahadevi Sanjay Ambare (40), Manda Bhausaheb Kulat (49), Trishla Sambhaji Jadhav (32), Atul Lakshman Sathe (23), Seema Sachin Borade (34), Geeta Bharat Diwadkar (41), Shital Dattatray Khopakar (43), Sarika Chandrakant Kudale (42), Dhanashree Rajaram Shelar (22), and Sangitla Ulhas Gonde (43)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shortcircuit-did-not-cause-pirangut-fire-walsepatil-101623162044804.html
08-06-2021||Lucknow||UP govt sets target for vaccinating 10 crore citizens in 3 months||Hours after the Uttar Pradesh government relaxed restrictions due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in all 75 districts of the state, it said in a release that it has set the target of vaccinating 10 crore people in the next three months.As many as 797 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours. On Monday, 2.85 lakh Covid-19 tests were done. The positivity rate of the state is 0.2%, while the recovery rate has gone up to 97.9%, according to the official data.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath instructed officials to increase the vaccination capacity in the state by three times and take it to 10 lakh doses per day in July in a bid to prevent the third wave of the pandemic. The CM also asked the officials concerned to prepare a district-wise strategy to meet the target of 10-lakh-doses a day in July."In spite of being the most populous state, Uttar Pradesh is setting new daily records in vaccination while states like Punjab, Rajasthan and Chandigarh among others have ‘underutilized’ doses of Covid-19 vaccine that have been supplied to them," the release read.Vaccination in Uttar Pradesh has been ramped up significantly after the immunisation drive ‘Mission June’ was launched. "The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the state exceeded 2.07 crore, with over 4.57 lakh doses being administered on Monday. Notably, the vaccination drive in Uttar Pradesh has seen a remarkable jump, leaving other states far behind in the run," the release added."On June 7, around 32,81,402 doses of Covid-19 vaccine were given all over the country, of which 4,57,085 doses were administered in Uttar Pradesh. Madhya Pradesh holds the second rank with 3,82,224, followed by West Bengal, which administered 2,96,843 doses and Maharashtra with 2,91,592 doses," the release said.CM Adityanath, while reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state, welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's decision to take back control of Covid-19 vaccination from the states and to provide free vaccines to all from June 21. “The Prime Minister has announced free vaccination for all age groups from 21st June. This effort of his is going to give further impetus to vaccination,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-sets-target-for-vaccinating-10-crore-citizens-in-3-months-101623158085093.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 10,891 fresh Covid-19 cases, pushing tally to 5.58 million||Maharashtra reported 10,891 cases of Covid-19 and 295 fatalities on Tuesday, taking the caseload and the death toll to 5,852,891 and 101,172, respectively, according to the state health department’s bulletin. A total number of 16,577 people recovered on Monday while the cumulative recoveries now stand at 5,580,925.The capital city of Mumbai reported 682 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total tally of cases to 712,055 In the previous 24 hours, seven individuals succumbed to the infection, pushing the death toll to 15,006.Tuesday's daily tally marks an increase from the total number of cases recorded a day before. The western state recorded 10,219 cases on Monday, reporting a decrease from the 12,557 cases recorded on Sunday.The state tested 211,042 samples on Tuesday, an increase from the 1,87,172 samples tested on Monday.Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state on Covid-19 management, told Hindustan Times that the recent fall was made possible by the lockdown-like restrictions imposed in the state on April 22, ramping up of testing facilities, and regular supply of required medication in affected areas. For areas like Kolhapur, which is witnessing a spike in cases, Salunke attributed the late occurrence of the virus as the reason for the rise.“The lockdown as well as other factors such as ramping up of tests and regular supply of medicines ensured reduction of cases. In areas like Kolhapur, the virus came late and hence, active cases there will come down in the next 15 days,” said Salunke.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced an easing of the lockdown-like restrictions from Monday, which was imposed in a bid to contain the rising number of cases. A five-level unlock plan was announced on Sunday allowing areas with a positivity rate of 5% or less and less than 25% oxygen bed occupancy to open up completely. However, no public movement is allowed in areas with more than 20% positivity rate and over 75% occupancy of oxygen beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-10-891-fresh-covid-19-cases-pushing-tally-to-5-58-million-101623158529585.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray’s one-on-one meeting with PM Modi ‘nothing to be afraid of’, says MVA||Leaders of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Jayant Patil told reporters on Tuesday that reports of a separate meeting between the Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackery and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is “nothing to be afraid” about. The meeting does not threaten the Maha Vikas Aghadi government at the state, as they are committed to serving for five years, added Patil."Our commitment is to serve for five years and we will complete that tenure. There is nothing to be afraid of about a separate meeting that took place between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. There is no threat to the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra," PTI said quoting Patil."Though our political stands are different, we maintain a cordial relationship with leaders of other political parties. NCP chief Sharad Pawar maintains such relations. Sometimes controversies happen. There is nothing new about it," he added.Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut also told reporters that the meeting was held between three individuals on issues concerning the state, and there will be a definitive decision in the coming days."Prime Minister Narendra Modi listened to CM Uddhav Thackeray, deputy CM Ajit Pawar and Congress leader Ashok Chavan about various issues concerning the state. There will be some definitive decision in coming days," Raut told PTI.The chief minister along with the deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and public works department minister Ashok Chavan called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday at the latter’s residence in Delhi, to discuss various issues, including reservation for Maratha and Other Backward Classes, the nomination of 12 members to legislative council and the release of GST compensation dues. Thackeray also met the Prime Minister for an one-on-one meeting which lasted for 30 minutes.“Yes, we had a separate meeting. We may not be politically together, but that does not mean that we have snapped our relationship. I did not go to meet Nawaz Sharif,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-s-one-on-one-meeting-with-pm-modi-nothing-to-be-afraid-of-says-mva-101623159095717.html
08-06-2021||Jaipur||FAO alert: Locust movement in India likely during monsoon, numbers to be low||In view of the movement of locusts in southwest Iran, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) has said that a few small groups of immature adult locusts could form and move east to the Indo-Pakistan border.FAO said in the latest desert locust situation update that control operations continue in southwest Iran against hopper groups. It added that small scale breeding is likely to commence with the onset of the monsoon in July, but locust numbers should remain low.“We are monitoring the situation as per FAO’s desert locust update, but the chances of a locust attack are very low, said KL Gurjar, deputy director of the Locust Warning Organization (LWO).Also Read | Rajasthan: Locust attack warning issued for JaisalmerAn LWO official said that the organisation is fully prepared.To further strengthen ground control capabilities,70 new pieces of equipment were procured from the United Kingdom to increase the number of ground control teams to 104. Additionally, 55 vehicles were procured to strengthen the control potential. He said that last year, to strengthen aerial control capabilities, drones, a Bell helicopter and customised Mi17 Helicopter of Indian Air Force were deployed. Drones were used for locust control for the first time after finalising protocols in coordination with the ministry of civil aviation.According to a ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare report, a locust attack is not a regular phenomenon and large scale incursions occur characteristically in cycles of heightened activity for a couple of years, followed by long periods of inactivity. Locust attacks were reported in India during 2019-20 and 2020-21, examples of large scale locust upsurges, when locusts migrated to India after a gap of 26 years. During 2019-20, a locust incursion was reported in Rajasthan, Gujarat and Punjab, while in 2020-21, there was locust incursion in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.“During 2019-20, Rajasthan and Gujarat had reported crop loss over 1,79,584 hectares and 19,313.14 hectares of land, respectively. During 2020-21, Haryana reported minimal crop loss, much below the norms of compensation. Uttar Pradesh has reported a very nominal crop loss over 202.9 hectares of land. Maharashtra and Uttarakhand have reported crop loss of below 33% on 805.80 hectares and 292.4 hectares of land respectively. Madhya Pradesh has reported a partial crop loss of 10-15% over 4,400 hectares. Rajasthan has reported a crop loss of above 33% on 489.72 hectares and Gujarat has reported crop loss of below 33% on 6,832.20 hectares of land,” as reported by the ministry of agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/fao-alert-locust-movement-in-india-likely-during-monsoon-numbers-to-be-low-101623158385344.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Akali Dal demands tax waivers for businesses in Punjab||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday demanded that the Congress government in Punjab should waive property tax and fixed charges on electricity bills for the industrial sector as well as shops, hotels and restaurants for one year. The former deputy chief minister said the move will compensate for the losses suffered by businesses due to repeated lockdowns imposed to stop the spread of coronavirus in the state. “Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had promised to waive fixed charges on power bills for two months last year, but the government went back on this commitment,” said Sukhbir in a press statement issued on Tuesday. He said the things had gone from bad to worse, as the industrial sector, hospitality sector and other businesses are running in losses, making it essential to waive fixed charges from April 1, 2021, to March 31, 2022. “Similarly, a one-year property tax waiver should be implemented for the trade and industry sectors to help them tide over the current Covid-19 crisis,” said the Ferozepur MP. Sukhbir announced that in case the Congress government remains “insensitive to the suffering of the trade and industry”, the SAD would implement these waivers if voted to power in the state in 2022. The SAD chief said it was shocking that no relief had been extended to any section of society till now. “A compensation of ₹2 lakh should be extended to families of all Covid victims besides cash assistance of ₹6,000 per month to all BPL families for six months,” he said. He also demanded a one-year waiver of road tax for all cab and auto operators as they had lost their livelihood due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-demands-tax-waivers-for-businesses-in-punjab-101623158265012.html
08-06-2021||Other||Seers, traders seek phased Char Dham yatra||A decrease in Covid-19 cases over the last week has led to calls for the phased beginning of the Char Dham yatra to four of the holiest Hindu shrines in Uttarakhand. The pilgrimage was scheduled to start on May 14 but was postponed on May 29 amid worries that it could become another super-spreader event after the Mahakumbh.The Uttarakhand government was widely criticised for its poor management of the Mahakumbh and for breach of safety protocol. The Centre was also criticised for allowing the event to go ahead. The Mahakumb coincided with a surging second Covid-19 wave that overwhelmed the health care system.Only priests of the Char Dham shrines have been allowed to perform rituals and worship after they were opened last month.A section of saints has said the pilgrimage should be allowed in a phased manner as was done the previous year with Covid protocols in place.Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad general secretary Shri Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj said the pilgrimage needed to be restricted as the pandemic was alarmingly spreading in March and April but now people from neighbouring villages and districts should be allowed in a phased manner while ensuring safe pilgrimage.Also Watch | Stranded pregnant woman rescued after landslide blocks Gangotri HighwayUttarakhand minister Satpal Maharaj has said the state was considering a plan to allow Char Dham pilgrimage for residents of Chamoli, Rudraprayag, and Uttarkashi.Mahamandaleshwar Hari Chetnanand Maharaj of Shri Panchayati Bada Udasin Akhada said Char Dham is linked with spiritual, religious aspects as well as the livelihood of the hill state. He pointed that even trade of the Haridwar-Rishikesh belt was majorly dependent on Char Dham pilgrimage. Uttarakhand Taxi-Maxi Hill Union (Pauri) conveyer Kotwal Singh Negi said Covid-19 has affected them badly for two years and the pilgrimage is critical for them. He added otherwise they will be even unable to pay the annual tax levied on commercial vehicles.Haridwar’s transporters and travel agents have submitted a memorandum saying the pilgrimage should be allowed.Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri are collectively called Char Dham and millions visit them annually. The pilgrimage begins from Yamunotri in the west. It then proceeds to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east.The pilgrimage could not begin last year as per schedule on April 26 with the opening of portals of Yamunotri and Gangotri, the first two shrines that are opened after winter, because of the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic spread in March 2020.The shrines were opened for local pilgrims on July 1 last year and for those from other states in the last week of that month. In September, the Uttarakhand government removed the condition of having negative Covid-19 reports for pilgrims to undertake the pilgrimage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seers-traders-seek-phased-char-dham-yatra-101623157664992.html
08-06-2021||Other||5-year-old girl dies due to lack of drinking water in western Rajasthan||In a heart-wrenching incident, lack of drinking water, amid 45 degrees of summer heat in the parched land of western Rajasthan, claimed the life of a 5-year-old village girl, officials said. The girl’s 60-year-old grandmother fainted for the want of water while the duo was on its way from the grandma’s paternal home in a village Sirohi district to her in-laws’ place in a village of Jalore district.“The grandma-granddaughter duo decided to return to their home in Raniwada on Sunday morning for which they took a shortcut route of 15 kilometres through desert and hills instead of the 22 kilometres long route,” he said.Police rescued the old lady who is now hospitalised at the government hospital of Raniwara town of Jalore district in Western Rajasthan.The Station House Officer of the Raniwada police station, Padma Ram said that Sukhi Devi (60) had gone to her paternal home in Raipur village of Sirohi district from her home in Dungri village of Raniwada region of Jalore district of Western Rajasthan on Saturday. Sukhi and Anjali did not carry drinking water with them while departing for Raniwada on Sunday morning, he said. When the duo was passing through the deserted desert area of the Raniwada region, Anjali started asking for drinking water from her grandma but no water was to be found anywhere around, said Padma Ram.They also met a shepherd on the way who refused to provide drinking water to them after which Anjali fainted and died in front of her grandma who was also thirsty.Later, another shepherd saw the fainted duo after which he informed the local sarpanch. The sarpanch communicated the incident to the Raniwara police station whose Station House Officer, Padma Ram, arrived at the spot and provided drinking water to Sukhi Devi.Sukhi and Anjali were taken to the Raniwada hospital where Anjali was declared dead due to dehydration and heart attack while Devi’s treatment is underway, he said. Padma Ram said that the wells meant for agricultural activity were just 1 kilometre away from the place where the duo fainted. He said that the probe revealed that the duo walked for 7 kilometres in 5 hours due to difficult terrain and high temperature. “The duo did not carry any drinking water with them and also took the wrong decision of choosing a deserted desert shortcut route instead of the 22 kilometre-long one,” he said. Reacting to the incident, state BJP president, Satish Poonia tweeted, “starvation, thirst and death are heavy on the political statements of CM Ashok Gehlot. It is the misfortune of Rajasthan that incompetent and corrupt Congress leads the state government and has transformed Rajasthan into a land of starvation, unemployment, chaos, mafia raj and crimes”.Congress Spokesperson, Archana Sharma, said that the incident is unfortunate as the grandma-granddaughter duo took that route which did not have any water on the way. She said the matter will be probed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5yearold-girl-dies-due-to-lack-of-drinking-water-in-western-rajasthan-101623156345571.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||NGT raps Punjab, Haryana, HP for pollution in Ghaggar||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has come down heavily on Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana for failing to stop the discharge of untreated effluents in the Ghaggar river and said that “if the state itself fails in implementing the law, it is nothing but breakdown of the system itself”.A bench headed by NGT chairperson justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the three states and Chandigarh continue to contribute to water pollution, which is a criminal offence.“It is breach of public trust under public trust doctrine. We are left with a feeling that there is no commitment to the rule of law and no concern for the environment and health of the citizens on the part of the authorities concerned in the states of HP, Haryana, Punjab and UT Chandigarh,” said the bench, also comprising justice Sudhir Agarwal.The tribunal directed the chief secretary, Punjab, and the adviser to the administrator, Union Territory of Chandigarh and other concerned officers to take appropriate remedial measures to comply with the mandate of law, including the directions of the Supreme Court.It also directed a joint committee of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Punjab PCB and pollution control committee of Chandigarh to inspect the drain and furnish a status report within two months by e-mail.The tribunal said in spite of enactment of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, making discharge of untreated effluents into a water body a criminal offence, the states are still struggling to prevent untreated sewage from being discharged into the water body at a huge cost to the environment and health and lives of citizens who have fundamental right to clean environment under the Constitution. “Water pollution is a serious threat to the health of the citizens as well as other living beings who consume the water and also to the food safety for growth of which the water is used for irrigation...there can be no justification whatsoever for the State to have failed in complying with the law.The green panel said that no action is being taken against the erring officers and it gives an impression that there is collapse of environmental rule of law.“Who is to pay the cost of damage to the environment and public health of large number of unidentified citizens and other living creatures? Is such cost being calculated? How officers responsible for damage by their inaction or otherwise are being dealt with. Should the State be held liable vicariously for such failure and failure to punish the guilty,” the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea against failure of statutory authorities in Punjab and Chandigarh to install sewage treatment plant, resulting in discharge of pollution in the drain originating from Chandigarh and passing through various sectors and villages of Mohali, before merging into the Ghaggar river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-raps-punjab-haryana-hp-for-pollution-in-ghaggar-101623156104272.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||As Covid fatalities drop, Delhi stops night cremations||Nearly one and a half months after crematoriums across the city started holding night funerals because of the high number of daily Covid-19 deaths, Delhi’s civic agency has allowed them to stop the practice. Officials managing the crematoriums said the death count has reduced because of which mortuaries now have space, are able to keep more bodies and need not send them for night funerals. In April and May, as the numbers of Covid-19 bodies grew exponentially and there was no space in mortuaries, bodies were immediately sent for funeral -- the minute a patient was declared dead at the hospital -- often leading to crowding at such places. HT spoke to officials managing some of the largest crematoriums such as the ones in Sarai Kale Khan, Ghazipur and Shastri Park and they also confirmed that they stopped night funerals about 3-4 days ago. Also Read | Don’t think we will have serious infection in children in the future: GuleriaArvind Kumar, who works at the Ghazipur crematorium, said 3 bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims were brought to the crematorium on Monday. The facility is one of the largest in East Delhi. On Tuesday, it again received 3 bodies of suspected Covid-19 victims and conducted their funeral. A death audit committee of experts from the Delhi government checks medical records of each patient and confirms if the death is indeed caused by the viral disease. “This is the same place where we had to build funeral platforms at the parking lot two months ago. We were getting over 100 bodies then. We were all working in two shifts...This decision to stop night cremations was taken about ten days ago,” said Kumar. The officials managing the crematorium said that their head priest, Ram Karan Mishra, also left for his home town in Bihar. “He was supposed to go home but because of the high body count here, he wasn’t able to go. Last week, he left for his village. Last month, we had called many boys from our villages to help us as the body count was high. They have also left. ” The Delhi’s government’s health bulletin also shows how cases have reduced drastically. On Monday, 36 persons died of Covid, which is the lowest since April 10, when Delhi reported 39 deaths. At Sarai Kale and the Shastri Park crematoriums, which too had been made 24-hour facilities, officials have pasted notices that they would not take the bodies for cremation after 8pm. Nirmal Jain, mayor East Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “We have now shut the night cremation facility as the number of bodies coming to our crematoriums and graveyards have reduced drastically. Allowing cremation at night was an emergency move when hundreds of dead bodies were reaching our facilities.” Jain told ANI on Tuesday morning that in east Delhi, no last rites of Covid-19 patients were held in the last two days.Also Read | Delhi reports 316 new Covid-19 cases and 41 deaths; positivity rate at 0.44%In April, the national Capital recorded 5,120 deaths, followed by 8,090 deaths in May. In the first three days of May, there were more than 400 deaths every day. The Delhi government had, on April 2, said that Delhi was witnessing the fourth wave of the infection. In terms of the number of cases and deaths, the fourth wave has been the deadliest in Delhi till date. Nigambodh Ghat, one of the largest crematoriums in the city, which has both wood-based and CNG mode of cremation, remains open round-the-clock throughout the year. Avdesh Sharma, one of the officials, who manages the crematorium in north Delhi, said, “We are open throughout the year but before the pandemic, only few would bring bodies at night. It happened only sometimes. And then last month, when we started getting 125 bodies every day, there were mass funerals at night. We get around 20-25 bodies now. And all these funerals are happening during the day.” In the third week of April, the North Delhi’s municipal corporation’s mayor, Jai Prakash, had issued an order that all six CNG furnaces too should remain operational. Officials said they longer have to use all furnaces and use the CNG furnaces only till 8pm. The mayor had then said that while Hindu rituals do not allow cremating body at night, these were unprecedented times, which required one to accommodate the changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-covid-fatalities-drop-delhi-stops-night-funerals-101623153884965.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cong-ruled Punjab profiting from Covid Fateh kit sale: BJP||The BJP on Tuesday accused Congress-ruled states of indulging in corruption and profiteering by selling kits meant for the treatment of Covid-19 at much higher prices than procurement rates to people. Targeting the Punjab government, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said the instances of Punjab selling a vaccine that it bought for ₹400 per dose for as much as ₹1,500 to ₹2,000 to the people is illustrative of the corruption in the state. Also read: Don’t think we will have serious infection in children in the future: GuleriaHe said Fateh Covid kits are being procured. In the first week of April, a tender was called for procuring about 17,000 kits at ₹837 each. “We don’t even know if they were procured. On April 20, the rates were hiked to at ₹1,226,” Bhatia said, adding that these firms did not have the mandatory drug licence. He said a third tender was floated and the prices went up further above at ₹1,300. “This is Punjab’s suit boot Ki Sarkar. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi should break the silence because people want answers. The people of Punjab want to know why the state government is profiteering from the sale of vaccines. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is silent on the issue,” Bhatia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congruled-punjab-profiting-from-covid-fateh-kit-sale-bjp-101623152804509.html
08-06-2021||Pune||Covid second wave: From miscalculated to now, possibly, over-optimistic||The first case of Covid-19 in Maharashtra was notified on March 9, 2020. The increase in numbers began gradually till July 2020, and then, there was a sharp upsurge from August. By mid-September, new cases per day rose to 23,500, which was a peak point. Later, it gradually showed a downward trend and by end of January 2021, the figure became minuscule, at 1,800 new cases per day.In December 2020, at Amravati, numbers began increasing. The presence of variant viruses was noted in the genome sequencing of the samples of a few positive cases. Of them, some were variants from UK and South Africa, but a new mutant was noted and ignored, which later proved to be a double mutant, named recently as “delta” and “kappa” by WHO. In January and February of 2021, the Vidarbha region, including Amravati, Nagpur, Bhandara and Chandrapur districts,showed a rapid increase in Covid-19 cases. By February 20, 2021, Amravati ranked second in the list of districts with the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, with 5,406 active cases daily. The positivity rate was at 50%. The rest of the districts were showing a positivity rate of around 40%.Similarly in Mumbai, Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Thane, and Navi Mumbai, the number of new cases was growing at a faster pace. In February and March, it was noticed that…- Numbers are increasing rapidly- Symptoms are changing. Low-grade fever, severe breathlessness, loose motions, vomiting, rashes over the body, Covid tongue, and anosmia were the new symptoms. - The upper middle-class and elite in big housing societies and bungalows outnumbered the slum dwellers in getting infected- The age group of 20 to 45 years was mainly affected- A large number of children below 10 years of age were getting infectedThis was the beginning of the Second Wave. Doctors and scientists informed the government of Maharashtra that this is the second wave and a new mutant of Maharashtra origin has surfaced. Government of Maharashtra clearly said that there is no second wave and no mutants.It was Rajesh Bhushan, chief secretary of health, Central government who finally, on March 24, 2021, conveyed to the Maharashtra government the existence of the mutant of Maharashtra origin - B.1.617.1 and B.1.617.2, and also declared that it is the second wave.Bhushan pointed out and the doctors in the state said that: - Contact tracing of 30 testings per new patient is required.- Considering the massive rise in the number of patients, the need to make necessary infrastructure arrangements was stressed, but these suggestions were not followed. During this second wave, Maharashtra was India’s worst-affected state, just as it was in the first wave of Covid 19 last year. As of April 27, Maharashtra had 676,647 active patients, almost a quarter of the national total of 2,882,204. The state has so far recorded more than 0.1 million deaths, 30 percent of the national total of 3,46,000. Data with the Maharashtra health department shows that the growth of positive cases had been exponential since February 12, which the state marks as the start of the second wave. Maharashtra recorded 2,052,905 cases in the 11 months between March 9, 2020, and February 11, 2021. Then in just the first 72 days of the second wave, between February 12 and April 25 — it recorded 2,174,654 cases. Almost 70 percent of these cases have been recorded in Tier II, Tier III cities, and the villages.Until the middle of April 2021, the state’s positivity rate was 25.17 %, with figures from 16 rural districts coming in higher than that. These districts include Jalna, Beed, Nandurbar, Nashik, Latur, Gondiya, Parbhani, Hingoli, Osmanabad, Pune, Nagpur, Ahmednagar, Beed, Nandurbar, Palghar, and Ratnagiri. With a 39.25 per cent positivity rate, Osmanabad topped the charts, followed by Parbhani (36.78 per cent) and Hingoli (36.7 per cent). In April 2021, Mumbai recorded the lowest weekly growth rate at 1.09 per cent, and Parbhani recorded the highest, at 798 per cent, followed by Latur at 398 per cent, Beed at 347 per cent, and Jalna at 345 per cent.Oxygen shortageThere was a shortage of medical oxygen even in the first wave in October 2020. But the government did not improve production and remained happy with 1,200 metric tonnes per day. In April, during the peak period, the requirement escalated to 3,000 metric tonnes per day. Even with all the additional support, like the “Oxygen Express” train, the situation did not improve in time. Around 40 per cent of the deaths that occurred in March and April 2021, were because of a lack of oxygen. Large-scale use of the impure industrial oxygen is a probable cause of post-Covid complications, like the mucormycosis infection. This number has reached 11,000 cases.Rural pictureIn the rural areas of Maharashtra, the number of beds at Covid Care Centres was only 20 percent of the need and oxygen beds were fulfilling 70 percent of the requirement.Due to an inadequate numbers of ICU beds and ventilators, 30 to 40 per cent of patients needed to be shifted to the nearest city. Of these, 50 per cent of patients died on the way and the rest were admitted, but half of them survived.There was an inadequate number of RTPCR testing kits as well as rapid antigen tests. A sufficient amount of medicines needed were not available in the government hospitals in rural areas throughout the period.LockdownThe CM of Maharashtra announced a lockdown in the second week of April. It should have been announced one month earlier. Mumbai and Pune districts were showing a downward trend in the patient numbers around 10-15 days before the official lockdown. VaccinationIt has been proved historically and scientifically that vaccination is the only answer to curb the spread of a pandemic. The vaccination campaign never had a proper plan to vaccinate a population of 130 crore in one year. The supply chain of vaccines needed to ensure speedy vaccinations was never thought of. Registration through CoWin and Aarogyasetu apps was a bad idea that decelerated the motion. Not allowing all the registered doctors to vaccinate officially, limited the number of vaccination centres to a handful of government and private hospitals. Not making it available in the open market and keeping all the strings in the Central government’s hands, made the dream of “Vaccinating India through the Teeka Mahotsav” unapproachable. Covid vaccination is an utter failure; not only in Maharashtra, but all over India.UnlockAs of June 7, 10 districts have been relieved from restrictions and life has again started. Criteria for unlocking a region has not been very convincing, scientifically. “Covid-appropriate behaviour” is forgotten again. Let us hope that a brand new variant does not evolve in the coming months to give birth to a still devastating Third Wave. The writer is the immediate past president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-second-wave-from-miscalculated-to-now-possibly-overoptimistic-101623152564629.html
08-06-2021||Other||Uttarakhand to bring in new disaster management, rehabilitation policy||Uttarakhand government will soon bring out a new disaster management and rehabilitation policy. The new policy will focus on quick rehabilitation of disaster-affected families. The decision was taken by minister of state for disaster management (independent charge) Dhan Singh Rawat after a review meeting on Monday which was attended by MLAs of both ruling and Opposition parties of disaster-prone constituencies. Rawat assured the MLAs that the new policy would focus on “ensuring quick rehabilitation of families which are affected by any natural disaster or calamities.” State’s current disaster management and rehabilitation policy was framed in 2011. Opposition Congress MLA Manoj Rawat from Kedarnath constituency which witnessed floods in 2013, said, “We asked the minister to increase the compensation amount from ₹4 lakh to ₹5 lakh in case of complete damage of the house. We also asked him to define ‘family’ in the policy because in hilly areas, usually there are two families living in the same house but during a disaster, only the family which was included in the family register during the 2011 census is considered, which is unfair.”The Congress MLA also said that all the legislators also urged the minister to frame the new policy “considering the next 20-25 years.” Minister Rawat said that under the existing policy, “1,086 families from 43 villages have been rehabilitated since 2012 at a cost of ₹45.63 crore.” The minister said the department will hold another review meeting after 10 days. “In that meeting, we will consider the suggestions given by the MLAs for the framework of new disaster management and rehabilitation policy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhand-to-bring-in-new-disaster-management-rehabilitation-policy-101623152204598.html
08-06-2021||Other||IIT-Bombay first Indian varsity to set up chair professorship for women faculty||Priyanka SahooThe Indian Institute of Technology- Bombay (IIT-B) has become the first Indian varsity to up a woman faculty chair. The move is a bid to honour the contributions of women faculty members and encourage more women to take up science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) courses.The institute on Monday announced that the chair has been set up with donations of an undisclosed amount from alumni member Amit Dixit, who is currently the head of Asia for private equity at global investment firm Blackstone. The announcement of the first chair is likely in September.The chair is a term for endowed professorships as a recognition of a faculty member’s contribution to the university in terms of research and academics. It is the highest honour that an academic institute can confer on its faculty. “The prestige of an endowed chair also lends an additional cachet to the departments. It helps to attract the best and brightest young students and investigators, thus securing the future of the institution. It is clear why endowed chairs are an essential constituent of IIT-B. This is what would be seen in many other outstanding educational institutions worldwide,” the institute’s policy on chair professorship states.Chair professorships reserved for women are gaining ground in western and European countries but are scarce in India. The Amit Dixit Chair professorship for women faculty members is one of the first to be set up by any Indian university. Last year, the University Grants Commission (UGC), the apex body governing all higher education institutions, had announced 11 women-centric academic chairs in various universities but they are yet to be established.“To the best of our knowledge, this is the first woman chair professorship in IITs across the country, to recognise the efforts of women. In 2020, the Centre announced 11 women-centric academic chairs in various universities in honour of historic women scientists, including cytogeneticist Archana Sharma, botanist Janaki Ammal, organic scientist Darshan Ranganatham and chemist Asima Chatterjee, among others. These chair professorships are yet to be formally established. So we are the first, for now, as far as I know. I look forward to the day once all these chair professorships are formalised, as there will be a big impetus for women in STEM,” said Suhas Joshi, professor and dean, alumni and corporate relations.Dixit, who graduated with a BTech in civil engineering degree in 1995, said this new position would inspire faculty and students and widen the funnel to develop women leaders in technology. “India has risen to global prominence for its strong talent pool particularly in STEM disciplines. IIT-B and its alumni have created a large impact on the global technology industry. It is increasingly important to promote diversity and support women so they have the opportunity to secure global leadership positions,” said Dixit.Joshi said the chosen chair will have an exciting and challenging role ahead. “Her [chair’s] work will primarily be divided under two heads – initiate and provide expert guidance in research and development programmes, improve interaction with industry through consultancy work and provide academic and technical leadership in her field as well as oversee and help mentor the volunteering groups who help attract brilliant women students to the Institute,” said Joshi.IIT-B runs an online counselling programme for incoming women and their families after the result declaration of entrance exams. The chosen chair will lead these efforts. “The volunteering group under the mentorship of the chair will provide special counselling to incoming women students and their families to encourage them to choose IITs for their studies,” said Joshi.“The participation of women in STEM fields in India has been low due to reasons both cultural and functional. IITs have hence been working on a foundational level to boost women’s presence in technical education to assuage social and cultural concerns, which do not allow women students to join IITs despite clearing the joint entrance examination (JEE). “The Centre introduced the supernumerary quota for women in IITs in 2018 and this has helped increase women admissions from 8% in 2016 to 18% in 2020. But a lot more needs to be done to attract the brightest girl minds to IITs. The endowment made by Dixit also supports these volunteer efforts,” said Joshi.According to data published by the department of science and technology, women comprised only 14% of India’s STEM workforce in research and development in 2017-18.Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B, said, “As one of the leading academic institutions in India, we are proud to take the lead in raising awareness of the importance of women leaders with the support of Mr Dixit. The government has also played an instrumental role in our diversity efforts, introducing the supernumerary quota for women in IITs. This has helped increase the admission of women. However, there’s always room to do more. We are grateful to Mr Dixit for his generous contribution, which has laid the groundwork for change and set an example for others in the education sector.”Joshi said that the memorandum of understanding between the institute and Dixit is valid for 10 years and can be extended mutually with discussion of another decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitbombay-first-indian-varsity-to-set-up-chair-professorship-for-women-faculty-101623150944466.html
08-06-2021||Patna||Cobbler’s son sold eggs for 5 years before cracking Bihar civil services exam||A cobbler’s son has secured 2,232rd rank in the examination for Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) and will soon be appointed a block supply officer.Birendra Kumar’s father Bhikhari Ram was a cobbler who passed away in 2012 and his mother, a homemaker, died in January this year. His elder brother Jitendra Kumar supported Birendra Kumar to realise his dreams with the income from his family business of shoe making and repairs.“I didn’t get any fancy education. I did my schooling from my village’s government school and pursued graduation from Daudnagar College of Aurangabad. I was motivated to prepare for the BPSC examination by a senior named Rajeev, and it changed my life,” an ecstatic Kumar said. Needless to say, he is the first member in his family to have qualified for a reputed government job.After his father’s demise, his elder brother took the responsibility of running the house and helped Kumar continue his studies but when the family’s financial situation deteriorated further, Kumar was forced to sell eggs to keep his dreams alive.“I started selling eggs in 2012 and continued [doing so] for five years till my brother’s business flourished. I studied rigorously for the examination under the guidance of Rajeev sir and with the help of the internet and cleared the examination in the first attempt,” the 27-year-old said.“With my humble family background and simple education, I used to feel that cracking the BPSC exam was beyond my capacity. Then I worked to overcome my weaknesses while pondering over qualities that will help me stand out among hundreds of thousands of aspirants,” he said.Kumar regrets his mother couldn’t see him become an officer.“My mother passed away in January. I miss her. She motivated and instilled self belief in me, saying hard work pays off someday,” Kumar recalled. He has now set his sight on cracking the Union Public Service Commission examination.Kumar hoped his success will help his family’s coming generation to get a good education and better living conditions.“My family reeled under poverty for a long period. Filling the basic needs was tough for us. But I hope our next generation will not have to do odd jobs like we did,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cobblers-son-sold-eggs-for-5-years-before-cracking-bihar-civil-services-exam-101623150224118.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 316 new Covid-19 cases and 41 deaths; positivity rate at 0.44%||Delhi reported 316 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday taking the tally to 1.42 million. The Capital's death toll due to Covid-19 reached 24,668 with 41 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government.'No Covid-19 bodies in 2-4 days': Crematorium workers in Delhi get a breatherDelhi's recovery also shot up to 1.4 million with 521 recoveries on Tuesday. The positivity rate stood at 0.44% on Tuesday as the city conducted 71,879 tests between June 7 and June 8. Out of these 71,879 tests, 48,574 tests were RT-PCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat tests while the rest of them were rapid antigen tests. Delhi reported 231 cases of Covid-19 on Monday, the lowest since March 2, and its positivity rate stood at 0.36% on June 7. Delhi currently has 4,967 active cases of Covid-19. Delhi has also observed a drop in the number of daily deaths. The current case fatality rate is at 1.73%, marginally higher than 1.72% reported on Monday.Now, marshals at Delhi liquor shops to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviourDelhi vaccinated 5.73 million so far and 66,175 people received the Covid-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. Out of this 33,767 people received first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 32,408 people received the second dose of the vaccine. 1.31 million people in the city have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.Delhi has begun unlocking after it had imposed lockdown-like restrictions in May when the city witnessed record rise in deaths and cases which crushed the medical infrastructure. Several shops and malls reopened on Monday, after nearly one and a half months, following social distancing protocols. The Delhi Metro also restarted its services and recorded 4.5 lakh passenger journeys on Monday, according to a report by news agency PTI. The Metro services resumed after almost a month as services were halted due to Covid-19 surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-316-new-covid-19-cases-and-41-deaths-positivity-rate-at-044-101623149303673.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||'No Covid-19 bodies in 2-4 days': Crematorium workers in Delhi get a breather||The horror unfolding in the national capital's crematoriums during a deadly fourth wave may have come to an end as the infection rate and deaths ebb away. The overworked and burdened crematorium workers who were working all day round now say that the cremation rate, pushed by hundreds of coronavirus deaths, has come down in Delhi.“There is some relief now than before. We haven't received Covid-19 bodies in the last 2-4 days. Earlier, we used to cremate 25-27 Covid-19 bodies every day,” a crematorium worker told news agency ANI.As Delhi came in the grip of the deadliest yet wave of viral disease, for around three weeks beginning in the second half of April, the national capital’s crematoriums and burial grounds were inundated with a grim wave of their own.Also read: At Delhi crematoriums, corpses wait in 20-hour queues to burnDelhi has three major cremation sites — Nigambodh Ghat, Punjabi Bagh crematorium, Seemapuri crematorium, among other district sites.With bodies piling up with each hour, crematoriums expanded into parking lots and nearby open spaces as workers hurriedly built new platforms, and scoured the city to maintain their dwindling stocks of wood.Officials confirm that no last rites have been held in a crematorium in Delhi in the last two days."For the past two days, no last rites of Covid-19 patients were held here. We are hopeful that the situation will continue to remain under control. We have made all arrangements for the anticipated third wave," East Delhi municipal corporation mayor Nirmal Jain told ANI.According to the official data, the highest number of funerals conducted in a month as per Covid-19 protocols in Delhi ever since the coronavirus pandemic struck was in May this year and stands at 9,300. As per the data, this pegs the average number of funerals per day in May to about 300.After May, April was the second-worst month in terms of Covid-19 funerals, with about 9,150 funerals, as per data from the three civic bodies -- NDMC, SDMC and EDMC.Also read: Fewer pyres, chaos dissipates at Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan crematoriumIn an unanticipated sweep of deaths in April, crematorium managers were taken by surprise. According to them, the spike was sudden, giving them little time to make additional arrangements.According to the government’s daily health bulletin, between April 1 and 7, there were 15 deaths a day on average. The number shot up to 58 the next week, to 192 the week after that and in the fourth week of the month, 356 fatalities were being recorded every day on average – according to official numbers.In the first three days of May, it shot up even further -- there were over 400 deaths every day. The highest number of deaths recorded in a day till date was 448 on May 3.At its peak last month, Delhi reported 448 deaths on May 3. Since then, the fatalities have come down. On Sunday, Delhi had recorded 34 fatalities, the lowest in around two months. Maintaining a steady decline, Delhi on Monday recorded 231 fresh cases of coronavirus diseases, the lowest since March 2, according to the health bulletin. As many as 1,429,475 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the national capital since the beginning of the pandemic.North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash has warned that the city-state needs to be watchful as the gradual reopening kicks in. "We need to be watchful. Only after lockdown is eased will we get the real picture," Prakash told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-covid-19-bodies-in-2-4-days-crematorium-workers-in-delhi-get-a-breather-101623145472427.html
08-06-2021||Patna||Bihar lifts lockdown after 35 days, night curfew to continue||Bihar lifted the state-wide lockdown on Tuesday, 35 days after it was first imposed on May 5 to control the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic but allowed the night curfew to continue. Chief minister Nitish Kumar announced the decision soon after the crisis management group's meeting, which he himself chaired.Under the new post-lockdown arrangement, there will be greater relaxation, with both government and private offices allowed to function with 50% attendance till 4 pm, and all shops allowed to remain open till 5 pm. Use of private vehicles will also be allowed.All education institutions, religious places, parks, malls, gyms and cinema halls will remain closed till further order. The government will again review the situation next week before it takes any decision on opening educational institutions, till then, it has advised for the continuation of online classes.The night curfew will remain in force from 7 pm to 5 am. “There is still a requirement to avoid crowding,” Kumar said. Visitors will not be allowed in government and private offices while shops will open on alternate days, as per the direction given by district collectors.The lockdown, which started on May 5, was extended four times, the last being on June 2.Bihar’s continuously improving Covid situation, with the positivity rate dropping to less than 1% and the recovery rate touching close to 98%, made the government decide in favour of lifting the lockdown.On June 6, Bihar’s health bulletin put the Covid-19 tally at 713,117 including the 920 fresh cases reported on the day. The Sunday figures marked the lowest single-day spike in over two months. However, the day also witnessed 41 fresh fatalities, increasing the coronavirus death toll to 5,381.The state now has 8,707 active cases while 699,028 people have been cured of the disease so far, taking the recovery rate to 98.02 %. A total of 1.11 crore people have been vaccinated, of whom, nearly 20 lakh are in the 18-44 years age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-lifts-lockdown-after-35-days-night-curfew-to-continue-101623145783689.html
08-06-2021||Other||Model locked up in Kochi flat, raped & tortured; accused on the run||A 24-year-old woman was allegedly locked up in a flat in Kochi, Kerala, and tortured and sexually assaulted for about a month early this year. She managed to escape from the flat and alerted the police. The woman said no action has been taken against the accused.The issue came to light after one of the woman’s friends released her photos showing scars and burn marks on her body. Police said the accused, a businessman, has been absconding since the woman filed the complaint and later moved the high court for anticipatory bail. The court on Tuesday directed the police to file details of the case by Friday and prompted them to constitute a special investigation team.Kochi police commissioner C Nagaraju said all efforts were on to nab the accused.Also Read | Rajasthan businessman arrested for raping 24-year-old on pretext of marriageIn her complaint, the woman said she was confined to the flat for 22 days and tortured, sexually assaulted, and forced to drink urine. The accused also allegedly inflicted burn injuries on her. The woman said she escaped from the flat when he went out to fetch food. She said she dreaded filing a police complaint as the accused shot her photos and videos on several occasions.The state women’s rights panel has taken up the case and directed the police to investigate the matter in detail. It has pulled up the police for delay in investigating the case and directed them to provide her protection. The woman earlier complained she was under pressure to withdraw the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/model-locked-up-in-kochi-flat-raped-tortured-accused-on-the-run-101623145304474.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Pilots’ body moves Bombay HC seeking compensation for Covid victims, priority vaccination||The Federation of Indian Pilots on Tuesday approached the Bombay high court to seek adequate compensation for pilots who succumbed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The pilots’ association is also seeking priority vaccination and insurance coverage for those working during the pandemic, reported news agency PTI.The association filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) before the court on Monday seeking direction to the Centre for an ex-gratia payment of ₹10 crore to the families of the deceased pilots. The plea also stated that despite risking their lives to provide dedicated service during the pandemic many pilots have been subjected to pay cuts."In such times, several pilots have been infected by the coronavirus and many have lost their lives. Several pilots also face the risk of permanent or temporary disability due to the after-effects of Covid-19, like mucormycosis," the plea stated."Despite this, several pilots have been subjected to massive pay cuts since the beginning of 2020," it added.The PIL has also sought directions to the Centre regarding priority vaccination through the creation of a separate class of Covid-19 first responders as 'Air Transportation Workers', and formulation of a comprehensive insurance scheme.The Union health ministry defines frontline workers as the personnel from state and central police forces, armed forces, home guards and civil defence volunteers including disaster management volunteers and municipal workers (excluding HCWs), prison staff, revenue officials who are deployed in containment and surveillance activities. They are eligible for free priority vaccination and compensation in case of death due to Covid-19.Across the country many essential service providers have asked for ‘frontline worker’ statuses and equal compensation in case of death due to Covid-19. In May, another representative body, Indian Pilots’ Guild, a Boeing pilots’ union of Air India, wrote to their chairman requesting adequate compensation for three of their colleagues who lost their lives to Covid-19.A railway employees’ union, too, has launched a campaign seeking ‘frontline worker’ status for employees who have been working throughout the pandemic.The petition will be taken up by the court for hearing in due course of time, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pilots-body-moves-bombay-hc-seeking-compensation-for-covid-victims-priority-vaccination-101623144405736.html
08-06-2021||Patna||Bihar to unlock from tomorrow. What's allowed, what’s not||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday lifted the lockdown, put in place more than a month ago, saying the restrictions have served their purpose in bringing down the number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The Covid-induced lockdown will be lifted from Wednesday but night curfew will continue, the Bihar chief minister said.Nitish Kumar tweeted the announcement after chairing a meeting of the crisis management group to review the coronavirus pandemic situation in the state. "The lockdown has served the purpose of putting a check on coronavirus cases. Hence it will now be done away with, though a few restrictions will remain," Nitish Kumar posted on Twitter.लाॅकडाउन से कोरोना संक्रमण में कमी आई है। अतः लाॅकडाउन खत्म करते हुये शाम 7ः00 बजे से सुबह 5ः00 बजे तक रात्रि कर्फ्यू जारी रहेगा। 50 प्रतिशत उपस्थिति के साथ सरकारी एवं निजी कार्यालय 4ः00 बजे अपराह्न तक खुलेंगे। दुकान खुलने की अवधि 5ः00 बजे अपराह्न तक बढेंगी। (1/2)The chief minister said that the situation would be reviewed after a week.Here’s what will be allowed from Wednesday:1. The night curfew will continue to be in place from 7pm to 5am2. Private offices will be allowed to reopen and function with 50 per cent staff3. Government offices, which have so far been functioning with 25 per cent staff strength, can now work with half of their employees4. Both government and private offices will be permitted to run till 4pm5. Visitors will not be allowed in government and private offices6. Shops, which were allowed to remain open till 2pm, can now down their shutters by 5pm7. Private vehicles will be permitted to ply8. All education institution and religious places will remain closed till further order9. Educational institutions, however, can conduct online classesThe lockdown in Bihar, which was imposed on May 5, was extended for a fourth time on May 31 till June 8. Bihar’s positivity rate has dropped to less than one per cent and recovery rate is 98.09% till date. On Monday, there were 762 new Covid-19 cases and 43 fatalities in Bihar. Recoveries mounted to 700,224 and active cases declined further to 8230. The state’s caseload stands at 713,879 and Covid-19 related death toll at 5424.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-unlock-from-tomorrow-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101623143197519.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Now, marshals at Delhi liquor shops to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour||The Delhi government has directed all liquor vends in the city to deploy adequate marshals and staff to strictly ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour like maintaining social distancing and wearing masks at the shops.It also directed the vendors to "coordinate with the local administration and police to maintain security and order"."All the four Government Corporations viz. DSIIDC, DTTDC, DSCSC and DCCWS shall deploy adequate marshals at all their vends (L-6 & L-8) and private licensees (L-7, L-9 & L-10) shall deploy their staff to ensure that COVID Appropriate Behaviour viz. wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, regular use of sanitiser, no consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco, etc. shall be ensured in all the liquor shops/vends/licensees," the Excise Department said in an order issued on June 6.There are around 850 liquor shops in the city, including those run by government agencies and private individuals.At present, 40 per cent of around 850 liquor vends in the national capital are run by private players.There are currently four-state run agencies --- the Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation, the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, the Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited and the Delhi Consumer's Cooperative Wholesale --- to sell liquor in the city.Under the second phase of unlock, the government has allowed liquor shops to reopen.The Delhi government had earlier announced that liquor stores in the city will open on an odd-even basis from 10 am to 8 pm.The ongoing lockdown imposed since April 19 has been extended further to June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/now-marshals-at-delhi-liquor-shops-to-ensure-covid-appropriate-behaviour-101623142089303.html
08-06-2021||Other||Pune fire not because of short circuit: Maha home minister||Monday’s fire at a Pune-based chemical firm that killed 17 people was not caused by short circuit, said Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil on Tuesday. “Product caused the fire at the plant at Pirangut. Fire audit-wise, definitely more caution should be taken. I will ask all MIDC officials to take precautions to avoid such incidents,” said the minister during his visit to Pirangut where he met families who lost their kin. He also said that DNA test will be carried out to ascertain the identities of victims as the fire at the chemical manufacturing firm at Urawade had charred the bodies beyond recognition.Also Read | Fire breaks out at TMC MLA Madan Mitra’s residence in Kolkata, dousedEarlier in the day, the administration revised the death toll to 17. “Initially, it seemed like there were 18 victims. However, we have crossed-checked with the company officials and found only 17 missing. Everyone else is accounted for. Therefore, the death toll is 17,” said Abhay Chavan, tehsildar of Mulshi area “All bodies are charred due to severe burns and cannot be identified clearly. A DNA examination of all bodies will be done for identification. Blood samples of relatives will be taken,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent, Pune Rural Police. Blood relatives of the deceased are being called. Samples will be sent for DNA testing at the government laboratory in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-fire-not-because-of-short-circuit-maha-home-minister-101623141643276.html
08-06-2021||Patna||Bihar madrasa’s roof collapses in a mysterious explosion, probe ordered||The roof of a madrasa in Bihar’s Banka district collapsed on Tuesday morning following a mysterious explosion which also damaged nearby buildings but didn’t cause any deaths. No arrests have been made yet but a probe has been ordered into the incident, which has triggered tension in the locality.The explosion is suspected to have taken place at 8 am inside a room in the Navtolia madrasa building under the Town police station area. Police said their first impressions suggested it could have been caused by gelatine- an explosive combination of chemicals.More than ten persons were present in the madrasa at the time of the explosion, which, according to police, likely took place in a room locked for several days and was heard far and wide. Police say the explosion originated on the ground floor and cracked the madrasa walls and roof, which collapsed moments later. The resultant shock waves also broke several glass windows in the neighbourhood.Besides the Banka police, a bomb squad, a dog squad and anti-terrorism squads (ATS) visited the spot. Cops said they have not ruled out any theory including suggestions that it could have originated outside the madrasa or could have been caused by an LPG cylinder; apart from the one which suggested it was caused by possible explosive substances stored in the locked room.Banka police chief (SP) Arvind Kumar Gupta said a forensic team has picked up samples from the site and will soon provide its preliminary opinion. “We are waiting,” said Gupta, while visiting the site.A case of criminal conspiracy, negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance was registered against unknown persons under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under Section-5 of the Explosive Act. Bihar home department has ordered an intensive probe into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-madrasa-s-roof-collapses-in-a-mysterious-explosion-probe-ordered-101623141283955.html
08-06-2021||Patna||Niti Aayog rankings not a true reflection of Bihar’s transformation: JD-U||Bihar may be lagging behind in the overall ranking of states by Niti Aayog, finalised on the basis of yearly progress in achieving sustainable development goals (SDGs), but it has shown marked improvement in gender equality and abating violence against women, which state ministers credit to 15-years of “good governance” by chief minister Nitish Kumar.“Bihar has left many states far behind when it comes to two important social indices, gender equality and violence against women, which could prove to be a game changer in the years to come. Bihar has fumbled in some areas due to historical injustices. What needs to be noticed is the state’s phenomenal performance in areas defining societal well being,” water resource minister Sanjay Jha, who is also the national general secretary of the ruling Janata Dal-United (JD-U) party, said.Bihar is ranked 28th in the country in violence against women, and reached the national average in gender parity, which is better than 14 states and Union territories. The report has handed the ruling party an opportunity to burnish Nitish Kumar’s developmental credentials at a time when he is perceived to be ‘weak’ after JD-U’s less than impressive performance in the state polls. The chief minister has also been criticised for his handling of the law and order and coronavirus situation, with some voices from within the coalition also questioning his decisions.Bihar’s education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary cited that Bihar scored 91 for sanitation and clean drinking water, eight points more than the national average and said the ranking methodology doesn’t reflect the true picture of “turnaround” despite Bihar’s limited resources.“The comparison should be [done] in terms of pace of development in varied fields within a time period, rather than on the basis of overall development indices, which are dependent on historical and geographical factors,” Choudhary said.He also pointed to yearly improvements in Bihar’s composite score in Niti Aayog’s report since 2018, and said the state has now moved into “performers’ category”, while it is in the “front runners’ category” in five areas.His colleague and water resources minister Sanjay Jha says while Bihar will need to maintain the tempo for decades to catch up with the developed states--which have enjoyed early advantage--but it has achieved all that was possible in a short span. “Bihar’s growth story under chief minister Nitish Kumar’s leadership is before everyone. Women are today in the forefront in Bihar. They are in police, administration, education, panchayats and everywhere else... and their empowerment is reflected in statistics.”“Girls, who were in class 1 when Kumar took over as the Bihar CM in November, 2005, have now, theoretically graduated or moved into jobs. They are the real change-makers,” he added.“For the first time in Bihar, more girls were enrolled than boys in class 9 last year, almost a five-fold increase since 2007-08. It has brought gender parity in school education, thanks to the state government’s bicycle scheme for students opting for higher secondary education,” Jha said.He lists 11-lakh Jeevika groups in the state as the major tool to make women self-reliant and also counts 50% quota for women in panchayats and teaching jobs, 35% quota in government jobs among measures that are now bearing fruit. “Social indices don’t improve overnight, but once they do, other indices also start improving,” he claims.According to Pratham study, the highest jump in girls’ school enrolment was 13%, registered in the 2006-10 period. Jha says Nitish Kumar underlined the need for girls’ education to control [the] state’s burgeoning population at the very onset. Bihar has 14.5% share in the total projected population increase in the country during 2011-36, second only to Uttar Pradesh at 19.2%, as per the population projection for India and states 2011-2036 report of the national commission on population.Nitish Kumar had earlier underlined the link between girl’s education and population control, while speaking in the assembly. “In Bihar, the fertility rate is very high at 3.7%, but it drops significantly with [an] increase in [the] education level of girls. We have found if a mother is matriculate, it drops to two; if a mother is plus two, it goes down to 1.6, less than the national average of 1.7. So, education of girls is the key to solving [the] state’s main issues” Kumar said last year.Social analyst and the former head of department of economics, NK Choudhary said that Bihar will have to work on areas of improvement. “It is a fact that historical and geographical injustices have been there for decades and no Central government addressed it, but that cannot be an excuse anymore,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-minister-cites-bhar-s-improved-women-welfare-indices-says-change-is-happening-101623138042717.html
08-06-2021||Indore||Black fungus: Indore hospital stops administering lyophilised Amphotericin B injections after complaints of side effects||A government hospital in Indore has stopped administering lyophilised Amphotericin B injections to black fungus patients after some of them who received the shots started experiencing side effects.Dr Sanjay Dixit, Dean, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Medical College, Indore, adding that the hospital is now using liposomal Amphotericin B injections to treat such patients.Dr Dixit stated that a few days ago, the state government had sent three thousand vials of lyophilised Amphotericin B injections to MGM Medical College for the treatment of black fungus patients. "But as patients were witnessing side effects, the government hospital has stopped using the injections for the treatment of the post-COVID complication," he said.According to Dr Dixit, some patients started experiencing side effects when they were administered lyophilised Amphotericin B injections. After this, the hospital administration decided not to give these injections anymore, he said."Lyophilised Amphotericin B injection is very cheap and has been given to patients for years. Around 30 to 70 percent of patients experience side effects when administered the injection, which mainly includes chills, which is not a matter of concern, but still, we have stopped using it. Now we are only giving liposomal Amphotericin B injections to the patients, of which we are getting sufficient quantities."The Madhya Pradesh government had decided to buy 25,000 lyophilised injections from a company based in Himachal Pradesh, out of which 12,000 injections were brought a few days ago by Indore special aircraft.Out of these 12,000 injections, 3,000 injections were given to MGM Medical College while the rest were sent to other districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/black-fungus-indore-hospital-stops-administering-lyophilised-amphotericin-b-injections-after-complaints-of-side-effects-101623137619911.html
08-06-2021||Gurugram||After a long spell, Haryana districts report fresh cases in 2 digits or less||Continuing the downward trend, Haryana on Monday recorded 640 fresh cases and 39 deaths, as per the health bulletin.On Sunday, the state had 654 new cases and 48 fatalities.With the cases beginning to come down, the state resumed some economic activities on Monday, allowing club houses, restaurants, bars, golf courses to reopen, though the lockdown will continue till the morning of June 14.It is after a long spell that the new cases have come down to two digits in the districts.Jind recorded the highest, 78, fresh cases, followed by Yamunanagar 59, Sirsa 55 and Bhiwani 52. Gurugram recorded 31 new cases, Faridabad 27, Sonepat 23, Hisar 45, Ambala 32, Karnal 37, Panipat 11, Rohtak 15, Rewari 26, Panchkula 23, Kurukshetra 26, Mahendergarh 12, Jhajjar 13, Palwal 8, Fatehabad 29, Kaithal 27, Nuh 9 and Charkhi Dadri 2.The health bulletin stated that just 26,744 samples were taken in the past 24 hours, while on Sunday 36,742 samples were taken.At least 1,674 people recovered and there were 8,024 active patients in the state while the recovery rate was 97.80%. The fatality rate rose to 1.15% with 39 deaths recorded in 19 districts.Four people each succumbed to the infection in Gurugram and Hisar while three each died in Rewari and Bhiwani, two patients each died of the Covid-19 in Karnal, Rohtak, Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Jhajjar, Fatehabad, Kaithal, and Jind. In Ambala, Panipat, Mahendergarh and Nuh, one fatality each was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/after-a-long-spell-haryana-districts-report-fresh-cases-in-2-digits-or-less-101623137176565.html
08-06-2021||Patna||Bihar government lifts Covid-19 lockdown, night curfew to continue||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Tuesday that the Covid-19 induced lockdown in the state is being lifted, adding that the night curfew, though, will continue.Also Read: Bihar lockdown to be extended? CM Nitish Kumar to decide today"Lockdown has led to a decline in Covid-19 cases. Therefore, the lockdown is being lifted by the 7pm to 5am night curfew will continue. Government and private offices can open till 4pm with a capacity of 50%. Opening of shops is being extended to 5pm," a rough translation of Kumar's tweet, posted in Hindi, read.लाॅकडाउन से कोरोना संक्रमण में कमी आई है। अतः लाॅकडाउन खत्म करते हुये शाम 7ः00 बजे से सुबह 5ः00 बजे तक रात्रि कर्फ्यू जारी रहेगा। 50 प्रतिशत उपस्थिति के साथ सरकारी एवं निजी कार्यालय 4ः00 बजे अपराह्न तक खुलेंगे। दुकान खुलने की अवधि 5ः00 बजे अपराह्न तक बढेंगी। (1/2)"Online educational activities are allowed. Private vehicles can operate. These relaxations shall be in force for the next one week. We still need to avoid crowded places," Kumar added.(2/2) आनलाईन शिक्षण कार्य किये जा सकेंगे। निजी वाहन चलने की अनुमति रहेगी। यह व्यवस्था अगले एक सप्ताह तक रहेगी। अभी भी भीड़भाड़ से बचने की आवश्यकता है।The lockdown in Bihar, which came into force on May 5, was extended for a fourth time on May 31, till June 8. As per the state government’s norms, all shops and business establishments were allowed to open alternately from 6am to 2pm, with the district administrations empowered to decide the days on which shops were to open. Earlier, certain shops, including grocery and vegetable kiosks could open from 6am till 10am.Click here for all latest Covid-19 updatesThe government offices, meanwhile, were allowed to work at a staff strength of 25% while private offices were directed to stay closed.On June 7, Bihar’s Covid-19 tally rose by 762 new cases to 713,879, according to a health department bulletin on the day. 43 lives were lost due to the viral disease as the Covid-19 related death toll rose to 5424. Recoveries mounted to 700,224 with the recovery rate improving to 98.09% while active cases declined further to 8230. Since April, according to the Bihar government’s figures, more than five lakh people have been found positive for the coronavirus disease and over 4,000 have succumbed to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-government-lifts-covid-19-lockdown-night-curfew-to-continue-101623136474552.html
08-06-2021||Noida||Okhla Bird Sanctuary, Surajpur wetland to open next week||As the Gautam Budh Nagar district partial corona restrictions ease, the forest department said it will re-open the Okhla Bird Sanctuary (OBS) next week.The bird sanctuary and Surajpur reserve forest and wetland were closed for visitors and borders on April 17 in the wake of rising coronavirus disease cases in the city.Though some of the curfew eased in the district on Monday, forest officials said they will observe the lockdown for a week more to see if the Covid-19 cases rise again.“We have decided to open the sanctuary up for tourists and birders next week. As the restrictions are now being lifted in part, we have decided to observe the case tally for a week’s time to see if they continue to drop or at least don’t increase. After that only will we open both the OBS and the Surajpur sanctuary by next week,” said the divisional forest officer (DFO), GB Nagar, PK Srivastava.He added that the infrastructure work, including the construction of six huts at OBS, will continue.The OBS and Surajpur reserve forests were shut in March 2020 when the district experienced first Covid-19 cases and a nationwide lockdown was imposed. Both the habitats were reopened on September 15, 2020 with advisories.The sanctuary, which is home to about 350 species of birds, is spread over an area of 400 hectares of which about 60% is water bodies and attracts a number of migratory birds during winters and passage migrants during summers.The migratory birds start arriving in the sanctuary by October, while their strength reaches the peak by December.According to the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC)-2021 by Wetlands International South Asia and the divisional forest department of Gautam Budh Nagar in January 2021, a total of 8,068 birds of a total of 73 species of water birds were counted. Of these, 27 were resident and local migratory species and 46 were migratory species.Among the main attractions were Black-headed Ibis (Indian resident), Black-tailed Godwit (Winter migratory from Central Asia), Common Pochard (Winter migratory from Central Asia), Painted Stork (Indian resident species), Greater Spotted Eagle (Winter migratory migrates from Central Asia), Oriental Darter (Resident), River Lapwing (Resident), Ferruginous Duck (Winter migratory from Central Asia).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/okhla-bird-sanctuary-surajpur-wetland-to-open-next-week-101623134860470.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Truck driver robbed, shot dead in Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh||A 50-year-old truck driver was shot dead and robbed in front of his helper allegedly by a group of car-borne assailants in west Delhi’s Basai Darapur near Punjabi Bagh in the early hours of Tuesday. A case of murder and robbery is being registered, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said that around 3am, the police control room received a call that a man has been shot near ESI hospital at Basai Darapur. A police team reached the place and met the caller, who identified himself as Jitender,19, who said he was the helper/cleaner of the truck and the driver had been shot. Also Read | Noida Metro’s Aqua line to resume services from tomorrow: All you need to knowJitender told the police that three-four men in a Santro car stopped in front of the truck.“Two men came out of the car and shot the driver of a truck in his waist. They snatched his mobile phone and ₹5,000 and fled in the car. The injured driver, Lakshmi Chand, was taken to Guru Govind Singh Hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said the DCP.Police said they are scanning CCTV cameras installed around the crime scene and on the routes that the truck took to reach there. They have also activated their human intelligence network for gathering information about the suspects.The motive of the crime is also a matter of probe, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/truck-driver-robbed-shot-dead-in-delhi-s-punjabi-bagh-101623136064050.html
08-06-2021||Noida||Metro services on Aqua Line to resume from June 9||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Monday said that it will resume operations on its Aqua Line from June 9 as the partial Covid curfew has been lifted. However, the metro services will be available only on weekdays from 7am to 8pm, officials said.The officials said the NMRC is making necessary preparations at all of its stations and on trains as well, so as to ensure that passengers follow social distancing norms and other Covid-19 protocols. The services were suspended on May 1 after the second wave of the pandemic had ravaged the Guatam Budh Nagar district.“As the weekend curfew is still in place, train service will not be operated on weekends,” said Ritu Maheshwari, managing director, NMRC.The officials said that passenger screening teams will be deployed at each station to check the temperature of commuters and to ensure that they follow Covid guidelines such as wearing a mask and maintaining social distance. The parking facility will be available at Sector 51 station only, they said.Maheshwari said that the social distancing norms will be strictly followed on NMRC premises and inside the trains.The NMRC has also tweaked the frequency of trains during peak and non-peak hours. During peak hours (8am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm), the trains will be available at 15 minutes interval (as against 7.30 minutes on normal days) and during non-peak hours the frequency will be 30 minutes (earlier 10 minutes).Notably, on normal days, the train services are available from 6am to 10pm.The NMRC in a statement said it would continue to run fast trains once the service resumes on Wednesday. Of the 21 stations on the Aqua Line, trains during peak hours skip a total of 10 stations which usually have lower ridership. This move is aimed at reducing travel time between Noida and Greater Noida by nine minutes.Meanwhile, NMRC on Monday also issued a fresh tender to hire a developer for the Aqua Line’s extension to Greater Noida West -- 9.6km route from Sector 51 station to Sector 2 in Greater Noida West. VV Reddy, deputy general manager, NMRC, said that the elevated extension will have five metro stations – Sector 122 and Sector 123 in Noida, and Sector 4, Ecotech 12 and Sector 2 in Greater Noida West.“NMRC had issued three tenders earlier, but we did not get suitable applicants. We have made some changes in the tender documents to attract more applicants/developers,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/metro-services-on-aqua-line-to-resume-from-june-9-101623134865256.html
08-06-2021||Kolkata||Fire breaks out at TMC MLA Madan Mitra's residence in Kolkata, doused||Fire broke out at TMC MLA Madan Mitra's residence in the Bhabanipur area in south Kolkata on Tuesday morning, officials said.Three fire tenders brought the blaze under control at the century-old building, they said.No one was injured in the incident, they added.Mitra along with his family members rushed out of the house as soon as the fire was spotted in a room on the ground floor.A visibly shaken Mitra was seen sitting outside the house.Presumably, the fire started from a short circuit, said a fire services official."Though we don't know exactly, as of now a purifier is suspected to be the cause of the short circuit. An investigation will be done," the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/fire-breaks-out-at-tmc-mla-madan-mitra-s-residence-in-kolkata-doused-101623134882484.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal board notifies policy to tabulate result of Class 10 students||The Himachal Pradesh Board of School Education (HPBOSE) has notified the policy for tabulating the result of 1.31 lakh Class 10 students, who have been promoted amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the policy, the subject-wise marks distribution has been divided into seven categories that comprise the Class 9 result of the student, Class 10 first and second term exams, pre-board result, paper of one subject held on April 13, internal assessment and practical marks. Also read: ICMR to start 4th national sero survey this monthIn a 100-mark paper with no practical, 10 marks have been allotted for the Class 9 result, 15 marks each for the first and second term exams, 40 marks for the pre-board exam, five marks for the paper of one subject and 15 marks for internal assessment. For the 100-mark exam with practicals, 10 marks will be given for the Class 9 result, five each for first and second terms, 35 for pre-board, five for one annual paper, 15 for internal assessment and 25 for practicals. A school-level committee will finalise the marks to be awarded to the students. For art, music and computer science, the marks allotted for practicals are 35, 60 and 50, respectively. Candidates who were absent in the first and second terms besides pre-board exam will be given only 33 marks as pass marks. Chance to take exam after Covid situation improves “The board will give a chance to appear in exams to students dissatisfied with the tabulation of marks after Covid situation improves,” said HPBOSE chairman Suresh Kumar Soni. He said the board will promote students appearing in the Class 10 compartment exam by granting them minimum pass marks. The Class 10 exams of HPBOSE were to be held from April 13 to 28. However, the exams were cancelled on April 14 in the wake of rising Covid cases. The state cabinet in a meeting on May 5 decided to promote the students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-board-notifies-policy-to-tabulate-result-of-class-10-students-101623133422086.html
08-06-2021||Noida||Noida Metro's Aqua line to resume services from tomorrow: All you need to know||The officials of Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) said on Tuesday that the Noida-Greater Noida Metro, also known as the Aqua Line, will resume services from June 9 (Wednesday) after a hiatus of over a month amid the Covid-19 lockdown. The announcement comes a day after the Delhi Metro resumed its operations."Due to partial Covid curfew, metro services on the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) network were suspended with effect from May 1," PTI quoted NMRC managing director Ritu Maheshwari as saying on Monday.Also read: As Metro trains resume, stations being closed intermittently. DMRC explains why"As the curfew has been relaxed in Gautam Buddh Nagar, NMRC train services will start operating from June 9," she added.The Gautam Buddh Nagar administration recently announced easing of Covid-19 restrictions imposed to prevent the spread of the virus. The relaxations were according to Uttar Pradesh government's order which allowed lifting of curbs in districts with less than 600 cases of Covid-19.The managing director also said that in order to discourage unnecessary movement during the pandemic, trains will be operated from 7am to 8pm from Monday to Friday, PTI reported.Train services will not be operational during the weekends i.e Saturday and Sunday due to the Covid-induced curfew, Maheshwari further said.The NMRC said during the peak hours - from 8am to 11am and 5pm to 8pm - there would be one train every 15 minutes and one train every 30 minutes during the non-peak hours.Also read: Metro stations closed to ensure distancingThe Aqua Line will also have 'fast trains' on the tracks on weekdays during the rush hours. "The fast trains will not stop on Sector 50, 101, 81, 83, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, and 148 stations," the NMRC said in a statement.The Aqua Line stretches over 29.7 km and connects the twin cities of Noida and Greater Noida in Gautam Buddh Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-metro-s-aqua-line-to-resume-services-from-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know-101623128783480.html
08-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal to plant 150 million mangrove saplings to protect from cyclones||The West Bengal government will plant 150 million saplings of mangroves in the state’s three coastal districts as a future protection from cyclones such as Yaas and Amphan that left the coastal areas ravaged in the last 13 months.“We will have to take the help of nature to minimise the effect of natural disasters like cyclones. The forest and environment department will plant 150 million mangrove saplings, 50 million each in three districts – North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore,” said Mamata Banerjee, the Bengal chief minister.The state planted 50 million mangrove saplings after cyclone Amphan ravaged at least six districts, uprooting and damaging thousands of trees in May last. In Kolkata alone, 5,000 trees were uprooted.“This time we have suffered more damage than last year... as the cyclone coincided with the spring tide the storm surge was much higher. At least 63 villages in 14 blocks are still under water,” she said, adding that river embankments have been breached in at least 317 places.Cyclone Yaas, which hit the Odisha coast on May 26, coincided with the perigean spring tide and the resulting storm surge devastated the three coastal districts in Bengal and the Sunderban delta. Around 5 million people live on the 54 islands of the Sunderban alone.The state government has also formed a 24-member committee headed by Kalyan Rudra, a river expert, to suggest ways to strengthen the river embankments in the Sunderban delta. The committee will also include experts from Calcutta University, Jadavpur University, Kalyani University among other institutes. “We need a master plan,” Banerjeee said.A similar committee formed after cyclone Amphan submitted its report in March this year. It recommended that mangrove plants, if used to form the first line of defence, may help in reducing the impact of the waves that are triggered during cyclones, thus protecting the embankments.“There are certain deep rooted mangrove species such as Rhizophora, Bruguiera and Avicennia which may not only act as a bio-shield, but if planted on the embankments, may also help to bind the soil and make them more robust. These will take at least four to five years to grow up to the right size to protect the embankments,” said HS Debnath, former director of the Indian Botanic Garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-to-plant-150-million-mangrove-saplings-to-protect-from-cyclones-101623131862267.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal CM calls on BJP chief to discuss BJP’s byelection plan||With byelections due for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituencies, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur called on BJP chief JP Nadda in New Delhi on Monday night. During the hour-long meeting at Nadda’s house, Thakur apprised him of the political situation in the state. Also read: How Centre plans to vaccinate all 94 crore adults against Covid-19 by DecemberThe Election Commission had recently sought a Covid-19 situation report from the state authorities as, according to rules, the polls need to be held within six months of the seat falling vacant. The Mandi Lok Sabha seat fell vacant on March 17 following the death of member of Parliament Ram Swaroop Sharma in Delhi. The Fatehpur assembly seat, represented by Congress legislator and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania, fell vacant following his death due to a prolonged illness on February 12. The Jubbal-Kotkhai seat fell vacant after former horticulture minister and BJP chief whip Narendra Bragta died of post Covid-19 complications on June 5. Thakur briefed Nadda about the efforts his government is making to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, which is gradually coming under control. The state BJP is expected to meet after June 14 once the unlock process begins. The meeting will be significant as the BJP suffered reverses in the Solan and Palampur municipal corporation elections. The party got a wafer-thin majority in Dharamshala. The party struggled to wrest control of the Solan MC but won by a comfortable margin in Mandi, the hometown of the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-cm-calls-on-bjp-chief-to-discuss-bjp-s-byelection-plan-101623128021274.html
08-06-2021||Kolkata||There should not be any report of carcass meat getting sold: Mamata Banerjee||Carcasses of cattle killed during Cyclone Yaas could be sold to hotels and restaurants for their meat, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee warned on Monday as she directed top police officers to step up checking and raid places where they could be stored.“There are people who sell the meat of dead animals to hotels and restaurants. Later these are sold to customers. Earlier, we had busted one such racket,” Banerjee said.In April 2018, police busted a racket near Kolkata for selling cattle carcasses from dumping grounds. It later emerged that carcass meat, after being processed with chemicals such as formaldehyde and frozen to a temperature of -44°C, was sold to traders in Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, and Assam.Banerjee said the carcasses were being stored in some specific areas only to be sold later to restaurants and hotels. “Check the places and find out whether they are being stored and sold. Seize them and take immediate action. Cremate the carcasses,” Banerjee said while reviewing the damage caused by the cyclone.Also Read | Central teams visit Yaas-hit Bengal, OdishaOfficials said a few thousand cattle and poultry birds died due to the cyclone. Even though the cyclone made landfall in Odisha, the storm surge it had triggered flooded multiple villages in West Bengal.“At least 63 village panchayats in 14 blocks in three districts are still inundated. Dead cattle are still lying here and there and this also raised the apprehension of diseases,” said an official.State minister Subrata Mukherjee, who was present at the meeting, said dead fish were also likely to be sold to the restaurants. Saline water from the rivers gushed into the villages and filled up the ponds killing all sweet water fish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/carcasses-of-cattle-killed-during-cyclone-yaas-could-be-sold-for-meat-banerjee-101623127122063.html
08-06-2021||Other||Pune chemical unit fire: 17 confirmed dead; DNA tests to help identify bodies||The fire at a chemical manufacturing firm at Urawade in Purangut, Pune, charred the bodies of victims beyond recognition. As many as 17 persons were charred to death in Monday’s fire.“Initially, it seemed like there were 18 victims. However, by now we have crossed-checked with the company officials and found only 17 missing. Everyone else is accounted for. Therefore, the death toll is 17,” said Abhay Chavan, tehsildar of Mulshi area.The bodies were recovered from the site after a two-hour operation. Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil will be visiting the spot this morning to meet relatives of those who lost their lives in the tragedy.The names of the deceased are: Archana Vaikant Kawade (36), Sachin Ghodke (24), Sangita Maruti Polekar (43), Mangal Baban Margale (29), Surekha Manohar Tupe (45), Suman Sanjay Dhebe (38), Sunita Rahul Sathe (28), Mahadevi Sanjay Ambare (40), Manda Bhausaheb Kulat (49), Trishla Sambhaji Jadhav (32), Atul Lakshman Sathe (23), Seema Sachin Borade (34), Geeta Bharat Diwadkar (41), Shital Dattatray Khopakar (43), Sarika Chandrakant Kudale (42), Dhanashree Rajaram Shelar (22), and Sangitla Ulhas Gonde (43), according to the local administrator.Also Read | Maharashtra records 10,219 Covid-19 cases“All bodies are completely charred. They cannot be identified clearly. A DNA examination of all bodies will be done for identification. Blood samples of relatives will be taken,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent, Pune Rural Police. The samples will be sent for DNA testing at the government laboratory in Pune and the incident will be recorded at Paud police station.An official at the mortuary of Sassoon General Hospital, on condition of anonymity, said on Tuesday, “The doctors could barely identify the gender but even that cannot be confirmed. Without DNA tests, it will be difficult to say anything.”A team of doctors performed post mortem on the bodies overnight. However, the bodies will not be handed over to relatives yet. Meanwhile, the immediate families of those missing are being called.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-chemical-unit-fire-17-confirmed-dead-dna-tests-to-help-identify-bodies-101623126340968.html
08-06-2021||Patna||4 Maoists among 14 arrested in Bihar; 2 gun making units busted||Bihar police on Monday busted two illegal gun-making units and arrested 10 people involved in the business from Naugachia and Bhagalpur districts. It also nabbed four wanted Maoists in separate operations conducted by the special task force (STF) in Muzaffarpur and West Champaran districts.20 unfinished country-made pistols, 4 finished pistols, a couple of guns, several magazines, live cartridges and bullets, two motorbikes, drilling, milling and welding machines, were recovered from the illegal gun manufacturing units at Bihpur police station area following STF raids, prompted by tip offs, said a police officer.Those arrested were identified as Mohammad Shahbaz Alam, Mohammad Said alias Bablu (both from Munger), Prabhakar Choudhary, Pankaj Ray, Pinku Jha, Subham Kumar, Gayanand Yadav (all from Naugachia) and Gopal Singh (Saharsa).A joint team of Munger and Bhagalpur police busted the second illegal arms manufacturing unit at Ghogha and Akbarnagar police stations area and arrested one Mithilesh Mandal with Mohammad Mahtab.Bhagalpur’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nitasha Guriya said the cops involved in the operation against illegal arms manufacturing and supply will be rewarded.In another significant achievement, STF sleuths arrested suspected Maoists Amresh Paswan and Rajesh Ram from West Champaran district and Manoj Sahni and Ramu Paswan alias Himansu from Muzaffarpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/4-maoists-among-14-arrested-in-bihar-2-gun-making-units-busted-101623125680896.html
08-06-2021||Bhopal||Murder accused dies by suicide in jail in MP’s Sehore||A murder accused, who was recently arrested for killing a woman in a moving train, died by suicide in a Sehore district jail of Madhya Pradesh on Monday, said police.The 25-year-old Indore resident had allegedly killed a 21-year-old woman by slitting her throat in a moving train on June 1 after repeatedly harassing her. The police arrested him on Wednesday from Bhopal and he was lodged in Sehore jail since, said Sameer Yadav, additional superintendent of police, Sehore. Also Read | Married to her rapist, minor girl dies by suicide within a year of weddingDeputy inspector general of jail Sanjay Pandey said the accused used his T-shirt to end his life. “He hanged himself from a rod of the jail barrack by using his T-shirt. Another jail inmate informed the authorities. The doctors in jail referred him to a district hospital where he was declared brought dead.”A magisterial enquiry has been ordered in the matter. Police are also investigating the matter.Do you need help, or know someone else who does? Help is just a call away. Snehi: 011-65978181; Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/murder-accused-dies-by-suicide-in-jail-in-mp-s-sehore-101623123640558.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather today: Expect strong winds during the day||Delhi is likely to see strong surface winds during the daytime on Tuesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was likely to be 26 degrees Celsius (°C), two notches below the season’s average, while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 40°C. Also Read | Covid-19 cases below 300 for 1st time since March 4, positivity rate now 0.36%The minimum temperature on Monday was 26°C – two degrees below normal and the maximum temperature was 40.3°C– normal for this time of the season. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6am stood at 196. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 148, which is in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe. On Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “A sharp increase in wind speed is forecasted for the next three days favourable for dispersion. However, at the same time an increase in the long-range transport of dust from the arid regions is likely as the transporting winds are becoming favourable leading to frequent short term hourly spikes in PM10 in the next three days. However, as AQI is an average of 24 hour, SAFAR model predicts that AQI would stay in the moderate to poor category with PM10 as the lead pollutant for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-today-expect-strong-winds-during-the-day-101623122080424.html
08-06-2021||Other||2016 corruption case: CBI court awards 4-yr jail to former I-T official||A special CBI court on Monday held a former income tax (I-T) deputy commissioner of the Sirsa Circle guilty in a 2016 corruption case. The former I-T officer, Nitin Garg, was sentenced to four years in prison and told to pay a fine of ₹3 lakh.He was convicted for committing offences punishable under Sections 7 and 13 (1) (d) read with 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption (PC) Act, 1988.The case dates back to 2016, when the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI, ACB), Chandigarh, registered an FIR under PC Act, following a complaint by Parshotam Kumar Goyal.Goyal, who trades in TMT Bars, alleged that Garg, the then deputy commissioner of income tax of Sirsa Circle, was demanding ₹2 lakh for not imposing heavy penalties on his proprietorship firm. Following this, a trap was laid, and Garg was arrested from his hometown in Bathinda.In the courtroom, Garg, who was under trial over five years, pleaded that he is not a previous convict and is suffering from a heart ailment.But public prosecutor KP Singh argued that it is the need of the hour to give exemplary punishment to public servants found indulging in corrupt practices.Special judge, CBI, Dr Sushil Kumar Garg said: “Be you ever so high, the law is above you. One lie is enough to question all truths. It is the duty of the court that any anti-corruption law has to be interpreted and worked out in such a fashion so as to strengthen the fight against corruption.”Comparing corruption with cancer, the judge said: “If not detected in time, it is sure to afflict every walk of life, leading to disastrous consequences. Corruption is a plague, which is not only contagious but if not controlled, spreads like fire in the jungle.”Stating that punishment is designed to reform the offender and reclaim him as a law-abiding citizen for the society as a whole, the judge ordered: “Any softness in this regard could produce an undesirable result, namely, encouragement to adoption of corrupt means by public servants, which has indeed to be checked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2016-corruption-case-cbi-court-awards-4-yr-jail-to-former-i-t-official-101623097358027.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||After long spell, Haryana districts report fresh cases in 2 digits or less||Continuing the downward trend, Haryana on Monday recorded 640 fresh cases and 39 deaths, as per the health bulletin.On Sunday, the state had 654 new cases and 48 fatalities.With the cases beginning to come down, the state resumed some economic activities on Monday, allowing club houses, restaurants, bars, golf courses to reopen, though the lockdown will continue till the morning of June 14. It is after a long spell that the new cases have come down to two digits in the districts. Jind recorded the highest, 78, fresh cases, followed by Yamunanagar 59, Sirsa 55 and Bhiwani 52. Gurugram recorded 31 new cases, Faridabad 27, Sonepat 23, Hisar 45, Ambala 32, Karnal 37, Panipat 11, Rohtak 15, Rewari 26, Panchkula 23, Kurukshetra 26, Mahendergarh 12, Jhajjar 13, Palwal 8, Fatehabad 29, Kaithal 27, Nuh 9 and Charkhi Dadri 2. The health bulletin stated that just 26,744 samples were taken in the past 24 hours, while on Sunday 36,742 samples were taken. At least 1,674 people recovered and there were 8,024 active patients in the state while the recovery rate was 97.80%. The fatality rate rose to 1.15% with 39 deaths recorded in 19 districts. Four people each succumbed to the infection in Gurugram and Hisar while three each died in Rewari and Bhiwani, two patients each died of the Covid-19 in Karnal, Rohtak, Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Jhajjar, Fatehabad, Kaithal, and Jind. In Ambala, Panipat, Mahendergarh and Nuh, one fatality each was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-long-spell-haryana-districts-report-fresh-cases-in-2-digits-or-less-101623097177787.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||With 977 cases, J&K’s daily count drops below 1,000 after 56 days||Jammu and Kashmir’s single-day coronavirus infections dropped below 1,000 for the first time in 56 days as the Union Territory recorded 977 new cases on Monday. The continuous waning in cases despite partial unlocking from May 31 has prompted the Srinagar administration to further relax restrictions for markets and shopping malls, which will now be able to operate for four days a week. The previous order had limited their functioning to two days. The UT recorded 16 fatalities on Monday, taking the death toll to 4,090, while the cumulative case count stood at 3,01,467. Seven deaths and 288 new cases were reported from Jammu division and nine fatalities and 689 new infections from Kashmir. The new cases included 17 travellers. Asking people to exercise restraint, Srinagar deputy commissioner Mohammad Aijaz Asad tweeted, “The 161 positive cases in Srinagar are the lowest of the lower data since the outbreak of the second Covid wave. But the pandemic is not over yet. A median between lockdown and unlock holds the key.Outdoor bazaars and shopping complexes can now operate from Monday to Thursday on rotation basis. Stand-alone shops will be allowed to operate for four days from the earlier three days .Hair salons and beauty parlours can now open for three daysThe health and medical education department further claimed that J&K has been the top achiever in India with more than 73% of the population above 45 years vaccinated with the first dose. “Approximately 26 lakh doses were administered in the last 2 months. Over 22 lakh beneficiaries above the age of 45 years vaccinated with 1st dose. More than 1.8 lakh beneficiaries between 18 years to 44 years have also been vaccinated since May 1,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-977-cases-j-k-s-daily-count-drops-below-1-000-after-56-days-101623097057934.html
08-06-2021||Other||PGIMS Rohtak sees lowest count of Covid patients since April 10||With just 79 Covid-19 patients, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, on Monday saw its lowest count of patients under treatment since April 10. On April 10, the hospital had 81 patients admitted in the Covid ward, while on April 20, the number rose to 221 and subsequently went up to 306 on April 25. The patient count at the hospital continued the upward spiral, touching 371 on May, shooting up to 1, 334 on May 15 before dropping to 110 on May 31.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said cases started decreasing from the third week of May and the demand for ventilator beds has also gone down.“As many as 35 patients were on ventilator support on May 1, 55 on May 15, 38 on May 31 while now, the hospital has 16 patients on ventilator. The second wave is stabilising and we are hopeful that the situation will further improve by the end of this month. We have a total of 566 total beds for Covid patients out of which only 79 are occupied at the moment. The death count has also decreased,” she added.She said the hospital is now preparing to tackle the third wave in which, according to experts, children are likely to be affected. “We have started working to set up 600 beds for children, out of which, 400 are oxygen beds and 100 each are ICU and normal beds. Three bottling plants will be established at PGIMS by July 15,” Dr Dahiya added.A senior PGIMS doctor said they have opened beds for non-Covid patients as the number of Covid-19 cases has seen a major decline. “At the peak of the second wave, we had more than 400 patients, now the number is below 80 but the black fungus cases are rising. The number of elective surgeries is much lower than pre-covid times. People are visiting the hospitals only for emergencies,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pgims-rohtak-sees-lowest-count-of-covid-patients-since-april-10-101623096937856.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC grants protection to live-in partners aged 20 and 17||The Punjab and Haryana high court granted protection to a live-in couple , despite one of them being a minor, observing that if a couple has decided to be together, it is not for the courts to judge them.The order came on the protection plea from a 17-year-old girl and a 20-year-old boy from Bathinda in Punjab. The order, granting protection to a couple even though the girl was not of marriageable age was passed by the bench of justice Sant Parkash on June 3, and it comes in the backdrop of different benches of the high court giving divergent views on live-in relationships.The court was informed that upon learning about the relationship between the girl and her partner, her parents wanted her to marry a person of their choice, following which the girl left her home to live with her partner. They have decided to live together till the time they are legally allowed to solemnise their marriage, they submitted.“It would be a travesty of justice in case protection is denied to persons who have opted to reside together without the sanctity of marriage,” the bench said it would also be failing in its duty to provide people a right to their life and liberty if it did not intervene.The bench also recorded that it can’t lose sight of honour killings which are prevalent in the region. “It is for the State at this juncture, to ensure their protection and their personal liberty,” the bench said adding that petitioners have not asked the court for permission to marry or to approve their relationship. Both of these would have put the court in a spot as the girl is a minor.Different benches of the high court have given conflicting judgments on live-in relationships while hearing similar cases. On May 11, one of the benches observed that the “entire social fabric of the society will get disturbed” if a plea for protection from a live-in couple was accepted (both man and woman were majors in that case, but very young), while another bench termed live-in relationships “morally and socially not acceptable” while refusing protection. The decision on the second plea was overturned by the Supreme Court on June 4.These judgments were followed by two other benches of the high court ruling the opposite. While a bench on May 18 held that a live-in relationship is not prohibited, another bench observed that such relationships may not be acceptable to all, but could not be termed illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-grants-protection-to-live-in-partners-aged-20-and-17-101623096758850.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Our institutions have stopped taking notice of human rights violations: Mehbooba||Jammu and Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday said the United Nations had to “step in” as India’s own institutions have stopped taking notice of human rights violations.Mehbooba said anyone who raised voice against the wrong measures of the Government of India (GOI) was labelled as “Pakistani agent”.“Anyone who raises his voice against GOI’s draconian measures is conveniently labelled as a Pakistani agent. A pity that our own institutions have stopped taking notice of such brazen human rights violations & instead the UN has to step in,” the former chief minister said in a tweet.She was referring to a police charge sheet against PDP youth wing president Waheed Para that alleged that he was an asset of Pakistan-based terror groups.Mehbooba’s tweet was also in reference to reports that some UN rapporteurs had raised the issue of Para’s arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for his alleged links to terror groups.India does not recognise the role of any third party in its internal affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/our-institutions-have-stopped-taking-notice-of-human-rights-violations-mehbooba-101623096757825.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Harbhajan apologises for Insta post featuring Bhindranwale||Veteran Indian off-spinner Harbhajan Singh on Monday unconditionally apologised for a social media post in which he shared a picture of Khalistani militant Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale to pay homage to those who died in ‘Operation Bluestar’ of 1984. The 40-year-old off-spinner said he posted a WhatsApp forward on the 37th anniversary of the operation without realising that the man in the picture was Bhindranwale. “I just wish to clarify and apologise for an Instagram post yesterday. It was a WhatsApp forward that I posted in a haste and without even realising the content used and what it signified and stood for,” he said in an apology note posted on Twitter. “That was my mistake I accept, and at no stage do I subscribe to the views in that post or support the people whose picture were carried. I am a Sikh who will fight for India and not against India. This is my unconditional apology for hurting the sentiments of my nation. In fact any anti-national group against my people, I do not support and never will,” he added. Operation Bluestar was an Army operation which was carried out in 1984 to flush out militants from the Golden Temple in Amritsar. Bhindranwale was the leader of that insurgent movement and was killed along with and several other people during the operation. “I have given my blood and sweat for this country for 20 years and will never ever support anything that is anti-India,” Harbhajan asserted. The veteran has played 103 Tests for India, claiming 417 wickets in them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/harbhajan-apologises-for-insta-post-featuring-bhindranwale-101623096459256.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC dismisses regularisation plea of Chandigarh MC’s contractual employees||The Punjab and Haryana high court has dismissed a plea from over a dozen contractual employees, who were seeking regularisation of their services with the Chandigarh municipal corporation.The plea filed by Shinu Gupta and others had demanded that the UT administration be directed to frame a policy for regularisation of the contractual employees. The petitioners also demanded that the recruitment process for 41 additional posts be scrapped and they be appointed instead since they had been working for 13-15 years now.It was also demanded a policy to regularise contractual employees who were working against sanctioned posts for a period of more than 10 years be framed. The court was also told that at one stage, the MC had considered framing a policy of its own on the issue of regularisation.The bench of justice Anil Kshetarpal said that from the plea it was not clear whether the petitioners were ever appointed after inviting the applications and after giving opportunity to others to apply. It also took note of the 2006 apex court judgment wherein it was said that directions on regularisation of services of temporary employees/daily wagers should not be ordinarily issued.As of MC’s proposal for a policy on regularisation, the court said it had neither been adopted nor approved and the Chandigarh administration had not granted permission to the MC to notify such a policy.To the argument that the petitioners were now being sought to be replaced by another set of temporary employees, which wasn’t permitted, the court observed that the March 2021 notice for recruitment of eligible candidates gives indication that the posts are likely to be regularised.“Thus, the eligible candidates will have the opportunity to apply and compete, which is in accordance with the requirement of the Constitution of India,” said the court while dismissing the plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-dismisses-regularisation-plea-of-chandigarh-mc-s-contractual-employees-101623096157751.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Virus curve flattening in Haryana, second wave thinning out||The coronavirus growth curve in Haryana which started to decline four weeks ago is flattening, conclusively indicating the culmination of the second wave. Tracking the trajectory of the virus which went through the roof in the first week of May, recording more than one lakh infections in a week, a health department analysis showed that there was a 93% decrease in the number of cases. As against 1.01 lakh cases reported between May 3 and 9 which was the peak of the viral spread, only 6,902 infections were reported from the state last week (May 31-June 6).Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said that second wave of the virus spread was on a steep decline. Statistics showed that the number of cases started to decline in the second week of May when the weekly number came down to 78,350 cases, dipped to 43,601 in the third week and 17,361 in the fourth week. The number of active cases as on Monday was about 8,000 while 7,425 patients were kept in home isolation (as on June 5). Correspondingly, the number of deaths, which also hit a peak in the first week of May with 1,119 fatalities, came down to 491 in the last week of May. Statistics show that about 39% of the total deaths due to the viral infection have been from rural areas of the state. About 50% of the casualties have been from the 55-74 age group and 37% of the dead patients were women. “In fact, 57% of those who succumbed to the virus were senior citizens, above 60 years,’’ said an official.Statistics showed that 16 districts continued to have cumulative positivity rate of more than 6%. However, if one takes into consideration the positivity rate of last week, then 13 districts have positivity rate of less than 6%. “This is due to the sharp drop in the infection rate,” said an official. Health officials said that during the screening of rural population under the Haryana Villagers General Health Check-up Scheme, 3,465 positive cases have been detected in the last 22 days with a cumulative positivity rate of 2.83%. Officials said 34.61 lakh households in rural, per urban and high-risk areas were screened by teams in which 1.70 crore population was screened for presence of influenza-like illness (ILI). Out of these, 1.21 lakh people with ILI were tested for rapid antigen test (RAT). About 325 patients were treated through village isolation centres and most of them improved to go back home safely. At present, no patient is admitted at these centres, as per an analysis. However, the rural screening and testing data is disputed by politicians across the spectrum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virus-curve-flattening-in-haryana-second-wave-thinning-out-101623096037830.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||J&K to form district-level task force to look after Covid affected, infected kids||The Jammu and Kashmir government on Monday sanctioned district-level task forces, which will be headed by deputy magistrates, for providing care and protection to children affected and infected by the coronavirus pandemic. Around 450 children in the Union Territory have either lost a single parent or both parents to the coronavirus in Jammu and Kashmir. In an order issued by the commissioner secretary to the government MK Dwivedi, the task forces have been sanctioned in all 20 districts. “Sanction is hereby accorded to constitution of district level task forces comprising district magistrate, chief medical officer, additional superintendent of police, district social welfare officer, district child protection officer, chairperson of child welfare committee or any member of the committee, and an NGO running a child care institution nominated by the district magistrate, in each district, for providing care and protection to children infected by Covid as well as children of Covid infected parents in the Jammu and Kashmir,” read the order. The task force will compile details of all adults who have died due to Covid complications and ascertain whether any children had been orphaned and were in need of government protection. Such children will be presented before the child welfare committee, which will decide on a plan for their rehabilitation such as adoption, foster care, or sponsorship and institutionalisation as the last resort as per the provisions of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. Children whose parents are undergoing Covid treatment and are left without relative(s), or guardian(s) to take necessary care can be placed in temporary shelters. The children will also be provided counselling. The task force will also ensure timely referral of children infected with Covid to treatment centers besides ensuring their nutritional support during post-treatment period. It will also identify and design one registered child care institution in each district and make arrangements for such institutions as Covid care centres, exclusively for children. “It is further ordered that the district level task force will meet every week and as and when required for providing intervention programmes for care and protection of these children. The district collector will be responsible for convening the meeting of the task force and will submit a status report once a fortnight,” said Dwivedi in his order. UT social welfare secretary Sheetal Nanda said, “We are in the process of collecting data of Saksham scheme beneficiaries and intend to be ready with it by June 20. Over 400 children have either lost a parent or both parents to the infection so far in J&K. After verification, we need to open their bank accounts. They will be joint accounts of the minor with a major guardian. Besides, we need details such as where they are studying.” The divisional commissioners in Kashmir and Jammu and all district heads have been given the June 20 deadline after which the process of sanctioning relief will begin. The J&K government has already constituted a five-member panel for hand-holding families of Covid victims. Apart from financial assistance of ₹1,000 a month to such families, the government has approved scholarship to their children. Under the scheme, the surviving spouse and the eldest surviving member of the affected families will receive a special monthly pension of ₹1,000 through direct bank transfer (DBT), provided they are not otherwise receiving any pension under other schemes. The scheme will provide special scholarships to children who lost their earning parent(s), sibling(s), guardian(s) to Covid. The special scholarship of ₹20,000 and ₹40,000 will be paid annually through DBT to children studying up to Class 12 and those pursuing higher education, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-to-form-district-level-task-force-to-look-after-covid-affected-infected-kids-101623095977824.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University prepares draft roster for promotions of non-teaching staff||Panjab University (PU) has prepared the draft roster for promotions among the non-teaching employees of various posts of ministerial and secretarial cadre at the varsity.The draft roster, which has been circulated, has been prepared as per the recommendations of a committee constituted by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar. The posts for which the roster has been prepared include deputy registrar, assistant registrar, superintendent, senior assistant, personal assistant and stenographer.The draft roster was issued recently to all the heads of all the PU teaching and non-teaching departments, branches, offices, regional centres and constituent colleges. They were asked to circulate the roster among the non-teaching staff to raise objections, if any, within 10 days from the date of issue of the circular.Former president of Panjab University Staff (Non-teaching) Association (PUSA), Deepak Kaushik, said, “Reservation should be followed in recruitment process, but promotion should be seniority-based and as per PU regulations. Also, the final decision is to be taken by the syndicate and the senate, and till the time the governing bodies are not in place, this roster is of no use.”Draft roster for other cadres under preparationAccording to the circular issued by PU, the draft roster for promotions among other cadres, including laboratory, technical staff and others, is under preparation and will soon be uploaded.No reservation roster for recruitment of teachersThe implementation of the reservation roster for direct recruitment of teachers is still pending at PU. In March 2018, the University Grants Commission (UGC) in its notification had directed universities to prepare a reservation roster keeping the departments or subjects as one unit for all levels of teachers as applicable.Also it had notified that the roster, department-wise, shall be applied to the total number of posts of each category (professor, associate professor and assistant professor) within the department.During a meeting in January last year, PU syndicate had restricted new appointments in the varsity till the reservation roster was not prepared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-prepares-draft-roster-for-promotions-of-non-teaching-staff-101623095859327.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala police nab Monu Rana gang member from Uttar Pradesh||The Ambala unit of Haryana Police’s special task force (STF) arrested a notorious criminal, who is a member of the Monu Rana gang, from Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad on Monday.The accused, Neeraj, alias Gandhi, is a resident of Dhanaura village of Ambala’s Mullana area, the police said.Haryana deputy general of police (DGP) had declared a reward of ₹50,000 for information leading to his arrest. In 2020, Neeraj was booked under murder charges in Ludhiana’s Jagraon, said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Kulbhushan.“He was absconding since May 2018 and has been named in various murder and attempt to murder as well as robbery cases,” he added.The history-sheeter was first booked for attempt to murder in 2014 in Ambala’s Saha and later under the same charges at Mullana in 2015. In 2018, he was named in a murder and fraud case at Barara, an attempt to murder case at Yamunanagar’s Bilaspur and robbery at Chhapar police station of Yamunanagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-police-nab-monu-rana-gang-member-from-uttar-pradesh-101623095797851.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||J&K Cong wants statehood, polls||The Jammu and Kashmir Congress on Monday demanded restoration of statehood and elections in the Union Territory, stating that the move would infuse confidence among the people.The Congress leadership met at its party headquarters in Srinagar under the chairpersonship of J&K party president Ghulam Ahmad Mir and discussed the prevailing Covid situation as well as the political scenario.Mir said, “It is high time that the Centre restores J&K’s statehood. The Centre’s experiments have failed and further messed up the situation.” The Congress leaders also expressed concern over stalled projects in the UT. “When the state was bifurcated, the Centre had promised development but it is nowhere to be found. Even the money allocated to the Union Territory in the budget is nowhere to be found,” Mir said. “They (the government) are trying to portray that things are moving at a fast pace by blacktopping a few roads. However, nothing is happing on the ground. Many major projects initiated by the previous government have been inexplicably stalled.” Even the elected district development council members are unhappy. “J&K has not seen anything good in the last two years. The region is rife with rumors as people do not trust anybody and have lost faith in the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jkcong-wants-statehood-polls-101623095559332.html
08-06-2021||Other||Tohana stand-off ends as 2 jailed agitators released||The week-long stand-off between farmers and authorities in Fatehabad’s Tohana ended on Monday after the administration agreed to release two jailed protesters and withdraw the FIRs against them. Two activists, Ravi Azad and Vikas Sisar, who were booked by the police for gheraoing Jannayak Janata Party MLA Devinder Babli’ house, were released on bail on Sunday night. A third activist Makhan Singh, who was booked for attacking the MLA’s cavalcade, is yet to be released, activist Yogendra Yadav tweeted on Monday evening.Following the release of Azad and Sisar, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Rakesh Tikait had called off the programme to gherao all police stations in the state. However, thousands of farmers from Jind, Hisar, Sirsa and Fatehabad called a panchayat to demand the release of the third protester, Makhan Singh, who was booked by the MLA’s staff for the June 1 face-off between the legislator and the farmers. In a joint statement, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders said, “Two protesters have been released and the administration has assured to withdraw the FIRs against them. The MLA’s staff members, who are complainants in two cases, have given a written request to the police to withdraw the cases.”After calling off the protest at Tohana, BKU leader Tikait asked farmers to start marching towards Delhi borders to press for the scrapping of the three farm laws. “The battle will be fought at Delhi’s borders and dharnas at all toll plazas will continue,” he added.‘Only party programmes, political events to be disrupted’Speaking with reporters, Punjab farmer leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the Samyukta Kisan Morcha has decided that they will protest against Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party leaders only at government and political events. Black flags will be waved without inciting any violence. “If any leader appears in any social programme such as marriage or cremation, the farmers will not protest there,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tohana-stand-off-ends-as-2-jailed-agitators-released-101623095558065.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Western disturbances to keep heat wave at bay in Chandigarh||Even though the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted a dry spell this week that may push the maximum temperature past 40°C, the city may not experience a heat wave this summer due to frequent western disturbances.As per IMD, a heat wave is declared if the maximum temperature crosses 40°C and is 4.5 degrees above normal or if it goes past 45°C. If it is 6.5 degrees above normal or is over 47°C, a severe heat wave is declared. While there was no heat wave in 2020, it was observed in the city on June 10, 2019, when the day temperature had shot up to 44.1°C.On why the city had escaped the heat wave so far this year, IMD Chandigarh director AK Singh said, “There have been around 10 western disturbances this year that is higher than normal. They also arrived in quick succession, not allowing the temperature to rise. The two cyclones in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea also had an impact on the weather in this region.”“After the recent spells of rain, dry weather is likely for the next few days. While the maximum temperature is likely to cross 40°C again, it may not go high enough for heat wave conditions to be declared. A couple of more rain spells are expected before monsoon arrives in the city around the end of June,” said Shivinder Singh, scientist, IMD. But it was not yet clear how much of an impact cleaner air in the past month had on the weather, AK Singh said. “When the ground gets heated, particles of pollutants also get heated, so lower pollution levels lead to lower temperatures. A study is needed to establish the extent of the impact,” he added.As the skies remained clear on Monday, the day temperature rose from 37.3°C on Sunday to 38°C on Monday, one notch below normal. The night temperature also increased from 24.4°C to 26.2°C, which was two degrees above normal. Over the next three days, the maximum temperature is expected to rise to 41°C, while the minimum temperature will remain between 27°C and 29°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/western-disturbances-to-keep-heat-wave-at-bay-in-chandigarh-101623095497749.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||2,000 fish, 39 birds perish in fire at Zirakpur pet shop||Nearly 2,000 fish and 39 birds were killed after a fire broke out at a pet shop in Zirakpur on Sunday night. The flames at Gold Pet Shop were first noticed around 2.30am by a driver, who informed the staff of a nearby hotel. The staff sounded the shop owner, Sandeep Kumar, who was in Dehradun. Sandeep further alerted the fire brigade and his cousin who rushed to the scene. By the time, fire trucks reached the spot around 3.30am, the entire shop was gutted and the pets housed in it were dead. Sandeep said around 2,000 fish, 35 cockatiel parrots, four white pigeons and a rabbit were killed in the blaze.“A short-circuit caused the fire. When the shutter was opened electricity sparks were noticed,” said Sandeep, who reached the shop from Dehradun on Monday morning. Running the pet shop for the last 13 years, Sandeep said due to the weekend lockdown, he had taken most of the birds back home, so they were saved. A few fish were also rescued with the help of water drums. Apart from the animals lost, Sandeep said he suffered a loss of around ₹14 lakh due to damage to the stored kennels, bird cages, fish aquariums, animal food and other articles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2000-fish-39-birds-perish-in-fire-at-zirakpur-pet-shop-101623095317741.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||If full-fledged Amarnath yatra not possible, allow restricted pilgrimage: J&K BJP president||With coronavirus casting a shadow on the upcoming annual Amarnath yatra, Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina on Monday said a restricted pilgrimage should be facilitated if the prevailing Covid situation does not allow a full-fledged yatra. He also said that killing of innocents by Pakistan-sponsored terrorists would not be tolerated and all out efforts are on to wipe out militancy from the union territory. The 56-day pilgrimage to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir Himalayas, housing the naturally formed ice-Shivling, is scheduled to start from the twin routes of Pahalgam and Baltal on June 28 and culminate on August 22. “Shiv devotees from across the globe visit Amarnath every year for ‘darshan’ (glimpse) during June and July in Kashmir. Because of the coronavirus pandemic, big religious gatherings are not happening in any part of the world so at least a restricted yatra should be facilitated,” Raina told reporters after a high-level meeting of senior party leaders at BJP headquarters here. He said if a full-fledged yatra is not possible due to the Covid situation, the prayers should be organized at the cave shrine. Asked if he favours a 15-days yatra, he said at least a limited number of Jammu and Kashmir residents should be allowed. “The strategy should be chalked out keeping in mind the prevailing difficult phase of the coronaviurs. We have talked to the Lt Governor (Manoj Sinha) on the issue in the past and will meet him again on the matter.” He said the party meeting discussed in detail the prevailing security, political and pandemic situation besides the recent killing of party leader Rakesh Pandita and the security concerns of sarpanches, panches, block Development Council and District Development Council members. Pandita, BJP’s Municipal Chairman of Tral, was killed by terrorists in his home town in Pulwama district on Wednesday. “All the discussed issues will be brought to the notice of the Lt governor in coming days. Our effort is to end Pakistan-sponsored terrorism and separatism. The repeated killing of innocents cannot be tolerated,” he said. Raina said he had raised these issues with Union Home Minister Amit Shah in the past and will continue to raise these issues with him as well as the Lt Governor. Asked about reports that additional forces have been deployed in the valley, the BJP leader said “deployment of forces is a national security matter and the discussion over it should be avoided.” However, he said there is “operation all out” going on against terrorists with full vigour and deployment is made where they have hideouts to flush them out. On BJP’s stand over Assembly elections, Raina said the party is fully prepared for the polls whenever the Election Commission takes a decision. “The delimitation commission has been constituted for J&K and due to the coronavirus outbreak it was not able to visit here. The commission is expected to visit J&K soon to define the territories of the assembly and parliamentary seats. After that the election commission will take a decision about the assembly elections and as a political party we will welcome the decision,” he said. Playing down reports on social media suggesting some big decision is in offing for J&K, he said “we do not have any information... Our priority at the moment is to break the chain of the coronavirus, maintain security and reach out to the people who are in need of assistance.” Asked about a meeting between Home Minister and Lt Governor which was also attended by security, civil and police officers in Delhi, he said “Lt Governor is visiting Delhi regularly and holding meetings there. There are issues of development, security and also reports of ceasefire violations so the talks between the two sides are nothing new.” About the ongoing protests against opening of wine shops in residential localities in different parts of Jammu after the implementation of new excise policy, he said “these shops will be closed”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/if-full-fledged-amarnath-yatra-not-possible-allow-restricted-pilgrimage-j-k-bjp-president-101623095197734.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Half of all Covid deaths in Ambala recorded in May alone||The second wave of coronavirus wreaked havoc in the country, with scores of families losing their loved ones, and Ambala wasn’t left untouched.As per the data provided by the district health department, almost half of all deaths reported in Ambala since the pandemic began were recorded in May alone.Out of the total 488 fatalities as of June 4, 239 (48.9%) were recorded in May alone. May also accorded for the highest number of positive cases, 8,584, as well as recoveries, 11,056.The second highest number of fatalities were recorded in April this year, at 82, followed by 59 deaths in September last year. As per the data, the highest single-day fatalities, 13, were recorded on May 9, a day after Ambala recorded its single-day peak of 548 fresh cases.A cumulative comparison by the health department between the first and the second wave reveals that the highest number of deaths during the first wave were recorded in the second week of September at 17, while the number stood at 70 in the first week of May this year.District epidemiologist Dr Sunil Hari said that the number of deaths rose, as the cases surged in May. “We learnt that the time frame of both the waves was almost 2.5-3 months when it peaked and plateaued, which also hints that if there is a third wave that might be within the same period,” he said.Almost 200km away from the national capital, Ambala hospitals witnessed a sudden inflow of patients from Delhi-NCR in the last week of April as beds remained unavailable in Rohtak, Hisar, Karnal and other districts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/half-of-all-covid-deaths-in-ambala-recorded-in-may-alone-101623095138400.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s daily Covid cases plunge below 50 after 102 days||In the biggest slump in nearly 15 weeks, Chandigarh’s daily Covid-19 cases dropped below 50 on Monday.The 48 fresh cases were the lowest since February 25 when 49 people had tested positive. During the subsequent 102 days, the cases peaked to 895 on May 9. But since then, the figure receded steadily, recording a 95% drop in 29 days.While the second wave was surging in the beginning of May, the city had recorded 5,795 cases in the month’s first week. In comparison, the number has plunged to 661 in the first seven days of June, five weeks after the UT administration clamped lockdown in the city on May 4.Lockdown impact: 89% drop in cases in five weeksWhen the lockdown was first enforced, the subsequent week till May 10 saw 5,874 cases, the highest so far. The number dropped to 4,917 in the week ending on May 17.At 2,747, the number of people testing positive almost halved by May 24, while the month’s last week recorded 1,312 cases. As Chandigarh completed the fifth week in lockdown on June 7, the number stands at 661 – an 89% drop in infections.Amid the restrictions, the number of deaths has also seen a downturn. While 68 people died in the first week of lockdown in May, the figure has come down to 21 in June’s first week, including two on Monday.UT adviser Manoj Parida said the administration’s lockdown strategy had succeeded in bringing the Covid cases under control, adding that more relaxations were on the cards.“The significant drop in the number of Covid-19 cases has provided much relief to the health infrastructure. People should come forward for vaccination and continue to observe precautions to keep the third wave away,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, Chandigarh.Less than 200 cases in tricity for second day in a rowTricity’s daily Covid cases also saw a further drop, coming down from 184 on Sunday to 145 on Monday, which was the lowest since March 5.Mohali led the tally with 74 cases, down from 90 a day ago; Chandigarh’s 48 cases were also lower than Sunday’s 74; but Panchkula’s figure rose slightly from 20 to 23.However, the daily deaths saw an uptick, as 10 people died in the tricity, up from seven the day before.Five people succumbed in Mohali, three in Panchkula and two in Chandigarh.On the bright side, tricity’s active caseload continued on the downward trajectory, slipping from 2,883 a day ago to 2,596 on Monday.At 1,431, Mohali has the most active cases, followed by 740 in Chandigarh, and 425 in Panchkula – all lowest in nearly three months.Mohali’s daily positivity rate was the lowest at 1.4%, while the figure was 2% and 4% in Chandigarh and Panchkula, respectively. The recovery rate across the tricity remained over 96%.Both deceased in UT menThe latest fatalities in Chandigarh, including a 78-year-old man from Sector 15 and a 45-year-old man from Daria, took the toll to 774. The cumulative cases are 60,707, of which 59,193 patients have been cured.Mohali’s case and death tallies stand at 67,368 and 992, respectively. As many as 64,945 patients here have successfully beaten the virus.In Panchkula, 30,348 people have been infected till date, of which 29,566 have recovered and 357 have died. Those who died on Monday included an 88-year-old man from Pinjore, an 82-year-old woman from Kajampur and a 65-year-old man from Kiratpur.Cautioning residents against losing their guard amid the declining cases, Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said: “All efforts will go to waste if people behave in the same irresponsible manner as they did after the first wave. For everyone’s safety, wear masks, follow social distancing and sanitise hands frequently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-daily-covid-cases-plunge-below-50-after-102-days-101623095078265.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Militant harbourer held after 22 years of lodging FIR in Reasi||A man was arrested on Monday after a long hunt of 22 years on the charges of providing shelter and other logistics to militants in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said.Mohi-ud-din, a resident of Shikari village in Mahore area, went underground evading arrest after he was named in an FIR under various sections of the Ranbir Penal Code for harbouring terrorists in 1999, a police spokesman said.He said a chargesheet was produced against the accused in a local court which issued a warrant under Section 512 of CrPC against him on February 18, 2002.“He (accused) neither participated in the investigation proceedings nor could be apprehended since the case was registered,” the spokesman said.He said the accused was finally arrested during a meticulously planned and coordinated effort by a team of Mahore police station based on inputs about his presence in the area.Mohi-ud-din is the 14th absconder arrested by Reasi police within a period of six weeks, the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/militant-harbourer-held-after-22-years-of-lodging-fir-in-reasi-101623095017759.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Troops return to J&K after election duty||For the past week, Kashmir has been witnessing heavy movement of troops as troops that had left the Valley for election duty are now returning. Officials say around 300 companies of troops, especially the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) men, are returning, of which 70 have arrived and the remaining will pour in over the next few weeks.“This is nothing unusual. Several companies of the Central Armed Police Forces had moved out for the recent assembly elections from our security grid. Now, they are coming back slowly,” said a senior police officer, who overlooks the security grid in Kashmir.The unusual movement of troops, especially in north Kashmir, had led to speculation that amove similar to August 5 was being planned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/troops-return-to-j-k-after-election-duty-101623094777786.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 cases below 300 for 1st time since March 4, positivity rate now 0.36%||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Delhi reduced further on Monday, dipping below the 300-mark for the first time since March 4. The Capital reported 231 new cases of the viral infection, showed Monday’s health bulletin.With over 63,000 tests, the test positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive — also fell further to 0.36%. The positivity rate in the city has stayed below 1% for eight days in a row, after the city saw its fourth and worst surge of cases between April and May.The city has added an average of 462 new cases each day over the past week.The test positivity rate is a vital metric to understand the spread of an infection in any region. The World Health Organization recommends a positivity rate below 5% before an infection can be considered under control in a region. In Delhi, the positivity rate has been below this number for 18 days now.At the peak of the surge, Delhi recorded over 28,000 new cases in a day and a positivity rate of over 36%.The number of deaths has also reduced with the daily toll below 100 for five days in a row now. Fewer than 50 deaths were reported for the last two days, with 36 more fatalities reported in Monday’s bulletin. At the height of the fourth wave, 448 succumbed to Covid-19 on a single day (May 3).“It is highly unlikely that there will be a third wave unless the virus mutates. Hence, there is a need for the government to keep a close eye on the virus in circulation to pick up any mutations of concern quickly. In addition, the respite between the second and third surge in cases must be utilised for preparing for the next wave by creating permanent infrastructure and vaccinating the population,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College – Vellore.Dr John also said that governments should study the immune response generated if mixed doses of vaccines are used, if a half dose-full dose or a full dose-half dose regimen is used like it was mistakenly done in the global trial for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-cases-below-300-for-1st-time-since-march-4-positivity-rate-now-036-101623094119305.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s positivity rate drops to 5.3%||Himachal Pradesh’s Covid positivity rate has dropped seven notches to 5.3% between May 31 and June 6, the state’s National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said.Last week, 1,06,203 samples were tested, of which 5,634 returned positive against last week’s 10,431 positive reports against 80,990 tests. The positivity rate (percentage of positive samples per 100 tests) had hit the grim high of 28.9% in the week ended May 16. It had been at a low of 0.67% in February and at the starting of March before the second wave raged through the state. Kangra, the worst hit district in the second wave, recorded the highest positivity rate at 8.3%, followed by Shimla with a positivity rate of 7.7% and Chamba 6.2%. All 12 districts recorded a positivity rate below 10% and at least eight districts below 5%. Lahaul-Spiti had the lowest positivity rate at 2.1%.The case fatality ratio registered a slight drop from 3.4% to 3.0%. Dr Jindal 170 fatalities had taken place due to Covid-19 last week as compared to 359 the week before. Solan recorded a 4.9% CFR, followed by 4.1 in Kangra and 3.2 in Sirmaur.Himachal logs 656 new infections
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||World Food Safety Day: PAU experts express concern over rising inflation||As Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan emphasised on ensuring food security through his Tweet on the World Food Safety Day, economists at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) expressed concern over the rising prices of essential commodities that have gravely impacted the food security and economic prosperity of the common man battling the pandemic.The experts said economic downturn, job losses and rise in the prices of essential commodities have caused a grave impact on food safety and security. PAU V-C Dr Baldev Singh Dhillon said a contentious clause of the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act which allows hoarding is also a factor leading to the price rise.He said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s move to offer free ration to the poor is an encouraging step, but the government needs to control the prices of essential commodities and make them affordable for the common man.“The rise in mustard oil prices is a classic example. The drop in import has encouraged hoarding and resulted in the increase in the prices of mustard oil, which touched ₹170 to ₹180 per litre and saw a jump of ₹30 since March. The prices of petrol and diesel have increased 21 times since May 4 and the rise in cooking gas prices has adversely affected household expenses,” said Dr Dhillon, adding that the rising prices of essential commodities is against sustainable development goals.Dr Kamal Vatta, head of PAU’s department of economics, said the wholesale inflation was 10.5% in April 2021, the highest-ever recorded.“We have to look at it from a larger perspective. While people have lost their jobs, the prices of essential commodities have increased. So a person who is not earning or suffering a pay cut is also spending more to buy basic ration items. And for cooking them, he/she is ending up paying more as the domestic cooking gas prices have increased.” said Dr Vatta.Dr Sukhpal Singh, professor of economics at PAU, said the declining income of people will negatively affect the demand and business volume in the economy. The prevalence of monopoly markets known as the worst situations of the market will exploit the producers as well as consumers.However, Shruti Bhogal, an economist and researcher, said a large proportion of our population is classified under poor and lower middle-income category. “These strata have high propensity to consume, which means they spend a significant proportion of their income on consumption expenditure with a meagre or no savings. A slight increase in prices without a proportionate rise in income exerts an unendurable burden on socio-economic well-being of our masses,” she added. She said any policy action that is intended towards development would strongly address the issue of inflation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/world-food-safety-day-pau-experts-express-concern-over-rising-inflation-101623094118976.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana city buses remain off road amid cap on occupancy, restrictions||Even as the administration is gradually easing the restrictions in the district, 50% cap on occupancy and evening curfew is keeping city buses off the road. Citing losses, staffers of the contractor operating the buses in the city said that the service cannot be resumed until restriction on seating capacity are removed. The service was halted on May 7 and this is forcing residents to shell out ₹20 for a short journey in an auto-rickshaw for which ₹5 to 10 would be charged by city buses.Residents demand that the service is restarted at the earliest. Earlier, city buses used to ferry around 3,500 passengers daily on three routes — Sahnewal to Clock Tower, bus stand to Meharban and bus stand to Kohara.Gurdeep Singh, a resident of Meharban, said, “City buses charge ₹5 for a 5km journey while auto-rickshaw drivers charge ₹20 even for covering 2km. The authorities should restart the service at the earliest to bring some relief to the public, especially at a time when many people are going through a financial crisis.”Further, residents demand that the service should be started on other routes as well. Sonu, a resident of Jawahar Nagar camp, said, “The service should also be started in the internal areas of the city, as this will end the monopoly of auto-rickshaw drivers. Apart from benefitting residents financially, it will also bring relief from traffic congestion and help in reducing the pollution created by auto rickshaws.”As per municipal corporation (MC) officials, 120 buses were bought under the project, out of which 83 have been handed over the contractor. Out of these 83, only around 35 are citing losses.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said that he will seek a report from the officials concerned and a notice will also be issued to the contractor to restart the service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-city-buses-remain-off-road-amid-cap-on-occupancy-restrictions-101623094117762.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||From hookah to drugs, inmates have easy access to contraband inside Ludhiana Central Jail||Incarceration is no deterrent to Ludhiana Central Jail inmates, especially gangsters, who are able to orchestrate attacks, host hookah parties and indulge in drug trade and consumption from well within their barracks. Four such incidents have been reported in the past 15 days, where the role of jailed accused came to the fore. In case of recent violent clashes, it was learnt that suspected gangsters Puneet Bains and Shubham Arora were possessing mobile phones, through which they stage-managed the attacks.The latest incident of booze and hookah party inside the prison by local gangster Manwinder Singh alias Nikka Jattana and his accomplices spoke volumes about security arrangements inside the central jail. The inmates not only sourced liquor and hookah from outside, but also recorded videos and posted them on social networking sites. A probe has already been marked in the case.On June 3, Division Number 2 police had booked a jailed accused for threatening a rape victim and her husband over phone to withdraw her complaint which she had filed against him in May 2020. The accused said if she did not withdraw the complaint, he would kill her husband and children. On May 21, Khanna police had arrested a person for supplying weapons to criminals and different gangs. The police had recovered 11 illegal pistols and three bullets from his possession. Aditya Kapoor alias Makkhan of Amritsar, who is a habitual offender, used to smuggle illegal weapons inside Kapurthala jail using a mobile phone. Later, the police brought him on a production warrant.Ludhiana Central Jail superintendent Balkar Singh said they had been conducting regular checks inside the prison. “We have recovered many mobile phones from the inmates,” he added. Criminal history of gangstersGangsters Puneet Bains and Shubham Arora had been indulging in gang wars since October 2019 when shots were fired at an eatery in Transport Nagar following an argument.In February 2020, Arora, along with his accomplices, had assaulted Bains. The Moti Nagar police had registered an FIR against Youth Congress leader Ankit Pandit, district Youth Congress (central) president Shubham Arora, Rishav, Sam Oberoi, Sandeep and seven others. After the assault, the accused had surrendered before the police.On June 8, 2020, the Division Number 3 police had registered an attempt to murder case against Bains and his accomplices for opening fire outside the house of Rishav Banipal in Dharmpura. Bains was arrested from Delhi in a joint operation by a team of the Ludhiana counter intelligence and organised crime control unit on September 13, 2020. The police had recovered two .32 bore pistols, a magazine, five live bullets, and a .9mm pistol from his possession. The police have now decided to bring both gangsters on a production warrant from jail for questioning in five cases of violent clashes that occurred between members of both gangs in the past three days. Eight mobile phones, tobacco sachets recovered from jailMeanwhile, eight mobile phones, seven SIM cards, ₹700 and three sachets of tobacco were recovered from seven inmates of Ludhiana Central Jail on Sunday night during a special checking. The Division Number 7 police have registered a first information report (FIR) against the accused.Assistant jail superintendent Surinder Kumar lodged a complaint stating that during the special checking, five mobile phones were recovered from Charanjit Singh, Joginderpal, Sidharth Gandhi, Ajay Singh, Dharminder Shanky, Ajay and Pankaj, while three mobile phones were found dumped near their barrack. The police have also recovered seven SIM cards from the accused.Assistant sub-inspector Tajinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said police will bring the accused on a production warrant for questioning to know how did they manage to sneak in mobile phones inside the prison.A case has been registered under Sections 52 A (1), 42 and 45 of the Prisons Act at the Division Number 7 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/from-hookah-to-drugs-inmates-have-easy-access-to-contraband-inside-ludhiana-central-jail-101623094059663.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram calls on Shah, seeks enhanced vaccine quota||Himachal Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur met Union home minister Amit Shah, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, defence minister Rajnath Singh and minister for road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari in New Delhi on Monday. During his meeting with Shah, the CM thanked the Centre for providing an adequate number of vaccine doses and oxygen generation plants to the hill state to help combat the pandemic. He requested Shah to enhance the state’s allocation of vaccine doses in order to cover all eligible people in the state as soon as possible.Thakur also sought approval for a bulk drug park to be set up in Una. “The park will help our country prepare raw material for manufacturing of drugs, thereby reducing our dependence on foreign countries,” the CM said, while urging the minister to make the Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh (BBN) an industrial node and to sanction a medical devices park, electric devices manufacturing hub and other development projects to generate employment opportunities for the youth of the state.Shah appreciated the efforts of the state government in vaccinating the citizens and acknowledged that HP had the distinction of inoculating the highest percentage of people.The CM requested Sitharaman to provide the financial assistance recommended by the 15th finance commission to the state. He said HP lacks the resources to invest in infrastructure projects, especially Kangra and Mandi airports.He also apprised the minister regarding a tourism project worth ₹1,892 crore posed to Asian Development Bank (ADB) for funding, which is awaiting approval. He also sought GST compensation due from the centre for the financial years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-2020 and urged the minister to expedite the negotiations with the world bank for funding the Himachal hydro power and renewable power sector development programme. He also held discussions for allowing ropeway connectivity as an alternate mode of connectivity under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY).While discussing the Bhanupali -Bilaspur rail line, Thakur asked that all rail projects of state be considered of national importance and be funded entirely by Centre. Sitharaman assured the CM of all possible assistance. Thakur thanked Gadkari for sanctioning projects worth ₹193 crore to the state under the Central Road and Infrastructure Fund (CRIF). “These roads will go a long way in strengthening the road connectivity in the hill state,” he said. Thakur discussed four laning of the Shimla-Matour and Mandi-Pathankot national highways and requested maintenance of existing alignments of the national highways where work has been started by the executing agency. Gadkari said he will include road projects from the state in the second phase of Bharat Mala Road Project, which will help boosting religious tourism in the state. He said that work will start on the Kaithlighat-Dhalli-Shimla bypass soon. The CM sought speedy notification of 25 national highways approved in principle and invited Gadkari to visit the state. Additional chief secretary to the chief minister JC Sharma had accompanied Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-calls-on-shah-seeks-enhanced-vaccine-quota-101623094058558.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Now, life detectors to help Ludhiana firemen trace victims trapped under debris||With the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) finally initiating the process to upgrade the fire brigade, the firefighters have been equipped with life detectors which will help them in locating the victims trapped in case of a building collapse. Three life detectors worth about ₹50 lakh have been provided to the fire department under the Smart City Mission. Now, the staff is being trained to use the equipment, which includes motion and sound sensors, besides a microphone. As per the firemen, the detectors include five sensors which are attached to a monitor. In case a building collapses, the sensors will be placed at different points to check any movement of those trapped, which is extremely crucial at the initial stage of rescue operation.Fire station officer Jaswinder Singh said, “The sensors can even detect breathing vibrations and the sound produced by movement of fingers on any surface. The system also includes a small microphone, which can be lowered in a void space using cables to hear the voices of trapped persons.”He said that firefighters are first to respond to any building collapse before SDRF or NDRF teams are roped in. “Currently, we locate the victims only by listening to their calls for help. These detectors will prove beneficial in saving lives of those trapped in a short time period,” he added. The city has witnessed two major building collapses in the last four years wherein 21 civilians and firefighters have lost their lives. While 16 people, including nine firemen, were killed in Sufiiyan Chowk mishap in 2017, five lives were lost after the roof of a building caved in while the owner was lifting the lintel illegally in Daba area in April this year. Initially proposed in 2017, the project to upgrade the fire brigade is moving at snail’s pace and the firefighters do not even have safety suits and masks. Under a Smart City project worth ₹28 crore, the department is working to buy hydraulic platform, water bowser, fire safety suits, multiple gas detectors, victim location camera with breaching system, portable fire pump, and communication system at fire stations among other equipment. 4 mini-fire tenders also added to inventoryChief executive officer of Ludhiana Smart City Limited, Pardeep Sabharwal, said, “We have also received four mini-fire tenders to douse flames reported in narrow streets of old city areas. The department is working on the registration of these tenders following which these will be handed over to the fire brigade.”Firemen said that the mini-fire tender will help in reducing the response time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-life-detectors-to-help-ludhiana-firemen-trace-victims-trapped-under-debris-101623093998865.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||In Ludhiana, fresh Covid cases fall below 200 for first time in 3 months||The number of fresh coronavirus cases in district fell below 200 for the first time in three months as 135 people tested positive in the last 24 hours. Six persons succumbed to the contagion, taking the toll to 2,035.It was on March 14 that 197 cases were reported in a single day and this figure had been rising ever since, even reaching a daily peak of 1,600 cases on May 1. There are 2,238 active patients in the district at present.Those who died on Monday included four men and two women, the youngest being two 41-year-old male residents of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar and Salem Tabri.Among the dead also were a 65-year-old woman from Satjot Nagar, a 60-year-old man from Khatra village, a 54-year-old woman from Model Town and a 50-year-old resident of Galwaddi village.The total number of positive cases since the beginning of the pandemic in Ludhiana is 85,589, while 81,316 patients have recovered.There are 31 patients on ventilators at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-ludhiana-fresh-covid-cases-fall-below-200-for-first-time-in-3-months-101623093997563.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir, more than 400 SAD, AAP workers booked for holding dharnas||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and 225 other party leaders/workers were booked on Monday under several sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Disaster Management Act for having gathered to hold a protest in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, police said. Sukhbir and others were holding a protest against Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in Mohali for alleged irregularities in the sale of Covid-19 vaccines and purchase of medical kits.Besides Sukhbir, ex-MP Prem Singh Chandumajra, MLAs Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, NK Sharma, ex-ministers Daljit Singh Cheema, Janmeja Singh Sekhon and others have been booked under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code as well as obstruction (Section 51-A) of the Disaster Management Act.Besides, more than 175 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders have been booked for staging a protest in Mohali on Saturday. The move comes hours after chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh directed director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta to register cases under the Disaster Management Act against opposition leaders and workers for violating Covid curbs by holding dharnas. Among the AAP leaders, MLAs Amarjeet Singh Sandhoa, Jai Krishan Ruddy and deputy leader of opposition Saravjit Kaur Manuke have been booked. Action plan for third waveChairing a virtual Covid review meeting on Monday, the CM announced a group of specialists in paediatrics to frame protocols and handhold private hospitals for enhancing beds and treatment protocols, while rolling out an action plan to deal with a possible third wave of Covid in the state. The group will comprise specialists from GMCs, department of health, PGI and Indian Association of Paediatricians, Punjab chapter, said the CM, while directing the health and medical education departments to put into action a plan to deal with the next wave, if and when it comes. The CM ordered creation of storage capacities for oxygen for a minimum of three days in all government medical colleges, with piped oxygen to be made available in all government hospitals. At least 375 MT of oxygen should be available with the state at any given time, he said, stressing the need to prepare for peak supply logistics. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan said the state had received 500 oxygen concentrators against the World Bank loan for water surface supply projects, and another 2,500 would reach shortly. Medical college faculty to get earned leave credit Taking cognisance of the commitment of medical college faculty in their fight against Covid, the CM announced full credit of earned leave in lieu of their cancelled vacations. The medical college faculty have not been able to avail their summer and winter vacation during the pandemic period, and would have been deprived of this facility, the CM said. These faculty members need to be compensated, he said, adding that the government had decided to give them full credit against their 30 days of annual earned leave period against their cancelled vacation periods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-more-than-400-sad-aap-workers-booked-for-holding-dharnas-101623093940594.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MLA lodges FIR against unidentified person for posting objectionable video||Congress MLA from Ludhiana East constituency Sanjay Talwar has again approached police with a complaint that an unidentified person has posting an objectionable video featuring his “look-alike” on Facebook page ‘Congress Mukt Punjab’ with an intention to malign his political image.  The video is about some party wherein his look-alike is seen next to some women dancers.The MLA claimed that he had nothing to do with the video, and the accused had posted the video intentionally with his name.The MLA also added that his wife Meenu Talwar had fallen sick on January 25 and died on February 2. He said at the time of grief, his opponents had been targeting him to malign his political image.Tibba station house officer (SHO) Pramod Kumar said that a case has been registered under sections 499 (defamation) and 500 (punishment for defamation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Section 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form) of the Information Technology Act. Efforts were on to identify the culprits, he added. On February 13, MLA Talwar had lodged an FIR against the admin of the same Facebook page for posting his doctored video and demanding ₹50 lakh from him. He claimed that the accused had threatened him that he would circulated his videos if he (Talwar) failed to meet his demand.On February 4, MLA’s brother Ajay Talwar had filed a complaint against Shiromani Akali Dal ward president Pramjit Singh alias Pamma for posting a derogatory post against his family. Ajay had stated that after the demise of his sister-in-law Meenu Talwar, Paramjit posted derogatory posts, claiming that she died after consuming poison. He also tried to malign the MLA’s image by accusing him of having extramarital relationships. Pamma had surrendered before the court on February 12 in the case and availed bail on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mla-lodges-fir-against-unidentified-person-for-posting-objectionable-video-101623093937525.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||18-yr-old has heart failure after Covid-19||Doctors at Sir Ganga Ram hospital on Monday reported a case of heart failure following a mild case of Covid-19 in an otherwise healthy 18-year old. Abdullah, 18, a resident of Chandni Chowk, was admitted to the facility after he fainted.An echocardiography showed that his heart was enlarged and functioning poorly. He was diagnosed with myocarditis or inflammation of heart muscles due to a viral infection.He had a fever before but no other symptoms.While an RT-PCR test returned a negative Covid-19 result, doctors found a high level of antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus, which causes the coronavirus disease, confirming that he was previously infected.He was treated with heart failure medicines and antiarrhythmic drugs (which prevent irregular heart rhythm).He was discharged after a few days in the hospital and is currently recovering at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/18yrold-has-heart-failure-after-covid19-101623093799666.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||42k painkiller tablets seized; six arrested||The Delhi Police on Monday said they have seized 42,000 tablets of controlled drug Tramadol from Kashmere Gate and arrested six people, including three from Punjab and a pharmaceutical stockist from Ghaziabad.Police said the drugs, which were headed to Punjab, were being smuggled by an interstate syndicate involved in illegally procuring Tramadol tablets and supplied to different states, including Punjab via Delhi.The seized Tramadol tablets were brought to Delhi from Kala Amb in Himachal Pradesh, where they were produced in a factory without any proper documentation and licence, said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.“We informed the Himachal Pradesh police that the owners of the factory were producing Tramadol hydrochloride tablets without licence and documentation. A case under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered at Kala Amb police station by the Himachal Pradesh police and investigation pertaining to the manufacturers is in progress,” said Alphonse.He said the painkiller was seized at a police picket in Kashmere Gate on June 2 from a hired car, and three people were arrested. Two more people, Naved and Gaurav Kalra, were arrested from Delhi, based on the information from the three suspects. The key supplier, Narender Kumar Mishra was also nabbed from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/42k-painkiller-tablets-seized-six-arrested-101623093449854.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||MVA parties call PM’s move “course correction”, “effort to improve image”||Nawab Malik, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister and party’s chief spokesperson, said that Prime Minister’s decision on providing free vaccine was taken to improve the image of the government which was dented after the Supreme Court raised questions on the Centre’s vaccination policy. “The SC had also questioned why the rates of vaccines are different for the states and the Centre. The Apex court had also asked the Union government to submit an affidavit asking why it was not spending money despite a provision of ₹35,000 crore,” said Malik. “As the SC had pointed fingers at the decision of the Union government, the PM made an announcement of taking complete responsibility for supplying vaccines to improve the failure and image of the government. We will add that this constant flip-flop over the vaccination is not good. Now, we hope that states will get the vaccine supply as per demand,” he added.South Mumbai MP and Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant called the decision an unhealthy flip-flop. “They keep changing the decision every other month. Neither are they (Centre) working, nor are they allowing states to work. Regardless, we welcome the decision of free vaccination for all. Maharashtra government had already announced that it would provide free vaccines to all. Besides that, their supply will come only when they get adequate quantity,” Sawant said.Sena spokesperson Priyanka Chaturvedi called the move “course correction”. “This course correction came after all the state governments exposed the lies of not taking responsibility at a time when Indian Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act, Essential Commodities Act, which give the Centre overriding power over the state despite health being a state subject. Also, this course correction happened after the Supreme Court called it arbitrary and also questioned them why the ₹35,000 crore was not used for procurement of vaccines,” she said.Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “The Narendra Modi government has been playing with the lives of the people for the past seven years. We witnessed similar flip-flops with the vaccination drive because the Centre could not keep its promises given to the people.” Vishwas Pathak, BJP’s media cell chief, said, “Modi government had been following WHO guidelines while ascertaining priority groups for vaccination. It would have rolled it out for the age group of 18-44 years, but state governments and especially Maharashtra government demanded for decentralisation of the powers. Now, once the Centre felt that the states are not able to do it, it has again taken up the responsibility of that age group too to ensure vaccination of all by year-end.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-parties-call-pm-s-move-course-correction-effort-to-improve-image-101623093516986.html
08-06-2021||City||'Change must take place...': Madras HC interim order on LGBTQIA community||Madras high court Justice Anand Venkatesh on Monday issued a slew of guidelines for the LGBTQIA community’s safety, prevention of harassment by authorities and destigmatisation in a society, in an interim order passed in the case of a lesbian couple who had sought protection.The Justice observed that, unlike other cases, this case gave the court an opportunity and responsibility to weigh in on inclusiveness, justice against discrimination, social understanding of morality and traditions. “The society and my upbringing have always treated the terms “homosexual”, “gay”, “lesbian” as anathema,” the Justice said, adding that he has no hesitation in accepting that he belongs to the majority of commoners who are yet to comprehend homosexuality.“Ignorance is no justification for normalizing any form of discrimination,” the Justice said. "...the actual problem is not the fact that the law does not recognise a relationship but that the sanction that is accorded by the society is not available. It is only for this reason, I strongly feel that the change must take place at a societal level and when it is complemented by a law there will be a remarkable change in the outlook of the society by recognising same-sex relationships,” he said.Justice Venkatesh had voluntarily undergone psycho-educative sessions with a clinical psychologist to better understand the LGBTQIA community as he aimed to deliver his judgement.In a judgement that goes on for 107 pages, the court delved into how the interaction with the petitioners of the case and psychologist helped him in his judgement.Sensitising stakeholdersIn its judgement, the court has prohibited attempts to "cure" or change the sexual orientation of LGBTIQA+ people to heterosexual or the gender identity of transgender people to cisgender. Failing which, action will be taken against professionals and licenses will be withdrawn. Mental health camps and awareness programs are to be conducted to understand gender, sexuality, sexual orientation and promote acceptance of diversity, the court said. This is among the suggestions indicated by the court to create awareness by ensuring that all stakeholders, such as police, judiciary, educational institutions, parents and health workers, are sensitised.Under this, police and prison authorities are to be sensitised about the Offences and Penalties as stipulated under Chapter VIII of The Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 and compliance with Rule, 2020. NGOs with community support are to put forth first-hand problems faced in the hands of law enforcement agencies and to ensure that transgender and gender-nonconforming prisoners are housed separately from cis-men prisoners to eliminate chances of sexual assault by the latter on the former. The court also suggested programs for judicial officers at all levels to ensure non-discrimination.Educational institutions have been asked to ensure supportive families. Schools and colleges have been asked to make gender-neutral restrooms available, include ‘transgender’ in addition to M and F gender columns and change of name and gender on academic records for transgender persons.Directions for state and union departmentsIn its interim directions, the court called for Union and state governments to work towards removing prejudices and channelling the community into the mainstream. The directions include asking the police to close complaints without harassing trans persons if they receive ‘missing complaints’ of a girl/woman/man when it is found that these are consenting adults who belong to the LGBTQIA community.The court has asked the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment to publish a list of NGOs, along with their contact details, who have expertise in handling the issues faced by the LGBTQIA+ community. The NGOs and the concerned ministry can address problems, such as counselling, monetary support, legal assistance with the support of the District Legal Services Authority, or coordinate with law enforcement agencies about offences committed against any persons belonging to the LGBTQIA+ community. The ministry is also directed to make infrastructure arrangements in existing accommodation facilities for trans persons within 12 weeks of this order.The case pertains to a lesbian couple who fled their hometown in Madurai and are living in Chennai with the help of an NGO. Their parents had opposed the relationship and had filed a missing complaint against them with the police. Having been interrogated by the police, they approached the court for protection.Previously the couple and their parents had also gone through counselling on the direction of the court. The case has been posted for July 31 for passing further orders when reports are expected to be submitted on measures taken to implement the interim directions by the state’s advocate general, the state public prosecutor representing the police and the Union’s government’s additional solicitor general, all state and central government departments and institutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/change-must-take-place-madras-hc-interim-order-on-lgbtqia-community-101623093214703.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Video of 85-yr-old assaulting wife near Mumbai goes viral||Hill Line police in Ulhasnagar on Monday registered a suo motu case against an 85-year-old man for assaulting his wife, after a video of the incident went viral last week. The police filed the case after the accused’s wife refused to register a plaint. The man fled to his hometown in Alandi after seeing the video of the incident on news channels.Senior inspector M Khandare of Hill Line police station said, “We have summoned the accused to the police station. We also called other family members and warned them. We will keep an eye on the house for the next few days.”The man, Gajanan Bua Chikankar, is a folk singer who sings kirtans to create awareness against the ill practices in the society and inequality. The incident has come as a shock to the people in the area.The video, recorded by the man’s eight-year-old grandson shows the accused questioning his wife, 80, on why she did not keep a bucket of water ready for his bath. He also claimed that he had kept a pipe in the bucket to fill it, but she removed the pipe. The rest of the family members are seen laughing over the argument. The man then started kicking and also hitting her using the bucket. Apart from the two grandsons, no one came in the house tried to stop Chikankar.An officer from Hill Line police station said, “The couple resides in Dwarli village near Malanggad, which is in our jurisdiction. The video is eight days old. We sent out a team to their house but Chikankar has fled to his village in Alandi, as he had seen the video on TV. His wife refused to file a case against him. So we have registered a case against Chikankar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/video-of-85-yr-old-assaulting-wife-near-mumbai-goes-viral-cops-file-suo-motu-case-101623093396929.html
08-06-2021||Other||Apex body wants medical, dental exams to be held offline: Maharashtra minister to students||Days after the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) clarified that medical and dental students will be appearing for their upcoming exams offline and will require a RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test before entering the exam hall, the state, too, confirmed the same, leaving student groups unhappy. Responding to queries on various social media platforms, state minister for medical education Amit Deshmukh said the apex medical body has advocated the need for offline exams. “The National Medical Commission (NMC) has not given permission for online exams, and therefore, we have no choice but to conduct exams in offline mode,” tweeted Deshmukh. On June 5, HC was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by HERD Educational and Medical Research Foundation, a Nagpur-based NGO (non-governmental organisation) and a physiotherapy student, Nitesh Dhanraj Tantarpale, requesting online examinations or vaccination for nearly 40,000 undergraduates before the semester exams, spreading across 20 days at 173 centres in Maharashtra, starts on June 10. Refusing to give interim relief from the upcoming winter session exams, the court directed the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) to issue an advisory to the principals of medical colleges across the state and also to publish on its website that examinees should have themselves tested for Covid-19 and produce a negative report along with the hall ticket on Day 1 of the exams. Students have again taken to social media, sharing their concerns over offline exams. “There’s no clarity on what happens if a student contracts the virus after the exam commences, or if a negative RT-PCR test report is needed before every exam. We are still awaiting clear instructions from MUHS,” said one of the aspirants. While concerns have been raised about getting RT-PCR test results in time for students from rural Maharashtra, experts said with the Covid-19 cases dipping across districts, getting the reports will not be problem for any candidate. “RT-PCR test, if negative, can be procured in less than 24 hours anywhere in the state at present. However, if students are worried about not being able to get reports in time, we suggest they get to the cities where their colleges are located, and get tests done closer to the exam venues,” said an official from a private Pune-based medical institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/apex-body-wants-medical-dental-exams-to-be-held-offline-maharashtra-minister-to-students-101623093338186.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Almost equal men, women vaccinated in Himachal||Though the inoculation drive in Himachal Pradesh has hit a roadblock due to shortage of vaccines, roughly the same number of men and women have received the jab, indicating that there is little gender bias in vaccination trends in the hill state. As per data available on the Covid portal, of the 25, 24 493 jabs administered in the state, men were the recipient of 10,49,178 doses and women received 10,40736 shots. A district-wise breakdown reveals that more women had been inoculated than men in four of the state’s 12 districts, while the figures were equal in two districts. In Mandi and Hamirpur districts, the ratio of shots received by men and women was 47:53, which means more women received the jabs in the districts. Kangra, the most populous district, and Bilaspur logged a ratio of 49:51, while Chamba and Una district have vaccinated both genders equally. In the remaining six districts, more men received the vaccination than women. At 58:42, Sirmaur district has the most skewed ratio, followed by Shimla at 53:47. In May, the state government had received 4,77,080 doses of Covishield from the Centre. So far, 19,23,289 doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries of all age groups. “Most people above the age of 44 have been vaccinated. We are trying to determine why the drive has slowed down. Right now, we have around 4 lakh doses for those above the age of 44,” said Gopal Berry, deputy director, health, who is also the nodal officer for the state’s vaccination drive. The state government has written to the central government seeking vaccines for the ‘18 plus’ bracket. Health department officials say the vaccine will be made available for the group after June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/almost-equal-men-women-vaccinated-in-himachal-101623093277785.html
08-06-2021||Other||NCB appeals against court order to weigh seized LSD without blot paper||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday heard an appeal filed by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) against the special NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) court order which had directed the retesting of drug samples seized from alleged drug peddler Anuj Keshwani. As per the special court order, the forensic science laboratory (FSL) was asked to reweigh the LSD allegedly recovered from Keshwani. NCB had arrested Keshwani last year while probing the drug angle in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. The single-judge bench of justice AS Gadkari, while hearing NCB’s appeal, was informed by advocate Shriram Shirsat that the April 30 order of the special NDPS court directed the agency to send a sample of the drug to FSL Gandhinagar, Gujarat, to assess the weight of LSD without the blot paper and whether the weight of 0.62 grams (g) of the contraband recovered from Keshwani included the weight of paper. The agency sought the setting aside of the order and pending hearing of the appeal, a stay on the direction to send samples to Gandhinagar FSL. During the hearing of a plea by Keshwani, NCB had submitted to the special court that as per the chemical analyser (CA) report, a total 585g of charas, 270.12g of ganja, 3.6g of THC (tetrahydrocannabinol) and 0.62g of LSD were seized from Keshwani. However, Keshwani’s lawyers had argued that the 0.62g LSD also included the weight of the blot paper, and as the NDPS Act permitted 0.1 grams as commercial quantity for LSD, they sought weight of the 31 blot papers used. Based on this, the special court had issued directions for samples to be sent to FSL. In its appeal, NCB stated that the weight of the paper should also be considered while ascertaining whether the quantity of LSD was commercial or not, as narcotics included mixtures and preparations, as per law. Advocates Taraq Sayed and Gayatri Gokhale for Keshwani submitted that reweighing of drugs as per the special court directions would not prejudice NCB’s probe. Hence, the report by FSL on reweighing the contraband could be considered.As additional solicitor general Anil Singh for NCB was unavailable to make submissions on the question of law pertaining to the weight of the contraband, Shirsat sought adjournment of the hearing of the appeal. After hearing the initial submissions, HC asked the lawyers to provide past judgments which dealt with the question whether the weight of the paper could be included in the weight of the seized LSD under NDPS Act, and posted hearing of the appeal to Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncb-appeals-against-court-order-to-weigh-seized-lsd-without-blot-paper-101623093217016.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||On Day 1, Mumbai’s restaurants start slow, BEST buses full||Lockdown restrictions imposed in Mumbai since April were eased from Monday as authorities allowed reopening of all shops, restaurants, private offices and manufacturing units, but within a 4pm deadline. On day one of the “level-three” unlock in the city after two months of a lockdown forced by the second Covid-19 wave, only 20% of the city’s restaurants reopened, while almost all private offices asked its employees to work from home. Buses were packed throughout the day as local trains were not open to all.Long queues of passengers for Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses were witnessed, coupled with heavy traffic on roads. Most retailers dealing in non-essential items did open their shops, followed by gymnasiums and salons. Public transport, barring trains, witnessed an increase in the number of passengers. Under the state government’s “Break-The-Chain” order for Mumbai, buses are allowed to operate with no standing passengers. A total of 3,344 BEST services were operated on Monday. BEST saw at least 20% more passengers on Monday. “The exact increase in passengers will be known only on Tuesday. However, there has been a significant increase in passengers (20%). People were also seen forming queues outside bus stops.” said a senior BEST official. No standing passengers are allowed to travel in BEST buses.Autorickshaws and taxis also witnessed an increase in passengers, however, few autorickshaw and taxi drivers were confused in regards to the number of passengers allowed to travel. Most private establishments asked their employees to continue working on a work-from-home basis. Archie Vora, a digital marketer, said, “Only 50% staff can work till 4pm as per the fresh guidelines. It makes no sense to go to the office and leave after 4pm, especially since there are no local trains. Hence, our office has asked us to work from home till further notice to ensure manpower can be fully used.” In case of restaurants, only 20%, according to officials, opened their shutters. The government has mandated that restaurants should operate at 50% of its capacity and till 4pm only. “Majority of the restaurants have their main businesses running only after 7pm and hence saw no point in opening them as they will need to shut by 4pm. In addition, many did not open as they did not have enough staff,” said Shivanand Shetty, president, Indian Hotels and Restaurant Association (AHAR), Meanwhile, salons across the city saw brisk business even as many owners insisted on prior appointments rather than walk-ins. They are mandated to operate at 50% capacity and close at 4pm. Gymnasium owners across the city are fuming owing to the restrictions imposed by the state over not allowing the use of air conditioners (AC). Rohan Salian, a gym trainer, said, “Not using AC in a gym is difficult, considering many gyms are not well ventilated. Also, there are no restrictions on restaurants over the usage of AC, so why on gyms?”(Inputs from Mehul R Thakkar, Naresh Kamath and Aroosa Ahmed)`||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/on-day-1-mumbai-s-restaurants-start-slow-best-buses-full-101623092976903.html
08-06-2021||Other||Fourth sero survey in Mumbai’s wards with fewer Covid-19 cases||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is gearing up to conduct the fourth serological survey at four civic wards in the city that have seen fewer Covid-19 cases since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. For the survey, blood samples of only those who have not been vaccinated will be collected from both civic body and private laboratories. Serological survey examines how many people in a population have been infected with Covid-19 and recovered from it. It is undertaken to gauge the prevalence of the virus in a particular area. The blood serum of a group of individuals is tested using an antibody test, also known as a serology test. Anticipating a third wave post-August, the civic body’s decision to conduct a fourth sero survey stems from their need to understand the prevalence of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, among residents in these wards that have clocked comparatively fewer cases.In south Mumbai, the BMC has selected two wards— B (Masjid Bunder, Mohd. Ali Road, Dongri and Bhendi Bazar) and C (Pydhonie, Girgaon, Kalbadevi) with around 130,000 and 170,000 population respectively. In the suburbs, densely populated wards— L (Kurla) and M/East (Deonar, Govandi) with a population of more than 800,000 and 900,000, respectively (as per the Census 2011) have been selected.“These wards have been selected as the prevalence of the infection is much less compared to the density of population. Despite having several densely populated pockets and slums in these wards, the infection rate has remained under control,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. “There is a possibility that herd immunity (when around 60-70% of the population in a community develop immunity to slow down the infection rate) has helped stop the spread of the infection in the wards. To establish the theory, we have decided to do a sero survey in these three wards,” he added.Till June 5, B ward has recorded only 3,821 cases since last year - the lowest number of Covid-19 cases. This is followed by C ward with 6,624 cases in total. The M-East and L wards have recorded 20,541 and 25,247 cases respectively.On the other hand, during the same period, K-West (Andheri West) has recorded 51,931 cases, the ward with the highest number of Covid-19 patients. Similarly, R-Central (Borivli) and K-East (Andheri East) have registered 48,802 and 44,194 cases since the outbreak of the pandemic.When asked the reason for not conducting a city-wide sero survey, Kakani said, “At present, we have decided to conduct the fourth sero survey as a part of the study to understand the epidemiological characteristics of the wards with less Covid-19 cases.”The first sero survey in Mumbai was conducted in July 2020 followed by a second one in August 2020. The third survey was conducted in March 2021 in all 24 wards of the BMC which showed the presence of antibodies in 36.30% samples out of the total 10,197. The third survey’s results showed that seropositivity rate has increased in non-slum areas compared with slum areas. The sero survey in slum areas showed the sero positivity at 41.6%, which was 57% in July 2020 and 45% in August 2020. In non-slum areas, the sero positivity was registered in 28.5% samples, which increased from 16% in July 2020 and 18% in August 2020.Doctors have welcomed the civic body’s decision to conduct the fourth sero survey that may help understand the factors behind the ward-wise variation in cases.“Just like an iceberg, a large number of invisible and undiagnosed infectious cases often remain hidden below the waterline. A sero survey at the wards with fewer cases may help to understand the actual infection rate. However, the concept of development of herd immunity is quite debatable. This survey may therefore help in throwing some data,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, part of the state’s Covid-19 taskforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fourth-sero-survey-in-mumbai-s-wards-with-fewer-covid-19-cases-101623092736863.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Have stand-by ventilators for repaired ones in use: Bombay HC to GMCH, Aurangabad||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad to have stand-by ventilators for the 18 repaired ventilators that are being used by the hospital to ensure there is no threat to the lives of the patients.The directions were issued after the Central government informed the bench that technicians from the company and expert doctors from Delhi had carried out repairs on the defective ventilators at GMCH, Aurangabad and other hospitals and the ventilators were made functional. The court has also directed GMCH, Aurangabad to test the 37 unboxed ventilators to ensure they are functioning properly before being used for treating Covid patients, and posted hearing on June 10 and sought a report on the functioning of the repaired ventilators. A division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice Balchandra Debadwar, while hearing the suo motu criminal public interest litigation (PIL) dealing with various issues pertaining to Covid-19 and mucormycosis, was informed by additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Union of India (UoI) that as per the assurance given to the bench, technicians from the company and two doctors from Delhi had visited GMCH, Aurangabad and rectified the problems in 18 of the 19 ventilators there on Thursday, June 3. Singh further submitted an affidavit filed by GK Pillai, under-secretary, ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), along with certain reports which gave the status of the repaired ventilators at various hospitals in Marathwada region. He added that around 5,500 ventilators had been supplied to Maharashtra. Singh on specific instructions from Rajiv Wadhawan, director of MoHFW, also stated that the UoI is making a statement that none of the ventilators supplied by Jyoti CNC to Maharashtra are financed by PM Cares fund. Chief public prosecutor DR Kale, on behalf of dean GMCH, submitted that due to space constraints and manpower shortage the 37 unboxed ventilators should be taken back by the company, tested and sent back after they were fully functional. However, Singh requested the ventilators to be unboxed at GMCH, Aurangabad and if they were found defective then it would be taken to the company. After hearing the submissions, the court noted in its order, “Since we are of the view that there should not be any scope for any suspicion and circumspection, it would be appropriate for the divisional commissioner Aurangabad to collect specific reports from various district collectors, wherever ventilators from this lot of 150 have been allocated, with regard to the functionality of such ventilators.” With regards to the unboxed ventilators and the objection of the dean of GMCH, Aurangabad to unbox and test the 37 unboxed ventilators the asked the dean GMCH to unbox and test the ventilators phase wise and if they were found defective could be sent back to the company. The bench said, “The ASG is agreeable to such suggestion on instructions and the faulty ventilators will be carried back to RnD of Jyoti CNC. If there is a minor defect which can be quickly addressed at Aurangabad itself without disturbing the daily routine of GMCH, a team deployed by Jyoti CNC would carry out such reports at the spot. We are therefore scheduling next hearing on this issue of ventilators on June 21.” The court then directed GMCH, Aurangabad to have stand-by ventilators for the repaired ventilators being used for the safety of patients and said that it would hear the PIL on the issue of mucormycosis on June 10.BOXHC hearing only “extremely urgent” mattersEven as the state has relaxed lockdown norms, the Bombay HC has commenced regular court after vacations on a cautious note. In a notice for the period of June 7-11, the court has continued its stand prior to the vacation of hearing only extremely urgent matters through video-conferencing only. A similar approach has been applied to the benches at Nagpur and Aurangabad as well. As a result, only a few benches are sitting on stipulated dates at the principal seat taking up only urgent matters. According to sources, a decision of having regular hearing of all cases will be taken by the full bench of four judges that will be reviewing the Covid situation on June 11. The decision of the full bench would also decide on the functioning of lower courts as well. Justice Revati Mohite Dere on Monday, while hearing a bail application, indicated that physical hearing could commence from Monday, June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/have-stand-by-ventilators-for-repaired-ones-in-use-bombay-hc-to-gmch-aurangabad-101623092677610.html
08-06-2021||Other||Chennai nurse braves fire to save newborns||Chennai: A 35-year-old, P Jayakumar, had just finished his duty as a scrub nurse in two C-section surgeries and was writing charts outside the operation theatre when he started hearing insistent screams. When he went to check, he was able to spot a crowd but could barely see anyone as a thick black smog had engulfed outside the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). It was May 26 and past 8.30 pm at the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children, one of the busiest maternity hospitals in the heart of Chennai.A fire had broken out from the AC in the duty doctor’s room adjacent to the NICU where there were more than 40 neonates, including three newborn babies on a ventilator. But, at that time Jayakumar couldn’t see the source of the fire though he had entered the room. “I couldn’t even see the fire nor the person next to me,” he recalls. “But I was only thinking of the babies because if it entered the NICU, it would have created a big disaster because neonates can’t tolerate that type of hazardous fog. They will collapse in ten seconds.”Having been trained for fire emergencies seven years ago, Jayakumar ran the operation solely before fire and rescue teams could arrive. When he found the source of the fire his anxiety gripped him more. The floor below the source of the fire was the manifold room where additional oxygen cylinders were stored due to the Covid-19 pandemic. This was a second potential disaster. The NICU staff had locked themselves from the inside, switched off all power and oxygen lines and began manual hyperinflation and ventilation for the babies.Jayakumar is asthmatic. “But, at that time I didn’t know from where I got the energy,” he says. “There was no time to give instructions to someone else. My mind was only thinking I’ve to stop the fire.” In half an hour he had emptied 12 fire extinguishers to put out the fire and reduce the thick smog. After bringing the situation under control, Jayakumar collapsed.He was treated in the ICU for five days for multiple problems after he had inhaled large amounts of carbon dioxide and toxic fumes. “My peripheral controls were low, and I couldn’t even hold a cup to drink water for the first three days,” he says. He still has breathing difficulties due to his asthmatic condition and has reddish eyes. Despite wearing a PPE, his whole body had been covered with chemicals from the extinguisher. “It was unbearably hot, and my skin had turned into a hash colour, but it is getting better,” says Jayakumar.He lives in Ponneri, a town in adjoining Thiruvallur district with his wife and two daughters, aged 5 and 3, from where he commutes to Chennai every day.On Friday evening, Jayakumar received a call from Sekar Babu, minister for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments asking him to come to chief minister M K Stalin’s residence with his family on the following day. Stalin honoured him for his bravery. “36 infants, 11 children, who were kept in incubators and their mothers were saved due to Mr Jayakumar’s actions,” an official statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chennai-nurse-braves-fire-to-save-newborns-101623092676897.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai opens up but not local trains; commuting woes still on||As Mumbai enters unlock mode with offices, retail shops, manufacturing units opening up from Monday, many citizens continue to face commuting woes. Despite people being allowed to commute by Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses, mobile application-based cabs, autorickshaws and taxis, passengers have to travel for three hours and are spending more than double the amount for commuting to work every day. Local train services for the general public were suspended for the second time on April 15 in a bid to control the spread of Covid-19 in the city, and the restrictions have not been lifted yet. Before the epidemic, Mumbai suburban train network was used by more than 7 million people for their daily commute. Many of these people now have to travel to their workplace again, but the cheap and fast travel option of local trains is not available yet. The authorities may allow women commuters to travel by train along with essential care workers and those travelling for medical reasons, in Mumbai which falls under level three of the unlock order. The state government has clarified that the decision on allowing women commuters to travel by local trains was given to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and Disaster Management Authority (DMA). BMC, however, on Saturday evening issued a notification stating women commuters will not be allowed to travel by local trains yet.Citizens say they would end up spending ₹10,000 to ₹20,000 per month for commuting to work as they will have to travel by cabs. “My workplace is in Nariman Point and I stay in Thane. Office started in April and then was shut and has resumed now again. I am spending up to ₹2,000 every day to commute to my workplace and back. I am commuting nearly three hours every day. Local train services should immediately be resumed for office-goers,” said Savita Yadav, a 34-year-old debt finance dealer.Passengers have stated that there is no comparison to local trains. “Offices have resumed across Mumbai but people are forced to travel by other means of transport. I am travelling by my two-wheeler and BEST bus to work. Fuel prices have increased rapidly, which makes it difficult to take personal vehicle everywhere. There is no comparison of local trains when it comes to means of transport. Train services for the general public should resume,” said Neeraj Rathore, 31, who works in an automobile company.Passenger associations have urged BMC to resume local train services for people travelling to work.“Local train services for people going to work should be resumed immediately. Citizens, even last time, had to spend a lot of money and time just to travel to work. The decision of allowing people to travel to their workplace should be taken immediately,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-opens-up-but-not-local-trains-commuting-woes-still-on-101623092616846.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Metro stations closed to ensure distancing||Several Delhi Metro stations had to be closed for a brief period to ensure social distancing as officials found it difficult to ensure 50% capacity amid high footfall, even as the public transit system recorded 450,000 passenger journeys till the evening, said officials.Some of the stations that were closed were Dwarka Mor, Uttam Nagar East, Vaishali, New Bus Adda, and Saket.“These were closed in the morning hours for about five to 10 minutes each as a crowd control measure,” said a Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) official. DMRC tweeted, “Entry for a few of our stations are being intermittently closed and opened for short durations to ensure social distancing as part of our crowd control measures. Please bear with us and allow for extra time in your commute.”The number of trains in service will be increased in phases DMRC officials said.“Nine special flying squads were deployed to randomly check inside trains for any kind of violations and counsel people to refrain from doing so for their own and everyone’s safety.“Till 8pm, 84 passengers were advised to get down from coach for travelling in standing position, 73 were penalised for not wearing mask and 106 were counseled to follow social distancing and wearing mask properly,” the DMRC said in a press release.Aqua Line services to start on June 9Meanwhile, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Monday said it will resume operations on its Aqua Line from June 9 since the partial Covid curfew has been lifted. Services will be available only on weekdays from 7am to 8pm.The officials said NMRC is making necessary preparations at all of its stations and on trains as well, so as to ensure that passengers follow social distancing norms and other Covid-19 protocols. The services were suspended on May 1.“As the weekend curfew is still in place, train service will not be operated on weekends,” said Ritu Maheshwari, managing director, NMRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-stations-closed-to-ensure-distancing-101623092477804.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||SC commission issues notice to Punjab on scholarship scheme||Taking strong note of the decision taken by the Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) of private educational institutions to withhold roll numbers of two lakh Scheduled Caste (SC) students, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has issued a notice to the Punjab government, directing it to ensure immediate release of roll numbers. The notice has been issued to the chief secretary and principal secretaries, social justice, empowerment and minorities, and higher education, on the orders of NCSC chairman Vijay Sampla. They have been asked to submit an action taken report immediately. “The JAC has stopped roll numbers in protest against non-disbursal of ₹1,549 crore under the SC Post-Matric Scholarship Scheme by the Punjab government, but private colleges cannot punish students because of mistakes or blunders of the state,” the NCSC chairman said in a statement, calling it “unacceptable”. Asking the state government to take strict action against the erring government officials, Sampla said that stopping the roll number or withholding degree of any student admitted under the post-matric scholarship is an offense. “It is the duty of the state governments to ensure proper implementation of the scheme and ensure that SC students face no hardship,” he said, asking the Punjab government to fulfil its duty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-commission-issues-notice-to-punjab-on-scholarship-scheme-101623092558486.html
08-06-2021||Other||Lakshadweep residents hold hunger strike over new rules||The people of Union territory of Lakshadweep on Monday observed a 12-hour hunger strike 6 am to 6 pm, to protest against a set of new regulations which they fear will destroy the unique culture and tradition of the island. Residents of the archipelago said this is the first time they are resorting to an agitation, that too Gandhian way of protest, to vent their anger against what they call “unilateral and retrograde decisions” of the new administrator Praful Khoda Patel. People are protesting against the draft legislations like Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (Goonda Act), Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation and Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021 among others.Residents of Lakhadweep, an archipelago in Arabian Sea comprising 36 tiny islands, out of which 10 are inhabited by humans, stood outside their homes holding placards, many wore black badges and at some places they shouted slogans. The Save Lakshadweep Forum, a body floated in the wake of mounting protests against the rules, said the maiden protest was successful. “This is the first time all islands observed such a protest. Though we have been assured repeatedly that local sentiments will be heard and addressed, the administrator is going ahead with his partisan and retrograde decisions,” said UCK Thangal, one of the convenors of the forum. The island MP, Mohammad Faizal, also said the protest was a big hit and he hoped authorities concerned will open their eyes. Due to rise in Covid-19 cases, lockdown is in force in the UT and all shops and establishments, except emergency services, remained shut from 6am to 6pm and vehicles were off the road. In Minicoy, four men were arrested when they were trying to hoist black flags at a public utility joint. Earlier, the administration had warned of strict action under the pandemic laws to deter crowding at public places. “Such protests are alien to our land. This is the first time we are resorting to it. We hope authorities will realise our sentiments and rise up to the occasion,” said Naseema Ashraf, a school student. Residents the archipelago in Arabian Sea have been protesting against Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (2021) that proposes to develop the islands as a major tourist destination. Residents allege it will destroy the islands’ character and identity since 97% of the islands are covered by pristine forests and 95% of its Muslim population belong to the protected scheduled tribe category. “They want to develop the island as another Maldives. But the culture of two islands is different. We need development but it should not be at the cost of our culture and tradition,” another resident said. They are also protesting against Lakshadweep Animal Preservation Regulation, which proposes to ban the killing of bovine animals and prohibit the consumption, storage, transport or sale of the cattle, meant in island environments. Most of the Lakshadweep residents are Muslims and they feel the regulations will affect their food habits. They are also opposing the Lakshadweep Panchayat Regulation, 2021, which proposes disqualification of candidates with more than two children in the gram panchayat elections.Thangalsaid 34 administrators have governed the UT since its formation in 1956 but a situation like this never arose. “Anger and fear have gripped the island like never before. Hope the Union government will realise the gravity of the situation and take corrective measures,” he said, adding the future course of protests will be decided after an all-party meet. Similar protests were staged outside Lakshadweep house in Kochi, in Kerala on Moday. Congress MPs from the state said they will move a privilege motion in the assembly against the administrator for barring their visit to the island. “We have made several requests to visit the island but they were denied citing the lockdown. We have never seen such an insensitive administrator,” said Kochi Congress MP, Hibi Eden. Last week, the Kerala assembly had passed a unanimous resolution seeking the recall of the administrator, and on Sunday, 93 retired bureaucrats sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi criticising the “partisan attitude” of the new administrator and urged him to protect the unique culture and tradition of the islands. Many parliamentarians, former bureaucrats, artists and cine actors have described the draft regulations as “arbitrary” and aimed against the majority community of the islands. On Sunday, in a letter to the PM written, the bureaucrats alleged the draft regulations not only ignore the unique geography and community life of islands, but it also gives “arbitrary and draconian powers” to the administrator to acquire, alter, transfer and remove or relocate islanders from their property. They also pointed out that the Lakshadweep Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Regulation (Goonda Act) is quite unwarranted and uncalled for. “According to the National Crime Records Bureau the crime rate in the island is very low compared to the rest of India, it has generated fear that the real purpose of the regulation is to smother dissent or protests against the policies and actions of the administrator,” the letter said.Patel was appointed as the administrator of Lakshadweep in December 2020. Interestingly a section of the BJP also supported the protest. Last week, a party delegation had called on Union home minister Amit Shah to apprise him of the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lakshadweep-residents-hold-hunger-strike-over-new-rules-101623092557385.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Spread awareness about corona-free village, CM tells Asha workers and sarpanchs||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Monday urged Asha workers across the state to create awareness about making villages “corona-free”. Thackeray, also held a virtual meeting with sarpanchs of villages in three divisions — Nashik, Konkan and Pune, and said there should be a mass movement to make the villages free of Covid-19.Speaking at a webinar for Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) workers with the state paediatric task force, Thackeray said the role of the 68,000 Asha workers in the state will be crucial in stopping the cases among children in the possible third wave of Covid-19. He added that while Asha workers must assure parents and guardians of affected children, they must also raise awareness about making villages corona-free.The members of the paediatric task force gave guidelines for Asha workers to follow in tackling Covid cases among infants and children. Thackeray said, “Asha workers should take charge of villages and guide the residents. They must follow the advice of the paediatric task force and refer patients to the administrative machinery immediately. There are indications that the possible third wave could impact children more, in that scenario, your role will be crucial,” the CM said.In another meeting held virtually with sarpanchs or heads of villages from three divisions, Thackeray said that villages should adopt “my village corona-free” initiative. The second wave has hit rural Maharashtra and the state’s tier-two cities more severely than the first wave with deaths significantly higher than last year as well. Last week, the state government launched a contest to make villages corona-free, wherein three winning villages from each of the six revenue divisions will get ₹50 lakh, ₹25 lakh and ₹15 lakh prize money.“Everyone should come forward to make their village, taluka, district free of coronavirus. If all unitedly focus on this goal, the day is not far when Covid-19 will be eradicated from Maharashtra. This should become a people’s movement,” the CM said. He added that villages should ensure all restrictions are followed to contain the spread and ensure there is no crowding in any event, function, wedding, agitation or morchas in the village or taluka.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/spread-awareness-about-corona-free-village-cm-tells-asha-workers-and-sarpanchs-101623092556862.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Active cases fall by 73% in a month in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Monday recorded 10,219 new Covid-19 cases while the number of active cases has shown a sharp decline. There are currently 174,320 active patients in the state. This was an approximate 73% decrease compared to a month ago on May 7 when the state had 654,788 active cases.Various factors such as ramping of tests, faster diagnosis as well as availability of medication have contributed to this decline.Pune has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the state with 19,645 cases as on Monday, down from 120,512 active cases on May 7. Kolhapur ranks second with 18,520 active cases. On May 7, Kolhapur was hardly in the spotlight as it clocked 14,491 active patients.Mumbai ranked third on both the occasions as it recorded 17,791 active cases on Monday, down from 54,162 cases a month ago.Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state on Covid-19 management, attributed the fall in active cases to the reduction in daily Covid-19 cases. “The lockdown as well as other factors such as ramping up of tests and regular supply of medicines ensured reduction of cases. In areas like Kolhapur, the virus came late and hence, active cases there will come down in the next 15 days,” said Salunke.Dr Jeevan Jain, a physician from Lalbaug who has treated more than 15,000 Covid-19 patients, said it indicates the Covid has peaked and is on decline. “We will see lesser number of active cases in the coming days. We are also seeing good recovery rates. It indicates the second wave is waning and will soon become history,” said Dr Jain.A total of 187,172 tests were conducted on Monday. The total case tally since the outbreak of the pandemic has now reached 5,842,000. Death toll stands at 100,470 with Mumbai leading with 14,999 deaths, followed by Pune at 13,391 deaths.Mumbai recorded 730 new Covid cases and 28 deaths on Monday, taking case tally to 711,373 and toll to 14,999.In order to contain the Covid-19 surge, a strict lockdown has been imposed in Ratnagiri in the Konkan region till June 9. Metros like Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and Nashik witnessed huge traffic snarls on Monday morning in view of the easing of restrictions. In Nanded, health workers sat staged an agitation, demanding pending dues which they have not received since the past three months. At Beed, social worker Ranjit Kadam celebrated his birthday by donating food items to a Covid-19 centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/active-cases-fall-by-73-in-a-month-in-maharashtra-101623092497503.html
08-06-2021||Other||TN serosurvey finds Covid antibodies in 23% population||A second serosurvey conducted in Tamil Nadu in April this year revealed that at least 23% of population has developed antibodies to SARS-CoV-2, a decline from 31% which was noted during the first survey conducted in October-November last year.The study was carried out by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine across all districts, except Chennai where two serosurveys have already been done by the Greater Chennai Corporation.“We know that antibodies last only for a few months. So people who got infected in the early part of the first wave may not have detectable antibodies now in the second wave,” said Dr Prabhdeep Kaur, deputy director, National Institute of Epidemiology, explaining the decline. “This is anticipated and know from other serosurveys in India as well as around the world. Since we are vaccinating the population the only issue with serosurveys is that these tests do not distinguish whether you are infected or vaccinated.”Of the 22,904 samples that were tested, 5,316 people were found with IgG (Immunoglobulin G-type) antibodies against coronavirus. The report also said that various coronavirus variants, including B.1.617.2 (Delta) of Indian origin, were detected in Tamil Nadu.The highest seropositivity of 49% was found in Tiruvallur district and the lowest of 9% in Nagapattinam.About 756 clusters were chosen and each cluster consisted of roughly 30 participants who were randomly picked for testing from a village, rural area, a street and an urban area for the survey.During the first serosurvey conducted last year, 22,690 blood samples were collected of which 6,995 were found reactive to the antibodies.The latest report attributed the ‘sharp decline’ to four factors — timing of serosurvey, waning of antibodies, vaccination coverage and emergence of SARS CoV-2 variants.“The first survey was initiated around four weeks following the peak cases reported in August 2020 during the first wave,” the report said, adding that this time, the survey was conducted close to the beginning of the second wave.“Waning of IgG antibodies during the time gap of five months between 1st and 2nd survey (November 2020 to March 2021) could be one of the valid reasons for low seroprevalence as reported by several studies published in international journals,” it said.The government is planning to conduct a third serosurvey in July-August. The department said the period would be appropriate considering the current declining trend of Covid-19 cases combined with increased vaccinations for those above 18 years of age.On Monday, the state reported 19,448 cases, taking the overall tally to 22,56,681. With 351 deaths in the same period, the toll rose to 27,356. As many as 97,35,420 people have been vaccinated so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tnserosurvey-finds-covid-antibodies-in-23-population-101623092496938.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||TMC converts bus into mobile vax unit for senior citizens, specially abled||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has set up a mobile vaccination unit in a refurbished bus on Monday. This move is aimed to vaccinating the maximum number of senior citizens and specially abled citizens before the anticipated third wave. The move has come as a relief to those unable to travel or wait at the vaccination centres for long. The mobile vaccination unit will travel across Thane city on all days except Sundays and will cater to those above 60 years and the disabled above 45 years. On the first day of its operation, 48 people were inoculated. A Thane Municipal Transport bus has been used to set up the mobile vaccination unit. Beds have been fitted in the bus. It also has a provision to keep medicines and a small fridge to store vaccine vials. However, the bus does not have the facility of a ramp. The vaccinator will step out and provide vaccines to those unable to enter the bus. TMC will come up with a schedule for the bus to visit different parts of the city. This would ensure that people are aware of the areas that the mobile unit would visit. “We are still finalising the route. However, it will be available at different spots every day from 12 noon to 4pm for vaccination. Our main focus is to cater to areas where we could not provide easy proximity to vaccination centres. Moreover, we will focus on the special population within the city like leprosy colony, old age homes and similar settlements where many do not have proper identification-related documents,” said Dr Khushboo Tawri, medical officer, TMC. After an inauguration event at the TMC headquarters, the mobile unit visited Indira Nagar, a densely populated slum area. “I find it difficult to climb steps or sit for long periods. It was quite a task to get into a vehicle and reach the vaccination centre. I only had to step outside my house and head towards the road to get the jab,” said Neeta Bhanushali, 78, a resident of Panchpakhadi, happy to get vaccinated. Surekha Ghule, 66, a resident of Indira Nagar, also got immunised at the mobile unit on Monday. “My children stay in different parts of the country and I have a very basic phone, so it gets difficult for me to register online. Moreover, I am not aware of technology. I rely on news channels wherein they do not inform about which vaccination centres will be open the next day. I also went for walk-in vaccinations but there were long queues and crowd at these centres, so I returned. My neighbours told me about this facility. I went with my documents and got the jab,” said Ghule.TMC will also hold special vaccination drive for Thane jail inmates and mental hospital residents on Tuesday. Those above 45 years who do not have documents can also get vaccinated. Box – KDMC to give 2nd dose for 18-44 yrsThe Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) will provide second dose to those between 18 years and 45 years on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Thane mayor, Naresh Mhaske, has also asked the TMC to start vaccination process for those above 18 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tmc-converts-bus-into-mobile-vax-unit-for-senior-citizens-specially-abled-101623092436911.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Delhi’s mask seller||He is sitting beside his packets of masks. His masked face is plopped on his knees, as if he were trying to escape from the world around him.“How can I be happy?” asks Shailesh Kumar, a hawker of face masks, here in a central Delhi lane. He talks of press photographers and TV cameramen directing their cameras at him as he and other fellow men queue up to get free food from charity organisations. “They show us as beggars... we are not beggars, but these times have made us helpless.” He is referring to the pandemic and the consequent lockdown.Mr Kumar originally used to sell “school copies and general knowledge text books.” But now there’s hardly anyone on the streets to buy them, he says, prompting him to switch to masks. “I get the supply once a week from a wholesaler in Gandhi Nagar market.” He spends the day silently walking within the same localities, never crying out like street hawkers usually do. “How can you cry out when you are in a mask... right now I was sitting because I was tired.”In the evening, Mr Kumar returns to the place where he sleeps—a ren basera, shelter for the homeless. “There, I have a bed and a chaadar.” The shelter also provides him with daily meals—“Sometimes they give dal chawal, sometimes subzi chawal.” In fact, he never strays far from the ren basera during his day-long wandering.In his early 40s, Mr Kumar arrived in Delhi from his village in Nawada, Bihar, seven years ago. “Nothing’s left for me in the village. Mummy’s gone. Father sold off our small agricultural land.” He could have been a labourer in the district, he mutters, “but I cannot exert my body, I have been having breathing difficulties since childhood.”He notes that “by my age, people already have children... but I did not marry because my life...” He doesn’t finish the sentence.Mr Kumar resumes speaking after some time. “I’ve no friends in Delhi. Not even in the ren basera. Residents of the ren basera don’t trust reach other. I’m alone.”He gazes at the empty street. “I will now get up.”At night, he will keep the bag he is carrying under his head, like a pillow, “so that it remains safe with me.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-delhi-s-mask-seller-101623092298642.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Day 1 of unlock: Thane witnesses crowding at several spots||Markets in Thane witnessed crowding on Monday morning as most shops and hotels opened up after almost 40 days. The peak hour rush continued to be the same with only a 5% increase in vehicular movement in Thane and Kalyan areas on the first day of unlock. Balasaheb Patil, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Traffic, said, “The peak hour rush in the morning and evening hours was the same on the first day of unlock. Overall we noticed hardly 5% increase in vehicular movement. There were hardly any instances of traffic jams or congestion in the city, apart from peak hours at regular junctions.” However, there was a crowd at Jambli market lane which led to buses piling up on the streets waiting to reach the State Transport depot and SATIS. “Today, being the first day of unlock, we did not expect much of a crowd but many had stepped out and most shops saw a slight increase in customers. This lockdown has had a huge impact on our business and delivery or take away is hardly 30% of our business. We are hoping that the timing increases so that more people turn up at our restaurants,” said Ratnakar Shetty, president of Hotel Owners Association, Thane. Hotels in the city are now allowed to stay open till 4pm for seating. Meanwhile, Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) noted a crowd in vegetable markets and at non-essential shops, especially near Dombivli and Kalyan stations. “I came to purchase some medicines at a regular store near the station at afternoon, expecting fewer crowds, however, there were many people on the streets shopping for groceries, clothes and others,” said Archana Suvarna, 48, a resident of Dombivli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/day-1-of-unlock-thane-witnesses-crowding-at-several-spots-101623092376838.html
08-06-2021||Bangalore||IAS officer hints at political link to her transfer||Karnataka Indian Administrative Officer (IAS) officer, Rohini Sindhuri on Monday said that she “did not anticipate her transfer” from the post of Mysuru deputy commissioner, days after spat with now former co/mmissioner of Mysuru City Corporation, Shilpa Nag and their subsequent transfer.“This happened suddenly while we were in the middle of doing good work. Though we did not anticipate it, it has happened,” Sindhuri told reporters on Monday.The state government transferred Sindhuri and Nag on Saturday after the latter alleged harassment and humiliation from the former and tendered her resignation from the service on Thursday. Nag who was Commissioner of Mysuru City Corporation was transferred as director (e-governance) at the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj department while Sindhuri, who was serving as deputy commissioner was transferred as commissioner for Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments.Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday said that there is no question of reviewing the transfer of the two senior officials in Mysuru district after Sindhuri met him and urged him to reconsider the decision. “Because she (Rohini Sindhuri Dasari) has been transferred, she came [to meet me]. Once a transfer is done, there is no question of reviewing it and I have asked her to report (to her new role),” the CM said. The spat between the two officials has sparked off a political war of words between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government and the opposition outfits like Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S).While speaking to a Kannada TV news channel on Monday, Sindhuri hinted at political interference and that she was shunted out after she tried to reclaim land encroached by local politicians. “We should have been allowed to work freely. Unnecessary interference by a few should not have been there,” she said.People aware of the developments earlier told Hindustan Times that Sindhuri had thwarted efforts by at least two influential persons to usurp around 1500 acres of land next to a lake to build a 5-star resort. For the last three years, Sindhuri has been the target of vicious attacks--both at a professional and personal level--leading to transfers and court battles. After she was transferred from Hassan district in 2018, Sindhuri had approached the courts over her wrongful transfer and was reinstated, further aggravating those against her, people aware of the developments said.Meanwhile, a TV news byte of Nag, shared widely on social media on Monday, she can be heard saying that the motive of her resignation had been achieved. Though Nag had resigned in a press conference, there was no formal letter to the state’s chief secretary, people aware of the developments said, indicating the possibility that she was pressured to do so.Sindhuri said that she sympathises with Nag’s “insecurities”. The Congress said that the battle between the two officials showed a complete collapse of the administration under chief minister BS Yediyurappa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ias-officer-hints-at-political-link-to-her-transfer-101623092316917.html
08-06-2021||Delhi||Gangster shifted from Mandoli jail to keep Sushil safe||Lawrence Bishnoi, a top gangster in the national capital region, has been shifted from Mandoli to Tihar jail in view of the threat he allegedly posed to the safety of Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, who is currently in judicial custody in a case of murder, jail officers privy to the development said on Monday.A joint security audit by Delhi Police, Intelligence Bureau (IB) and the prison department assessed that there could be a threat to Kumar’s life in jail since the man he allegedly murdered, Sagar Dhankhad, purportedly had links with Sandeep Jathedi alias Kala, currently the most wanted man in Delhi, who is suspected to be hiding in Dubai and carries a reward of ₹7 lakh on his arrest.Since several members of the Kala gang are in Tihar, the agencies were taking measures to ensure Kumar’s safety in prison before he is taken to Tihar from Mandoli Jail, where the wrestler is lodged for 10 days as a mandatory quarantine stay.The police said Bishnoi runs Kala’s gang.Kumar was brought to Mandoli jail on Thursday (June 3). Bishnoi was transferred to Tihar on Saturday.No senior officer from the prisons department who is authorised to issue press statements, wished to comment on the matter. However, a mid-level prison officer who asked not to be named, said, “Bishnoi was transferred on Saturday night. He is currently lodged in a single cell inside Tihar’s jail number 1. The two men will be in two different complexes. For security reasons, Kumar has also been allotted a single cell in Mandoli.”Kumar also allegedly assaulted a man named Sonu Mahal, who is Kala’s nephew.“Lawrence Bishnoi was in a Rajasthan jail but he was brought to Mandoli last week... Even Kala has been named in the case. As new prisoners are first lodged in Mandoli and monitored for Covid-19 symptoms, Bishnoi was lodged there. But because of the threat to Kumar, we have made an exception and shifted Bishnoi from Mandoli,” a second jail officer, who asked not to be named, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gangster-shifted-from-mandoli-jail-to-keep-sushil-safe-101623092170235.html
08-06-2021||Bangalore||K’taka BJP issues gag order to rein in dissent against Yediyurappa||Bengaluru The BJP in Karnataka issued an order on Monday stating that no one within the party should speak against chief minister BS Yediyurappa, party leaders said, in an effort to rein in dissent. “No one should give statements for or against the chief minister’s statements. This is what our state president has ordered and what our central leaders have told us,” said R Ashok, Karnataka revenue minister and senior BJP leader. The BJP has also formed a 15-member committee to check statements against the 78-year-old chief minister and seeking his ouster, which leaders said was denting the image of the party. “No one should talk about the chief minister or his position. There are repeated statements given in the media stating that there will be a change and also projecting themselves as the chief minister. To avoid all this, this committee has been formed,” R Ashok said. The formation of the committee comes at a time when there have been growing voices from within the BJP seeking the ouster of Yediyurappa over complaints of mishandling the Covid-19 pandemic, lack of performance of the government, corruption and allegations that his son, BY Vijayendra, was overriding ministers and running a parallel administration. Yediyurappa had on Sunday said that he would step down as chief minister if the central leadership asked him to do so, sparking speculation of a softening of stance by the 78-year-old. The CM also said he would continue to be in office as long as the party’s high command has trust in him. Several senior legislators, including ministers, have made trips to Delhi and mobilised support for the removal of Yediyurappa. There has been no action against Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand BJP legislator from Bijapur city, who has made personal remarks against the performance of the chief minister and alleged corruption within his family. “Basically all this discussion doesn’t arise. He is our chief minister, he is in place, and he has made a statement that I (Yediyurappa) am a disciplined soldier of the party,” said CN Ashwath Narayan, the deputy chief minister of Karnataka. Meanwhile, MP Renukacharya, the legislator from Honalli in Davanagere and political secretary to the chief minister, said that he has mobilised signatures from 65 party MLAs in support of Yediyurappa and the same will be sent to the central leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda. In a post on Twitter, Yediyurappa said: “In the face of the hardship of the Covid pandemic, every BJP MLA should give priority to Covid control in their constituency. No one should involve in mobilising signatures, giving political statements, and instead, I humbly request you to help those in dire need.” Narayan said, “In a party, this kind of statements, sending these letters are not in the interest of the party.” Another BJP legislator, identified as one among those seeking the ouster of Yediyurappa, doubted the veracity of the signature campaign. “There has been no signature campaign against or for anybody,” Arvind Bellad, a BJP legislator said. He said that there was a signature campaign when all legislators had sought early release of funds from the rural development and panchayat raj department. Bellad said the content is normally printed on one side and on the back of the letter, there were signatures of the MLAs, indicating a possible misuse of the same. Congress state president DK Shivakumar said there was a collapse in the administration. He said he does not want to intervene in the internal matters of the BJP. “However, the administration has failed as ministers and MLAs are fighting among themselves. Lot of coordination problems are there,” Shivkumar said. “All I want is that the Covid-19 problem is solved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-bjp-issues-gag-order-to-rein-in-dissent-against-yediyurappa-101623092256810.html
08-06-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru volunteers battle overcharging in hospital amid pandemic||On May 18, Nanda Girish, a 31-year-old businessman turned Covid-19 volunteer, received a distress call. Unlike the usual calls for supplies or cremation services, this call was regarding a hospital not releasing the body of a Covid-19 victim. The hospital had asked the patient’s family to pay ₹12.5 lakh for treatment, only after which the body will be handed over to the relatives.“When they told us about this exorbitant bill, we decided to take a look at it and found that bill was beyond the government prescribed rates for beds. So, we drafted a letter citing these problems and also contacted the concerned joint commissioner. Once we escalated the matter, the hospital released the body and didn’t even insist on the full payment of the bills,” said Girish, who is part of Saahasi, a group of volunteers helping people with hospital bills.In the next 20 days, Girish, his friend Raghuram and close to 30 other volunteers from Saahasi have taken more than 30 cases where hospitals have charged beyond government regulation. So far in five of these cases, they have been able to get refunds of ₹22 lakh to the families of those affected by the malpractice.Talking to HT, Girish didn’t want to name the hospital since they were preparing a document that will be submitted to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), for further action.The volunteer group has now recruited some doctors as well to join hands with them for a thorough scrutiny of the bills and they have also approached the BBMP with a proposal to allow them nodal officers whom they can assist in taking action against hospitals. “The doctors and nodal officers will be helpful to find if the patients have been charged for unnecessary medication etc,” Girish said.“Since we have started helping with hospital bills, we have been getting several calls. In one case, the family was threatened by the hospital saying they would remove the patient from the ventilator if the full payment was not done. This is despite the patient’s wife making an advance payment of ₹5 lakh. After we intervened the hospital didn’t insist her to pay the full amount. This shows some amount of foul play from the hospital’s side,” he said.The work they do is not easy. Each bill runs up to 15 pages and it takes time to understand where the hospitals have overcharged. “In some cases, they charge for 5 PPE kits per day per patient, which when researched was found was not right. There were several other charges which were beyond government regulations,” Girish added.Talking about his group’s work, he said that their aim was to assist the government authorities. “When we came across these cases, we realized the government will not be able to go through each bill. But if we are able to do the backend work and inform the respective officials, they will be able to help the families. So far, the numbers are low since we have not put out a helpline number, but we will do it soon. In such a case, we have to create a zone-wise data that we can handover to officials and get notices issued to hospitals,” he said.Volunteers are closely working with BBMP commissioner, Bengaluru district commissioner and senior police officers who have been appointed as hospital nodal officers. One of these officers was additional director general of police Alok Kumar, who on June 2, had raided a hospital in Bengaluru east, which had several complaints of overcharging against it.The officer said that during the raid they found that the hospital was charging ₹1,000 for every hour of oxygen supplied to the patients. A copy of a bill showed that the hospital charged patients ₹30,000 a day in a Covid isolation ICU ward, while the state government has capped the charges at ₹15,000.“We have initiated legal action against the hospital in CV Raman Nagar limits for overcharging patients for ICU beds and oxygen. We have directed the hospital management to refund the money. Further action will be taken if they fail to comply with our directions,” Kumar said.Meanwhile, volunteers like Girish continue to go through hospital bills every day to do their part during the pandemic. “If we are able to get refunds up to ₹22 lakh from just 5 cases, we believe once we have gone through all complaint we have got, the sum will be much larger. We are also hoping that more people will come out, so we can make a case against hospitals where such practices are rampant. The most important thing for us is to continue to get support from authorities, so quick action can be taken as the number of complaints increase,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/battling-overcharging-in-b-luru-hospitals-amid-pandemic-101623092196828.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Bhujbal declares agitation for political reservation for OBC||Senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) minister and other backward class (OBC) leader Chhagan Bhujbal announced agitations against the Central government, demanding political reservation of the OBC in Maharashtra, which is on the verge of getting scrapped following a recent verdict of the Supreme Court. Bhujbal, who also heads Akhil Bhartiya Samata Parishad, an OBC outfit, said the details will be worked out after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s meeting with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue on Tuesday.He made the announcement after the executive committee meeting of Akhil Bhartiya Samata Parishad in Bandra on Monday afternoon.While ruling out that the reservation in favour of the OBC in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% cap in reservation quota, the Supreme Court also directed the state government to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which, the reservation quota of the community be fixed.It means no seat is going to be reserved for the OBC community in the upcoming local bodies comprising municipal corporations, municipal councils, zilla parishads, panchayat samiti and gram panchayats at least for this year or until the state government completes the entire process.The apex court gave its verdict on March 4 following which the state approached for a review, which was also quashed by it on Friday (May 28).Around 65,000 seats reserved for OBCs across the local bodies in the state are going to be affected with the apex court’s verdict, Bhujbal claimed. “We have decided to hold an agitation in the name of ‘OBC Bachav Janjagriti Andolan’ for restoring the reservation. We will wait till tomorrow as the CM will be discussing the issue along with others with the Prime Minister in Delhi, based on its outcome we will decide the next course of action,” Bhujbal told reporters.He said that he has discussed the matter with the NCP chief Sharad Pawar who has agreed to discuss it with chief ministers of other states as the verdict is not limited to Maharashtra and will be applicable across states. He also spoke about the seriousness of the issue with Devendra Fadnavis, former chief minister and leader of opposition. “I requested Devendra Fadnavis to explain it to the Prime Minister and he assured to help,” Bhujbal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bhujbal-declares-agitation-for-political-reservation-for-obc-101623091957976.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Murder accused bludgeoned to death in Amritsar jail, probe on||A 45-year-old undertrial facing four criminal cases was bludgeoned to death by his fellow inmates in the high-security Amritsar jail, police said on Monday.The victim, Lakhwinder Singh, alias Lakha Baba, of Kamoke village falling under the Baba Bakala sub-division, was lodged in the jail since March 16 last year. In July 2019, Baba along with his two aides, had allegedly shot dead a panchayat member over old enmity. He was also facing a case under the NDPS Act that was registered in September 2018 at the Beas police station.Police have identified the accused as Avtar Singh, alias Tari, and Sultan Singh of Amritsar, and Gurjant Singh and Harpreet Singh, alias Happy, of Tarn Taran district. Three iron rods were recovered from their possession.Assistant superintendent of the jail Bhagwant Singh said: “The accused attacked Baba, Lovepreet Singh and Sajandeep Singh in room number 6 of barrack 5 on Sunday. Lakhwinder and Sajandeep received injuries and were rushed to the Amritsar civil hospital where Baba succumbed.”Another jail official said: “The incident took place at around 12.15pm. Baba, who received injuries on head and legs died around 4:30 pm.”A senior Punjab Police official, who is investigating the case, said: “Preliminary investigation suggest that the accused wanted to establish their supremacy in the barrack and Baba was opposing this. We have brought all the four accused on a production warrant. We have also identified three more accomplices of the accused, but their names could not be disclosed till the investigation is completed.”“The material used in constructing the jail is sub-standard and inmates use bricks to take out iron rods. Last year, ADGP prisons PK Sinha had ordered a probe into the construction after three inmates escaped by removing 10 bricks from the jail,” said the official. Accused Sultan and Avtar are facing five criminal cases each, including attempt to murder. Avtar was lodged in the jail since January 29 while Sultan was arrested on February 20. Similarly, Gurjant is facing two cases and Happy three.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP-investigation) Mukhwinder Singh said Avtar and Sultan were hardcore criminals. “Our probe to ascertain the exact cause of the attack is still on,” he added.A case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and various Sections of the Prisons Act has been registered against the accused at the Islamabad police station.A judicial probe has also been initiated and the victim’s post-mortem was conducted under the supervision of a judicial magistrate, said the jail officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/murder-accused-bludgeoned-to-death-in-amritsar-jail-probe-on-101623091957529.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Stay alert: CM to local administrations amid rain alert||Taking serious cognizance of a forecast for heavy rain in the Konkan region, covering Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) between June 9 and 14, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday directed the local administrations to be on alert and take all necessary measures required such as shifting people from low-lying areas and dilapidated structures to a safer place. He also said they need to ensure that the medical services for Covid-19 and other ailments will not be affected due to rain. He has asked authorities to deploy National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) teams at necessary places; coast guard and Indian Navy should be asked to stand by and call them for help if required in case of flooding in Mumbai and surrounding areas. The directives were issued in a meeting called by the chief minister to review the preparedness for the upcoming monsoon season in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. He also directed to take effective measures in flood-prone areas to avoid waterlogging. “All agencies concerned need to have proper coordination to deal with any situation. We will have to ensure that the medical services will not be affected; alert people staying in coastal areas and shift those residing in dilapidated structures and low-lying areas, if necessary,” the chief minister said. He said that power back-ups should be set up at hospitals, vaccination centres etc. in case electricity supply is interrupted. He also directed the guardian ministers to review the preparedness of each district by holding meetings at their own level. “The preparedness needs to be made by planning even those events which are unexpected… Going by the forecast, MMR is likely to be affected the most with the heavy rain, thus the civic corporations are required to ensure no water logging, and manholes are not left open. In Mumbai, development work is going on at many places owing to ongoing Metro projects etc. and debris can be seen lying on roads. Make sure they will not lead to flooding in areas,” Thackeray said. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief IS Chahal, who was part of the meeting, said they have installed pumps at 474 sites. They have also identified five schools in each ward where people will be shifted in case of an emergency. “We have decided to deploy a junior level to monitor the water logging issue in areas. We have developed two tanks to store the excess water. The BMC has also created squads in the jurisdiction of each police station who will help in clearing traffic in case of tree fall and waterlogging,” Chahal said in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stay-alert-cm-to-local-administrations-amid-rain-alert-101623091897904.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Congress protests against fuel price hikes||To condemn the Centre over petrol prices breaching the ₹100-mark in the state, the Congress staged agitations in various districts and tehsils. The Congress leaders from the state said the agitation would be intensified if the price hike was not rolled back. The Congress leaders said petrol and diesel are being sold at high prices because of the exorbitant duty levied on them and the Centre has earned hefty revenue out of it over the past few years.Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar led the agitation in Gadchiroli, party MP Balu Dhanorkar in Chandrapur, minister of state for home Satej Patil in Kolhapur, while party’s working president Arif Naseem Khan headed it in Thane. “The general public is facing hardship because of the high taxes on the petrol levied by the Centre. It has aggravated the problems of the common people who have already been facing financial crisis due to job losses amid Covid-19 pandemic. The Congress-led UPA government had successfully kept the petrol diesel prices under control despite high crude oil prices in the international market. Modi government has levied exorbitant taxes and duties on petrol and diesel,” Patole said. Satej Patil said the Centre earned about ₹20 lakh crore from the high excise duty on petrol and diesel in the past seven years. He said that to make it worse, the Modi government has levied the road cess of ₹18 per litre on petrol resulting in unprecedented hike in prices.The Bharatiya Janata Party however termed it an attempt of diverting the attention of the people from the pandemic, which has led to more than 100,000 deaths in the state. “The Congress and other parties should also talk about it. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has been appealing to political parties not resort to agitation and crowding. He has been talking about not politicising the issue of Covid-19, but Congress leaders are busy seeking political gain out of the current situation,” said BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye.Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said instead of blaming the Centre, the state in Maharashtra should waive the taxes levied by it. “Other states have reduced their duty and taxes to keep the petrol prices below ₹100 a litre. The Thackeray government should do it first before blaming the Centre.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-protests-against-fuel-price-hikes-101623091896770.html
08-06-2021||Lucknow||‘Final year online exams for tech univ students in UP not before mid July’||The final year exams for technical university students would be held in online mode not before mid July, said an official. The technical education department is also working on developing a software that can work on mobile phones along with desktop and laptops, said secretary, technical education, Alok Kumar.“At present we are trying for a system where students can appear from their homes. Still if students face connectivity issues they may visit a cyber cafe to take the test,” read a tweet by Kumar.On complaints regarding many engineering colleges not taking online classes, Kumar asked students to share details of such institutes and he would look into it. “We will instruct institutes to run remedial classes,” he said in a reply to a student who said they found it very difficult to study in online classes. A student, Shashwat Chauhan asked Kumar to consider the problems faced by those students who were living in villages and unable to take classes due to connectivity issues. “The department will try to fix all such problems before starting online examinations,” he assured students.Kumar also advised students to start attending lectures and said the government will take any decision regarding exam only after keeping student’s interest in mind. In another reply, he said, “Most likely online exam will be held for Polytechnic students also.”Shivank, a student asked about faculty of engineering and technology, University of Lucknow to which Kumar replied, “That too will be decided shortly but that comes under higher education.”When contacted, prof Samsher, vice chancellor, Harcourt Butler Technical University, (HBTU), Kanpur said, “The guidelines of examinations are being framed by technical education department of UP government and HBTU will adopt the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/final-year-online-exams-for-tech-univ-students-in-up-not-before-mid-july-101623091897310.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 82 deaths, 1,293 new Covid cases||Punjab on Monday registered 1,293 new Covid cases, taking the infection tally to 5,80,829, while 82 more deaths took the toll to 15,160, according to a medical bulletin.The state’s active cases stood at 19,995 as against 22,160 on Sunday, it said.Nine deaths were reported from Bathinda, eight each from Amritsar and Patiala and six each from Sangrur and Ludhiana, among the fatalities which took place in the last 24 hours.Ludhiana reported 135 new cases, followed by 133 in Amritsar, 113 in Jalandhar and 88 in Bathinda.The state’s positivity rate stood at 2.57%. With 3,350 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured people reached 5,45,674, according to the bulletin.There are 250 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 723 other critical patients and 3,198 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 96,98,676 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-82-deaths-1-293-new-covid-cases-101623091839077.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Expect heavy rain in Mumbai between June 9 and 14: IMD||MumbaiThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued a severe weather warning over heavy rainfall expected across the Konkan coast (including the Mumbai Metropolitan Region) between June 9 and June 14. The southwest monsoon has presently made its way across 30% of Maharashta, including Alibag and Raigad districts, IMD officials confirmed, and will soon arrive in the city as well. Till then, light to moderate rain and overcast skies are expected in the city, and are likely to intensify Thursday onward.Mumbai has so far recorded 115.3mm of rain since June 1, which is 156% above the normal rainfall for the period. June 1 saw the heaviest rain, with 48.3mm recorded in a single day, while June 4 was the calmest day with no rain. “These showers are very scattered, and though the rainfall is not as intense or frequent as monsoon showers, the accompanying winds can be very strong,” said a scientist with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. “With the likely formation of a low pressure area over North Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood by 11th June 2021 and strengthening of westerlies, an active rainfall spell is expected over Konkan - Goa and adjoining ghat areas of Madhya Maharashtra from 10th June for subsequent 4-5 days. Widespread rainfall activity is expected over the region during the period with possibility of heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places,” the IMD said in its daily bulletin on Monday. IMD’s automatic weather station in Santacruz recorded 17.2mm on rain on Monday morning. Colaba received lighter showers, with a reading of 9.4mm. While Mumbai, Thane and Palghar are placed under a yellow category storm warning for June 11, Ratnagiri and Raigad are placed under an orange category warning, indicating higher chance of heavy rainfall in these regions.“Strong winds with speed reaching 40-50 kmph gusting to 60 kmph likely to prevail over North Maharashtra coast on 10th and 11th June 2021. Fishermen are advised not to venture along and off North Maharashtra coast during the above mentioned period,” the IMD said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/expect-heavy-rain-in-mumbai-between-june-9-and-14-imd-101623091836763.html
08-06-2021||Other||Muslim families living near Gorakhnath temple likely to be relocatedover ‘security’||letters@htlive.comLUCKNOW Muslim families living in the vicinity of the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur are likely to be relocated in wake of the state government’s plan to bolster security around the complex. They have been handed over a consent letter by the district administration.Though nine families in the area (Purana Gorakhpur Tappa, Kasba Pargana Haveli, Tehsil Sadar, Gorakhpur) have agreed to transfer their house and land in favour of the state government, two have rejected the district administration’s offer for compensation and allotment of land at an alternative site.District magistrate (Gorakhpur) K Vijendra Pandian said there was no coercion by the district administration on the 11 families to vacate their houses. “The administration will acquire their property only after their consent. The houses are being vacated on the direction of the state government, on the basis of the report submitted by security agencies. The families will be given adequate compensation and the district administration will facilitate their relocation also. There is no religious angle in the shifting of these families,” he said.A district administration officer said the boundary wall of the Gorakhnath temple runs parallel to the 11 houses located on the south-east corner of the temple premises. UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who is the head priest of the temple, stays in the residential complex on the temple premises during his visits to Gorakhpur. “Hence, security agencies are reviewing and assessing the CM’s security during his stay on the temple premises,” he said.On the basis of security agencies’ report, the state government had directed the district administration to shift these families. “There is no plan to demolish or shift the religious structures in the area. Strict action will be taken against anti-social elements who are trying to disturb communal harmony,” he added.A local trader, Mohammad Islam, said the Muslim families were settled near the Gorakhnath temple for generations. “For livelihood, majority of them run commercial establishments in a portion of their houses. If the state government shifts them to another location, they will face problems of livelihood. The state government should also give employment to one member of the family whose house is being acquired,” he said.Meanwhile, a delegation of Congress members led by UP Congress Committee vice-president, Vishwa Vijay Singh, met the 11 families on Sunday. “We told the families that the Congress will fight for their rights. We will oppose their suppression by the district administration. The state government should adhere to the demand of the families,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muslim-families-living-near-gorakhnath-temple-likely-to-be-relocatedover-security-101623091777460.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor calls for meeting to review desilting of city waterways||Taking cognisance of media reports highlighting increased siltation and mangrove growth in Mumbai’s waterways, which experts say will pose a major flood risk during the monsoon, mayor Kishori Pednekar on Monday called for a review meeting with Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials on the stormwater drains.The mayor said she will discuss preliminary results from an ongoing study by Pune-based NGO Srushti Conservation Foundation, which estimated that the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has lost about 107 sqkm of waterways and agricultural land along its coast since 1990. The study is being led by Dr Deepak Apte, former director of the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS). Due to the increased rate of siltation over the past 30 years, Apte explained, waterways and agricultural lands along the city’s coastline have now turned into mudflats or mangrove forests, leading to shrinking and shallowing of the city’s creeks.About 47sqkm area has been lost in the Mumbai-Thane creek itself, which in the future may pose a threat to the area’s avian biodiversity (including flamingos). The coasts in Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Uran have all been affected by this process, HT had reported on June 5.Pednekar told HT over the phone: “I will be sitting down with chief engineers of the civic departments concerned to review whether desilting work in the eastern and western suburbs will be enough to prevent flooding in the city. We will also discuss ways in which the Srushti Conservation Foundation’s suggestions for desilting creeks can be implemented.”“Mumbai would have already been under water had we not taken appropriate steps to manage siltation in Mithi River. Ahead of this monsoon, we will take all steps to ensure de-clogging of areas, but we cannot say that Mumbai will never flood,” Pednekar said at a press conference on June 6. P Velrasu, additional municipal commissioner and head of the storm water drains department, did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-calls-for-meeting-to-review-desilting-of-city-waterways-101623091776813.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||‘Earlier a soul, Twitter now a burden for BJP’||Amid the standoff between Twitter and Centre, the Shiv Sena on Monday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government, saying the microblogging site, which was once the “soul” of the party’s campaign, has now become a “burden”. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that Twitter’s importance for the party has ended because the BJP’s opponents are now using the same platform to respond to the party’s “false propaganda”. Twitter and the Centre have been at loggerheads over the new information technology rules. Twitter was sent “last notice” asking it to comply with the new information technology (IT) rules. “Earlier, Twitter was the soul of the struggle or campaign for the BJP or the Modi government. Twitter has now become a burden for them and the Modi government has reached the extent of deciding whether to throw this burden away. Today, all media in the country is under the complete control of the Modi government, except mediums like Twitter,” the editorial said. The editorial said that the “working style” of BJP government has been exposed through Twitter during the pandemic. “Social media platforms such as Twitter showed the world how Modi and his government failed to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic. The dead bodies flowing in the Ganges, pyre burning continuously in Varanasi and Gujarat, ambulance queues outside the crematoriums reached the world and the working style of the BJP government was exposed,” the editorial said. As the Centre issued new guidelines for social media platforms, the Sena alleged the social media platforms were used for “mudslinging” and “character assassination” of political opponents, and asked which rules allowed it. The Sena said that the opposition has learned how to effectively use Twitter and are taking on the BJP in states like West Bengal and Bihar, creating panic within the ranks of the ruling party. As long as these attacks were going on in a one-sided manner, the BJP members were happy, but when the opposition launched attacks by deploying equally capable cyber forces, then there was panic in the BJP camp, the editorial said. Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said, “It is not the question of it becoming a burden, but whether these companies follow the law of the land. It is a baseless argument that this is done after the government faced criticism for its handling of the second wave. The notification for these IT laws came in January or February when there was no second wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/earlier-a-soul-twitter-now-a-burden-for-bjp-101623091718102.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||Confusion on day one of unlock in Maharashtra||The latest easing of coronavirus-enforced curbs across Maharashtra, by dividing the state into five categories based on the severity of the virus’s spread in an area and its preparation, began from Monday. There was confusion as a few districts and cities opted to continue with more restrictions, despite qualifying for relaxations under the state’s five-level unlock order, while some other districts have contested their classifications, seeking more relaxations. Most cities and districts fall under levels two and three, giving them powers to ease restrictions. “Mumbai, Panvel, Ulhasnagar, Mira Bhayander, Bhiwandi, Kalyan-Dombivli, Vasai-Virar are under level three, while Navi Mumbai, Thane are under level two. But restrictions imposed for the respective levels are not being followed,” said an official from Mantralaya.“The traffic on Mumbai roads has suddenly gone up. The curfew order after 5pm is not being followed. Once commercial activities are opened, the situation goes beyond control. We are apprehensive about the surge in cases in the next few days after opening up activities. The district and city level administrations have been told to strictly enforce orders,” the official added.The Raigad collector, using her power as district disaster management authority, has upgraded Panvel corporation to level three, making it eligible for more relaxations. “Our population, including a few nodes from the rural parts, is more than 1.2 million, making us eligible for upgrading a level. Secondly, vast difference in restrictions in adjoining Navi Mumbai and Panvel make no sense, hence the we are following level-three restrictions, but with strict enforcement,” said Sudhakar Deshmukh, commissioner, Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC).On the contrary, Nagpur district and corporation have opted for stricter curbs despite being eligible for complete relaxation. Avinash Katade, resident deputy collector, Nagpur said, “Though the Nagpur district and municipal corporation come under level one, we have not extended the blanket relaxations entitled. The shops, including malls and marketing complexes, will remain open until 5pm, while restaurants are allowed to operate till 10pm. We have allowed 100 attendees for weddings. All shopkeepers, restaurants bodies and organisers of wedding ceremonies have been warned about strict action, extending to cancellation of their licences, if violations are found.”He said that the administration has decided to review the situation every Friday, so as to take a call on further action depending on the number of cases and the positivity rate. He said that they are implementing the unlocking in a graded manner to avoid any surge. Both the rural and urban areas are following similar orders, he said.Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, the two Konkan districts that are under level four, will continue stricter restrictions as they have upgraded their level by just a narrow margin.“The sudden spike in cases may lead to blanket curbs across the state as it has been mentioned in the notification. It clearly says that if the occupancy of oxygen beds crosses 35,000, the entire state will face restrictions applicable to level three and if it crosses 45,000, level four restrictions will be applicable. Currently the number of oxygen-supported patients are less than 32,000. The weekly review will be taken at the state level,” the officer quoted earlier said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/confusion-on-day-one-of-unlock-in-maharashtra-101623091716767.html
08-06-2021||Mumbai||CM Thackeray to meet PM Narendra Modi over Maratha reservation on Tuesday||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray is set to meet Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi over the Maratha reservation issue on Tuesday. The state is expected to request the PM for Centre’s intervention in the issue to give reservation to the Maratha community which was struck down by the Supreme Court last month. The delegation which comprises of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, public works minister Ashok Chavan is also expected to raise a few other demands including financial aid to the state for damages caused by Cyclone Tauktae and release of the pending GST compensation, said a senior Shiv Sena minister. Prior to Tuesday’s meeting, Thackeray held parleys with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Monday evening. The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is facing ire of Maratha community outfits after the quota was quashed by the Apex court on May 5. Various outfits have announced, while Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP and Maratha leader Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has announced a statewide stir from June 16. Another Vinayak Mete, Maratha leader and chief of Shiv Sangram Party which supports the BJP, has begun to hold rallies under Maratha Kranti Morcha banner from Saturday.To pacify the community, the state government is tapping every possible option on legal and administrative grounds. “The delegation led by CM Thackeray, comprising deputy CM Ajit Pawar, PWD minister Ashok Chavan and chief secretary Sitaram Kunte will discuss issues like reservation to Marathas, other backward classes (in election), relief package for the cyclone-hit districts and dues towards GST compensation,” said home minister Dilip Walse Patil.The state is expected to request the Centre to clear the air on the powers of states on ascertaining backwardness of any community after the 102nd Constitutional amendment and the Apex court order on it. The Centre has already filed a review petition of the SC order which stated the states have no powers to ascertain it. The state is also likely to request the Centre to give the reservation to Marathas by putting them in central list of backward classes.Thackeray, on May 11, had met Governor BS Koshyari and requested him to send a request to the president for the reservation to Marathas. “In view of the SC decision that the authority for providing reservation is only with the president, we have written a letter to the president asking reservation for the Maratha community,” Thackeray had told reporters after the meeting.According to the leaders from the ruling parties, it is an attempt by the MVA to put the ball in BJP’s court. “The BJP has started protesting in the state to instigate Maratha community against us. Instead of holding us responsible, the BJP should act on what’s possible at Central level,” said a Congress leader.Meanwhile, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar met CM Thackeray to discuss issues ahead of the latter’s meeting scheduled with the PM on Tuesday morning. Pawar, who is considered a guiding force of the MVA government, is said to have discussed reservation issues related to Maratha and OBC communities. “Pawar saheb has been in favour of both the reservations. Both the issues were discussed in a meeting of NCP ministers chaired by the NCP chief recently. It was Pawar sahib who implemented the Mandal commission recommendation in Maharashtra as the chief minister. The same was discussed in today’s meeting,” said a NCP minister.Pawar was accompanied by deputy CM Ajit Pawar. Urban development minister Eknath Shinde too was present in the meeting. “Sharad Pawar is a mentor of this government. The CM will be meeting the PM on issues such as Maratha and OBC reservations. Pawar saheb always meets CM and discusses issues that are important for the state. Discussion was held on these lines today as well,” Shinde told reporters after the meeting. Maratha leader and a petitioner in the reservation case Vinod Patil said the state should do its bit to offer relief to the community. “Maratha youth are frustrated after losing the reservation. It is okay that the state delegation is meeting the PM, but who has stopped the state to comply with its assurances of ancillary benefits to the community. The state should immediately implement the scholarships, financial assistance for entrepreneurial projects and recruit the youth, whose process was completed for government jobs,” he said.The state is expected to file a review petition in the SC this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-thackeray-to-meet-pm-narendra-modi-over-maratha-reservation-on-tuesday-101623091657434.html
08-06-2021||Other||Allahabad University, colleges to undertake water conservation mission||The Allahabad University (AU) and its constituent colleges will soon undertake a six-month long water conservation mission.The varsity led by vice-chancellor prof Sangita Srivastava has also decided to explore installing rainwater harvesting systems in its various departmental buildings like the one already installed in the FCI campus of the varsity, said officials.The efforts will be led by cultural committee of AU that held a meeting on Sunday and discussed plans to undertake various steps aimed at sensitising and making people, including students and teachers, aware of the need for water harvesting. The virtual meet was attended by prof Santosh Bhadauria, prof AR Siddiqui, prof Shabnam Hameed, Shefali Nandan and convenor Chitranjan Kumar. “The committee will organise a host of competitions as part of this initiative that would continue till November 30. Events like poster designing and exhibition, debate and essay writing contests besides lecture series by experts of the field would be organised,” said AU assistant PRO Chitranjan Kumar. To note, on the occasion of World Water Day on March 22 Prime Minister Narendra Modi had launched the ‘Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain’ campaign. It is the flagship water conservation campaign under the Ministry of Jal Shakti. University Grants Commission (UGC) had recently asked all affiliated colleges and institutions to include rain water harvesting structures (RWHS) on their premises as part of ‘Catch the Rain’ campaign. The campaign initiated under the National Water Mission with the objective to conserve water, minimize wastage and ensure more equitable distribution both across and within states encourages all stake holders to create rain water harvesting structures before the onset of monsoon to catch the rain. This rain water can be used to recharge the groundwater aquifers. Apart from this, educational institutes are also to organize activities such as drives to make water harvesting pits, rooftop RWHS, check dams etc, removal of obstructions in the channels which bring water to them from the catchment areas etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allahabad-university-colleges-to-undertake-water-conservation-mission-101623091356824.html
08-06-2021||Bhopal||MP stops use of Anti-fungal jabs after 77 suffer adverse reaction||The Madhya Pradesh government has stopped the use of amphotericin B injections made by a particular company after 77 patients suffering from ‘black fungus’ (mucormycosis) infection in Sagar and Jabalpur districts showed adverse reaction to the shots, a health department official said.Amphotericin B is a last-line drug used to treat the lethal fungal infection, which has attained epidemic proportions during the second wave of Covid-19. The injections in question were manufactured by Affy Pharma Private Limited and supplied to three government hospitals in Sagar, Indore, and Jabalpur.“The patients showing adverse reaction to the injection complained of fever, vomiting, chills and fluctuation in blood pressure and were finally stabilised through symptomatic treatment,” said Dr Umesh Patel, public relation officer of Bundelkhand Medical College.“We have been manufacturing these injections since 2019 and no adverse reactions have been reported since then. These are common side-effects of the injections. Our expert team of doctors and scientists has contacted the state government to give an explanation,” said Rajesh Mishra, finance manager, Affy Pharma Private Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mpstops-use-of-anti-fungal-jabs-after-77-suffer-adverse-reaction-101623090829086.html
08-06-2021||Lucknow||UP ranked grade I in school education||Uttar Pradesh (UP) improved its grading from grade III to grade I, in performance grading index (PGI), released by the union education ministry on Monday. PGI is a tool to measure the status of school education in states and union territories. UP along with seven other states were grouped under grade I, five other states grouped under level III and seven states were got grade A++ (above grade I) in PGI, said state’s basic education minister, Satish Chandra Dwivedi. Dwivedi said chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s leadership helped improve on various parameters and said efforts would continue to further improve UP’s PGI rankings. The minister said the state made a “remarkable improvement” in the last four years and reached grade I. The school education in states was given marks on the basis of learning outcome, easy access, infrastructure, equity and governance, he said. As per an official statement, the PGI exercise envisages that the index would propel states and union territories (UTs) towards undertaking multi-pronged interventions that will bring about the much-desired optimal education outcomes. “The PGI helps the states/UTs to pinpoint the gaps and accordingly identify areas for intervention to ensure that the school education system is robust at every level,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-ranked-grade-i-in-school-education-101623090876674.html
08-06-2021||Other||Mulayam takes first dose of Covid vaccine, BJP hails move||Samajwadi Party (SP) founder and chief patron Mulayam Singh Yadav, 81, on Monday took the first dose of Covid vaccine at a private hospital in Gurgaon.“Today, Samajwadi Party founder and former defence minister got himself vaccinated,” the Samajwadi Party tweeted in Hindi from its official handle with a photograph of the leader getting the jab. Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya in a tweet in Hindi said: “Samajwadi Party chief patron and former chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav ji, thank you for taking the jab of swadeshi (indigenous) vaccine. Your taking the vaccine is a testimony that the SP national president Akhilesh Yadav had spread rumour about the vaccine. Akhilesh ji should apologise for it.”BJP UP unit president Swatandra Dev Singh in a tweet in Hindi said: “A good message...I hope that Samawjadi Party workers and the party president too would take inspiration from this.” Both Maurya and Singh posted the picture of Mulayam Singh Yadav taking the jab along with their tweets.In January, SP president Akhilesh Yadav had kicked up a controversy when at a press conference in Lucknow he termed the Covid vaccines as “vaccine of the BJP” and had declared that he would not take it. It drew a sharp retort from BJP leaders who accused him of “insulting the doctors and scientists who indigenously developed the vaccine” and called Akhilesh’s statement “irresponsible”.Later, Akhilesh reiterated that it was the “BJP vaccine” but clarified that he never insulted the scientists and researchers who developed the vaccines but criticised the BJP that was politicising the vaccine.Earlier on May 19, Mulayam Singh Yadav’s younger daughter-in-law Aparna Yadav had taken the vaccine at Lok Bandhu hospital in Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mulayam-takes-first-dose-of-covid-vaccine-bjp-hails-move-101623090696758.html
08-06-2021||Other||Case filed against Kerala BJP chief for ‘bribing’ poll candidate||Kerala Police on Monday registered a case against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state chief K Surendran for allegedly bribing Independent candidate, K Sundara to withdraw his candidature from the Manjeswaram constituency ahead of the recent state elections, following a court directive.Sundara, who stood from the Mancheswaram seat against Surendran alleged last week that he was paid ₹2.5 lakh to withdraw his candidature. He later pulled out of the political contest. IUML’s AKM Ashraf eventually won the seat.The CPI(M) candidate, V V Ramesan had moved Kasaragod magistrate court which on Monday directed the police to register a case against him. Police later said the BJP leader will be booked under Section 17I B of the Indian Penal Code and other sections. If convicted, the offender will get one- year jail term and five- year suspension from contesting elections.However, the BJP said it will challenge the decision in a higher court. “There is a concerted move to target the party and its leaders in Kerala. Both the ruling CPI(M) and opposition Congress have joined hands. Some of the recent allegations are part of this virulous campaign,” said party leader A N Radhakrishnan in Kochi.Kerala police on Sunday recorded the statement of K Sundara. “We have recorded the statement of Sundara. He said he was threatened by the BJP workers to withdraw the nomination papers. Also, he said he was offered money and that he had accepted it,” the police told news agency PTI.Sundara has hailed the decision of the court and said he was ready to depose against the BJP leader. Both the CPI(M) and Congress also welcomed the court decision.“I will take the case to its logical end. Enough money had flown in Mancheswaram during the poll. I will expose the corrupt practices of the BJP,” said V V Ramesan.“The money trail shows the BJP wanted to grab some seats by hook to crook. People of the state have shown again that Kerala is not fertile for saffron forces. We welcome the decision of the court,” said Congress leader, Shafi Parambhil.Interestingly, in 2016 assembly elections also Sundara contested but he got 467 votes while Surendran lost the seat by a slender margin of 89 votes. He said this time the BJP was more alert and many leaders from Karnataka pressurised him to withdraw from the election. After withdrawing his nomination, he campaigned for Surendran. But the state president lost the May poll by a bigger margin of 745 votes to IUML’s Ashraf.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-filed-against-kerala-bjp-chief-for-bribing-poll-candidate-after-court-s-order-101623089497254.html
08-06-2021||Pune||Pune’s Market Yard allows only 50% of outlets to be open||PUNE Even though the city currently falls under the level 3 category set by the state administration, i.e. areas where positivity rate is between 5% and 10%, or more than 40% of beds with oxygen are occupied; the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), which operates the city’s largest wholesale market for fruits, vegetables and foodgrain, will not alter its current rules of operation.APMC will stick to the current rule of Market Yard at Gultekdi functioning with only 50 per cent of outlets open on any given day.The “50 per cent” rule has been in play since the second wave of Covid-19 in Pune, began to peak in April 2021.“Timings have been extended from 2pm to 4pm, but other restrictions at Market Yard remain the same. The decision has been taken to keep a control on crowds,” said Madhukar Garad, administrator and secretary, APMC, Market Yard, Gultekdi, Pune.Market Yard has also been closing one access lane every day and not allowing hawkers inside the premises.“Hawkers have been asking us for permission to stand inside Market Yard, but we are not allowing them,” added Garad.“On Monday, 900 trucks of vegetables and fruit were delivered to Market Yard. On Saturday and Sunday, the number increases to 1,400 or 1,500 trucks,” said Garad.In terms of dealing with hawkers on the footpath outside Market Yard, Garad said, “There is one GR from the government, according to which, we cannot dislodge any temporary shelter built on a footpath during the monsoon. So we are not conducting any anti-encroachment drive.” 20 % rise in vegetable pricesFruit and vegetable prices have seen an increase at the wholesale market.“With many hotels starting to function again, after the relaxation orders, there is a rise in demand for vegetables. Except for cauliflower, there is a rise in prices all other vegetables by 20 per cent. Once the regular monsoon season starts, prices are expected to fall and supply will increase,” said Vilas Bhujbal, president, Market Yard Commission Agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/market-yard-will-continue-to-operate-with-50-of-outlets-open-on-any-given-day-101623089377747.html
08-06-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy sowing begins early in southern Punjab||Notwithstanding the farm experts’ advisory and Punjab government’s directions, paddy growers have already started the transplantation of water-guzzling Pusa-44 variety in Punjab’s southern districts of Bathinda and Mansa.While the direct seeding of rice had started on June 1, the state government had directed farmers to wait for transplantation till June 10. However, backed by farm unions, the transplantation of Pusa-44 variety, which is considered environmentally hazardous, and other parmal rice (PR) varieties is going on in full swing in scores of villages in this belt.Also Read: PSPCL gears up to meet 14,000 MW power demand during paddy seasonPusa-44, which is among the oldest varieties being grown in Punjab, takes around 145-150 days to mature, which makes it highly water intensive. Also, it produces more post-harvest waste, say experts.Chief agriculture officer (CAO), Mansa, Manjit Singh said there are inputs that transplantation has begun in Bhaini Bagha and adjoining villages. After field inspections, the plantation in the identified fields will be ploughed, he said.Bathinda CAO Bahadur Singh Sidhu said farmers should follow recommended date of paddy transplantation to conserve subsoil water. “In 2019, it was mandated to start paddy transplantation from June 20. Last year, it was advanced to June 13, and this year to June 10 in view of the pandemic crisis. Rice is a water-intensive crop and experts recommend a schedule that coincides with the monsoon to balance irrigation needs,” he said.However, justifying sowing ahead of the schedule, Mansa district president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ughrahan) Ram Singh Bhaini Bagha said it was necessitated to overcome labour shortage in view of Covid restrictions, as farmers need a longer window to sow Pusa-44. “Contrary to the other recommended variety, Pusa-44 produces more yield per acre. We understand that it consumes more water, but the state government should devise a diversification plan that ensures profitability to paddy growers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-sowing-begins-early-in-southern-punjab-101623086980477.html
08-06-2021||Pune||Residents blame PMC after cracks emerge in walls at Indira vasahat||Local residents of Indira Gandhi vasahat near Ambil odha (stream) under Neelayam Theatre flyover, are scared after they discovered cracks in the walls of their houses. For a few days, they are all living in fear of the wall collapsing. Residents of the area blame the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) for constructing a compound wall along the Ambil Odha in a hurry after monsoon has arrived in the city, a work that was supposed to be completed before monsoon season. There are more than 40 families living along the Ambil Odha near Seva Dal office in survey number 133. There are old compound walls along the Odha but, they are not in a good condition. Therefore, the PMC drainage department has undertaken work to construct a parallel compound to strengthen the existing one to protect residents from a flood-like situation. However, the PMC began the work only last week. Dilip Waghmare, a resident of Indira Gandhi Vasahat said, “Last week, the PMC began work on the compound wall. They used poclain and JCB machines to dig the ground to construct a new compound wall. During the work, cracks developed on our house walls. PMC has taken up the compound wall work very late when monsoon has already arrived. If any calamity happens, what will happen to us? We wrote a letter to the PMC to make alternate arrangement and pay compensation for our damage.” Sobha Ohal, another resident of Vasahat said, “We have been living for more than 20 years in this area. In the 2019 flood situation, we had already faced a problem. Now, we don’t want something to happen to us. Now, the monsoon has started and how will the PMC be able to complete the work? There are chances of shoddy work due to the urgent deadline. Our drinking water and drainage water pipeline is also damaged. We are demanding that it be repaired as early as possible to avoid any further complications.” Mangala Ghate, a local resident said, “The PMC has included us in the Slum Rehabilitation Authority scheme (SRA), it is the duty of the PMC to take care of our life. The civic body rushes to help us when any calamity or incident occurs but, they never take appropriate steps to avoid any calamity and save our lives.” Shahubai Waghmare, another resident of Indira Vasahat said, “ It is the negligence of the PMC to start work in the monsoon period. They just want to complete work and they don’t care about time and quality of work. Every person’s life is precious whether it is living in a slum or in a building. It is our duty as PMC to protect them.” Prakash Kumbhar, deputy engineer of PMC drainage and maintenance department said, “We have started work to construct a parallel compound wall along the Ambil Odha which will secure Indira Gandhi Vasahat from flooding. There is an old compound wall existing. For precaution, we are constructing a new wall. I don’t think due to our work, cracks developed. It takes around one week to complete the work. We are taking all necessary precautions to avoid any damage or problems to residents.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-blame-pmc-after-cracks-emerge-in-walls-of-houses-in-indira-gandhi-vasahat-101623082775907.html
08-06-2021||Dehradun||Environmentalists, bird lovers against ‘junky tourism’ in Sattal||Environmentalists, bird lovers and locals are opposing the proposed redevelopment of Sattal, a birder’s paradise, in Nainital district, stressing that more concretisation and infrastructure addition will disturb the birds frequenting the area and negatively impact its natural ecology.Bird lovers from across India frequent Sattal for bird watching and clicking photographs of the Himalayan avian diversity. Under the proposed redevelopment of Sattal, authorities (Nainital Lake Development Authority and forest department) plan to build a children’s park, food plaza, interpretation centre, library, ticketing office, park, pathways and so onNeerdiv Bankoti, a local, said they are opposing the redevelopment as Sattal is perhaps the last lake area in the district, also called the “Lake district of India”, which is still in pristine and unspoiled, and doesn’t have many concrete structures.“These additions will lead to crowding and stop the birds from coming here. So, in a way, if we go ahead with the redevelopment of the lake area, it will defeat the very purpose for which Sattal is famous,” he said.Aagnay Budhraja, who hails from Delhi and has been living in Sattal for four years, said he started an online petition on change.org against the proposed move. He said the area is home to over 500 bird and 525 butterfly species.“Over 17,000 people have already signed the petition. When we came to know about these proposed works, we wrote to the divisional forest officer of Nainital and other authorities that instead of adding more structures in the area, the forests around the lake should be declared a conservation reserve,” he said.Budhraja said a public interest litigation will be filed in the Uttarakhand high court next month. “We want the court to look into this ecologically sensitive matter,” he said.Avian expert Sanjay Sondhi, also the co-author of “Updated Checklist and Bibliography of the Birds of Uttarakhand” said Sattal is likely the best bird watching site in the state. “There should be no junky tourism development there; it should be left unspoiled for birds,” he said.AG Ansari, a Kumaon-based wildlife activist, said he is opposed to development around Sattal. “If concrete structures are added, there will be less green space around the lake and more people will be present in the area at a time, which will affect the movement of birds that are generally alert and shy towards crowds,” he said.However, environmentalist Ajay Singh Rawat said that in 1993 he filed a petition in the Supreme Court regarding pollution in Nainital lake. “Subsequently, the SC gave directions that Nainital lake has become opaque and it should be cleaned immediately. After that ₹43 crore were released by the state government for Nainital and other lakes in the district,” he said.Rawat said in 2013, the Uttarakhand high court ordered that the money saved from the ₹43 crore should be used for beautifying Sattal and stopping pollution.“Under this project, now the shops are being shifted 40 feet back, a children’s park and food plaza is being set up. This will give a boost to tourism and the landscaping efforts will also check pollution in the area. The opposition seems to be engineered by some vested interests who have business interests in surrounding villages,” he said.Pankaj Upadhyay, secretary, Nainital Lake Development Authority, said ₹6 crore will be spent on the Sattal lake redevelopment and beautification project. “We have plans to build a children’s park, a small park and a sitting area, develop pathways and undertake landscaping around the lake to beautify it. The contract for the project has been given a few days back and work will start soon,” he said.Mukul Sharma, forest range officer, Bhawali (under which Sattal falls), said the works proposed by the forest department haven’t been built yet.“Interpretation centre is meant to educate people and bird lovers about the avian diversity found in this area. The library will have books on wildlife and nature. Besides, we have plans to build a small office for the ticket giver. All these will not take much space. We are not doing anything to disturb the area but help the visitors to understand the diversity of birds found in the area and admire them,” he said.Subodh Uniyal, cabinet minister and spokesperson of the state government, said he will look into the matter. “The locals who are opposing the redevelopment should make a representation to me so that I can get the whole matter examined and see what can be done on this issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/environmentalists-bird-lovers-against-junky-tourism-in-sattal-101623013085855.html
