09-06-2021||Dehradun||Conduct Covid death audit, orders Uttarakhand high court; report by June 21||Dehradun:The Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday ordered the government to conduct an audit of Covid deaths in the state and submit its report by June 21. The court’s direction, which comes amid delays in reporting Covid deaths by hospitals, was issued on a bunch of public interest litigation filed by lawyers and activists, Sachdanand Dabral, Dushyant Mainali, Anu Pant and Rajendra Arya.Uttarakhand has reported over 3.35 lakh Covid cases and more than 6,800 deaths. More than 10% of the deaths, or 868 deaths, are classified as backlog deaths since they were reported after a delay by the hospitals.Anoop Nautiyal of Social Development for Communities Foundation (SDC) said hospitals should be ordered to report deaths within 24 hours to enable the authorities to effectively deal with the situation. “Last year 89 backlog Covid deaths were reported while the rest of such deaths have been reported from May 9 onwards. Initially, authorities tried to be strict on this issue, but hospitals continued to report backlog deaths. Since May 17, the hospitals have reported nearly 700 backlog deaths and these deaths have been reported every day for the last 23 days”, Nautiyal, who has been tracking the state’s statistics, said.Dushyant Mainali said the high court also directed the state government to file a detailed affidavit listing its preparedness for the third Covid wave, especially the recommendations of the committee constituted by the state government in this context.The court also directed the state government and Centre to collaborate to ensure the state gets a regular supply of life-saving Covid drugs and medicines for the treatment of black fungus. The court also directed the senior health officials present at the virtual hearing to apprise the court about how and where black fungus patients are being treated and the efforts to spread awareness about the treatment facilities.The court also directed the secretary health to issue a circular on pricing of Covid treatment in private hospitals, items wise, process-wise and treatment-wise.The court also directed the state government to conduct an audit of ventilators and ICUs available in government hospitals, how many of them are being used, how many are non-functional and other such details regarding their status. The court said village level isolation centres should be created in anticipation of the third wave. The court also asked the government to create an online portal that could be used by people from outside the state who may want to help the state in its battle against the epidemic. The court also directed the state government to form a district-level task force under the social welfare department to track people who don’t have an identity card such as beggars, sadhus, labourers and get them vaccinated.Expressing displeasure over secretary tourism Dilip Jawalkar not having visited Char Dham, the court directed him to apprise the court what the preparations and measures the government had taken for the phase-wise opening of Char Dham yatra and upcoming tourist season by June 16.The high court also directed the state government to submit a report on Covid tests conducted in the state in May in view of some reports that point to discrepancies in testing. On 28 April, the court ordered the government to increase daily Covid testing in Dehradun, Haldwani and Haridwar to at least 30,000 to 50,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/conduct-covid-death-audit-orders-uttarakhand-high-court-report-by-june-21-101623263349947.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Door-to-door vax in Mumbai: Covid is the enemy, conduct surgical strikes, HC tells Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the Centre to adopt a surgical strike approach and not wait for the needy, elderly and specially-abled persons to go to vaccination centres. The court also questioned the Centre as to why it had refused permission to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to conduct door-to-door vaccination when other states and certain civic authorities across the country had already started the same without waiting for a go-ahead from the Centre. In light of this, the HC has asked the Centre to inform it on Friday whether it will be considering a national policy on the issue of door-to-door vaccination. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari seeking directions to the Centre, the state and BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination to those aged over 75, the specially-abled and bed-ridden, was informed by Kapadia that the state of Kerala had already started the same for bedridden persons and had issued a notification in this regard. She further submitted that states like Orissa, Bihar and Jammu and Kashmir had also undertaken such initiatives. After hearing the submissions, the court referred to the near-to-door decision of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) which was submitted by the Centre on Tuesday and sought to know from additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Centre why it was not going to the needy persons. “You will admit Covid-19 is a bigger enemy and we have to strike it down. The enemy is residing in certain persons who cannot come out. Your approach should be like a surgical strike,” observed the bench. “When a surgical strike is required, you are assembling force near borders and not entering into enemy territory. You are waiting. You are making decisions for public benefit, but it seems they are delayed. Decisions if taken earlier, could have saved many lives,” noted the court. The bench then referred to the submissions by the petitioner and sought clarity on how the states had gone ahead with door-to-door vaccination if there was no policy by the Central government and said, “You should understand sentiments of families of such persons and current black fungus spread. Door-to-door is the best possibility for vaccination such persons.” When Singh submitted that the Centre would come out with new standard operating procedures and a national policy the bench said, “Let us know your (Centre) response during next hearing. We trust the government and it can come up with a sound policy. Considering the situation in the country, if it (door-to-door) has happened in south, extreme north and east then why not west?” While referring to the submission by senior counsel Anil Sakhare for the BMC that it was willing to have door-to-door vaccination provided the Centre approved it the bench said, “You cannot clip wings of authorities. BMC has failed to live up to our expectations.” It also sought to know whether the BMC or the state government helped a senior politician to receive the vaccination at his home in Mumbai at the beginning of the vaccination programme. HC has now posted the PIL for further hearing on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doortodoor-vax-in-mumbai-covid-is-the-enemy-conduct-surgical-strikes-hc-tells-centre-101623263229211.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BJP alleges corruption in cleaning of nullahs; mayor rubbishes claims||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Bandra member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Ashish Shelar on Wednesday alleged corruption by the Shiv Sena-ruled Mumbai civic body, in the desilting and cleaning of nullahs in Mumbai. Shelar also alleged that the corruption in the desilting of nullahs, stormwater, open drains and culverts has led to waterlogging in the city leading to hardship to the common citizens of Mumbai.Shelar, who paid visits to the spots of the nullah cleaning works in the city two days ago, said that the claims of nullah cleaning to the tune of 104% to 107% have been proved false in the first rains in the city. “The city has 170 large nullahs with the length of 253km and small size nullahs admeasuring 439km, micros nullahs measuring 621km and open drains of 1,992km. The desilting, cleaning as well as maintenance, costs Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) around ₹200 crore a year, through contracts awarded. The corruption through nexus between bureaucrats, contractors and ruling parties has badly affected the strengthening of the infrastructure,” he said.Shelar said that the parameters to measure the nullah cleaning by the civic body is faulty per se. “The corporation has been claiming to have completed 107% cleaning of these nullahs. Our question is how did you measure it when there is no set formula to ascertain or prove it. The BMC does not keep any records of weighing of the silt, CCTV footage to prove its dumping. The tenders given to the contractors are for the cleaning of nullahs thrice a year, but nobody has seen the cleaning except done before the monsoon,” he said.Shelar said that though they have been talking about it for five years, the issue of corruption for the last 30 years will be raised at an appropriate time. “It is true that we were partners with Sena in BMC, but being junior partners, we had no say in decision making. We will discuss the corruption in the civic body for the last three decades with proof at appropriate times. Ultimately, it’s the money paid towards taxes by 60,000 households in the city that goes down in drains because of corruption,” he said.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said that they do not take the allegations seriously. “Some people use social media for ranting and keep talking senseless. There is no need to take them seriously. We are committed to serving the people of Mumbai and are ready to take up the valid suggestions openly,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bjp-alleges-corruption-in-cleaning-of-nullahs-mayor-rubbishes-claims-101623263109178.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s only Doppler radar is defunct again||The city’s only Doppler weather radar (DWR), operated by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), remained defunct on Wednesday when the southwest monsoon made an early entry into Mumbai.DWR at Navy Nagar in Colaba is the only radar in the city but has been out of commission since May 16, a day before Cyclone Tauktae hit.Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, director general of meteorology at IMD said DWR was defunct owing to technical glitches. “We are working on it and the radar is likely to be operational within a week or two,” said Mohapatra.This is not the first time that the instrument, used for tracking clouds and forecasting weather patterns, has been inoperable at a crucial moment. On December 4, 2017, when Cyclone Ockhi brushed past the Mumbai coast, the radar was not functional. The radar was also not functional on multiple days during extreme rainfall events in June and July 2019, and also on June 1, 2020, about 48 hours before Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Maharashtra.KS Hosalikar, head, surface instrument division, Climate Research & Services, IMD, directed queries to Jayanta Sarkar, director, IMD, Mumbai. However, despite repeated attempts, Sarkar did not respond to calls or messages.“Wednesday’s event is a perfect example of why we need a radar. From satellite pictures, we could see clouds forming near Mumbai. In the absence of a Doppler radar, it becomes difficult for forecasters to track clouds, the direction in which they are moving and the estimated rainfall over different areas,” said Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD student at the University of Reading, England.Not having a functional DWR can be dangerous in terms of disseminating correct information to the public and civic officials for preparing for any disaster-like event or flooding, said Deoras, who maintained that Wednesday’s heavy rainfall was the last of the pre-monsoon activity.DWR was installed in the city in 2010 for weather surveillance up to 400kms from the coastline and was first recommended soon after the floods of July 26, 2005. While satellite pictures can be used in lieu of radar images, experts said, the latter is limited in value. “If an x-ray is a satellite image, then a doppler radar is a CT scan. The quality and range of data it gives are simply much better, allowing us to make better predictions about where the cyclone’s spiral banks will be located, where they will bring more rain,” said Deoras.MS Reddy, former vice-chairperson of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), said there was a pressing need for setting up at least two more DWRs. “Mumbai as a city is becoming increasingly prone to urban flooding, especially because of recurring high-intensity short-duration rainfall events. DWRs give us a lead time of three to six hours and tell us the temporal and spatial variation of rainfall for different areas. This means we can know where exactly it is going to rain and how intense the rain will be. These are crucial details, especially for warning commuters or moving people from low-lying areas,” said Reddy.Reddy said with recurring low-pressure and cyclones in the Arabian Sea, Mumbai is now vulnerable to floods even before the onset of the monsoon season.“Maharashtra has to be prepared for such events. The disaster management plan is not updated enough, not enough mock drills are conducted and not having a DWR is going to be detrimental in managing a disaster,” Reddy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-only-doppler-radar-is-defunct-again-101623263049177.html
09-06-2021||Other||Rains wreak havoc: 35,000 citizens from 103 villages shifted in Raigad||Owing to the heavy rainfall and thunderstorm in the Raigad district, the administration has shifted 35,000 villagers from around 103 landslide-prone villages to safety. Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhari said, “The weather department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in the district of Raigad till June 11 and since Raigad district has many landslide-prone villages, we are shifting the villagers to safety.” Choudhari said the earlier red alert from India Meteorological Department (IMD) for Raigad was for June 11 and 12, and the heavy rains on June 9 were unexpected, which affected many people in the district. “The people were recently shifted during Cyclone Tauktae and now again are being shifted due to heavy rains. Hence, many are unwilling to cooperate,” Choudhari added. While some are relocating to their relative’s houses, others are being shifted by the administration. Of the 103 villages, nine come under the Class 1 category, which is highly prone to the landslide. “Villages in Mhasla, Khalapur, Karjat and Mahad taluka come under Class 1. I have spoken to the sub-divisional officers of those talukas, who have confirmed that all the precautionary actions are being taken,” Choudhari said. Around 11 villages come under Class 2, and 83 villages come under the Class 3 category. From the Class 3 category, residents living on the edge are being relocated. A total of around 4,000 population comprises of Class 1 and 2 categories. The maximum landslide-prone villages are in Mahad taluka which has 49 such villages in all three categories, followed by 15 in Poladpur, 13 in Roha, six in Mhasla, five in Mangaon, three each in Panvel, Khalapur, Karjat and Sudhagad, two in Shrivardhan and one in Tala.Till now Raigad administration has evacuated1139 citizens from landslide-prone urban areas along with 111 citizens and 15 families (excluding 111 citizens) from dilapidated buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rains-wreak-havoc-35-000-citizens-from-103-villages-shifted-in-raigad-101623262929739.html
09-06-2021||Other||Thane sees landslides, wall collapses and tree falls||Heavy rains lashed Thane, Kalyan, Dombivli and Navi Mumbai since early morning on Wednesday, leading to flooding and landslides in several areas. A few vehicles were damaged in a tree fall in Thane. However, no one was injured or killed.Thane city witnessed 117.61mm of rainfall with waterlogging in more than 45 locations across the city till evening. Low-lying areas in Kalwa and Kopri saw most incidents of waterlogging. Two incidents of landslides occurred in Mumbra. There were around six incidents of tree fall and three wall collapses.The railway tracks at Thane railway station were submerged in water. Following repeated warnings, there were fewer people on the streets. This helped avoid casualties.“At Indira Niwas Society in Naupada, three trees fell on its eight-foot boundary wall. At Savarkar Nagar, a wall collapsed on four vehicles parked alongside a wall,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, Regional Disaster Management Cell, Thane.According to the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s disaster management cell, the city received 137.64mm rainfall. With 169.70mm, Koparkhairane received the highest rainfall. “Five trees fell and a house in Airoli was damaged. However, no one suffered injuries,” said an official.Major waterlogging was reported from three places in the city – a residential area at Sector 6, Vashi and two different places near the Mathadi Chowk at APMC Market.“Two electric short circuits were also reported from Sector 17 and Sector 19, Vashi, though they were not major.A wall collapse of a residential building in Chinchpada area, Kalyan (E) was reported. Kalyan tehsil said that around 100mm of rainfall was reported till 12 noon. Waterlogging was witnessed in several areas of Kalyan and Dombivli and water also entered hundreds of houses.Residents of around 30 extremely dangerous buildings in Kalyan-Dombivli were evacuated while the work of evacuating residents from eight more buildings was under progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-sees-landslides-wall-collapses-and-tree-falls-101623262869120.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rains: Trains, buses out of gear; BMC, Railways play blame game||Public transport was thrown out of the gear as several parts of Mumbai were flooded due to the season’s first heavy rainfall on Wednesday. The central and harbour lines of the Central Railway (CR) were suspended for over 11 hours. As seen every year, the Railway and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) pointed fingers at each other as commuters suffered. Meanwhile, the bus service of Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) bus services was disrupted as many routes were diverted due to flooding. While suburban train service is the biggest mass transport system in Mumbai, the BEST buses are the second most preferred.Local train services on the CR’s mainline were suspended between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Thane railway stations after waterlogging was reported on railway tracks in Sion and Kurla. Train services were suspended from 9.55 am and resumed at 8.03 pm on Wednesday.Water on the railway tracks at Sion railway station was four inches. Railway Protection Force (RPF) and commercial railway staff were deployed to help passengers that were stranded inside local trains, said CR officials.“I was stuck with my father for three hours near Sion. My father and I were travelling to CSMT for his regular check up. While on the way back the local train stopped ahead of Sion. We were helped by the RPF staff and then waited for another two hours for water to recede and reached home by a bus.” said Ganesh Singh, a Kurla resident.People also took to social media website Twitter asking for help. “@Central_Railway @grpmumbai @rpfcr My sister is travelling from Kalyan to CSMT She is stuck in train before Kurla station since last 4 hours .. She is 5 months pregnant. Please help.” tweeted @mr_kiran143.Train services on the harbour railway were suspended between CSMT and Vashi railway stations. Due to waterlogging near Chunabhatti railway station train services were suspended from 10.20am.“As per Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, there is heavy rainfall in the Mumbai area. Waterlogging has occurred at several places in the city. These are Hindmata junction, Kings Circle, BPT Colony, Sardar Hotel junction, Shanmukhanand hall area, Nair hospital area, Wadala library junction, Mankhurd Railway station, under Sion bridge and a few other locations. All these locations are near the Central Railway mainline and harbour line tracks. Due to heavy rains, the water level is continuously rising on track.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.Train services were operational on the Trans-harbour railway line, between Vashi and Panvel railway stations and on Western Railway were operating normally but with caution speed for local trains. Local train services between Wadala and Vashi did not resume till 11.10pm. Train services resumed between CSMT- Vadala and CSMT-Goregaon railway stations. Railway officials pointed out that the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation(BMC) water pumps were not functional in many locations near the railway tracks.“BMC pumps were not operational and were not working in many places on the railway tracks. This is one of the reasons why the water did not recede.” said a senior railway official who did not want to be named.However, mayor Kishori Pednekar told the reporters, “On collection of water on railway tracks, we have been continuously coordinating with railway authorities but considering the officers do not have enough knowledge of local areas at times the issue is not handled properly. We are in continuous touch with the railway authorities to ensure that culverts are cleaned.”CR responding to Pednekar tweeted, “Railways is committed to work in close coordination with MCGM for running the train services for our esteemed passengers. And hence, we refute the statement given by honourable Mayor, Mumbai.”Civic chief IS Chahal said that owing to heavy rainfall in Sion and Chunabhatti, rainwater came on the railway tracks and as such railway traffic was affected at Sion, Chunabhatti and also Dahisar.12 outstation train services operating from the city were rescheduled.The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) diverted its bus routes on nearly 78 routes in the city due to waterlogging on arterial roads. Around 50 BEST buses broke down after water entered the buses on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-trains-buses-out-of-gear-bmc-railways-play-blame-game-101623262809181.html
09-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM tells Anganwadi workers to brace for third wave of Covid-19||In a video conference with Anganwadi workers on Wednesday, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa asked them to brace up for the third wave of Covid-19."Experts have opined that the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic will affect children the most. In this background, your role in protecting the children is very important," he said.Yediyurappa instructed the Anganwadi workers to identify and prioritise children with malnutrition and those suffering from ill-health. He added that they should remain in constant touch with the health department and must strive to combat the pandemic."Anganwadi workers are providing notable service in combating Covid-19 at the grass-root level. They are playing a significant role in protecting the health of pregnant women, lactating mothers, and infants," the CM opined.Appreciating their efforts in the fight against Covid, be it distributing nutritional food kits to beneficiaries at home, conducting house-to-house visits to create awareness, or working in the Gram Panchayat level Taskforce, the CM said, "About 85.91 per cent of Anganwadi workers have been inoculated, and have been considered as front line warriors".Regarding the compensation for families of those Anganwadi workers who died due to Covid, he said, "During the first wave about 20 workers and assistants had lost their lives, and the compensation amount of ₹30 lakhs each had been distributed to their families".Karnataka government has also announced a relief package for various categories affected due to the second wave of the pandemic. "Anganwadi workers will also get ₹2000 each," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-tells-anganwadi-workers-to-brace-for-third-wave-of-covid19-101623261745061.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Two persons arrested for dowry death||Greater Noida: Two persons were arrested on Wednesday in connection with a dowry death case, in which a 23-year-old woman was allegedly strangled to death by her in-laws more than six weeks ago in Greater Noida’s Surajpur. The suspects -- Anande, 50, and Manjesh, 25 -- are father-in-law and brother-in-law of the victim, Dolly. They were arrested from Hardoi district of Uttar Pradesh by a team of the Gautam Budh Nagar police, officials said. The victim was also a native of Hardoi, the officials said, adding that her husband, Brajesh, was already arrested on April 28, four days after the incident took place.In the police complaint, Dolly’s mother Rajwati, 45, had said that her daughter had an arranged marriage with Brajesh in 2015. “Soon after the marriage, her in-laws started demanding dowry. They harassed my daughter for not meeting the dowry demands,” she said. Rajwati said that the two families had held a meeting and sorted out the issue one year ago. “Dolly and her in-laws then shifted to Surajpur in Greater Noida. However, on April 24, Dolly’s neighbour called us over phone and said that she was dead,” she said.  According to police, the victim’s kin visited Greater Noida and found that Dolly was allegedly strangled to death by her in-laws. Rajwati then filed a case against Dolly’s husband Brajesh, father-in-law Anande, brother-in-law Manjesh and mother-in-law Suman. All the suspects had fled the spot after the incident, said police.Ajay Kumar, station house officer, Surajpur police station, said that a case was registered against the suspects under sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 304-B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code, and under sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act.“On Wednesday, the police team arrested Anande and Manjesh from their Hardoi residence. However, the victim’s mother-in-law is still on the run,” he said.The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-persons-arrested-for-dowry-death-101623262269102.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Noida: 16 booked after police raid pool party at farmhouse||Noida: At least 16 people, including three Uzbek nationals, were booked by the Noida police after a raid at a pool party in a farmhouse in Noida’s Sector 135 on Tuesday night. Under the unlock guidelines in place in the district, swimming pools in the district are to remain shut.According to the police, they had received a call to the police helpline about the party, after which a team from the Expressway police station was dispatched.“It was a birthday-turned-pool party for which the 16 youngsters had gathered at the farmhouse in an unauthorised manner. They are all residents of Jaffarabad in Delhi,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.“No hard liquor or narcotics were found at the spot. But the gathering in itself was in direct violation of Section 144 of the CrPC that has been implemented in the district. Also, swimming pools are not permitted to operate,” said Singh.All the attendees were booked at the Expressway police station for allegedly breaking Covid-9 guidelines (sections 188, 269, 270 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act). Police also booked the Delhi-based owner of the farmhouse who has been traced but is yet to be apprehended, said officials.Police suspect that the owner was renting out the place, though at the time of being apprehended, the detainees allegedly claimed that he was known to them. Efforts are on to nab him and take appropriate action, said the police.The Noida police had also raided an unauthorised birthday party in Sector 93 under Phase 2 jurisdiction on May 30, in which 15 people had been booked after a neighbour complained of loud music. Police had also recovered alcohol and narcotics from the spot.Police said that the three women from Uzbekistan had allegedly been staying in at the farmhouse for the last three days while the men, who were not known to them, had come Tuesday. The police are verifying if the estate was being leased out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-16-booked-after-police-raid-pool-party-at-farmhouse-101623262209665.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Noida sizzles at 42 degrees Celsius; air quality ‘very poor’||Noida: The city sizzled as the mercury crossed 42 degrees Celsius (°C) on Wednesday, with the weather department expecting the day time temperatures to be warm and dry for two days.According to the India Meteorological department (IMD), Noida saw a maximum and minimum temperature of 42.3°C and 33.2°C on Wednesday, a rise of over two and three °C, respectively, from the previous day. At the Safdarjung observatory, considered the average for the National Capital Region, the minimum and maximum temperature was recorded at 42.2°C and 31.4°C, respectively.According to weather analysts, the city is likely to remain dry and warm, with only marginal change in temperature for two days. However, some respite seems to be on the horizon with light rain showers likely on Sunday.“The maximum and minimum temperature will remain almost the same for two days, however, there could be a variation in temperature by a decimal point or two. The major change or respite from excessive heat is expected between June 12 and 13, when either the western or eastern Uttar Pradesh, including parts of the NCR, will see light rain showers or comparative cooler easterly winds,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Meanwhile, the air quality in Noida deteriorated with Wednesday seeing ‘very poor’ air quality.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on a scale of 0 to 500, on Wednesday was 347 against 223 a day earlier. Greater Noida’s AQI was against 338 against 245 a day earlier. The AQI of Ghaziabad was 300 against 228 a day earlier.The AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-sizzles-at-42-degrees-celsius-air-quality-very-poor-101623262209082.html
09-06-2021||Other||Work on Jewar airport may begin in August||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL), the special purpose vehicle for developing the Noida International Airport at Jewar, will take physical possession of 1,334 hectares of land for the first phase of the project by the end of this month, officials said on Wednesday. The construction work is likely to start at the site by the first week of August, they said.On Wednesday, Meerut divisional commissioner Surendra Singh inspected the site, along with top officials of the Gautam Budh Nagar administration and the Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL), which is the nodal agency for the project. The commissioner also interacted with affected farmers from villages such as Nagla Ganeshi, Nagla Chhitar, Rohi, Parohi and Ranhera to understand if they have any issues. According to the officials, the commissioner’s visit was aimed at expediting the work of rehabilitation and resettlement of farmers so that the work at the site can be started at earliest. The administration will provide JCB machines to farmers to get their houses demolished after vacating them, they said.“We have already shifted 600 out of 3,003 farmers, whose houses are being demolished to make way for the work to start at the ground. To further fast-track the shifting of farmers from their houses to the new world-class airport township in Jewar, we will provide them JCB machines to get their houses demolished. We will transfer physical possession of 1,334 hectares of land to YIAPL by June-end, paving way for work to begin at the site,” said the Meerut divisional commissioner, who also reviewed the progress of the project at Sector Omega 1 office of NIAL.The work on the ambitious project was supposed to start by June this year, but it got delayed due to the Covid-19 restrictions, the officials said, adding that the Prime Minister’s Office will soon announce the date for the foundation stone laying ceremony of the project. “Once the work begins at the site, the project will become operational in 36 months as per the timelines. We have developed a world-class township that has all facilities such as school, dispensary, temple, park, water supply, drainage network and other civic services to make sure farmers, who gave their land, stay happy,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of NIAL.Swiss firm Zurich International AG, the concessionaire of the airport project, will invest ₹30,000 crore and has got 40 years to fully develop this project. Under PPP model, the concessionaire will design, build, finance, operate and transfer the project to the government after 40 years. The airport will start with two runways by 2024 under phase I and it will have five runways on completion to full capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-on-jewar-airport-may-begin-in-august-101623262149786.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Black fungus medicine to be made available locally in Ghaziabad and GB Nagar||Ghaziabad: Injections of Amphotericin B, the drug used to treat Mucormycosis or black fungus, will be made available locally in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar within next one-two days, officials have said. Even so, the approval to obtain the drug for treatment will still vest with the divisional commissioner at Meerut.According to a government order issued May 19, state officials had directed that treatment of such patients will be taken up at government medical colleges and the drug, considering its limited availability, will be available at the divisional headquarters at Meerut, Varanasi, Agra and Lucknow. Both Ghaziabad and GB Nagar districts fall under the Meerut division. As of now, kin of patients from both districts have to travel to Meerut to source the injections.“Considering the fact that families have to travel daily to Meerut and back for the drug, the injections will be made available in the districts itself, while the approval will be provided online from Meerut. The arrangement is being brought about for the convenience of patients and their kin. We are not changing the approval conditions in the government order but only distribution,” said Surendra Singh, divisional commissioner (Meerut). The division at Meerut is also catering to patients from the nearby Saharanpur division.“The injections will be available in Ghaziabad and GB Nagar within a day or two and the stock will be released from the office of the respective chief medical officer (CMO). Earlier, a similar situation had prevailed when the Tocilizumab drug (used in Covid-19 treatment) was available only at Ghaziabad, Lucknow and Varanasi. Even though patients required it lesser quantities, as compared to Amphotericin B, their families still had to travel to these three cities to get the injections,” Singh said.Patients from as many as 20 districts in the state are under treatment at the Meerut Medical College, he added, while 30-40 patients from Delhi. He said that 94 of the 159 patients of black fungus (in the Meerut division) were taking up treatment at Meerut Medical College while Ghaziabad and GB Nagar each have 20 patients getting treatment in their respective districts. “The families of patients being treated for black fungus suffer each day as they have to travel often to Meerut to get the injections, and many returned empty handed due to the short supply. I also went several times but did not get any injections. So, I travelled to other cities and went as far as up to Chandigarh to get it,” said Rakesh Kumar, brother of a patient from Ghaziabad. “We also spent a lot of money on my brother’s treatment. We finally got him admitted to hospital in Delhi where he is due for a surgery and most importantly, he is also getting the injections. It will be a major relief if the drug is available locally,” Kumar added. Officials of the health department at Meerut said that they only had 150 vials of Amphotericin B available on Wednesday.“The stock is limited, and we are issuing doses in proportion to the districts. We had about 160 active cases of black fungus as of Wednesday, and these include 116 patients in Meerut and 20 each in Ghaziabad and GB Nagar, besides other districts. So far, there have been 41 casualties due to black fungus in the Meerut division,” said an officer from the health department at Meerut, who wished not to be identified. Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar, said that the Amphotericin B being made available locally about a week ago.“But this arrangement was for a short span. Families have to travel to Meerut to get injections from Meerut. Now, we have been told that we will get stock of 60 vials on Thursday, and we will send our vehicle to get the stock from Meerut,” he added.Ghaziabad CMO Dr NK Gupta also said that similar number of vials will be made available to the district. “We will send our vehicle to get the stock, which we will store at our vaccine store and distribute it proportionately to patients. The communication about local availability was received from Meerut on Wednesday evening,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/black-fungus-medicine-to-be-made-available-locally-in-ghaziabad-and-gb-nagar-101623262089084.html
09-06-2021||Other||Now, B Tech computer science in Hindi at AKTU colleges||B Tech students of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University and associated colleges will now be able to study computer science in Hindi. This is in accordance with the New Education Policy that promotes teaching in the mother tongue so students may grasp what is being taught in class with ease.In its academic council meeting held on Wednesday, the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University gave its consent to teach computer science in Hindi, said vice chancellor Vinay Kumar Pathak who chaired the meeting.The vice chancellor said a few private colleges have also shown interest to run the computer science course at the undergraduate level in Hindi. Their request was in sync with the New Education Policy and hence it was approved by the academic council.“The B Tech course in Hindi will help students coming from remote, rural backgrounds. Now it will be easy for them to study the subject in their own language,” said Vineet Kansal, pro vice-chancellor, AKTU and director, Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET), Lucknow.But there are a few hurdles to overcome as B Tech computer science books in Hindi are presently unavailable in the market. “It was felt that once a few colleges start B Tech in Hindi, then publishers will be encouraged to start printing books in Hindi or translate English books,” he said.An official said, “The New Education Policy approved by the Centre last year puts a focus on students’ mother tongue as the medium of instruction while emphasising that no language should be imposed on anyone. The policy document states that since children learn and grasp non-trivial concepts more quickly in the language spoken at home, which is often the mother tongue, it should preferably be the medium of instruction.”M Tech courses in Artificial Intelligence and Data ScienceSimultaneously, approval was given to start M Tech courses in artificial intelligence and data science from the upcoming session at the Institute of Engineering and Technology (IET), Lucknow.Further in accordance with the New Education Policy, approval was given to IET to conduct two non-credit research-based courses in BTech. These courses include Practices and Ethical Issues in Research and Research Methodology.Besides, to comply with the New Education Policy, the university has given permission to conduct courses in five new branches in emerging areas. These include artificial intelligence and data science, artificial intelligence and machine learning, computer science and design, automation and robotics and MBA innovation entrepreneurship and venture development.Along with this, it was also decided to provide the benefit of the Homi Bhabha Teaching Fellowship of the University to the PhD students of the Centre for Advanced Studies of the University.In the meeting, approval was given for reimbursement of expenses incurred in internship to the students of the University’s Center for Advanced Studies, said Asheesh Misra, university spokesman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-b-tech-computer-science-in-hindi-at-aktu-colleges-101623261969769.html
09-06-2021||Other||Illicit liquor trade - UPCC holds statewide protests, seeks state excise minister’s resignation||Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) on Wednesday held statewide dharnas, demanding strict action against those responsible for illicit liquor trade in the state, besides resignation of UP’s excise minister Shriram Naresh Agnihotri on moral ground. A press release issued by Congress said that the demonstrations were held in different district headquarters of the state while UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu led a ‘dharna’ at the party headquarters in the state capital. Addressing the party men, Lallu said illegal liquor syndicate had got strength during the tenure of BJP government. He said, “About 500 people have lost their lives by consuming spurious liquor and the Aligarh incident that claimed about 106 lives indicates BJP government’s failure in checking the illicit trade. We also demand state’s excise minister’s resignation on moral ground.” Senior Congress leader and party’s Chhattisgarh in-charge PL Punia said that illicit liquor trade was estimated to be about ₹10,000 crore in the state and Yogi government had failed to check it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illicit-liquor-trade-upcc-holds-statewide-protests-seeks-state-excise-minister-s-resignation-101623261789043.html
09-06-2021||Other||Ensure regular power supply to villages from sunset to sunrise: Energy minister||Taking serious note of complaints about irregular supply of electricity in rural areas, energy minister Shrikant Sharma on Monday directed the UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) chairman to ensure uninterrupted supply of power to villages from the sunset to the sunrise. Reviewing a meeting at Shakti Bhawan here, Sharma said that he had been getting a lot of complaints about power cuts in rural areas and asked officials to give top priority to resolving consumers’ grievances. “Use social media to inform people about emergency load shedding at the local level,” he suggested. Stressing the need for supply of electricity as per the roster, the minister asked the UPPCL chairman to see it that villages got uninterrupted power between sunset and sunrise unless there was an emergency requiring load shedding. He said farmers must get adequate electricity for irrigation purpose and asked officials to make arrangements of swiftly changing transformers that got damaged or burnt. He told officials to ensure that consumers got correct bills and fix accountability of the staff. The minister said business and other activities were getting normal with relaxations in the partial Corona curfew and this, he added, would further increase demand for power, posing a challenge to the staff to maintain supply. He said power employees had earned good reputation by working as Corona warriors and providing smooth supply of power to people during the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ensure-regular-power-supply-to-villages-from-sunset-to-sunrise-energy-minister-101623261548986.html
09-06-2021||Lucknow||Jitin Prasada in BJP: Saffron party plays Brahmin card||Former union minister Jitin Prasada, 47, joining the BJP on Wednesday may help the saffron party address the issue of perceived neglect of Brahmins ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls.Jitin Prasada, who in all probability is likely to be fielded in 2022 UP polls and may be among the star campaigners for the party, was among top opposition leaders who had through his ‘Brahmin Chetna Parishad’ been taking up the issue of neglect of Brahmins under the current BJP regime in UP. “Because, he was among those leaders considered close to the Congress top leadership, Jitin Prasada becomes even more important in UP,” a BJP leader explained.In 2017 UP polls too, BJP had got key Brahmin leaders from opposition space to defect - first getting Brajesh Pathak of the BSP, barely a day after he had coordinated a well-attended Mayawati rally and followed it up by getting former Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee chief Rita Bahuguna Joshi, daughter of former UP chief minister Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna, to join the party. Both Pathak and Joshi had joined in 2016 within a few months of each other, both were given tickets to contest from coveted Lucknow assembly seats that are known as BJP bastions, and both made ministers in the Yogi Adityanath government after party’s landslide win. Joshi is now a BJP MP from Prayagraj.“Despite its shift to OBC-Dalits, the numerically dominant political vote banks, the BJP has nearer to the assembly polls treated ‘imported’ Brahmin leaders with respect and I think Jitin Prasada, who had twice been defeated in the Narendra Modi wave of 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls but continues to have a following in several regions, would be rewarded well,” a BJP leader said.Within the BJP, the joining of yet another key Brahmin leader from the opposition ranks is being seen as party leadership’s desire to look beyond the current crop of home-grown Brahmin leadership, largely limited to the likes of deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, a former mayor and presently an MLC, and Rajya Sabha MP and union minister Shiv Pratap Shukla.Barely a year after being persuaded by the Congress top leadership to reject BJP’s overtures in 2019, Jitin Prasada had set up a ‘Brahmin Chetna Parishad’ in 2020 to rally the Brahmins and had been targeting the Yogi Adityanath government for neglecting the community.In fact, till May, he had been tweeting Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s attack on the BJP. However, it was his June 5 tweet, wishing UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on his birthday that had first made many in the Congress uneasy.“Efforts were made to contact him since, but he remained inaccessible until today when it all came out in the open after his meeting Union home minister Amit Shah and railway minister Piyush Goel, followed by his meeting with BJP chief JP Nadda and his formal induction into the BJP,” a Congress leader said while admitting Prasada’s exit was a loss to the Congress.“He was feeling neglected. Though the Congress top leadership wanted him, a personal secretary of a powerful leader in the party was busy promoting Jitin Prasada’s adversary in the Lakhimpur Kheri region,” a Congress leader said.Prasada had won the 2009 Lok Sabha polls from Dharauhra Lok Sabha constituency, where he was credited of having carried out several development tasks – helping in the setting up of an ONGC hospital in Sisaiya, a charity eye hospital in Mohammadi and several projects to address the issue of annual floods that played havoc in the region.Some Congress leaders admitted that Prasada, whose father and political stalwart Jitendra Prasada had also served as political advisor to former Prime Ministers Rajiv Gandhi and PV Narasimha Rao, was politically of great value to the BJP in UP where the ruling party had appointed Brahmins in key bureaucratic positions to address the issue of perceived neglect of community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prasada-in-bjp-saffron-party-plays-brahmin-card-101623261369003.html
09-06-2021||Other||Those going abroad may take second Covishield dose before 84 days||LUCKNOW: Beneficiaries who have got their first dose of Covishield vaccine and have to go out of the country can take the second dose earlier than the scheduled time, but not before 28 days from the first dose. The second dose of Covishield is given after a gap of 84 days. In an order by Aparna U, MD, National Health Mission an SoP (standard operating procedure) by the union government has been forwarded to all the district magistrates and chief medical officers in which it has been mentioned that people going abroad for study, job or Tokyo Olympics may be given the second dose of Covishield. But the authorities will ensure the urgency is justified on the basis of the documents. “The vaccination may be done with passport as ID proof but it should not be insisted upon. A separate certificate may later be issued, linking passport and the ID proof shown during vaccination,” said the circular. The facility is available for those who need to go abroad till August 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/those-going-abroad-may-take-second-covishield-dose-before-84-days-101623261069642.html
09-06-2021||Lucknow||Southwest monsoon to cause rain in east UP in next 48 hours: IMD||Rain accompanied with thunderstorm and strong winds caused by progression of southwest monsoon are expected over several districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh in the next 48 hours, the IMD (Indian Meteorological Department ) said in its forecast on Wednesday.“Districts like Ballia, Ghazipur, Jaunpur, Mau, Varanasi, Deoria, Sonbhadra, Basti and Sultanpur can experience mild to heavy showers. Strong winds with speed up to 40Kmph are also expected,” read the forecast.Director of state MeT department JP Gupta said the weather changes will be caused by a low pressure area created over eastern UP due to progression of monsoon.“The low lying area will attract moisture-laden winds from high pressure zone leading to rain and thunderstorms. The forecast also indicates that the arrival of monsoon in Uttar Pradesh will be advanced by around four days,” he added.Considering the forecast, the state MeT department has alerted administrations of the concerned east UP districts. The district administration have been asked to intimate locals about the change in weather and take measure to minimise losses.While change in weather was observed in many districts of east UP even on Wednesday other parts of the state remained hot and humid. In the state capital, mercury crossed the 40 degree mark. Temperatures above 44 degree were also recorded in Prayagraj and Bundelkhand region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/southwest-monsoon-to-cause-rain-in-east-up-in-next-48-hours-imd-101623261068924.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||PRTC awaits ₹31-crore dues for providing free bus travel to women||Two months into the implementation of the Punjab government’s decision to provide free bus travel to women, Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) is yet to receive arrears amounting to ₹31 crore for this period. In the state budget presented in the assembly on March 8, the government had set aside ₹170 crore to fund the scheme to ensure timely payments to the corporation. The scope of the scheme was expanded to cover government college students as well. The government had also announced that the payments will be made every fortnight after the implementation on April 1. “The corporation has already sent bills amounting to ₹15.9 bills for April and ₹6 crore for the first fortnight of May. They are yet to be cleared,” said a PRTC official, who did not wish to be named. “The government has promised to sanction funds every fortnight, but it is strange that the bills have not been cleared for two months. Instead of making late payments to the corporation, the government should give the required amount in advance,” said Nirmal Singh Dhaliwal, convener, PRTC-linked trade unions.PRTC managing director Bhupinderpal Singh said the corporation has received a communication from the government that the payments will be made in the coming days. “We are ensuring that the bills are forwarded on time, so that there is no delay in receiving funds,” he said.Amid lockdown restrictions and free travel incentives, PRTC’s income has almost halved. It had been recording daily revenue of around ₹1.35 crore in March, which has gone down to ₹75-80 lakh since April 1.The corporation runs buses from nine depots in Ludhiana, Kapurthala, Chandigarh, Patiala, Bathinda, Budhlada, Barnala, Faridkot and Sangrur. “It spends around ₹65 lakh a day on diesel for running its full fleet of 1,073 buses, while the daily salary and pension bill is pegged at ₹55 lakh,” said Dhaliwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prtc-awaits-31-crore-dues-for-providing-free-bus-travel-to-women-101623261009593.html
09-06-2021||Other||Drunk driving suspected behind Kanpur smash-up||KANPUR: The driver of the bus that collided with a tempo head on, resulting in the death of 17 people in Sachendi on Tuesday night was drunk. Worse, the RTO team had found out during routine check that both driver and conductor were drunk but allowed them to proceed without taking any action, said police sources. ADG Kanpur zone Bhanu Bhaskar said a team had been formed to investigate this issue specifically. The team comprises police personnel and people from RTO office. “This is a serious issue; it will be looked into, and accountability will be fixed,” he said. The bus that was running on high speed had hit the tempo, which was on the wrong side near Kisan Nagar. The passengers of bus also told the police that after leaving Unnao, it made a stop in Fazalgunj where they consumed liquor, said police officers. The vehicle was stopped for routine check in Armapore but the RTO team turned a blind eye to two things. First, both the driver and conductor were drunk. Second, the bus was a 52-seater but carried 115 passengers. A passenger Girish Kumar of Unnao who had a narrow escape in the accident said the bus missed accident three times between Unnao and Armapore. The driver drove recklessly and everyone in the bus was panicky, he said. Meanwhile, the family members of the accident victims and villagers clashed with the police and chased away the officials, seeking adequate compensation. The Prime Minister and chief minister have separately announced ₹2 lakh each for the victim’s family and ₹50,000 to those injured. The families demanded a compensation of ₹25 lakh each. Transport dept also begins probe  An inquiry committee comprising two senior transport department officials on Wednesday visited the site of the accident near Kanpur on Tuesday night, adds a report from Lucknow. “The two-member committee that we formed has rushed to the accident site to probe the causes of the accident and collect evidence of traffic rule violations, if any,” transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu said. “We expect its finding in a day or two and will then take action accordingly,” he added. Regional transport officer (RTO), Kanpur, Sanjay Singh said that wrong side driving by the highly overloaded tempo on the highway appeared to be the main cause of the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drunk-driving-suspected-behind-kanpur-smashup-101623260889025.html
09-06-2021||Other||After 40 days, Lucknow springs back to life||LUCKNOW: The city of nawabs sprang back to life on Wednesday as the district administration lifted the 40-day-long Covid curfew. To note, the curbs were eased as the number of Covid cases came down below 600. Barring multiplexes, single screen cinema halls and gyms, all other establishments, including offices, metro services, hangout joints, markets, parks and roads are now open. “Since the number of Covid cases has gone down, , we have decided to lift Covid curfew in the district. However, the night curfew—from 7pm to7am- would continue till further orders,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, Lucknow. The DM said that they were yet to issue guidelines for other establishments still lying closed. But he said restaurants could make home deliveries as dining was still unsafe. The city parks were the first to witness the crowd. “We have resumed our morning walk after a long time. It’s actually like coming back to life as we saw each other after so long,” said Ajay Kapoor, Morning Walker’s Association Lohia Park, Chowk, Lucknow. However, the association that was also the city’s oldest morning walkers’ association, ensured that the social distancing was followed. Religious places were the next to draw people. Though the administration has allowed only five people at a time in the temple in order to avoid gatherings, queues were seen at the temples. “Nothing is as good as starting a day by visiting a temple, especially in corona times,” said Prabhat Mishra, a local who hails from Qaiserbagh. Some temples are yet to allow the entry of devotees. “We will allow entry of devotees in the next couple of days. Only five people at a time would be allowed,” said Chandrakant, priest at Hanuman Setu. Markets including Aminabad Gwynne road, La touché road , Mohan Market, Pratap Market, Garbarjhala, Nazirabad, State Bank crossing, Mumtaz market, Moulviganj, Naka Hindola, Amber Market, Mahanagar, Hazratganj, Patrakarpuram, Bhootnath, Indira Nagar, Alambagh, Chowk, Chaupatian, Balaganj, Nakkhas, Yahiyaganj and Rakabganj, reopened on the day. “Around 1.25 lakh traders of the state capital opened their shops. During corona curfew, the traders lost more than ₹10,000 crore business We now expect markets to recover the losses,” said Sandeep Bansal, president of Akhil Bhartiya Undyog Vyapar Mandal. Bansal said the markets witnessed a good crowd, but serious buyers were few. “We expect things to get better by the weekend,” he added. Of all, Hazratganj market remained the most crowded. Other than the serious buyers, some youths were also spotted hanging out in groups. “The lockdown was no less than a confinement. We are meeting friends after so many days,” said Abhinav Mehrotra, a college-goer. Metro services too resumed on the entire North-South corridor (CCS Airport to Munshipulia), after a gap of one month. On the first day of the resumption around 4500 passengers took a ride from 7 am to 5 pm, as metro services are available till 7pm on Wednesday. The ridership was expected to cross the 6000 mark, said MD Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation Kumar Keshav. “I can say 6000 passengers is a very good number on the first day. Lucknow Metro has always received overwhelming response from passengers,” he said, adding that special attention is being paid towards extensive cleaning and sanitization of Metro stations and trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-40-days-lucknow-springs-back-to-life-101623260588920.html
09-06-2021||Pune||SPPU improves rank in the QS World University rankings||The Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) ranking, in the annual QS World University rankings, has risen in 2021. Last year, SPPU was ranked in 650 to 700 band. This year, SPPU is ranked in the 591 to 600 ranking band. QS World University Rankings is one of the most significant and prestigious university rankings in the world. SPPU has regularly been featured in the ranking. This year’s list was declared on Wednesday by the organisation, in which 1,300 educational institutions and universities were ranked. A total of 35 educational institutes from India have featured in the rankings. “In 2020 we were at 800 and in the last two years we have risen 200 ranks. This has certainly given SPPU worldwide prestige and now our claim as an institution of eminence has become stronger,” said SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar. “Every year we eagerly wait for these and this time, we have risen above last year’s ranking. Still there is a lot of potential for SPPU to go ahead and as per the new education policy, we are going to make various changes. If we look at the multidisciplinary research criteria, then certainly our ranking will increase. We are happy with these rankings and all credit goes to the entire staff of SPPU,” said vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-improves-rank-in-the-qs-world-university-rankings-101623257528617.html
09-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand announces 38-hour lockdown starting June 12. All you need to know||The Jharkhand government on Wednesday announced a complete lockdown between 5pm on June 12 and 6am on June 14. The state government has allowed some relaxation, allowing essential services to operate.Jharkhand has extended the lockdown-like restrictions first imposed on April 22 for the fifth time in a row. Chief minister Hemant Soren arrived at the decision after a meeting with the state disaster management authority.“We have been successful in breaking the chain of the coronavirus. So, we will continue the effort. In this regard, we have decided for a complete lockdown from 4pm on Saturday till 6am on Monday,” state minister Banna Gupta said.The state had recently allowed shops to open till 4pm in 15 districts. In nine districts - Bokaro, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur, Deoghar, Ranchi, Hazaribag, Garhwa, Gumla and Ramgarh - barring shops dealing in garments, footwear, jewellery and cosmetics all other shops were allowed to reopen.Jharkhand has recorded 342,179 cases of Covid-19 so far with 603 fresh cases on Wednesday. The death toll reached 5,073 with 603 fresh fatalities. Here is a list of restrictions that have been imposed in the 38-hour lockdown starting Saturday:1. All shops including those selling fruits, vegetables, grocery and sweets will remain closed during the lockdown.2. Pharmacies and medical shops will be allowed to operate.3. LPG services and petrol pumps will also be allowed to operate.4. Unnecessary movement of people will not be allowed.5. People travelling to hospitals, nursing homes, vaccination and Covid-19 tests will be allowed to travel.(With inputs from Sanjoy Dey)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-announces-38-hour-lockdown-starting-june-12-all-you-need-to-know-101623255916250.html
09-06-2021||Lucknow||UP tech education dept to clear status on exams in 2-3 days||The Uttar Pradesh Technical Education department will issue elaborate guidelines on status of examinations in 2-3 days, an official said after several engineering, pharma and management students took to social media expressing their grievance over suspense on the issue.“It will be decided very shortly. Most likely we will be able to come up with our action plan within 2-3 days. The online exam for the final year B Tech students maybe held anytime in second week of July while for first year students, it will be in August,” said Alok Kumar, technical education secretary.He said, “The question paper will be objective type only.” In the meantime, the department staff are working on to develop a software so that it may work in all types of devices and processors and students are able to write examination from their home with ease.After the state higher education department has announced their plan on how to promote the undergraduate and postgraduate students to next level, engineering students are upset as technical education department has not taken a call on the issue as yet.The state government on Tuesday decided to promote all first year and first semester students of the undergraduate and postgraduate levels enrolled in universities and degree colleges across Uttar Pradesh without exams in view of the Covid-19 situation.Now, the first year students of B Tech, B Pharma are also demanding that they too should be promoted to next class without exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-tech-education-dept-to-clear-status-on-exams-in-2-3-days-101623256030150.html
09-06-2021||Other||Sero survey begins in Varanasi||A sero survey ordered by the state government in all 75 districts began in Varanasi on Wednesday.The survey will go on for three days, said officials while adding, “The teams will visit 31 rural and urban areas and collect 24 samples from each area and 36 samples each from 18 slums in urban area.”These samples will be sent to the microbiology department of Lucknow’s King George Medical University (KGMU) for testing to ascertain how much antibody against Corona has developed in people.District surveillance officer Dr SS Kanaujia said that on first day, teams collected 408 samples.A total of 1,392 samples will be collected during the three-day survey in the district.Out of which, 744 samples will be taken from general population and 648 from slums.Dr Kanaujia said that a total of 16 teams had been formed in the district for the survey.Each team consists of a doctor, a lab technician, an ANM and Asha worker.Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said the health department teams divided the identified area with general population into four parts and took samples. Samples of six people were taken from each area. These include two women and two men (adults) and two boys and girls in the age group of 5 to 17 years. Similarly, samples of 9 people were taken from slum areas. These include three women and three men and three boys and girls in the age group of five years to 17 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sero-survey-begins-in-varanasi-101623255908395.html
09-06-2021||Lucknow||UP Covid cases cross 17-lakh mark||Uttar Pradesh Covid case tally crossed 17-lakh mark on Wednesday with 709 fresh cases reporting from different districts.All districts reported below 40 new cases, including zero fresh cases in three districts. Uttar Pradesh had reported its first covid case on March 2, 2020, in Agra.Total cases reached 17,00,476 while the death toll in the state reached 21,516.As many as 89 more people died from coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh during the day.“The overall positivity rate in Uttar Pradesh is 3.26% while the 24-hour positivity rate is 0.3%,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health in a press conference on Wednesday.A total 5,21,98,161 covid samples have been tested in the state till now. “Of the total 12,959 active cases under treatment 7,499 are in home isolation,” said Prasad.“Lucknow has till now reported 2,37,956 Covid cases of which 2,34,916 have recovered and the recovery rate is 98.72%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, association of international doctors.“Cases have gone down but infection still remains hence people particularly those going out should ensure they follow Covid protocol. You may be healthy, but you may bring home infection for your family members if you are not cautious. Hence follow Covid protocol strictly,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-covid-cases-cross-17-lakh-mark-101623255733683.html
09-06-2021||Other||Mau admn confiscates Mukhtar Ansari’s property worth ₹24 crore||The Mau administration on Wednesday confiscated property worth ₹24 crore in Mauja Khalsa in Dakshina Tola area of the district, registered in the name of two sons of mafia-turned politician Mukhtar Ansari, police said.Police claimed Ansari acquired this property allegedly from income generated through illegal means.A police officer said Ansari purchased the plot in the name of his mother Rabia Begum in 2015.After the death of his mother, as per the will, the property was recorded in the name of Ansari’s sons Abbas and Umar Ansari.ADG Varanasi zone Brajbhushan said two constructed buildings had come up on the plot.The property is along the four-lane road and its estimated value is ₹24 crore, as per the police.ADG said Mau district magistrate on June 7 had passed an order to confiscate the property. As many as 49 cases are registered against Ansari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mau-admn-confiscates-mukhtar-ansari-s-property-worth-rs-24-crore-101623255608441.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||INS Tarkash arrives in Mumbai carrying 785 oxygen cylinders from Kuwait||As part of Air and Sea Bridge Operation between India and Kuwait, fifth Indian Navy Ship (INS) Tarkash arrived on Tuesday night at Mumbai port carrying 785 oxygen cylinders during the third phase of its medical supply.This emergency medical supply operation between India and Kuwait is under the third phase and will continue to meet the urgent oxygen requirements in India, the Embassy of Kuwait said in a statement.So far 425 MT of liquid medical oxygen and 3,800 oxygen cylinders has arrived at the Indian ports during the first and second phase of medical supply.Meanwhile, External Affairs Minister (EAM) S Jaishankar is on a 3-day visit to Kuwait from June 9 to 11, his first trip to the country as the Union Minister to discuss the ways of strengthening cooperation between both the countries in various fields.According to the MEA release, the External Affairs Minister is taking this trip at the invitation of Sheikh Ahmed Nasser Al-Mohammad Al-Sabah, Foreign Minister and Minister of State for Cabinet Affairs, Kuwait.India reported 92,596 new Covid-19 cases registered in the last 24 hours. The Covid case tally in India has now reached 2,90,89,069, informed the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ins-tarkash-arrives-in-mumbai-carrying-785-oxygen-cylinders-from-kuwait-101623254691475.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Local Akali workers oppose Sukhbir aide’s foray into Rajpura seat||The attempts of Charanjit Singh Brar, political adviser to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal, to make a foray into the Rajpura assembly segment has hit a hurdle as local party workers have opposed it, labelling him an outsider.After the SAD snapped ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over farm bills, Brar has increased his political activities in Rajpura, where no prominent Akali leader is present as the seat was with the BJP.Brar, who was the party in-charge of the Patiala district, has dotted the entire Rajpura constituency with hoardings and banners projecting himself as the SAD candidate for the forthcoming elections.In retaliation, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) member Surjit Singh Garhi and SAD youth leader Ranjit Singh Rana have put up hoardings, opposing Brar, maintaining that “an outsider won’t be accepted, and the candidate should be from Rajpura”. Even SAD vice-president Prem Singh Chandumjara is eyeing the seat, and is reported to have opposed Brar’s candidature. “I am here to build the party at the grassroots level, as earlier this seat was with the BJP. This duty has been assigned to me,” said Brar, while denying that there is any rebellion against him.Meanwhile, fissures within the party and possible division of votes between it and the old ally BJP has strengthened the chances of Congress to make a hat-trick in the constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/local-akali-workers-oppose-sukhbir-aide-s-foray-into-rajpura-seat-101623255008869.html
09-06-2021||Other||Drugs seized in raid at Dumka remand home||Prohibited items including drugs were recovered following police raid at a remand home in Dumka district on Wednesday, officials said, adding that probe was ordered in this connection.The raid was conducted following reports of suspicious activities for last several days at the Hilja village-based remand home, Dumka superintendent of police Ambar Lakra said.A team under subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Maheswar Mahto and deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Vijay Kumar conducted the raid. Apart from drugs, the team also seized mobile phones and a knife. Police, however, did not mention the kind of drugs and the quantity recovered.“A probe has been ordered to find out as to how these objectionable times were taken inside the remand home. Those found guilty will be booked,” said the SP.According to officials sources, the raid was conducted on directive of state headquarters after a video of a Ranchi remand home went viral on Tuesday, in which juveniles were allegedly drinking alcohol and partying.The Dumka remand home is the lone remand home for juveniles in Santhal Pargana division. It has been under scanner since April 22 this year after an inmate was found hanging. Investigation in the case is under progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drugs-seized-in-raid-at-dumka-remand-home-101623254948260.html
09-06-2021||Ranchi||Horrifying details of rape and torture emerge from Jharkhand NGO's shelter home||An investigation into the alleged sexual abuse of two minor girls at a children’s home run by a state government-approved NGO, Mother Teresa Welfare Trust (MTWT), has found that more girl inmates were being abused there for over four years, Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police Dr M Tamil Vanan has said.Police said they have expanded the scope of the investigation in the light of the findings.Police on Tuesday said an FIR under Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code was lodged on the complaint of the two rescued girls against Harpal Singh Thapar, director of the home, his wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey, who is also the chairperson of East Singhbhum district child welfare committee (CWC), warden Geeta Singh, her son Aditya Singh, and another staff member Tony Singh. All the accused are on the run.Vanan said that the two girls, aged 16 and 17, have given video-recorded statements in which they have reiterated all the charges made in their statements to the special Pocso court. The girls said they were physically and mentally tortured at the home and made to give in to the sexual demands of the perpetrators.Police said the details are horrifying. “Investigation has found that Thapar allegedly had physical relations with the 19-year-old daughter of the warden, and he, along with others, used to sexually abuse and exploit the woman on a regular basis,” said Dr Vanan.The girls said they were in the children’s home for the past four years, but no action was taken despite repeated complaints to Tirkey, the CWC chief, the SSP said, adding that the police were looking at the involvement of some other suspects as well.The death of a three-and-a-half-year-old girl due to brain tumour in the home 25 days ago is also being investigated. “This little girl was the daughter of a rape survivor who didn’t want to keep her. Thapar and his wife didn’t inform the police or the district administration about the death, which they were legally bound to,” SSP Dr Vanan stated in his report to the Jamshedpur deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar.Police are still awaiting medical reports of the two rescued girls to determine if they were raped.MTWT is a Jharkhand government-approved NGO. It has no links with Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity.The shelter home located at Shamsher Tower in Kharangajhar had 23 girls in two rooms on the second floor, while the warden lived in another room on the same floor with her daughter and son. Thapar and Tirkey lived on the first floor, while 22 boys lived on the ground floor.Police has recommended to the district collector to act against MTWT and CWC chief Tirkey, and to rehabilitate the girls. Twenty-one girls are being taken care of by the Seraikela-Kharsawan CWC for the time being.Vanan said police were also probing allegations that Thapar and Tirkey used to transfer government funds and private donations into their personal accounts. “The girls told us that they took away the money donated to them by many people for clothing, food and other items. All the five named accused will be arrested soon as different teams are raiding possible hideouts,” he said.In a similar case at a shelter home in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, which came to the fore in three years ago, 12 people, including main accused Brajesh Thakur, were sentenced to life imprisonment in February 2020 by a Delhi court, which heard the case following orders from the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jharkhand-shelter-home-sexual-abuse-case-gets-bigger-accused-still-at-large-101623254828894.html
09-06-2021||Pune||CET registration begins, students worried about delayed admissions||The long wait for students to apply for the Maharashtra state common entrance test (CET) examination came to an end as the process of registration of various forthcoming CET exams have begun for the academic year 2021-22, according to the state higher and technical education minister’s announcement on Tuesday. While students can register for the CET exam until July 7, this year the CET exams are getting delayed due to the lockdown in the state for last two months and for the safety of students. The state CET cell issued a circular in which the cell has invited eligible Class 12 students for online registration, and then confirm the application form along with the required fee till July 7. After July 8, students can register with a late fee of ₹500. This year the entire admission process for various courses which are done through MHT CET like engineering, technology, pharmacy, professional and others are going to be delayed. Students are worried about the same and have started preparations for the exam. “I want to take admission for pharmacy course, but as our class 10 exams got canceled and further admission process was not clear we were confused. Now as the state government declared about the CET exams registration, I have started the preparations and hope that this exam is conducted soon and then our admission and finally the academic year also begins. There is already a much delay due to the statewide lockdown and it creates fear amongst students like me,” said Chaitnya Khaladkar, a class 10 student. Amar Ekad, a student and president of cops students’ organization, Maharashtra said, “It is a good decision that state government has passed all the class 10 students this year but are there so many seats available for various courses to give admissions. Already students are frustrated and in depression due to Covid and thinking about their future career goals. CET exams should be conducted, and admissions will be done, but the seat availability and criteria to allot the seats should be kept transparent.” Chintamani Joshi, state CET cell commissioner said, “As the registration process has now started our preparations for conducting the exams are going on. The dates for examinations will finalise soon and it will be declared on our website.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cet-registration-begins-students-worried-about-delayed-admissions-101623254828299.html
09-06-2021||Pune||Man booked in third property fraud case||A man from Wakad was booked by Pimpri-Chinchwad police in a third case of fraudulent land deal worth ₹81.5 lakh on a piece of land in Kasarsai village. The accused and his brother are facing two other cases of similar nature. The accused man was identified as Amit Devram Kalate, a resident of Wakad chowk area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dr Pankaj Popatrao Yeole (48) who lives in Rahatani, Pune. In his complaint, he alleged that on two different occasions, the accused offered to sell a total of 26R land. On September 18, 2020 Kalate promised 11R land in Kasarsai village from a total of 68 R land in the village. On November 18, 2020, the accused offered to sell 16.5 R land from the piece of land. The doctor paid a total of ₹81,50,000 for the land deal which Kalate to deliver on. Kalate and his brother are facing three other cases including two of criminal land deals. In the two earlier cases, in which they have been remanded to police custody, the victims were housewives above the age of 45. The third case against them is of lending money without permit to do so. A case under Sections 403 (dishonest misappropriation of property), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-booked-in-third-property-fraud-case-101623254769632.html
09-06-2021||Other||No breakthrough yet in Madrassa blast||PatnaPolice are yet to make any headway in their probe into the blast at a madrassa in Bihar’s Banka district on Tuesday which killed a cleric and blew a a portion of the building. The autopsy report of the deceased cleric mentions splinter injuries and bone fracture at five places, the police said, adding that a team Bihar’s anti-terrorism squad (ATS) inspected the spot on Wednesday.Police said an FIR (first information report) has been lodged against unidentified persons in the case and focus of the investigation was the cleric, who is said to have been a frequent visitor to Uttar Pradesh. “The four persons who were taking the injured Imam in a car to some place for treatment could give us clues about the what exactly happened. The last location of Imam’s mobile phone was in village Faga under Baunsi Bamdhuakurawa police station after which it was switched off,” said an police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-breakthrough-yet-in-madrassa-blast-101623254768991.html
09-06-2021||Other||Constable shoots dead son of murder accused he was assigned to protect in Lucknow’s Vibhuti Khand, arrested||A constable of the Sitapur police deployed for the security of a murder accused allegedly shot dead the latter’s son with a country made pistol after “an argument” near the gate of a residential locality behind Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) hospital under the Vibhuti Khand police station limits in Lucknow on Wednesday, police officials said. Police have arrested the constable and initiated investigation.Confirming the development, Lucknow commissioner of police (CP) DK Thakur said, “One Ashish Mishra, 34, who is a 2016-batch constable, was deployed for the security of murder accused Dhruv Singh. Dhruv Singh is currently undergoing treatment for renal disease at RML hospital. Mishra shot dead Dhruv SIngh’s son Praveen Singh allegedly after an argument at around 5pm behind the hospital.”The bullet injured Praveen’s skull and he died on the spot. The body was recovered by a Vibhuti Khand police station team and sent for post-mortem examination.The constable informed senior police officials that he killed Praveen Singh in self-defence.“Ashish Mishra has stated that Praveen Singh used to harass him and he feared that Praveen Singh would harm him. So, he snatched Praveen’s country made pistol after an argument and (claimed that he) shot him dead in an act of self-defence. However, his claim is hard to believe,” said the commissioner.“It appears that he is mentally unstable. This aspect will also be looked into in our investigation,” Thakur said.The local police have intimated the Sitapur police about the incident and requested more information about the conduct of the accused constable as part of their investigation. Mishra, according to police officials, belongs to Budaun district of western UP and he was inducted as a constable in the 2016 batch. He has been posted in the Sitapur police lines since joining service.“A team of the local police station, along with senior officials, are looking into the matter. Further action in the case will be taken on the basis of the findings of their investigation,” said the commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/constable-shoots-dead-son-of-murder-accused-he-was-assigned-to-protect-in-lucknow-s-vibhuti-khand-arrested-101623254768255.html
09-06-2021||Other||Bihar to start pension for Covid widows this month||PATNAThe Bihar government has expedited the process for providing relief to Covid-19 widows by helping them avail the Lakshmibai pension scheme run by the state government and social welfare department plans to start disbursing monthly pension as early as June, officials said. This is in addition to ₹4 lakh ex gratia to the kin of those who succumbed to Covid-19.The Lakshmi Bai Pension Yojana in Bihar covers all widows 18-40 years of age whose annual family income is below ₹60,000 and who are not covered by the Indira Gandhi widow pension scheme of the Central government, which caters to women between 40-59 years of age from BPL families. The social welfare department has so far identified 2,026 such widows who lost their husbands to the coronavirus and are from the below poverty line (BPL) families. Around 70% of them have also provided their bank account details for transfer of monthly pension of ₹400.“We will soon start disbursing the amount in their bank accounts so that they start getting their pension from June itself. We already have the account numbers of 70% of the applicants and efforts are on to complete the process for the rest also. Out team is working to enrol every needy person so that they get the support,” said Rajkumar, director, department of social welfare.Patna has the highest number of Covid widows (176), followed by West Champaran (153), Begusarai (110), Muzaffarpur and Rohtas (95 each). The figures are still being compiled.The officer said that effort was to facilitate the pension payment at the earliest in view of hardships faced by families. “In many cases, the officials visited the homes of the affected families to get the documentation process completed and bank accounts opened, if they were not already,” Rajkumar said.The Bihar government has also announced to provide ₹4 lakh as compensation to family of those who succumbed to Covid-19 in the state. According to the health department bulletin, the Covid death toll has reached 5,458 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-to-start-pension-for-covid-widows-this-month-101623254708859.html
09-06-2021||Pune||Pune RTO resumes operations||The Pune regional transport office (RTO) is getting back to work, as the daily quota of learning and permanent licence tests has increased. Due to the statewide lockdown in the last two months, driving tests and other related works had stopped. “We are starting our routine learning and permanent licence test at half capacity. For learning licence there will be 350 tests daily, and for permanent licence it will be 180 tests per day. I appeal to citizens to follow the Covid safety protocols when they come to the RTO,” said Ajit Shinde, Pune regional transport officer. As per information given by the Pune RTO on Wednesday, due to Covid cases rising and lockdown, routine work at the RTO stopped from March 14. Now that the municipal commissioner has issued unlock orders tests for learners’ and permanent driving licences will begin. Also, vehicle registration will start with the RTO operating with 50 per cent of its staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rto-resumes-operations-101623254708269.html
09-06-2021||Patna||Bihar’s Covid-19 death toll shoots up 73% after recount ordered by high court||Bihar revised its Covid-19 death toll on Wednesday to 9,375, an increase of 72.8% over the 5,424 deaths attributed to the infection in the state so far. The change in Bihar’s fatalities was carried out after a 20-day exercise to audit Covid deaths on directions of the Patna high court which spotted discrepancies in figures cited by different agencies in one district.The increase reflects deaths reported at private hospitals, in transit to health facilities, under home isolation and those dying of post-Covid complications after they tested negative, Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional secretary, health, said at a media briefing on Wednesday.“These deaths had remained unaccounted earlier,” he added.Four of the state’s 38 districts showed a rise of at least 200% in the toll.Kaimur, which reported 44 deaths by June 7, revised it to 146 on June 8, a rise of 231.81%. In Saharsa, the toll went up from 40 to 130, up by 225%. In Begusarai, the toll jumped by 228.98%, from 138 deaths by June 7 to 454 on June 8. In East Champaran, the toll surged by 222.13%, from 131 on June 7 to 422 on June 8.Munger was the only district that didn’t report an increase. No district recorded a decline in the toll.Purnia recorded an increase of 144% rise, Lakhisarai 135%, Muzaffarpur 107%, Madhubani 105% and Gopalganj 100%.State capital Patna reported an overall increase of 87.5%, up from 1,223 on June 7 to 2,293 as reported on June 8.“We verified Covid deaths from different sources, including private hospitals, crematoriums and the Patna Municipal Corporation for those dying under home isolation,” said Chandrashekhar Singh, Patna’s district magistrate.Amrit said the government would take stern disciplinary action against officials for laxity in reporting Covid deaths.“We want to be absolutely transparent about Covid-19 deaths so that the bereaved family gets government relief,” he added.Bihar gives ₹4 lakh compensation to the next of kin of the deceased in case of Covid-19 death. It had released ex gratia funds for 3,737 Covid-19 victims so far.Asked how many affected families had so far received the compensation amount, Amrit said, “We will check and revert.”The exercise was initiated after a bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar of the Patna high court ordered the state government to verify the death toll from all sources before placing it in the court. Bihar chief secretary and Patna divisional commissioner had in two affidavits, given a different death figure for Buxar district.“We are aghast at the manner in which the affidavits are being filed. The bench deserves better treatment from the government. We don’t appreciate this,” the bench said. The judges, who were hearing public interest litigation after reports about corpses floating in the Ganga, said the chief secretary’s affidavit said only six deaths had taken place in Buxar since March 1, 2021, while the divisional commissioner’s affidavit referred to 789 cremations at just one cremation ghat, Muktidham Charitarban, Buxar, between May 5 and May 14.The state health department, on the basis of the HC directive, had sent detailed instructions to district magistrates, civil surgeons, and heads of medical colleges and hospitals to verify from all sources the deaths at their respective institutions or at the district level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/73-jump-in-covid-toll-as-bihar-recounts-its-dead-101623254654678.html
09-06-2021||Pune||SSC assessment will include Class 9 marks: Maharashtra state board||Pune: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Wednesday issued a detailed evaluation plan for assessing students of Secondary School Certificate (SSC) Class 10. The board, directed by the state government, has instructed principals to consider marks of Class 9 and Class 10 in order to give Class 10 assessment for students. Ashok Bhosale, secretary of MSBSHSE, said that out of 100 marks, 50 marks will be evaluated based on the performance of Class 9. “Principals are instructed to calculate the marks of class 9 out of 100. And then convert and consider the marks out of 50 to include in the class 10 evaluation,” said Bhosale. “Schools who have not conducted the first semester exam and tests throughout the academic session due to the pandemic should evaluate students based on one or more activities, including class test, projects and homework. Subject-wise students should be evaluated for 30 marks,” said Bhosale. In its notification, the state board has issued instructions that repeater students who have appeared for one or more subjects will get marks out of 80 from their previous scores conducted earlier by the board. “Students who have enrolled through Form 17 should be evaluated out of 80 based on tests arranged by their centres,” the board officials said. The board has also directed schools to form a seven-member committee at every school headed by the principal. “These exam committees will ensure that exam results are unbiased and fair. They will strictly adhere to the notification given by the board,” said Bhosale. The teachers and principal will be given a detailed training on the same on June 10. “Schools are expected to work on the evaluation till June 20. Till June 24, the exam committee of respective schools will assess the evaluation. And final evaluation by the schools is to be submitted to the board by June 30. The divisional board and state board will then take necessary action from July 3,” said Bhosale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ssc-assessment-will-include-class-9-marks-maharashtra-state-board-101623254654145.html
09-06-2021||Lucknow||Covid still around, Yogi warns against laxity as UP lifts curbs||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said although cases of coronavirus had come down, any laxity could again lead to a surge.Insisting that the people need to act more responsibly, the CM said, “Masks, sanitisation and social distancing should be part of daily routine and the people should not move out of home unnecessarily.”He asked the police to remain active and ensure that there are no gatherings.Yogi gave these directives while reviewing the Covid-19 situation at a meeting with Team-9 here.He said the Covid-19 situation was under control in all the districts.The positivity rate has come down to 0.3% while the recovery rate is 98% in the state. As many as 12,959 corona patients were undergoing treatment while 709 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in the state in past 24 hours, he said.He said 1706 patients have been discharged from hospitals following their recovery during this period. In all 16.66 lakh persons have recovered, he said.He said the state government’s trace, test and treat policy was showing satisfactory results.He said 2,89,809 tests, including 1,29,000 via RTPCR, were conducted in UP in past 24 hours.Claiming that the UP had conducted highest number of Covid-19 tests, the CM said 5.21 crore samples had been tested so far.On vaccination, the CM said 4,30,617 persons got vaccine in the past 24 hours. He said these included 2,29,994 persons in the 18–45-year age group.He said so far 2,11,50258 doses of vaccine had been given.He also directed officials to ensure protection against waterborne diseases like encephalitis that may spread during the monsoon.He claimed that demand and supply of oxygen has come back to normal following improvement in the Covid-19 situation.However, preparations were being made to meet any eventuality in future, he said.He said complaints received from patients and their family members about private hospitals should be looked into and action be taken against those found guilty.He also directed for review of system of setting up of containment zones.The chief minister said that efforts were being made to provide assistance to economically weaker sections. He said free ration was being provided to 15 crore persons.Modernise dairy plants: CMChief minister Yogi Adityanath said an action plan should be worked out for modernization of dairy plants. He said new milk producer’s societies should be encouraged and efforts should be made to make them profitable.He said procurement of wheat continued amid Covid-19 pandemic and wheat procured this year was double of last year’s procurement. He said payment was being made to farmers in 72 hours. He said technology should be used to alert people against lightening well in time.He said chief minister’s helpline 1076 should be used to communicate with village pradhans and ward members. He said those who have lost a family member to Covid-19 should be contacted and a report about their needs and expectations be made available to chief minister’s office on daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-still-around-yogi-warns-against-laxity-as-up-lifts-curbs-101623254653601.html
09-06-2021||Other||Bihar plans to use its vast network of schools to boost vaccination||PATNAThe Bihar government has decided to use its huge network of schools to take vaccination to length and breath of the state.In the first phase, all teachers of government and private schools and their families will be vaccinated in a mission mode at camps to be organised in the identified schools. Bihar has over 75,000 government schools covering all the panchayats and even larger number of private and affiliated schools.In the second phase, all the family members of the students of the schools will be covered. The in-charge medical officer and block education officer will coordinate prepare the list and select the schools for vaccine camps. A massive awareness campaign will also be launched to remove misgivings about vaccination and create awareness about the need of getting vaccinated.The move is significant in view of reports of widespread vaccine hesitancy, either due to certain misgivings or rumours. The Tika Express, a mobile van that carries healthcare staff to far-flung areas offering free vaccination at site to residents, has also met with resistance in several parts of the state.The government aims to cover the entire population above 18 years of age in a phased manner and hence it now wants to go via the trusted school route.Additional chief secretary (education) Sanjay Kumar and additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit have jointly written to all the district magistrates, civil surgeons and district education officers regarding this along with a format to be filled by teachers, parents and family members of the students. Jeevika and Asha volunteers will also be involved in the exercise.The letter says that the officers concerned will prepare an action plan to organised vaccination camps in at least 3-4 schools every day to cover all the persons of the area within three months. Each camp should be able to vaccinate at least 300 beneficiaries in a day and for this awareness campaigns should be launched to make people aware about the need of getting vaccinated to be safe and also keep others safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-plans-to-use-its-vast-network-of-schools-to-boost-vaccination-101623254648295.html
09-06-2021||Other||Gadkari assures UP of all help in fight against Covid, black fungus||Union minister for road transport, highways and shipping Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday assured all help to Uttar Pradesh in terms of ventilators and injections to tackle Covid-19 and black fungus cases.Since Covid-19 had presented new challenges, everyone had to be ready for the third wave, he said at the foundation stone laying ceremony of an oxygen generation plant in Naini here. The Union minister participated in the ceremony virtually.Speaking about injections for treating black fungus, he said, “If there is any more need in UP, that too will be filled by the injection bank set up in Maharashtra by us.”“As and when UP would want, we can supply 50,000 injections, that too at a cheap price,” he added. “We have already lost many lives due to shortage of oxygen and, in such a situation, we have to be self-sufficient in the matter of oxygen supply,” he said. The plant is being constructed by Prabhavya Industries at Saraswati Hi-tech City. The minister said it was a good sign that a road constructing company was setting up an oxygen plant where 1500 cylinders of oxygen per day will be ready by September.The Union minister said Covid-19 vaccination will also have to be accelerated.“In such a situation, make big malls, parking lots as vaccination centres where people can get vaccinated by sitting in their cars,” he suggested.He added that preparations should be made in advance for ventilators as well. The ventilators that come from abroad cost ₹12 to 15 lakh each.“We have prepared ventilators in collaboration with MSME (unit) of Visakhapatnam at a cost of ₹1.48 lakh each and if UP needs it, we will make them available also,” he assured.Uttar deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said that there had been some problems regarding oxygen and ventilators during the second wave, but the government was now well prepared for the predicted third wave and the people of the state will not face inconvenience.Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister for MSMEs Sidharth Nath Singh said the Yogi government was setting up oxygen plants in the entire state and health facilities were rapidly being expanded and upgraded.Umesh Jaiswal, owner of Prabhavya Industries, announced that he would provide free oxygen from this plant to the Kaushambi district hospital, too.He has already announced free lifetime supply of oxygen to three government hospitals of Prayagraj district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gadkari-assures-up-of-all-help-in-fight-against-covid-black-fungus-101623253208101.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Damdami Taksal against out-of-court settlement of Op Bluestar damages suit||Taking exception to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC)’s plan of initiating talks with the Centre for out-of-court settlement of ₹1,000-crore damages suit related to the Operation Bluestar, Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal on Wednesday “warned” the apex gurdwara body against taking any such “risk”.In a statement, Taksal chief Harnam Singh Khalsa said: “Taksal is the main organisation that fought the Indian army during military action on Sri Darbar Sahib (Golden Temple) in June 1984. No settlement can be achieved without the consent of Sikh Sangat (community) and Taksal.”The army had carried out the operation to flush out militants, led by the then Taksal head Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, out of the Golden Temple complex. The operation led to extensive damages, following which the SGPC filed a suit in the Delhi high court in 1985.On the court’s order, both sides — the Union government and SGPC — are ready to resolve the dispute out of court since 2019. However, no meeting has been held between the two sides so far. The SGPC discussed the issue in its last executive committee meeting held on June 2 and resolved to start the process of talks after the Operation Bluestar anniversary on June 6. “The SGPC is looking for possibilities of out-of-court settlement… However, we would like to warn it against taking the risk of doing so as the issue is not of money but is related to the dignity and sentiments of the Sikh community,” said Khalsa.The purpose of filing this suit by the then SGPC president Gurcharan Singh Tohra was to make the Centre admit that the military action was totally unjustified, he said, asking the incumbent, Bibi Jagir Kaur, to “stay alert on this issue and address it considering the sentiments of the Sikhs”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/damdami-taksal-against-out-of-court-settlement-of-op-bluestar-damages-suit-101623252968746.html
09-06-2021||Other||UP government transfers ₹230 crore relief to 2.3 million labourers||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday transferred online a sum of ₹ 230 crore to 23 lakh (2.3 million) labourers/workers as sustenance allowance under a relief scheme amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The Uttar Pradesh Bhawan Evam Anya Sannirman Karmkar Kalyan Board is running the scheme.In a virtual ceremony, chief minister Yogi Adityanath made a token distribution of ₹1000 each to five labourers/workers to set the process in motion. He also launched a portal for registration of labourers of unorganised sector.He said labourers/workers stood with the state government with full commitment in fight against Covid-19.The state government was working in the interest of farmers, labourers/workers and the youths, he added. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced a “Garib Kalyan” package for labourers/workers during the first wave of Covid-19. He also said the state government constituted Uttar Pradesh Kamgar Aur Shramik (Sevayojan Evam Rozgar) Ayog for them during the same period. The commission was working to protect the interests of labourers and provide them jobs. He said state government’s model of working in the interest of labourers was lauded at every level.Yogi said the schemes for the welfare of labourers/workers included the one for organising the marriages of their daughters. He said senior ministers and officers welcomed the guests at such weddings. Social security cover of ₹2 lakh was also being given to labourers/workers of the organized and unorganized sectors, he said. More than 40 lakh (four million) migrant labourers had returned to the state during the first wave of Covid-19 in 2020, he added.The chief minister said the labourers/workers were the most affected during the lockdown and the state government worked in their interest.Interacting virtually with labourers/workers of different districts, he asked them about the benefits they were getting from government schemes. Labour and employment minister Swami Prasad Maurya briefed the chief minister about various works being done by the state government for labourers/workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-government-transfers-230-crore-relief-to-2-3-million-labourers-101623252908156.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Forest cover in Punjab’s Moga to go up to 5% in 5 years||Niti Aayog has selected Moga in Punjab among two districts in the country for a pilot project under which 100 crore tree saplings will be planted across 112 aspirational districts as part of a World Economic Forum initiative. The other district is Ranchi in Jharkhand. Around 90 lakh saplings will be planted in Moga, which will increase its tree cover from 1.25% to 5% in five years, said forest range officer Gurpal Singh Dhillon, who is the nodal officer for the project. The district administration has already identified sites to plant 4 lakh saplings.At present, only 2,575 hectare of Moga’s 2.23 lakh hectare geographical area is under forest cover. With the afforestation project, it is expected to increase to 11, 575 hectares.“A blueprint of the project is being prepared. Efforts are being made to plant the saplings at sites where we have facilities such as sufficient water, safekeeping and fencing. It will take at least five years to complete the plantation. This year’s plantation is expected to be completed during the monsoon season,” said Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/forest-cover-in-punjab-s-moga-to-go-up-to-5-in-5-years-101623252368721.html
09-06-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka to ease restrictions in phased manner, no unlock in one go, says minister||Covid-19 restrictions, currently in effect in Karnataka, would be relaxed in a graded manner in four or five phases starting from June 14, state revenue minister R Ashoka said on Wednesday. The existing lockdown is scheduled to end on June 14, after being extended for seven more days earlier on June 7.“Keeping the number of deaths and new cases in mind and aimed at bringing down the Covid-19 infections further, lockdown will not be relaxed at one go. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai, health minister K Sudhakar and I have held detailed discussions with the chief minister in this regard,” news agency PTI quoted minister R Ashoka.The minister said that relaxations to the Covid-19 restrictions in the state and the unlocking would be done in a phased manner. He also confirmed that the lockdown would not be lifted completely in one go and said that it might be done in four or five phases. “First will be timings, now the relaxation (for shopping) that is there between 6 to 10 am, it may get extended further. Also, those who go for a walk at parks may get some relief. All this is subjected to a final decision by the chief minister. Lockdown will not be relaxed at one go,” PTI further quoted Ashoka.Ashoka, who is currently the vice-chairman of Karnataka state disaster management authority (KSDMA), also said that the daily new infections in Bengaluru is still hovering around the 2,000-mark every day and it should fall below the 500-mark for an unlock. “We will also have to keep in mind the rise in positive cases as we unlock,” he added. Responding to a question, he also said that many sectors which are currently operating under the work-from-home scheme would continue to do so, while some other sectors like the medicine and medicine equipment manufacturers have already been given certain exemptions, the PTI report showed.Meanwhile, state health minister Dr K Sudhakar also denied any possibility that the restrictions would be lifted in one go. “As per experts' opinion, if [the] positivity rate is less than 5% and cases are less than 5,000, curbs can be lifted. There is no confusion on lifting restrictions. Other states like Maharashtra, have opened up only after reduction in cases. If you compare with other states, the second wave has relatively subdued quickly in our state,” he said. However, both ministers affirmed that all decisions would be taken and announced by chief minister BS Yediyurappa after consulting with experts.According to a bulletin from the state health department on Wednesday, 10,959 new Covid-19 cases were identified in Karnataka in the last 24 hours and 192 people lost their lives on the day. Bengaluru Urban logged 2,395 new cases, the highest among all districts.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-to-ease-restrictions-in-phased-manner-no-unlock-in-one-go-says-minister-101623251455197.html
09-06-2021||Pune||Land acquisition for ring road faces opposition; officials begin process with police presence||The administration is facing strong resistance to the land acquisition process for the western part of Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) Ring road from villages in Bhor Tehsil. On Wednesday, officials had to opt for police protection as they started land measurement in Ranje village as a part of the land acquisition exercise. The villagers accused that police force was brought to intimidate them though officials from MSRDC claimed it was a precautionary measure.The land acquisition of the western part of the outer ring road will be constructed by MSRDC beginning in March with 38 villages in four tehsils affected as about 763.12 hectares of private land will be acquired on the western side of the ring road. There has been increasing opposition from the farmers from Ranje, Kusgaon, Khopi, Kanjaale and Kelawade under Bhor tehsil.“I own 1.7 acres of irrigated agricultural land on which I have my home. Of this, almost 1.25 acres will be acquired for the ring road post which I will be left with a negligible piece of land. The administration should tell me how my family is supposed to earn a livelihood when we completely depend on this land’s agricultural produce for the earning,” said Pradip Jaykar, a resident of Ranje.Sandeep Patil sub-divisional engineer Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) said the presence of police personnel was only a precautionary measure and not to use force.“We have listened to farmers’ grievances and have tried to resolve their doubts. But further queries can be cleared only after completing the land measurement procedure. So, we are requesting the locals to let us complete that,” said Patil.The joint measurement survey has been undergoing on the western side of the Ring road and the survey process in 12 villages of 160 hectares has been completed so far. The land acquisition for the Eastern side has also begun but the Covid induced curbs and the resistance from affected villages have delayed the deadline of completion of the land acquisition process for the project.Other villages in Bhor tehsil have also started peaceful protests to oppose the land acquisition. Dinkar Dalvi, a resident of Kanjale village, accused the administration of not listening to the objections raised by the landowners saying the administration has not scheduled hearings and 90% of the objections are pending with them. “Whenever officials came for land measurement, we handed over the list of objections and asked them to come back after resolving those, but they keep mum on these issues,” he said. GFX- The Western side of the Ring RoadUrse (Mumbai Pune Expressway)-Parandwadi-Pimploli-Ghotawade-Mutha-Malkhed-Ghera Sinhgad-Kalyan-Kusgaon-Kelawade (NH 48 Pune-Satara Road)Total affected villages on the western side - 38(Maval - 6 villages, Mulashi - 16 villages, Haveli- 11 villages, Bhor -5 villages)Land required- 763.12 hectares||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/land-acquisition-for-ring-road-faces-opposition-officials-begin-process-with-police-presence-101623251828076.html
09-06-2021||Pune||Pune fire: Director of SVS Aqua Tech remanded to police custody||The director of SVS Aqua Tech, Nikunj Shah (39), has been remanded to custody of the Pune rural police on Wednesday by a local court.Shah is charged with culpable homicide not amounting to murder, after 17 SVS Aqua Tech workers perished in a fire on the company premises on Monday.The Pune rural police have also booked Nikunj Shah’s Dubai-based brother and partner in the company, Keyur Vipin Shah (41), and their father Bipin Jayantilal Shah (68), a resident of Sahakarnagar.The remand was issued by judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), Saatishkumar Ganapa.On Tuesday, a committee headed by sub-divisional magistrate Sandesh Shirke, found that the company was producing sanitisers without a permit.The incident also left four injured. The injured have been identified as Nisha Ramesh Gorwal, Pravin PRabhakar Kavankar (24), Sanotsh Sitaram Sahthe (45), and Adinath Mahipati Sathe (23).“Prima facie, that company did not have the permit to produce sanitiser at all, as per the report submitted by the district committee yesterday (Tuesday). Even with the machine that they were using (without permit), they were producing much more than its capacity,” said public prosecutor Nilesh Ladkat.Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse-Patil, during his visit to the company on Tuesday, had said that the fire was product-related and not due to a short-circuit.The police have also alleged that the company ignored industrial safety measures for its workers, which led to storage of large quantities of raw materials used to manufacture sanitisers in the room where the fire broke out.The police have also alleged, based on the committee’s report, that the company operated illegally between 2016 and 2020.As per the police submission to the court, the investigation will now check the company’s product list against permits, to see if it all tallies.A case under Sections 304(2) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder); 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter); 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance); and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at Paud police station against the three.Victims’ families not handed over bodies yetThe families of those who died in the fire incident are waiting to receive the mortal remains of their dear departed. The charring caused by the fire had made it difficult for doctors to identify even the genders of the deceased, let alone the identities.“I know she is in there, but I cannot get her body until the police say so. My elder son (13) gave blood yesterday around 5:30pm. We were told to wait until Thursday for an update on when we could get the bodies,” said Sachin Borade, who lost his wife Seema Borade in the accident.The bodies were rushed to Sassoon General Hosptial on Monday night. The families now expect to get the remains on Thursday or Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/director-of-svs-aqua-tech-remanded-to-police-custody-101623251168073.html
09-06-2021||Pune||Case against four for brandishing swords in public||The Kondhwa Police have arrested one person and lodged a case against four, for brandishing swords in public. The incident took place on Tuesday night in Ashrafnagar, Kondhwa, where the accused broke windows of a hospital and threatened shopkeepers with dire consequences if they did not down shutters. The entire scene was captured on CCTV. Police arrested Shahbaz alias Lambu Khan (24), while four other unidentified accused are still at large. Dr Obaidullah Abdurrahim Khan (33), owner of Shifa Polyclinic, lodged the FIR against the accused. As per the complaint, the accused first threatened a group of youth standing in lane number 12. The accused then attacked Labbaik medical stores, breaking furniture and demanding medicines free of cost. The miscreants also destroyed a handcart belonging to vegetable vendor Saleem Shaikh and then threatened a tea vendor. Inspector Sardar Patil of Kondhwa police station said, “The youth threatened shopkeepers and spread terror using swords and other weapons. We have seized the weapons and one person has been arrested. Incidents like this will not be tolerated and harsh action will be taken against the guilty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-against-four-for-brandishing-swords-in-public-101623251047964.html
09-06-2021||Pune||After Pirangut fire, special squads to act against illegal production, storage of sanitisers||The incident of fire at industrial plant which claimed 17 lives in Pirangut have put the district administration on high alert as strict action will be taken against companies who are involved in illegal manufacturing of sanitizers, officials said on Wednesday. The industries department has also constituted special squads to check illegal storage of production of sanitizers, considered to be inflammable due to ethanol contents. “Many manufacturing units of producing sanitizers have come up in the last two years, and action will be taken on all such units which are manufacturing it without licence,” said Sadashiv Survase, joint director of industries, Pune region. The state government will be making special squads which will visit various industries in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural Pune. The squads will be monitoring work of each company by visiting their manufacturing units. After the fire tragedy at Pirangut, officials from local administration started the probe and around 20,000 to 30,000 bottles of sanitizers were found stored in the inventory at SVS where fire broke out killing 17 workers. According to Abhay Chavam, tehsildar, Mulshi region, bottles of sanitizers were found stored in his inventory. He however said that it is quite clear that there was no production of sanitizers as there was no raw material and machinery required to produce the sanitizers were found at the spot. “All we have found is the machinery and material required to manufacture chlorine dioxide, used in the water purification,” said Chavan. The senior police officers also said that the company was producing sanitizers, as alleged by relatives of victims. “Although we found some barrels of sanitizers, but it is in small quantity and possibly brought for the use of workers during Covid,” Pune superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh had said on Tuesday after the owner of the firm was arrested. Following the incident, officials from industries department have formed special squads which will visits various industries in Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural Pune. The squads will be monitoring work of each company by visiting their manufacturing units. “Along with checking licence of the company, squad will also take a note of number of emergency exit point in companies has and how safety measures are placed in the companies,” said Survase. According to information received by officials, many companies started production of sanitizers in the wake of Covid-19 without any licence agreement. Along with the industrial unit, fire department and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board will also join special squads to find out any other irregularities. “Many companies have not renewed their MPCB license, we will fine such industries,” said a sub-regional officer from Pune II zone. Survase added “All the essential steps will be taken to avoid incident like Pirangut in future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-pirangut-fire-special-squads-to-act-against-illegal-production-storage-of-sanitisers-101623250807942.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Akali Dal slams meagre hike in paddy MSP||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday termed the ₹72 per quintal hike in minimum support price (MSP) of paddy as “meagre”, adding that it would take agriculturalists further away from the Centre’s promise of doubling farm income by 2022. The central government has set ₹1,960 per quintal MSP for paddy this year, up from ₹1,888 in the last kharif season. Terming the hike not sufficient to cover the increase in the cost of agricultural inputs, including diesel and fertilisers, the SAD president said the government should have taken into account the actual cost of production while determining the MSP. “The 1.5-time-income formula should be applied on the actual cost of production, including rent and interest foregone by farmers on land and machinery,” he said.Asking the Centre to provide a level playing field to the farming community, Sukhbir said the MSP on paddy was a cruel joke on farmers who were already in a state of crisis due to the three farm laws, which were expected to undermine the MSP regime. “The careless manner in which the MSP has been calculated exposes the apathetic attitude of the government towards farmers. The SAD demands the government provides a remunerative support price to farmers as well as the agriculture sector,” said the party president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-slams-meagre-hike-in-paddy-msp-101623248529363.html
09-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi government to celebrate 'Van Mahotsav' by planting 33 lakh saplings||A massive tree plantation drive will be conducted as part of the Van Mahotsav that will be celebrated in Delhi from June 27 to July 11, city Environment Minister Gopal Rai said on Wednesday.At a virtual meeting with all "green agencies and departments", the minister said a target of planting 33 lakh saplings across the national capital has been set under the tree plantation drive.Instructing all the departments to ensure their participation, Rai also directed them to complete the ongoing third-party audit of the tree plantation work and submit the report at the earliest, a statement from the Delhi government said."The Delhi government will lay more emphasis on planting such saplings, so that Delhi's air pollution can be reduced. The government will also run a campaign for this," the minister said.Of the 33 lakh saplings to be planted this year, about 18 lakh will be planted by different departments of the Delhi government, including forest, PWD, DTC, education, and the Delhi Jal Board, the statement said.Six lakh saplings will be planted by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), five lakh by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) and 3.3 lakh saplings will be planted by the three MCDs.Additionally, saplings will also be planted by the Delhi Metro, CPWD, Northern Railway, NDPL, Delhi Cantonment Board and BSES.Rai talked about the "mega plantation drive of medicinal plants" launched on World Environment Day earlier this month."The government has 14 nurseries in Delhi. Anyone can visit the nurseries and get medicinal plants free of cost. The medicinal plants available in the Delhi government nurseries are amla, guava, arjun, jamun, neem, tulsi etc.," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-to-celebrate-van-mahotsav-by-planting-33-lakh-saplings-101623247054702.html
09-06-2021||Other||Lucknow: Doctor, five others arrested for black marketing of lifesaving injections||Six people, including a doctor of the emergency medicine department of Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences (RMLIMS), were arrested for black marketing of lifesaving injections in the Wazirganj police station area here on Wednesday, said senior police officials.Inspector (Wazirganj police station) Dhananjay Kumar Pandey said those arrested were identified as Dr Wamiq Hussain of RMLIMS’s emergency medicine department, Mohd Raqeeb, who is the franchise owner of a pharma company, Mohd Arif, a ward boy at King George’s Medical University’s emergency medicine department, Mohd Imran, a technician at KGMU’s emergency medicine department, Balvir Singh, a pharmacist at a private hospital, and Rajesh Kumar Singh, a salesman with a surgical equipment firm.He said they were arrested for selling the lifesaving injections—remdesivir and liposomal amphotericin B— at exorbitant rates during the pandemic outbreak. He said 28 vials of liposomal amphotericin-B used for the treatment of black fungus disease and 18 vials of remdesivir used for the treatment of lung infection were recovered from their possession.He also said they were arrested after the police laid a trap on the complaint of a person who had contacted them to purchase the lifesaving injections.The inspector said the investigation revealed that the accused used to sell one injection for ₹20,000 and the doctor used to get ₹5,000 per injection. He said the doctor himself used to deliver the injections in his car.The authorities at RMLIMS were informed about the doctor’s arrest and involvement in the illegal practice, the inspector said.He also said the hospital authorities would further initiate an independent inquiry into his involvement in the black marketing of injections. Further investigation by the police was on, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-doctor-five-others-arrested-for-black-marketing-of-lifesaving-injections-101623246547605.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 10,989 fresh Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||Maharashtra, which has been witnessing a sharp drop in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), recorded 10,989 infections on Wednesday, taking the tally to 5.86 million, the state’s health department bulletin showed. The state reported a rise of 98 from Tuesday’s count of 10,891 Covid-19 cases. The state also recorded 261 related fatalities, which took the death toll to 101,833.Mumbai’s real estate sector sustains Covid-19 second wave: ReportMaharashtra’s drop in the number of Covid-19 cases comes in the backdrop of 220,912 tests done in the last 24 hours. This means more people were tested in the last 24 hours which could mean higher identification of cases. The state had tested at least 211,000 people between June 7 and June 8.Maharashtra currently has 161,864 active cases. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.74%. The state reported 16,379 recoveries in the last 24 hours pushing the tally of recovered people to 5.59 million. Maharashtra's recovery rate stood at 95.45%.Allocate one-fourth of mucormycosis drugs to Maharashtra: HC to CentreMumbai reported 785 cases on Wednesday, registering a marginal spike in the number of fresh cases. The financial hub reported 27 deaths in the last 24 hours. Mumbai's case tally reached 712,840 with the addition of the new cases. The city has recorded 15,033 deaths so far.Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik, Mumbai and Thane continue to recover from the high caseloads of Covid-19. The districts were among those contributing the most number of cases to the national caseload. Active cases in Pune dropped to 19,275, which is highest in the state, while Mumbai (17,939), Thane (16,076) and Kolhapur (17,822) also reported a high number of active cases. Gadchiroli, Gondia, Buldhana and Palghar have reported less than 500 active cases. Palghar has the lowest number of active cases (44) in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-record-10-989-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-101623246228377.html
09-06-2021||Lucknow||Lawyer kidnapped in Lucknow rescued by cops after 52 hours in captivity||The UP Special Task Force (STF) and the Lucknow police rescued a high court lawyer Preeti Shukla from the clutches of kidnappers here on Tuesday midnight after she had spent 52 hours in captivity, said senior police officials on Wednesday. One alleged kidnapper was arrested during the joint operation, the officials said.They said car-borne miscreants had kidnapped the woman when she was on an evening walk near her house in the Sushant Golf City area of the state capital on Sunday.The officials said the woman’s husband Anurag Shukla is also a high court lawyer and known for two high-profile cases related to former Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Gayatri Prajapati, who is in jail for his alleged involvement in a multi-crore mining case, and another multi-crore case allegedly involving a real estate firm.A senior police official said the couple purchased two flats together in the posh Sushant Golf City locality and bought two high-end sedan cars in the recent past. He said the arrested kidnapper, identified as Santosh Chaubey, revealed that the couple’s luxurious lifestyle attracted them, and his gang decided to kidnap the woman believing that her husband would pay a hefty ransom for her safe release.STF deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Deepak Kumar Singh said the kidnappers demanded ₹1 crore from her husband and later settled for ₹25 lakh after multiple negotiation calls. He said the investigation so far suggested that 10 people were involved in the kidnapping plan and nine of them were still at large.The DSP said Anurag Shukla had lodged the complaint about his wife’s abduction with the Sushant Golf City police station on Sunday itself after getting the ransom call, but the incident was not publicised so that kidnappers did not become aware of the police team’s action plan.He also stated that the kidnappers had made the ransom calls to the woman’s husband from the woman’s phone by changing their location continuously.The STF team surrounded a house in a residential locality behind Vidya hospital near Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Science (SGPGIMS) after tracking the caller’s location.The woman was found locked inside a room of the house and her limbs were bound with cloth at the time, the DSP added. Chaubey was arrested while the other alleged kidnappers managed to escape, he said.Four of the alleged kidnappers were identified as Jitendra, Kallu, Rohit and Bablu while the five others were yet to be identified, he said.Singh said the woman told police that she was abducted by a group of five people in a car.She said three persons pulled her into the car when she reached a deserted stretch while returning from her evening walk and they gave her a sedative to make her fall unconscious. She said she was continuously kept unconscious and allowed only to go to the toilet during the over 52 hours that she spent in captivity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-lawyer-rescued-from-kidnappers-clutches-in-lucknow-one-arrested-101623246007401.html
09-06-2021||Other||Case registered in Aligarh as 32 empty Covid-19 vaccine vials go missing||A case was registered at the Gandhi Park police station in Aligarh on Tuesday in connection with 32 empty vials of the Covid-19 vaccine having allegedly gone missing from the Naurangabad primary health centre in Aligarh last month, an official said on Wednesday.A staff nurse was suspended and a medical officer transferred in connection with the matter, said Aligarh’s chief medical officer (CMO) Dr BP Singh Kalyani . It was suspected that the vials meant for vaccination at the Naurangabad PHC were used at a vaccination camp in Noida last month instead.“A complaint was lodged by the district immunisation officer and the case was registered at the Gandhi Park police station in Aligarh against unidentified (people) over the 32 missing vials of Covid vaccine. Tough action will be taken against anyone found guilty,” the Aligarh CMO said.“The case was registered after staff nurse Pushpa gave unsatisfactory excuses that the vials were broken. The doctor on duty, medical officer Dr R Pillai, has been transferred from the Naurangabad primary health centre,” the Aligarh CMO said.The staff nurse and the medical officer have not been named in the case. “The chief medical officer in Noida, too, has registered a case at a local police station with regard to the matter. Now, the Aligarh police will investigate the matter along with the Noida police to find out where those vials have gone,” the Aligarh CMO added.In May, a vaccination camp was organised in a housing society in Noida. The first dose of the vaccine was administered to 187 residents of the housing society. After the two-day camp, when the residents downloaded their vaccination certificates, they found a difference in the dates and noticed that the Naurangabad primary health centre was mentioned (as the vaccination centre).The Noida residents complained and the matter reached Aligarh where CMO constituted a two-member committee after a shortage of vials was detected at the Naurangabad primary health centre. After receiving the inquiry report, the staff nurse was sent on leave on Monday and the medical officer transferred. On Tuesday, the staff nurse was suspended, the Aligarh CMO said. A case was also registered in Noida against the organiser of the camp where vials meant for vaccination at the Naurangabad PHC were allegedly used in Noida instead.Recently, a case was registered against an ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) with the Jamalpur urban primary health centre in Aligarh after she allegedly threw 29 vaccine vials in a dustbin without administering them to the beneficiaries.The Civil Lines police of Aligarh are on the lookout for ANM Neha Khan who allegedly became untraceable after the case was registered against her and her service contract was revoked. Police have raided Kasganj city but are yet to nab Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-registered-in-aligarh-as-32-empty-covid-19-vaccine-vials-go-missing-101623245648409.html
09-06-2021||Real||Mumbai’s real estate sector sustains Covid-19 second wave, activity to pick up as cases abate: Report||Despite being battered by the second wave of the coronavirus disease, financial capital Mumbai would continue to remain the economic centre of India, according to a report published by HT’s sister website Livemint earlier on Tuesday.With the continuing decline of Covid-19 cases witnessed in the city and throughout Maharashtra, the city’s real estate sector and the economy in general, could expect a rapid recovery and robust growth over the next few quarters, according to the opinion essay published in Livemint.The report said that the city-based real estate developers and businesses made adequate arrangements for accommodation, food and personal protective equipment (PPE) for their workers at the project sites during the peak of the second wave of Covid-19 infections in the city. Also, some developers have already started the vaccination campaign for their site-based workforce. The reports further mentioned that such focus indicated that project implementation and delivery would continue seamlessly once the Covid-19 second wave abates.Among the top seven cities, Mumbai alone accounted for nearly 25% of leasing activity in India in the first quarter of 2021, a 34 per cent growth on a quarterly basis, the report showed. Two real estate investment trusts (REIT) are headquartered in Mumbai -- Mindspace Business Parks, Brookfield -- have witnessed a rental collection of around 99%, despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the report showed.As far as the housing market is concerned, government incentives such as the stamp duty cuts, stamp duty reduction to female house-buyers and the recently announced Model Tenancy Act and healthy consumer demand have helped the property registrations and sales to increase in the last two quarters, the report said. Amidst the pandemic, Citroen has opened its first showroom in the city and popular brands have leased spaces in prominent malls and prime streets such continue to be in demand, the report mentioned.Emerging high growth assets, namely, data centres and warehousing and logistics, also seem promising for the city, which currently is a top location in India for data centres and accounts for 45% of the country’s existing capabilities. Also, major infrastructure projects such as Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL), Coastal Road project and newer metro rail lines have already commenced gradually and once completed would enhance the city’s connectivity.Maharashtra continues to witness a decline in its daily new Covid-19 infections and Mumbai recorded seven new fatalities on Tuesday, its lowest since many days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-real-estate-sector-sustains-covid-19-second-wave-activity-to-pick-up-as-cases-abate-report-101623245004951.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Akali Dal to protest outside Punjab CM’s house on June 15||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal will lead a dharna outside Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s residence in Chandigarh on June 15 to demand the dismissal of health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into alleged irregularities in sale of vaccines and procurement of medical kits for Covid-19 patients. The opposition party will also demand that land acquisition for national highways be done on market rates and displacement compensation be offered to the affected landowners. Making the announcement on Wednesday, party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said the vaccine and Fateh kit scams had shaken the conscience of Punjabis as the elected government and its members were profiting from their misery during the time of pandemic. “The Congress government has admitted its fault that it sold vaccines to private hospitals at huge margins and in turn allowed them to charge a premium. Instead of dismissing the health minister, Capt Amarinder Singh is shielding him and trying to silence the opposition by registering cases against senior Akali leaders for holding a peaceful and democratic protest to demand justice in the case,” said Cheema. Cheema said SAD president had also exposed the Fateh kit scam under which prices of medical kits, which were to be supplied to Covid patients, were jacked up repeatedly from ₹800 to ₹1,400 per kit by inviting one tender after another even as the first one was valid for six months.He said Sukhbir would lead a dharna outside the CM’s residence on June 15, and will be joined by other senior leaders of the party, including core committee members, legislators, former legislators, constituency in-charges, district presidents and youth unit office-bearers. On Monday, Sukhbir and 225 other party leaders and workers were booked for violating Covid-19 norms on the CM’s orders, after they had gathered for a protest near the health minister’s house in Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-to-protest-outside-punjab-cm-s-house-on-june-15-101623243607929.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||‘Enter enemy territory, conduct surgical strike’: Bombay HC to Centre on vaccination||The Bombay high court on Wednesday asked the Centre to take an approach akin to ‘surgical strike’ in battling the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and said it should not wait at the borders waiting for the virus to come out.Nine states underutilised Covid-19 vaccine doses: GovtA division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation filed by two advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari who sought a direction to the government to start a door-to-door vaccination programme for senior citizens above the age of 75, differently-abled people, people in wheelchairs and bed-ridden people, according to a report by news agency PTI.Covaxin effective in neutralising Delta, Beta variants of Covid-19: StudyThe bench observed that the Centre’s ‘near to home’ vaccination programme is equal to waiting for the virus to make the first move. “Coronavirus is our biggest enemy. We need to strike it down. The enemy is residing in certain areas and in some people who are unable to come out. Your (government) approach should be like a surgical strike. You are standing at the borders waiting for the virus carrier to come to you. You are not entering the enemy territory,” the bench observed.Now, beneficiaries can correct mistakes in vaccine certificate via Co-WINThe court said that the government has taken several decisions to alleviate the difficulties faced by the public but said that few of those decisions may have been delayed which led to loss of several lives. The Centre told the court that it cannot conduct a door-to-door vaccination programme at this moment.The court pointed out that door-to-door vaccination programmes have been started by Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Bihar and Odisha and also by civic bodies in Vasai-Virar in Maharashtra.“Why should the same not be encouraged in other states across the country? The central government cannot clip the wings of those state governments and civic bodies who wish to do it (door-to-door vaccination) but are waiting for the Centre's nod,” the court said. The court also highlighted that only the Brihanmumbai Municipal Council and the Maharashtra government were waiting for the Centre’s nod.“Why is only the west waiting?” the court asked.The court directed additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for the Centre, to consider the issue. The court will further hear the matter on June 11.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/enter-enemy-territory-conduct-surgical-strike-hc-to-centre-on-vaccination-101623242904625.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rains: Uddhav asks authorities to clear out inundated areas||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday visited the disaster management cell of the Greater Mumbai civic body and surveyed the preparedness of the city as it received heavy rainfall. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Wednesday issued a red alert for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts and said that these districts would receive very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places during the day.Catch full coverage of the Mumbai rainsThe chief minister directed the administration to also drain out the accumulated rainwater and resume transportation. Other than issuing directions to control rooms in Mumbai, the chief minister spoke to collectors of Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Palghar districts.Following the heavy rains, the traffic police was forced to shut four subways which led to vehicle owners abandoning their vehicles on roads. The traffic police closed Milan, Khar, Andheri and Malad subways for motorists due to water-logging.In Pictures: Unseasonal rain brings best air quality for Mumbai in 2 monthsRains also led to suspension of local train services from Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) to Thane and Vashi in Navi Mumbai, Sion and Chunabhatti. “In the morning between 9 am-10am in areas like Sion and Chunabhatti 55-60 mm rainfall was recorded. Owing to this, rain water came on the railway tracks. Currently road and railway traffic is affected only at three spots namely Dahisar subway, Sion and Chunabhatti,” Brihanmumbai Municipal Council (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said that no claims regarding chances of waterlogging were mentioned earlier. “No-one has claimed that there will be no water logging in Mumbai due to heavy rainfall, nor can anyone make such a claim. But after waterlogging, if the water does not recede within 4 hours, in that scenario we can say that pre-monsoon work was not done properly,” Pednekar said.The city police asked Mumbai citizens to step out of their homes unnecessarily and asked them not to travel to inundated areas. Though there have been no reports of injuries or deaths due to the rain, heavy rains led to damage of vehicles as a wall collapsed in Savarkar Nagar in Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-uddhav-asks-authorities-to-clear-out-inundated-areas-101623241603095.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Never copy, rather make your life worth copying||The intricate subtleties involved in copying during exams were one of the rare domains in which academically weaker dimwits exercised a coveted edge over their egghead peers. To sneak peek into the student’s paper sitting ahead of you with squinted eyes needed adept mastering of oscillating your whole body left to right and vice-versa or craning your neck at a tilt over their shoulders right on time when the examiner’s focus lapsed a little in dealing with other miscreants. The absence of unity, loyalty, mutual synchronisation, and teamwork made one-sided cheating even tougher. After catching the offenders unaware, the examiner, if genial, would let them off the hook with a plain warning, otherwise, they would straightway snatch their sheets before escorting them out of the hall on a quiet. Hard-core cheaters were diligent in laying a strong groundwork well before the announcement of the datesheet as they shelled out a considerable time befriending luminaries whom they expected as neighbours in exams. The subdued cries of a failing candidate falling upon deaf ears would eventually galvanize them into pleadingly tapping their saviour’s back, though, those soft and gentle futile taps would transform into uncouth tugs of the shirts and blazers to draw special attention at the earliest. Feeling helpless over the ineffectiveness of their moderate endeavours, stooping to the most daring act to score passing marks as saving grace turned out to be their last resort. They would silently fish out all those abridged rolls of chits tucked deep into the remote confines of their shoes, socks, and even thief pockets for utmost urgency. No surprises for a correct guess about the final fate of all those offenders if heaven forbid their little clumsiness in the execution requiring nippy manoeuvres or an element of complacency put them in the examiner’s crosshairs. A stroke of luck besides the seating arrangement played a decisive role in clearing the hurdles for the harried students heading for writing an exam of an underprepared subject. However, my best friend and I were fortunate to have had roll numbers in sequence and working in tandem, we both cooed answers ear to ear, save our bad luck when I would get the last bench with her seat at the front of the next row. Separated by distance yet close by stratagems, our flair for tracking the movement of the eyeballs besides our lip-reading skills significantly helped us build an invisible bridge of communication that never caved in. Our foolproof record goaded us into swapping each other’s sheet for the first and last time before the prying eyes of the examiner once caught both of us by sheer surprise. We were summoned to the then principal of our school, and our good academic record was factored in to commute our punishment from getting rusticated to only a dressing down. Now, as an examiner, spotting the vulnerable tricks of the students soaked in innocence and immaturity would often take me back in time when we harboured a similar misconception that hoodwinking the examiner was child’s play by just fidgeting, wincing our foreheads, twiddling our thumbs or by pretending to tie the laces of our shoes. My childhood slip-up indeed helped me realise that copying had zero scope in both exams and life. Better for the kids to score less or even flunk the subject with honour in lieu of cheating on their own values. My principal’s remarks uttered that day still reverberate loud and clear: Never copy, rather make your life worth copying. shilpirasotra@gmail.com The writer is a government teacher in Pathankot||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/never-copy-rather-make-your-life-worth-copying-101623241147522.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Political row in Himachal over demand to rename Dalhousie||The demand to rename Dalhousie, a hill station in Himachal Pradesh, after freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose has sparked off a political debate. Rajya Sabha BJP member Subramanian Swamy has written to the state government, demanding Dalhousie be rechristened Subhas Nagar. Former chief minister Shanta Kumar said on Tuesday that he had written letters to governor Bandaru Dattatreya and chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, demanding the town be renamed after the freedom fighter. Also read: Govt hikes MSP for various kharif or summer-sown crops by up to 62%When contacted, Thakur was evasive and said, “There is no information on this matter so far.” A Raj Bhavan official said that the governor had not received any letter on the renaming of the town from either Swamy or Shanta Kumar so far. Local residents opposed to move: Cong MLA Local Congress MLA Asha Kumari has opposed any such move and written to Thakur. “Residents of Dalhousie town are opposed to any such proposal that is why the previous (Congress) government turned down the proposal. Dalhousie is a famous hill station known nationally and internationally,” she said. She requested the chief minister to respect the sentiments of the people. “There is no point changing names of places. Instead, the government should focus on development,” she said. Local businessman Paramjeet Singh said, “Dalhousie is a town with its own old world charm. Why rename it?” Monument sought for Tagore, Ajit Singh, too But in his letter, Shanta Kumar said that his government had passed an ordinance in 1992 to rename the town after Netaji but later the Congress reversed the BJP’s decision. Besides Bose, Shanta Kumar demanded a monument to pay tribute to Nobel Laureate Rabindranath Tagore, who had written parts of his famous composition, Gitanjali, at the hill station, and revolutionary leader Bhagat Singh’s uncle, Ajit Singh, who had spent time in Dalhousie during the freedom struggle. It is said that Bose was won over by the beauty of Dalhousie and stayed at the hill station for several months in 1937. There are two places named after him in the town, Subhash Baoli and Subhash Chowk, which also has his statue. Asha Kumari said, “We have high regard for Netaji in whose memory a chowk has already been built here.” The state government may hold a referendum in the town to gauge the sentiments of the locals on whether they are in support of renaming Dalhousie, she said. The town, set up in 1850, was the summer retreat of Lord Dalhousie, the British governor general in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-row-in-himachal-over-demand-to-rename-dalhousie-101623237907434.html
09-06-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s tales: “Political terrorism” leads to the darkest time in Pune’s history||The medieval times were indeed barbaric! Wanton destruction of towns and settlements was not an uncommon sight in medieval Deccan. Western Deccan became a fierce battleground where the Mughals, Adishahi and Nizamshahi dynasties were engaged in a constant power struggle. Kasbe Pune stood in the middle of the violent crossfire. Today, we shall sadly witness the harrowing account of Pune’s destruction due to “political terrorism”.Pune’s association with the Bhonsale family began when Maloji Raje Bhonsale, grandfather of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, was granted the jahagir of Pune Pargana (subdivision consisting of a group of villages), in 1595 by the Nizam of Ahmednagar.Around 1600, Delhi emperor Akbar descended south and took over a large part of Ahmednagar’s Nizamshahi. For a short period, the Pune Pargana became part of the Mughal territory. But, before it could stabilise, within 20 years, Malik Ambar, the able prime minister of the Nizam re-conquered the territory and brought it under the Nizamshahi thus, overthrowing the Mughal rule. Like his father Maloji, Shahaji served in the army of Malik Ambar of the Ahmednagar Sultanate. At the time of Maloji’s death in 1606, the 12-year old Shahaji was a minor commander in Malik Ambar’s army. He, however, rose to the level of “Sar-lakshar” commander in few years.In 1601, he defeated Adishahi Sardar Ramrao to capture the territory of Pune and included the Pargana in the Nizam’s domains. Shahji soon became a trusted commander under the encouragement of Malik Ambar and was granted the jahagir of Pune and Shirval Pargana. However, there arose a discord between the two, and Shahaji Maharaj established an independent rule over the two Parganas. Malik Ambar tried overthrowing Shahaji’s rule by sending in armed forces, but Shahaji did not heed. He, in turn, joined the Adilshahi domain and served as commander under Bijapur’s Adilshah. Shahaji served Adilshahi wholeheartedly during the period of 1625 to 1628, till the demise of Ibrahim Adilshah. After the death of the king, Shahaji suffered due to unpleasant politics brewing in the kingdom and, at the same time, he as invited by the Nizam of Ahmednagar to return. The pressing reason for such an invitation was that the Mughal emperor Shahajahan was marching towards Ahmednagar to conquer the Nizam’s territory. Malik Ambar, who was the original reason Shahaji left, had passed away in 1626. So, it was natural for Shahaji to return to the Nizamshahi, and he took charge of his core territory around Pune in 1628.The violent betrayal and murder of his father-in-law, Lakhuji Jadhav (father of Jijabai), at the hands of Nizamshah in 1630 came as a rude shock to Shahaji, and he was compelled to resign from service under the Ahmednagar’s Nizam. He declared his independence and rebelled against the Nizamshahi and the Adilshahi at the same time. He sided with the Mughals for a while and was awarded the jahagir of Junnar and Pune.This move angered both parties, Nizamashahi in the north at Ahmednagar, and Adilshahi in the south at Bijapur. To crush Shahaji’s rebellion, Adilshahi commander Murar Jagdeo attacked Pune in 1630 and captured the town. Moro Tandeo Honap Deshpande, who was in-charge of Pune, was hiding underground on the banks of the river Bhima. He was captured by Murar Jagadeo’s forces, severely tortured with needles and nails, and badly beaten-up. The entire city was terrorised. Wadas, public buildings and crops were destroyed. The walls of the fort Killa-e-Hissar were brought down, and the city was literally killed. Residents were harassed and looted. Most inhabitants fled and took shelter in the hills around Pune. The wealthy merchants of Pune were taken to Bhuleshwar hill near Saswad as prisoners, where a new fort of Daulat Mangal was built and made the new administrative centre of the Pune region.It was not enough that the entire settlement was destroyed. The “terrorism” was such that the deepest fear of inhabiting the land was implanted through the installation of a gruesome symbol. The phrase “gadhavacha nangar firawane” (to plough a piece of land using a donkey), comes into existence because of this act. It is believed that a stone called “gadha gadhav”, or a medieval version of the gadhegal – literally translated as the “curse stone of an ass”, which also served as a royal decree, was installed near Kumbhar ves. The stone was marked by a pinning a broken sandal to its surface, symbolising no habitation allowed. The donkey is the only animal which copulates with a horse to produce a mule, which cannot reproduce again, and is considered inauspicious. The donkey is the mount of the Vedic man-woman god, Nirruti, and symbolises sinful behaviour and destruction. During early medieval times, when a king wanted to declare any piece of land uncultivable or inhabitable, he would get the piece of land tilled by yoking donkeys to the plough. Thus, the donkey was understood as a symbol of a non-productive waste land which would not yield any agricultural produce, and nor would people inhabit it. And if someone occupies such a land against the royal decree, they would be rendered childless.This nasty threat instilled deep terror in the minds of Pune’s inhabitants. They feared severe action by Adilshahi forces if they dared occupy the land. In addition to this, “sultani” (political) calamity, the “asmani” (from the skies) calamity too was eminent for Pune. All of Pune region suffered acute drought and famine in the early decades of the 17th century. Water and food was difficult to come by and it led to mass deaths and an exodus. The period from 1630 to 1638 is the darkest time in the history of Pune. Was there any hope left for Pune? Would any saviour arrive? That we will see in the next column.Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-political-terrorism-leads-to-the-darkest-time-in-pune-s-history-101623235253586.html
09-06-2021||Other||As stocks run out fast, Delhi govt assures all beneficiaries will get free ration||New Delhi: A large number of temporary food grains distribution centres set up as a lockdown relief measure by the Delhi government for those who don’t possess a ration card ran out of stocks on Tuesday, forcing officials to turn away people, several beneficiaries HT talked to said. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the scheme on May 18 and it was implemented from June 5. Needy people who don’t possess ration cards, including unorganised workers, migrant workers, building and construction workers, domestic helps are eligible to receive food grains under this relief initiative. The Delhi government estimated 2 million such beneficiaries in the city and identified 280 government schools as distribution centres. In the first phase, the government aims to cover 200,000 people.The Delhi government on Tuesday said the stocks will be replenished soon and grievances raised by several beneficiaries of the scheme will be resolved at the earliest.“We need the ration at any cost. We do not have enough to spend on food grains at this point,” said Pushpa Devi, 43, whose family are migrants from Saran district in Bihar and have their ration cards registered in their home state. Devi reached the Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in northwest Delhi’s Narela on Tuesday morning to collect ration but could not get it. Kaushalya Devi, another beneficiary, who too returned home without ration from a centre in north east Delhi’s Seemapuri, said, “We are already troubled by the delay and now we are forced to line up for ration every day. It is extremely painful.” Under the initiative, the government is distributing 4 kg wheat and 1 kg rice. On Tuesday, beneficiaries who queued up at distribution centres operating from government schools in several localities including Hauz Rani, Shahpur Jat, Chirag Dilli, Munirka, Seemapuri, RK Puram, Safdarjung Enclave, New Ashok Nagar and Ber Sarai were reportedly turned away after stocks ran out. On Saturday and Monday, several such centres in Khajuri Khas, East of Kailash, Dilshad Garden, Kalyanpuri, Jahangirpuri, Badarpur, Manglapuri and Gokalpuri could not cater to the crowds. Delhi’s food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain said centres ran out of stocks because a large number of people turned up “in excess of what was expected”. “But people should not be concerned. We have placed orders with the Food Corporation of India for more food grains, which will arrive soon,” he said. Over the past two days, there were also several instances of people being denied ration for not carrying identity documents and not having valid mobile numbers, even though the government order – a copy of which HT has seen – has provision for giving food grains on self-declaration in such cases.Regarding such complaints, Hussain said, “We have taken note of all kinds of grievances reported by the people. We assure you that things will be further streamlined in the coming days to make the entire process smooth and hassle-free. The Aam Aadmi Party government believes that ration is the right of people.”Anjali Bhardwaj, Right to Food campaigner and a member of Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, said the centres are running out of stocks since the beneficiaries are way above the government estimates. “The Aam Aadmi Party government has claimed that the situation is not grim this year. But they have capped the total distribution at 200,000 beneficiaries in the first phase, which can extend to a maximum of 2 million -- as against 6.9 million beneficiaries estimated last year. This is the reason why most government schools are out of stock or has not received any food grains. The government should fix this problem at the earliest.”The Delhi government had launched a similar scheme in March 2020 in the light of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-stocks-run-out-fast-delhi-govt-assures-all-beneficiaries-will-get-free-ration-101623235071316.html
09-06-2021||Dehradun||5 Uttarakhand teenagers drown in Pithoragarh while bathing in a river||Five teenagers drowned and three others had a lucky escape while bathing in a river in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district, about 480 km from capital Dehradun, on Wednesday morning. Police said all five bodies were fished out of Saryu river by revenue policemen with the help of local villagers.“Eight teenagers between 15 and 16 years of age were returning from a wedding party in Ganai Gangoli area of the district in the morning. While on the way to Kona Dhaulia- their home, they decided to bathe in the river,” said BS Fonia, sub-divisional magistrate, Gangolihat.Fonia said the boys identified as Ravindra Kumar and Mohit, both aged 16, Salil Kumar, Ramesh and Piyush, all aged 15, failed to estimate the depth of the river which was swollen due to heavy rains in the past few days.“They started drowning and then were washed away with the river’s strong current. The other three, who had not entered deep waters, immediately came out and screamed for help. Soon, villagers gathered there and informed the revenue police officers who reached the scene but couldn’t save the boys,” said Fonia.“The bodies have been sent to a nearby hospital for post-mortem examination. We have also cautioned the villagers not to go in the river as it is swollen due to rains,” said Fonia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/5-uttarakhand-teenagers-drown-in-pithoragarh-while-bathing-in-a-river-101623232671964.html
09-06-2021||Jaipur||4 from a family killed in road accident in Rajasthan’s Bikaner||Four members of a single family were killed in Rajasthan’s Bikaner district after a head-on collision between a car and a sports utility vehicle near Naurangdesar village on National Highway-11 on Tuesday, police said.The deceased were identified as Atul Mali (22), his mother Gayatri Devi (45), Maina Devi (60) and Sarita Devi (40). The family from Aadsar Bas in Sri Dungargarh was heading to Bikaner after relaxation in lockdown to visit another family member, Lalchand Saini, who was under treatment at PBM Hospital. The car they were travelling in collided with a Bolero camper model SUV, which was coming towards Bikaner near a petrol pump at Napasar police station area.It took police and local residents more than one hour to pull out the injured and bodies of the dead from the mangled remains. The driver of the SUV, identified as Sukhpal of Sattasar village in Bikaner, was admitted to the PBM Hospital with multiple injuries.Not only the four-members of the family, but the relative they were visiting at PBM hospital also died the same day , sending their village in a state of shock and mourning, police said.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot condoled the deaths and wished for quick recovery of the injured.“Saddened to learn of an accident in Napasar, NH-11, in which five members of a family have lost lives. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. May they find strength in this difficult time. Prayers for speedy recovery of those injured.” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/4-from-a-family-killed-in-road-accident-in-rajasthan-s-bikaner-101623231231749.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||In pics: Mumbai wakes up to heavy rains as monsoon reaches Maharashtra early||The everyday life was thrown out of gear for Mumbai city with the early arrival of monsoon in Maharashtra as the city woke up to heavy rainfall. The change in weather disrupted the daily commute and life for people who had stepped out after weeks of Covid-19 induced lockdown.The severe waterlogging after heavy rains upended the Mumbai local train services, as some had to be halted as a precautionary measure.The first rain of this year's monsoon season in Mumbai also forced authorities to shut four subways and forcing motorists to abandon their vehicles on roads.Train services between Kurla and CSMT were suspended as the water was flowing over tracks between Kurla and Sion stations, officials said.The heavy rainfall also caused traffic snarls in different parts of the city. Mumbai has been receiving rainfall since Tuesday night. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded rainfall in Santacruz at 50.4 mm and in Colaba at 65.4 mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-pics-mumbai-wakes-up-to-heavy-rains-as-monsoon-reaches-maharashtra-early-101623224705545.html
09-06-2021||Delhi||Two men on a motorcycle die after falling into a drain in east Delhi||Two men riding a KTM motorcycle died after the motorcycle hit a wall and they fell into an adjacent drain in east Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar late Tuesday evening. Their bodies were fished out of the drain following a rescue operation carried out by the fire department and Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA), the police said.Police said the two men were identified as Farhan, 30, a resident of Trilokpuri, and Vijay, 25, from Dwarka. They worked as catering consultants and were returning from their friend’s home when the mishap took place. Their bodies were shifted to the mortuary of Lal Bahadur Shastri (LBS) Hospital for autopsy.Police said that it was not immediately clear if the mishap took place after the motorcycle was hit by a vehicle or if the motorcycle rider lost control while speeding. Also Read | Delhi Police trains youngsters to bolster healthcare servicesThey said they are trying to ascertain the exact sequence of events leading to the mishap. They are also trying to find out whose name the motorcycle was registered with. Nonetheless, a case of rash and negligent driving causing the deaths has been registered under Indian Penal Code’s sections 279 and 304 A.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Priyanka Kashyap said that the police control room had received a call at 8.15pm about an accident involving a motorcycle near New Ashok Nagar drain. “We called the fire department and DDMA teams and carried out a search and rescue operation. The bodies were fished out after an hour,” said a police officer, who did not want to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-men-on-a-motorcycle-die-after-falling-into-a-drain-in-east-delhi-101623229071757.html
09-06-2021||Dehradun||China-based online money laundering racket using cryptocurrencies exposed: Cops||Uttarakhand police claims to have busted an online racket suspected to have cheated at least ₹250cr from unsuspecting investors by promising to double their money in 15 days but siphoning it out of India instead by converting it into crypto currency.One Pawan Kumar Pandey, accused of running a shadow company to transfer the cheated money to his alleged “handlers in China”, was arrested from Noida in Gautam Buddh Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh on Monday night, police said. 19 laptops, 592 SIM cards, 5 mobile phones, 4 ATM cards and one passport were also recovered from him.Uttarakhand police chief (DGP) Ashok Kumar said the racket came under scrutiny following a complaint by two Haridwar residents: Rohit Kumar and Rahul Kumar Goyal.“A week ago, they claimed that one of their friends told them about a mobile app on Google Play Store named Power Bank, which doubled returns on investment within 15 days. Believing him, they downloaded the app and deposited ₹91,200 and ₹73000,” said Kumar.However, when they didn’t receive any return even after one month, they realised they had been duped, he added.“A probe was initiated by the special task force which found that the mobile app in question was available on Google Play Store between February 2021 and May 12, 2021, during which, it was downloaded by at least 50 lakh people. It also found that the money deposited through the app was then transferred to bank accounts of the arrested accused through payment gateways,” said the police officer. He added that the money was then converted into crypto currencies.“During the cyber forensic probe, the app was linked to China, where Pandey’s handlers are sitting. They used to en-cash the crypto currencies into their local currency to end the chain of money laundering, which started with duping Indians through the app,” said Kumar.Uttarakhand’s deputy inspector general (law & order) Nilesh Bharne, who was one among the investigators, said, “The accused Chinese handlers used to befriend Indians by luring them... with the promise of some commission under the garb of expanding their business in India.”“In this case too, they partnered with Pandey and used his identity documents to register a shadow company with the Registrar of Companies (RoC) and to open two bank accounts, where the money siphoned off from the victims was deposited. They opened a shadow company in Noida named Purple Hui Zing Zihao. Pandey was registered as the company’s owner and the firm was shown as the developer of the fraudulent app,” said Bharne.Pandey said the bank accounts and the company were handled remotely by the Chinese accused while he received commission from them.“He was paid ₹1.50 lakh by the Chinese as ‘salary’. He... also told police that there are many other similar apps being operated by his handlers... using the same modus operandi,” said Bharne, adding the accused used to initially double a few investments to win the trust of prospective investors.The senior police officer said the police now have a list of 25 similar applications available on Google Play Store.“We have taken at least 20 such shadow companies under our radar for suspected fraudulent activities like the above mentioned one. We have received 20 other similar complaints from people in the state and they [the complaints] are under probe,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/china-based-online-money-laundering-racket-using-cryptocurrencies-exposed-cops-101623228591644.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana DSP who sought CM’s help for post-Covid lung transplant dead||The 49-year-old deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Harjinder Singh, who had recently urged chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to release funds for his lung transplant procedure after Covid-19, died at Satguru Partap Singh Hospital in Ludhiana on Wednesday. Dr Rajiv Kundra, the medical superintendent of the hospital, said that the DSP died in the morning. Also read: Now, beneficiaries can correct mistakes in vaccine certificate via Co-WINThe family members of DSP Harjinder Singh, who was deployed in the securities department of the Central Jail in Ludhiana, had met the Ludhiana commissioner of police, Rakesh Agrawal, on May 20 and sought help for generating funds for the lung transplant procedure. Hardeep Singh, the brother of the DSP, said that Harjinder had tested positive on April 6 and ever since he was admitted at the private hospital. On May 10, the hospital authorities said that due to the coronavirus infection, Harjinder’s lungs had suffered irreparable damage and his life could be saved only through lung transplant. Hardeep said the procedure would cost ₹70 lakh. “Had the money been issued in time, my brother’s life could have been saved,” he said. Also read: Khaki warrior on life support awaits funds for lung transplantHarjinder had made a poignant appeal on video recently, requesting the government to fund his treatment instead of giving compensation after his death. Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta had also tweeted that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had decided to support the DSP’s treatment and said that the CM had released funds from his discretionary quota. Ludhiana commissioner of police also assured the family of free treatment for the DSP at the private hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dsp-who-sought-cm-s-help-for-post-covid-lung-transplant-dead-101623228531459.html
09-06-2021||Bangalore||Govt to ensure students get access to online studies amid pandemic: Karnataka HC||Karnataka high court said on Tuesday that the state will be violating the fundamental right to education if it fails to give children access to technology, required for online education during the Coved-19 pandemic. It also asked the government to complete a survey on children’s access to gadgets such as mobiles and television by July 5 and report the results to the HC on July 8.The instruction came during a hearing on a petition questioning the state government’s preparation for effective and equitable delivery of online education. While the state claimed that around 20% students in government-run and aided schools don’t have access to electronic gadgets or televisions for online education, the petitioners cited related national government data to claim the number was likely to be much higher.A division bench of justice BV Nagarathna and justice Hanchate Sanjeev Kumar expressed concern and said there was a real threat that children without access to online education could be drafted for child labour, begging or any rather harmful activities. It added that poor girls cut off from online education, particularly in rural areas, could be married off.“If the object of article 21A is to be emphasized, education is to be imparted to children up to the age of 14 years as it is their fundamental fight, and the obligation is on the state to provide access to education by means of technology in absence of [offline] school[ing]… due to [the] pandemic. If such steps are not taken for these children by the state, ….[it]would be a failure on [the] part of the state in ensuring the fundamental rights…,” the court observed.Senior Advocate Harish Narasappa, appearing for petitioner Sanjeev Narrain, said the number of students excluded from online education in Karnataka was likely to be much higher than the estimates provided by the state.“I have attached the report of the National Statistical Office (NSO) of the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, 2018, which states that in Karnataka, only a dismal 2% of rural households have access to a computer and only 8.3% have access to internet facilities. For urban households, only 22.9% have access to a computer and 33.5% have access to internet facilities,” Narasappa said.Following this, the bench asked the state to collect data on the availability of necessary gadgets among the children in the state by July 5 and submit the report to the HC on July 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/govt-to-ensure-students-get-access-to-online-studies-amid-pandemic-karnataka-hc-101623224871432.html
09-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi polling stations now vaccination centres, people happy: CM Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday highlighted the recently launched "Jahan Vote, Wahan Vaccination" campaign in the national capital and said that it was initiated to encourage more people to attend the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The chief minister visited such a vaccination center on this day and remarked that people were very happy about the fact that they can now get a vaccine dose near their residences, where they cast their vote. The campaign focuses on convenience as there is no hassle of online booking and booth officers are coming to people's homes for the vaccination, he said.Also Read: Get vaccinated where you vote, urges Kejriwal, announces door-to-door awareness campaignTaking to his official handle on Twitter on Wednesday, Delhi chief Arvind Kejriwal wrote, "Visited a center started under the "Jahan Vote, Wahi Vaccine" campaign today. People there were very happy about the fact that the vaccine is now being administered near their house, from where they had come to vote." He added, "There is no hassle of online booking, booth officers are coming to people's homes according to given slots.""जहाँ वोट, वहीं वैक्सीन" अभियान के तहत शुरू हुए एक सेंटर का आज दौरा किया। वहाँ लोग इस बात को लेकर बेहद खुश नज़र आए कि उनके घर के पास ही जहाँ वोट डालने आए थे वहीं अब वैक्सीन भी लग रही है। ऑनलाइन बुकिंग का भी झंझट नहीं, बूथ ऑफ़िसर लोगों के घर जाकर स्लॉट दे कर आ रहे हैं। pic.twitter.com/F8V2FoX3oxHighlighting the door-to-door vaccination campaign in Delhi, chief minister Kejriwal said that it was launched since people were not coming in large numbers for Covid-19 vaccination earlier. "A new initiative launched in Delhi, 'Jahan Vote, Wahan Vaccination'. People weren't coming in large numbers, so we thought they'll have to be invited. So this was started, people being vaccinated where they used to vote, polling stations turned into vaccination centers," news agency ANI quoted Kejriwal as saying.The 'Jahan Vote, Wahan Vaccination' programme for mass Covid-19 vaccination was launched by the Delhi government on Monday. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that people will be able to get shots of Covid-19 vaccines at booths where they voted in elections. The government aims to vaccinate all above the age of 45 in the next 4 weeks, he said.Noting the lack of footfall at the vaccination centres, Kejriwal said that the Delhi government will now deploy booth-level officers to facilitate the mass campaign. Covering 70 wards, the booth level officers visit every house in the next two days and provide a slot for the first dose of vaccine against coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-polling-stations-now-vaccination-centres-people-happy-cm-kejriwal-101623220551232.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Avert apocalypse, gear up for third Covid wave||The second Covid-19 wave has left our collective consciousness battered and bruised. Images of the living lying alongside the dead in hospitals, near and dear ones trying to administer oxygen out of a cylinder to critical patients on pavements outside overwhelmed healthcare facilities and bloated corpses in the Ganga as if trying to find solace in afterlife are surreal images likely to haunt us for life. After the natural calamity unfolded, we saw gross mismanagement, ineptitude and hubris of those at the helm. Also read: India must procure vaccines in full measure to keep children safe: SisodiaAfter the first wave abated last year, the Centre not only lowered the guard by declaring a premature victory over coronavirus, but also failed to ramp up healthcare facilities, augment oxygen supplies and step up vaccination to fight the second wave, as advised by epidemiologists. The elephant in the room was allowed through super-spreader events such as the Kumbh Mela and election rallies in Bengal. Even with the second wave on an upsurge, Prime Minister Narendra Modi exulting over the size of the election gathering in Bengal and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurating three makeshift Covid hospitals in the presence of crowds, throwing Covid protocol to the wind, signify rules are meant only for the public. Administer free universal immunisation In his address to the nation on Monday, Modi made a U-turn on the vaccination policy, declaring that the Centre will now buy 75% of the vaccines, leaving 25% quota of vaccination to the private sector. This rethink seems to have been forced by searching questions asked by the Supreme Court on the vaccination policy for the 18-45 age group. The government was hard put to explain why it had allowed a differential pricing for vaccines for the Centre, states and private sector instead of the Centre using its better economy of scale, leverage for negotiation with international manufacturers; why a 25% quota had been allocated to the private sector that would charge for vaccination instead of free universal immunisation; and how the budgetary allocation of ₹35,000 crore for vaccination had been expended. Unnecessary delay in the vaccination procurement by the Centre could be lethal in combating the next wave. By the commercialisation of the vaccination drive, the Centre has been trying to reinvent the wheel, whereas all vaccination drives, such as BCG/DPT for the eradication of TB, diphtheria, smallpox, measles, cholera, typhoid or polio, had been done through free universal immunisation programmes in the past. Improve health infrastructure in Haryana Based on global patterns, epidemiologists see a third Covid-19 wave in India sometime in the last quarter of this year. If the virus mutant takes on a more lethal form, it could be a catastrophe of apocalyptic dimensions. In this context, the failure of the Haryana government to lay a single brick or make any headway in respect of the Choudhry Bansi Lal Medical College at Bhiwani project, approved for a cost of ₹450 crore during former MP Shruti Choudhry’s tenure, is retrograde and irrational. Equally disappointing is the Haryana government’s failure to ensure the supply of Amphotericin-B injections for black fungus patients. Such patients from Bhiwani are referred to Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, or the medical college at Agroha in Hisar, where they are left to fend for themselves in the absence of medicines or proper treatment protocol. Ramp up vaccination drive We need to gear up better for the third wave. For ramping up the vaccination drive and healthcare facilities, committees of elected representatives from panchayats or municipalities, health personnel and district administration officials should be constituted at the district, sub-division, block and village/ward levels. All citizens should be vaccinated free of cost by the year-end. The vaccination target is stiff but doable if done through panchayats and municipalities. Second, a village-level dispensary has usually a staff of a doctor an ASHA worker in Haryana with a large number of posts lying vacant. Doctors to population ratio in India is 1:1100 for urban areas, while it is 1:12000 in villages. Covid centres for cluster of villages In view of this skewed situation, a cluster of 10 villages/wards can pool their staff at one place by mutual consent, and make a Covid centre operational at a central location so that nobody from the cluster has to travel more than 10km. Medical/paramedical staff should be trained in providing oxygen support to Covid patients, vaccination, conducting RT-PCR and antigen tests. Each such cluster of villages/wards should be provided with a radiologist and a lab technician, testing equipment and an X-Ray machine. Services of retired medical personnel and final year students/interns doing MBBS/nursing courses should be used. Third, the funds should be provided from PM-CARES and budgetary allocations for healthcare/vaccination and reserve funds of the Reserve Bank of India. This will enable our PHCs/CHCs and multi-specialty hospitals to tend to critical Covid patients and non-Covid patients. The costs on the above are not too large, if we take into account the loss of jobs besides disruption to lives and livelihood that a cataclysmic wave of the pandemic can cause. The writer, a former Haryana minister, is the Tosham Congress MLA. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/avert-apocalypse-gear-up-for-third-covid-wave-101623222951269.html
09-06-2021||Bhopal||Man threatens to hijack planes, take them to Pakistan from Bhopal, Indore airports; held||Police have detained a 34-year-old man for allegedly threatening to hijack planes from Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal and Indore airports and take them to Pakistan, an official said on Wednesday. Officials at the Raja Bhoj Airport here received a phone call around 5 pm on Tuesday wherein the caller made the threat, Bhopal's Gandhinagar police station in-charge Arun Sharma told PTI . Later, the airport management complained to the Gandhinagar police. "The man, who allegedly threatened to hijack the planes, was caught late Tuesday night from Shujalpur town (about 100 km from Bhopal). He is being extensively questioned as part of the investigation into the matter,” the official said. Security has been tightened at the Bhopal airport following the threat call, another official said. On Tuesday evening, a Mumbai-bound flight took off from Bhopal after a strict security check, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-threatens-to-hijack-planes-take-them-to-pakistan-from-bhopal-indore-airports-held-101623221741559.html
09-06-2021||Patna||Bihar plans to erase Muzaffarpur shelter home blot with modern care centres||Bihar government will build 12 modern shelter homes for all the children in the state in need of care and protection at a cost of ₹500 crore after Muzaffarpur shelter home scandal in 2018 exposed poor living conditions and mismanagement of existing government-run facilities.The new homes, to be developed like an urban area society, will be called Vrihad Aashray Griha, and will offer plush accommodation with skill development, library cum listening room, indoor and outdoor games complex, medical treatment facilities among others.The entire complex will have separate residential blocks for girls and boys, employees and officials, training instructors, medical team apart from an administrative block, parking lot, parks and gyms. The concept was developed by the social welfare department.Out of the 40 after care institutions for girls in the state, the majority have been closed due to poor maintenance and management, and at present, only 11 homes for girls, 23 homes for boys and 25 adoption centres are functional.“These too will be closed once the Vrihad Aashray Grihas come into existence. We have decided to close all kinds of homes for children in need of care and protection (CNCP) in the state after Vrihad Aashray centres get ready by 2022. Children of all government care institutions including adoption centres, observation homes, after care homes, homes for children in conflict with law, will be shifted to these Aashray,” Rajkumar, director, social welfare department, said.In Patna, five acre land has been acquired at Bihta for setting up a Vrihad Aashray Griha, which will be developed by the building construction department, Rajkumar said, adding that similar complexes will come up in Siwan, Muzaffarpur, Vaishali, Gopalganj, Gaya, Bhagalpur, Purnia, Bhojpur, Sheohar and West Champaran districts.He added that all the street children, orphans, those abandoned and destitute will be given shelter at these centres. “Besides children who have been victims of commercial and sexual exploitation, trafficking, children in conflict with law or those who lose parents due to natural disasters, will also get protection,” he said.Suresh, a social activist, welcomed the move. “The best part of these new homes is the skill development training facility. It will provide children the opportunity to prepare themselves to face the world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-plans-to-erase-muzaffarpur-shelter-home-blot-with-modern-care-centres-101623222051191.html
09-06-2021||Delhi||'Apologise, didn't get a chance to explain': Delhi hospital official on controversial circular||The nursing superintendent of Delhi government-run GB Pant Hospital has apologised for a circular, which asked the nursing employees not to speak in Malayalam at work. The circular led to huge row and hospital later revoked it."The circular was issued in a positive sense and there was no bad intention against Malayali-speaking staff. Circular was misinterpreted about its true sense and I didn't get a chance to explain. If any staff's feeling got hurt by using word of Malayalam in the said circular, I apologise," the nursing superintendent said in a note which was posted on Twitter by news agency ANI.The official also said, "I will be more careful and vigilant in future."The Delhi health department issued a memo to Govind Ballabh Pant Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research (GIPMER) in connection with the controversial circular."The circular, which was issued by the nursing superintendent, GB Pant Hospital, without any instruction or knowledge of the hospital administration and the Delhi government, stands withdrawn with immediate effect," an order issued by the Medical Director Dr Anil Agarwal read.The circular invited criticism from the medical fraternity, political leaders and the public.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi called for stopping language discrimination. Party leader Shashi Tharoor said the order was "unacceptable, crude, offensive and a violation of the basic human rights of Indian citizens".An official of the GB Pant nurses' association said there are around 850 nurses working at the hospital, of which around 400 speak Malayalam.Last year, the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences had also issued an order advising staff that regional languages should not be spoken on its premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/didnt-get-chance-to-explain-delhi-hospital-official-on-controversial-circular-101623221013402.html
09-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police trains youngsters to bolster healthcare services||With the second wave of the pandemic having wreaked havoc on Delhi’s healthcare infrastructure, Delhi Police is now training hundreds of youngsters in general duty assistance and emergency medical services under its YUVA initiative. This project has been conceived to help bridge the gap in the requirement for healthcare professionals in the city, and also keeps in purview the expected third wave of Covid-19. In the health sector, the youngsters are being employed across various hospitals and private firms, to offer services under different categories. “After being trained under YUVA, the youngsters are working in home care services for Covid patients, as emergency medical technicians (EMT) and general duty assistants at hospitals, and also at various path labs as lab assistants,” says Rajeev Kumar, one of the trainers who is imparting knowledge under this programme. “We teach the students at various skill centres provided by Delhi Police, use smart classes, latest equipment and then reach out to companies for employment opportunities. During the pandemic, we conducted classes both online and offline, and many of the trained professionals have now found jobs in the city,” adds Kumar. One of the trained youngsters, Shivam Singh, a 19-year-old, is grateful to have found support from the police department. “I was introduced to the programme by a friend, went to a few classes and fell in love with the process of education and training. In the three month course, I was trained to be a nurse. I’m currently working as a home nurse with a private firm, and taking care of Covid patients in Gurugram’s sector 22. I’m glad to be able to give something to the society, while earning enough to sustain myself,” says Singh.Yamini Sharma, another 19-year-old who was trained as an EMT, is now working at a private hospital in Delhi and assisting in the vaccination programme. “Whenever there is a vaccination drive at private companies, I’m sent to assist the team as a data entry operator and keep the information for the process, manage verification of individuals amid other tasks. Even amid the pandemic, I’m happy that I’m employed and can contribute to my family during this distressing time,” says Sharma.Devesh Srivastava, special commissioner of police (Economic Offences Wing), who is overseeing the programme, says, “It’s important to keep youngsters off the streets and away from bad influences, which is why YUVA trains them. We select youngsters between the age of 17 and 25 years, train them for 3-4 months, and then help them connect to a potential employer. Due to the pandemic, many youngsters lost their jobs and this became a good platform to reskill themselves and join the health sector. We will be bringing more unemployed youth within the purview of the programme and help place them as technicians and assistants in different hospitals and centres after completing their training.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-trains-youngsters-to-bolster-healthcare-services-101623217432313.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Waterlogging in many areas as monsoon hits Mumbai; high tide expected at 11.43am||As rain lashed Mumbai with the onset of monsoon on Wednesday morning, waterlogging was reported in several areas, including Hindmata, Gandhi Market in King Circle, Dadar TT. Further, a high tide of 4.16 metres is expected to hit the city at 11.43amThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has already issued yellow warning for the city of Mumbai anticipating heavy rainfall over the weekend.According to Mumbai Police, waterlogging is reported at in Dharavi, Govandi, Hindmata, Sion junction, and Behrambaug junction.On Wednesday morning, several took to Twitter reporting waterlogging at Gandhi Market despite moderate rainfall there.Also Read | Monsoon disrupts Mumbai local trains; Central line service suspendedNikhil Desai, a local resident near Gandhi Market, said, “The whole area nearby Gandhi Market was flooded after getting around 10mm of rainfall. Even Dadar TT reported waterlogging on Wednesday morning.”According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, in the last 24 hours, eastern suburbs received the maximum rainfall of 65mm followed by western suburbs and island city getting 48mm of rainfall.Civic officials are also expecting a high tide to hit city at around 11.43am, and if there is heavy rainfall during that time, there are chances of waterlogging in the city.BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday ordered civic officials to stay on alert owing to heavy rainfall anticipated in the city. He had asked officials to ensure dewatering pumps were in place, manholes were covered, tree trimming and cutting was done in order to safeguard lives of citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/waterlogging-in-many-areas-as-monsoon-hits-mumbai-high-tide-expected-at-1143am-101623217070892.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Monsoon disrupts Mumbai local trains; Central line service suspended||The onset of monsoon disrupted Mumbai’s suburban train services on Central line with heavy rainfall in the city on Wednesday morning.Local train services were suspended between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) at 9.50am on Wednesday after waterlogging was reported between Sion and Kurla railway stations.Also Read | Monsoon arrives in Mumbai two days before onset date“Due to heavy rains in suburbs and waterlogging between Sion-Kurla , as precautionary measures, the train services between CSMT-Kurla have been suspended from 9.50am. Services on other sections are running,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway.Owing to waterlogging on arterial roads in the city, the BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) also diverted its buses at nearly 30 locations in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/monsoon-disrupts-mumbai-local-trains-central-line-service-suspended-101623216110838.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rain: Local train services suspended after railway tracks waterlogged||Local train services were disrupted in Mumbai on harbour and central lines - operated by Central Railway - due to waterlogging on railway tracks after heavy rain. Mumbai witnessed heavy rainfall on Wednesday morning as the southwest monsoon advanced in the state.According to authorities, train services between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kurla railway stations on central line has been suspended due to waterlogging on railway tracks between Sion and Kurla stations. The local train services between CSMT and Vashi on the harbour line are also suspended since 10.20am due to water-logging near Chunabhatti railway station.Watch: Heavy rains lash MumbaiOn the main line too, train services are suspended between CSMT and Thane railway stations. Traffic snarls were reported from different part of the city due to heavy rainfall.Mumbai has been receiving rainfall since Tuesday night and the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded at 50.4 mm rainfall in Santacruz and 65.4 mm in Colaba in the last 24 hours. "Monsoon has arrived in Mumbai today, normal arrival date is June 10 every year so it has arrived prior to the average arrival date," said Dr Jayanta Sarkar, Deputy Director General (DDG), IMD Mumbai.A high tide of over four metres is expected around noon in the Arabian Sea, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said today.The IMD in a tweet said that the southwest monsoon is likely to advance into more parts of Maharashtra and is likely to advance into more parts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, some parts of Odisha, and more parts of West Bengal during the next two days.Earlier on Monday, IMD warned of heavy rains during four days from June 9 to 12 in all districts in the Konkan, including the Mumbai metropolitan areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rain-local-train-service-on-central-line-disrupted-due-to-waterlogging-101623214802462.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Monsoon arrives in Mumbai two days before onset date||The southwest monsoon arrived in Mumbai Wednesday morning, with most parts of the city receiving intense showers as early as 4am. According to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station in Santacruz, 59.6mm of rainfall was recorded in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Wednesday, while Colaba reported 77mm of rainfall during that period. The city has so far received 185mm of cumulative rainfall in June.Most localities reported rainfall between 40 to 70mm, while Navi Mumbai reportedly received more than 120mm of rain in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, as per data shared by the IMD. Belapur received nearly 150mm, the highest recorded in this time. Other areas that received over 70mm of rainfall include Mumbra, Kopar Khairane, Kandivalu, Ghansoli, Mohane, Panvel, Dahisar, Malwani, Naupada and Versova.Also Read | Delhi weather: Expect hot, dusty day today, says IMD“The southwest monsoon has come in two days earlier than usual this year, as predicted by the meteorology department. There will be intense rains in Mumbai for at least a period of three to four days now, during which the total reading is quite likely to exceed 300mm, or even 350mm,” said a spokesperson with the IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai. However, independent meteorologists have forecast that Mumbai may even see 450 to 600mm of rainfall accumulated in some places during the next four days.“Mumbai and areas are receiving widespread heavy rains. There are dense cloud formations visible above Mumbai and Thane at the moment, and in fact all along the coast. Heavy rainfall warnings have been issued for all west coast districts,” said KS Hosalikar, senior scientist at the IMD in Pune. Thunderstorms were also reported in various parts of the city.Moderate to heavy rains are likely to continue till at least 3pm on Wednesday, after which they will decrease in intensity but continue until late evening, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/monsoon-arrives-in-mumbai-two-days-before-onset-date-101623214670682.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||How India's most crowded city Mumbai beat the odds, and the virus||When Covid-19 arrived in India, few places looked as vulnerable as Mumbai. But a year on, South Asia's most crowded city has surprised many by tackling a vicious second wave with considerable success.Gaurav Awasthi even travelled hundreds of kilometres from his home on the outskirts of Delhi to get his ailing wife a hospital bed there, paying an ambulance more than a thousand dollars to drive 24 hours straight."I cannot ever repay my debt to this city," the 29-year-old told AFP, recounting an ordeal that saw him spend five days fruitlessly searching for a bed across several cities, including Delhi."I don't know if my wife would be alive today if it weren't for Mumbai's health facilities."Bodies in wardsThe bodies began turning up early in India's financial capital during the first wave of infections last year -- a man collapsing on a busy road, a rickshaw driver slumped over the wheel, a corpse lying in the street -- in a grim echo of the 1918 flu pandemic.By May 2020, Abhignya Patra was working 18-hour days at the massive Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, better known as Sion."It was non-stop," the 27-year-old anaesthesiologist told AFP.Patients' relatives described distressing scenes inside packed wards, with one man telling AFP he had to change his sick mother's diapers himself because staff were too overworked.A video shot inside Sion and widely shared on social media showed corpses wrapped in black plastic left on beds in a ward where patients were being treated.Every night, the city helpline fielded thousands of calls from desperate citizens, many with no chance of getting admitted to a publicly-funded hospital: Mumbai had just 80 ambulances and 425 intensive care units for a population of 20 million.'Chase the virus'Something had to change fast, said Iqbal Chahal, a no-nonsense bureaucrat who took over as Mumbai's municipal commissioner last May.New field hospitals added thousands of beds, private facilities handed over their Covid-19 wards to the government and 800 vehicles were turned into ambulances.But these efforts could not combat the swift rise in infections."We needed to chase the virus," Chahal told AFP.A proactive approach focused on 55 slums including India's largest, Dharavi, where a strict lockdown was accompanied by aggressive sanitisation of public toilets, mass coronavirus screening and a huge volunteer effort to ensure that nobody went hungry.All positive test reports in Mumbai were routed through "war rooms" manned by doctors who would triage cases and decide where to send the patient, irrespective of "whether he is a minister, a big shot or a slum dweller", Chahal said.Forward thinkingAs 2020 wore on, it looked like India might have miraculously beaten the pandemic and lockdown restrictions were eased.But in Mumbai, authorities didn't dismantle a single bed in the now-deserted field hospitals.This meant that when cases surged in March, the metropolis was much better prepared than many other Indian cities, where the health care system came close to collapse.In the capital Delhi and elsewhere, patients died outside hospitals and crematoriums were overwhelmed. But not in Mumbai.Despite having a much higher population density than many other cities, Mumbai has seen significantly lower mortality rates.The city still suffered close calls, Chahal said, recalling one night in April when six hospitals faced dire oxygen shortages, putting 168 patients at serious risk unless they were shifted to other facilities.Everyone survived."We always expected a second wave," Chahal said.'Wake-up call'Patra recalls getting calls from colleagues in Delhi desperately searching for medical equipment."As doctors, there is very little we can do in the absence of infrastructure," she said.Ruben Mascarenhas, co-founder of Mumbai-based non-profit Khaana Chahiye, said he would get dozens of messages every morning from people begging for oxygen and drugs -- but as the pandemic wore on, the requests mostly came from outside the city.He was, he says, "pleasantly surprised", but is "very cautious about celebrating yet."He is not the only one.An experienced marathon-runner, Chahal is already preparing for a third wave -- expected to hit children hard -- by stockpiling oxygen, building paediatric field hospitals and expanding capacity at public hospitals."This has been a wake-up call for us," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-india-s-most-crowded-city-mumbai-beat-the-odds-and-the-virus-101623213669478.html
09-06-2021||Patna||Advisory panels to run Panchayati Raj institutions in Bihar due to delayed polls||The Bihar government has entrusted the job of running the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) in the state to the advisory committees, headed by the chiefs of elected gram panchayats, zila parishads and gram kucherys even after the expiry of their five-year term on June 15, officials said.The new mechanism was necessitated since the panchayat elections could not be held on time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government passed an ordinance to amend the Bihar Panchayati Raj Act 2006 on June 2 to allow continuity of the rural institutions.Additional chief secretary of the panchayati raj department Amrit Lal Meena said the terms and conditions governing the functioning of the existing PRIs will remain unchanged, while mukhiyas, chairmen of zila parishads and heads of gram kutcherys lead the advisory committees of their respective bodies till the constitution of new committees after fresh elections.“The government would notify the alternative arrangement for those rural institutions, which do not have elected heads at the time of [the] constitution of the advisory committee. Up mukhiyas, deputy chairmen and up sarpanch of gram kucherys will function as the deputy chief of the advisory committees,” said Meena.Earlier, panchayati raj minister Samrat Chaudhary had said that the approved system will ensure that Central funds don’t remain unutilised and all elected members continue to function in the interim.The Panchayati Raj system was established in accordance with the 73rd Amendment of the Constitution and it is a three- tier structure based on direct elections at the village, block and district levels.Exemption from constituting the intermediate tier is given to states with less than 2 million population.The cabinet chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar also approved the release of ₹456 crore for acquisition of land along the existing Danapur-Bihta road to build a four-lane elevated road under the PM’s package. The national highways authority of India (NHAI) would step in to start the construction once the road construction department (RCD) offered them additional land after the acquisition, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/advisory-panels-to-run-panchayati-raj-institutions-in-bihar-due-to-delayed-polls-101623211130701.html
09-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Expect hot, dusty day today, says IMD||Delhi on Wednesday is likely to experience a hot and dusty day, with the maximum temperatures set to go up to 42 degrees Celsius, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.On Tuesday, the city recorded a maximum temperature of 41.7 degrees Celsius (°C) at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city. The minimum temperature was 28.6°C.Also Read | DU extends term of governing bodies of 28 colleges by three months“We have a forecast of the temperatures rising further on Wednesday and reaching around 42°C. But after June 12, the temperature will start dropping and we are expecting it to go below 40°C,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Despite the high temperature forecast, IMD officials said Delhi is unlikely to record a heatwave this season. In the plains, heatwave days are recorded when two things happen – when the maximum temperature crosses 40°C, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5°C. A severe heatwave is declared when there is a departure of 6.5°C or more from normal temperatures.IMD also said that dust carrying winds from Rajasthan and Haryana will continue to blow over the city, which will keep the pollution levels high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-expect-hot-dusty-day-today-says-imd-101623208610320.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai receives heavy rain as monsoon advances over Maharashtra||With the advancement of the Monsoon in parts of Maharashtra, heavy rainfall lashed Mumbai city and other suburban areas including Thane on Wednesday.The city, considered to be the financial capital of the country has been seeing rains from Tuesday night, but the India Meteorological Department (IMD) termed them as pre-monsoon showers.On Tuesday, the IMD issued a warning of a heavy downpour for Mumbai and adjoining areas from June 9 to 13. "There are indications of southwest monsoon's arrival in Mumbai on Wednesday," said Shubhangi Bhute, director of the Regional Meteorological Centre, said on Tuesday evening.As rains began to hit the city, several people on social media shared pictures and welcomed the monsoon.Welcome monsoon...! Beautiful start of monsoon. #MumbaiRainsThis is not fog or haze..... The real monsoon has arrived in #Mumbai very strong downpour and looks like this is going to continue all day long. Happy that we are all #WFH #MumbaiRains pic.twitter.com/qxqFCDIFXoNothing beats the joy of walking in the rains .⛈️🌧️☂️ #MumbaiRainsSome also shared visuals of roads in knee-deep water.One shower & knee-deep water presents - #MumbaiRains #Mumbailife pic.twitter.com/A6jEDud0NtEarlier on Saturday, IMD confirmed the arrival of the south-west monsoon in Maharashtra, when it had reached up to Harnai port in coastal Ratnagiri district.But, despite favourable conditions, the monsoon was just not progressing to Mumbai.On Tuesday, Mumbai received showers ranging between 20 mm to 40 mm in Colaba, Mahalaxmi and parts of Dadar area, while some weather stations in north Mumbai including Chincholi, Borivali and Dahisar received around 60 mm of rainfall in the first half of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-receives-heavy-rain-as-monsoon-advances-over-maharashtra-101623206458701.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Noida's Aqua Line Metro, shut due to Covid-19 lockdown, resumes today after 40 days||The Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) will resume operations on Wednesday on its Aqua Line as the partial Covid curfew has been lifted. The metro services will be available only on weekdays from 7am to 8pm as the weekend lockdown due to the Covid-19 cases continues to be in place.The metro services in Noida were shut on May 1 after the coronavirus cases spiked.The NMRC officials have made necessary arrangements on stations and trains to ensure Covid-19 safety norms like social distancing and mask-wearing are followed on the premises.Here is all you need to know about the Noida metro operations starting today:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-aqua-line-metro-shut-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-resumes-today-after-40-d-101623200788331.html
09-06-2021||City||Kanpur road accident: Yogi Adityanath announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for families of deceased||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh to families of those killed in Kanpur road accident. He also expressed condolence and said officials have been directed to conduct an investigation to find the cause of the accident.At least 17 people were killed and 20 other sustained injuries after a Delhi-bound bus collided with an auto in Sachendi area of Kanpur district late on Tuesday evening."My heart is stirred by the road accident that took place in the Sachendi area of Kanpur. My condolences are with the bereaved families of the deceased. Praying to Lord Shri Ram to grant peace to the departed souls and speedy recovery to the injured," Adityanath said on Twitter.कानपुर के सचेंडी क्षेत्र में हुई एक सड़क दुर्घटना से मन द्रवित है। मेरी संवेदनाएं मृतकों के शोक संतप्त परिजनों के साथ हैं। प्रभु श्री राम से प्रार्थना है कि दिवंगत आत्माओं को शांति तथा घायलों को शीघ्र स्वास्थ्य लाभ प्रदान करें।"The families of those killed in the accident will be given financial help of ₹2 lakh each. Along with this, the higher officials have been ordered to reach the spot and provide proper treatment to the injured and investigate the cause of the accident and submit the report," he said in subsequent tweet.Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed condolences on the road accident and announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives in the tragedy.Union home minister Amit Shah also condoled the deaths and wished the injured a speedy recovery."I express my condolences to the families of those who lost their lives in the road accident in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh. May God give them the strength to bear this grief. I wish the injured a speedy recovery," Shah tweeted.According to the police, the bus was travelling from Lucknow to Delhi and collided with an auto coming from the opposite direction. The injured were taken to the Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, said police.Kanpur Outer’s superintendent of police Ashtbhuja Prasad Singh said a speeding bus hit a loader, which fell on the other side of the highway, while the bus overturned and fell into a ditch. Inspector General (Kanpur) Mohit Aggarwal said while 16 were brought dead to the hospital, one died during treatment.The collision was so strong that almost all passengers of the bus got trapped and sustained serious injuries, the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kanpur-road-accident-yogi-adityanath-announces-rs-2-lakh-exgratia-101623201004152.html
09-06-2021||City||17 killed, 20 hurt as bus collides in Kanpur||Seventeen people were killed and around 20 sustained injuries when a bus they were travelling in collided with a three-wheeler light carriage truck at Sachendi locality in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur on Tuesday. The injured have been taken to the Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital, said police.Kanpur Outer’s superintendent of police Ashtbhuja Prasad Singh said a speeding bus hit a loader, which fell on the other side of the highway, while the bus overturned and fell into a ditch. Inspector General (Kanpur) Mohit Aggarwal said while 16 were brought dead to the hospital, one died during treatment.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the accident while chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced an ex-gratia amount of ₹ 2 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased and ordered a probe.The collision was so strong that almost all passengers of the bus got trapped and sustained serious injuries, the SP said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/17-killed-20-hurt-as-bus-collides-in-kanpur-101623197071632.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana BJP worker’s murder: Probe transferred after family alleges bias||The probe into the three-year-old murder of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporter Jagdeep Singh alias Rinkle Khera was transferred to assistant commissioner of police (ACP, north) Gurbinder Singh on Tuesday.Earlier, the probe was marked to ACP (central) Waryam Singh. Mani Khera, Rinkle Khera’s brother, said he met additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, city 1) Pragya Jain and demanded that the investigation should be marked to another officer. He alleged that Waryam is biased and favours Congress councillor Gurdeep Singh Neetu, who is allegedly involved in the murder.Mani added that the ADCP has assured them that she will keep a tab on the progress of the inquiry. Jain confirmed that the family requested a change in the investigating officer, following which she has transferred the probe to ACP north.The matter had taken a turn on June 1 after proclaimed offender Sunny Nai appeared on social networking sites with a confession video and claimed that he had executed the killing at the behest of Congress councillor Gurdeep Singh Neetu and his two sons. Sunny had also raised questions against the special investigation team which had given a clean chit to Neetu.“We have handed over videos of confession by one of the main accused, Sunny Nai, to the ADCP, who has directed the ACP to investigate all those people Nai had named in his confession,” he added. On June 2, Mani filed a complaint with police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal, who had marked a probe to ADCP Pragya Jain.Rinkle Khera was hacked to death by a group of assailants on July 19, 2018. The police had registered a murder case against Gurdeep Singh Neetu, his son Jatinder Pal Singh and six others. Later, Neetu was acquitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bjp-worker-s-murder-probe-transferred-after-family-alleges-bias-101623183709928.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Irregularities in purchase of Fateh kits: BJP, AAP accuse Captain govt of committing ₹8-cr fraud||After it rolled back the vaccine stock meant for private hospitals following allegations of profiting, the ruling Congress regime is yet again under fire after the local units of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) accused the government of committing an alleged fraud of ₹8 crore in the purchase of Fateh kits.Both the parties held separate conferences on Tuesday wherein they presented documents and claimed that despite having received a lower bid, the ruling party purchased the Fateh kits at a hefty price, which had caused a loss of ₹8 crore to the government exchequer.BJP leader Anil Sareen and AAP district president Suresh Goyal stated that even though a medical store in Patiala had floated a tender offering to provide the kits at ₹837.76 per unit on April 1, the state government on April 3 issued a purchase order for the first lot of 50,000 Fateh kits at ₹940.80 per unit, the second lot of 50,000 kits at ₹1226.40 per unit and the third lot of 1.5 lakh kits at ₹1,338 per unit, respectively.BJP leader Sareen demanded a CBI probe into the matter. While expressing concern over the issue, Sareen said a small rank employee of the health department would be made a scapegoat while the real culprits will go scot-free. Sareen added that while people were dying due to vaccine shortages and lack of treatment, the government was minting money.Suresh Goyal said that earlier the government had tried to fill its coffers by selling off the Covid vaccines to private hospitals at a premium and now its leaders had indulged in a scam during procurement of kits. “Transfer of Neeraj Singla, director (finance), National Health Mission, Punjab, after the scam is proof that embezzlement had taken place,” said Goyal.The government is already facing flak for purchasing vaccines for ₹400 per vial and selling it to private hospitals at ₹1,060 per unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/irregularities-in-purchase-of-fateh-kits-bjp-aap-accuse-captain-govt-of-committing-8-cr-fraud-101623183708894.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||4 members of gang held in Ludhiana for hatching conspiracy to commit robbery||Basti Jodhewal police busted a gang of robbers with the arrest of four men from Manmohan Colony, Bahadurke Road, late on Monday night, while they were hatching a conspiracy to commit a robbery. Sharp-edged weapons have been recovered from their possession.The accused have been identified as Gagandeep Singh, Uma Shankar Pandey of Deep Vihar, Noorwala road, Deena Dayal of Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh and Harpreet Singh of Khwajke Village. The kingpin of the gang, Prince of Kila Mohalla, managed to escape.Inspector Mohammad Jamil, station house officer at Basti Jodhewal police station, said that the accused were arrested based a tip-off. They had assembled in a vacant plot and were hatching a conspiracy of a robbery. When police conducted a raid, Prince fled from the spot while the rest were arrested. The accused are already facing a trial in various cases of snatchings and robberies. With their arrest, at least 14 cases of snatchings, robberies and vehicle lifting have been solved. All the accused are drug addicts and involved in crime to fund their addiction.A case under Sections 399 (making preparation to commit dacoity) and 402 (assembling for purpose of committing dacoity) of Indian Penal Code has been lodged against the accused at Basti Jodhewal police station. A hunt is on for the arrest of Prince.The accused were produced before the court on Tuesday and remanded to one day in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-members-of-gang-held-in-ludhiana-for-hatching-conspiracy-to-commit-robbery-101623183650099.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Daily Covid caseload continues to drop as only 115 test +ve in Ludhiana||Six more persons succumbed to Covid in the district on Tuesday, taking the total death toll to 2,041 even as daily cases continued to fall with only 115 testing positive in the last 24 hours.On Monday, 135 fresh cases were reported with the figure falling below 200 for the first time in three months. The total number of infections since the beginning of the pandemic is 85,704, including 81,553 recoveries.There are 2,110 active cases in the district at present. Currently, 32 Covid patients are on ventilator support in the city.DC rolls out directions for districtA day after the state government announced certain relaxations, Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma rolled out fresh directions on Tuesday.There will be no change in the weekend curfew as all shops have been ordered to remain shut over the weekend. The latest edition of the lockdown allows shops to stay open till 6pm while private offices can function at 50% capacity. Up to 20 people will be allowed to attend gatherings such as weddings and cremations, states the decision taken by the state government. It has also allowed recruitment exams, sports training, and organising of national and international events. Tent dealers’ body seeks reliefThe Punjab Tent Dealers’ Welfare Association met the deputy commissioner on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum demanding relief for the sector. Chief patron Vijay K Singla from Moga said the pandemic has adversely affected the wedding business, while also casting a shadow on related sectors such as catering, marriage palaces, DJ, flower decoration, photography, bands as well as lighting. General secretary Shiv Shanker Rai demanded that the number of guests currently allowed at weddings be increased from 20 so that they can prevent the labourers engaged in this industry from going back to their native states.The representatives also sought that the government should direct the landlords to waive rent of those connected with the industry for this period as their businesses are “doomed”.Meanwhile, the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal asked the government to allow the shops to open on Sundays. Ruing losses, mandal’s general secretary Sunil Mehra expressed dissatisfaction over the announcement that curfew will continue on Sundays. He pointed out that traders from Punjab and other parts of the country usually visit the wholesale markets of the city and other trading hubs on Sundays and therefore continuing curfew restrictions on Sundays is not “justified”. He urged the chief minister to withdraw the Sunday restrictions as the count of Covid cases has reduced in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/daily-covid-caseload-continues-to-drop-as-only-115-test-ve-in-ludhiana-101623183648208.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Woman’s body found dumped at Ludhiana||Body of a woman stuffed in gunny bags was found dumped at a vacant plot in Rudra Colony of Kanganwal area on Tuesday morning, triggering panic among locals. Sahnewal police reached the spot and according to preliminary investigation, her killers had tied her hands and legs with a piece of rope and wrapped her body in three gunny bags. Sahnewal station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector Balwinder Singh said the woman’s neck and head bore marks of injuries inflicted by sharp-edged weapons. The woman appeared to be of Nepalese descent and there also was a tattoo inked on her arm in Nepalese language, the police said. The police have sent the body to civil hospital for postmortem. The woman appeared to be in her early 40s. The police have made an announcement in surrounding areas for identification of the victim. The police have also contacted Nepalese settled in Ludhiana for the identification purpose. Now, the investigating officials are scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity of the plot to get clues about the accused. It is also suspected that the woman was murdered somewhere else and her body was dumped here. The SHO said a passerby had first spotted woman’s feet in the sack and raised alarm. On the possibility of a sexual assault, the police said that postmortem report will provide more details.The police have, meanwhile, registered a murder case against unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/womans-body-found-dumped-at-ludhiana-101623183589483.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Giving dignity to the dead: Ashes of 137 people immersed in Ludhiana||As the Covid cases have begun to decline in the district, the crematoriums are also vacating their lockers where the ashes of unclaimed bodies have been stored for months as no one ever came looking for them.The crematorium near Dholewal military complex on Tuesday took the ashes of 137 such unclaimed bodies and immersed them at the water bodies near Prachin Shiv Mandir in Neelo and Katana Sahib Gurdwara.Among the 137 unclaimed bodies were eight which were Covid-infected. Sharing details, Ranjodh Singh, member of Dukh Bhajan Seva Society and president of Ramgarhia crematorium, said these were the ashes of bodies cremated during the first and second wave. “We had decided to immerse the remains as many such ashes were kept in the lockers for many months,” he added. Singh said that many among the dead were migrants, whose families may have migrated during the lockdown and did not return to perform the last rites of the dead.Pankaj Sharma, a priest at the crematorium, said as the ashes continued to pile up, they increased the number of lockers from 30 to 59 and the count further reached 100.“As the number of deaths began to drop, we decided to give a send-off to those who remained anonymous and no one came to claim them. There were ashes of eight Covid patients and no one turned up to claim their mortal remains,” Pankaj said. He said the ashes were loaded in a truck . “While 60 of remains were immersed in the water body near Katana Sahib, the remaining ones were immersed in Sirhind canal near Shiv Mandir at Neelo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/giving-dignity-to-the-dead-ashes-of-137-people-immersed-in-ludhiana-101623183588371.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Dog sterilisation process resumes in Ludhiana||At a time when stray dog menace continues to haunt locals and the memories of brutal canine attack on a 15-year-old girl in Krishna Nagar are still fresh, the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) on Tuesday restarted the dog sterilisation project, which was halted for over three months, with the opening of a new block of animal birth control facility in Haibowal dairy complex on Tuesday.Inaugurating the facility established at a cost of around ₹1 crore under the Smart City Mission, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said the menace will be brought under control within 18 months. Mayor Balkar Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal were among others who were present during the event. A Delhi-based firm has been awarded the contract and two teams of 12 members, including veterinarians and dog catchers, will be working to catch and sterilise stray dogs in the city with a target of sterilising 60 animals on daily basis. MC officials said the civic body will pay ₹1,200 to the company for sterilising a dog and the contract has been signed for two years. Under the previous contract, which expired in February, MC used to pay ₹990 to a Hyderabad-based firm.Ashu said the newly established centre has preparation and sterilisation rooms, operation theatre, 22 kennels, including six pre and 16 post-operation kennels. Following the surgery, the sterilised dogs will be kept under observation for five to six days and then left in the same area from where they were caught so that their natural habitat is not disturbed. Before releasing the dogs, anti-rabies shots will also be administered to them.He said, “The sterilisation target will be increased from 60 to 100 dogs per day in the coming time. As per the experts, the menace will be brought under control within a period of 18 months.”The sterilisation project came to the halt on March 1 after the term of the previous contract expired. The MC delayed the process to hire a new contractor and a contract with the current firm was signed in May. On an average, 35-40 dog bite cases are reported at the civil hospital per day.Commenced in 2015, the project was facing roadblocks since last August due to the exodus of labourers amid the pandemic. The officials stated that around 50,000 dogs have been sterilised under the project till now. Covid norms floutedDespite a ban on political gatherings as per the Covid restrictions imposed in the state, over 70 people, including senior Congress leaders and workers, participated in the inaugural event organised at the centre. No social distancing was observed and despite cops’ deployment at the spot for security purposes, many of the participants were seen without masks. When questioned, minister Ashu said, “No invitation was extended to the workers or leaders for participating in the event. Covid guidelines were followed while inaugurating the facility. Gathering of 20 persons has been permitted by the government and most of the participants in the event were from media houses only.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dog-sterilisation-process-resumes-in-ludhiana-101623183530716.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||200 measurement books missing from Ludhiana MC records since 2013||With the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) conducting an inquiry into missing measurement books, it has come to the fore that around 200 of them have been misplaced from the civic body’s record since 2013. Now, show-cause notices have been issued to 48 junior engineers (JEs) and subdivisional officer-level officials to whom the books were issued initially.MC officials have to mention the measurements of construction projects taken up by the contractors in these books and payment to the contractor is made on the basis of the same. The issue of the missing books is raised after every audit, but no concrete action was taken by the civic body in the past. Complaints have also been submitted with the local bodies department regarding the missing books by RTI activists.Senior officials involved in the inquiry suspect large-scale embezzlement as payments are made to the contractors on the basis of the details mentioned in these books. Development projects worth crores have been taken up by MC since 2013.One of the civic body officials, requesting anonymity, said in many cases, the measurement books are handed over to the contractors by MC staffers and politicians have been patronising the officials in the past.MC additional commissioner Rishipal Singh said, “An inquiry has been initiated and show-cause notices issued to 48 officials to whom the books were issued initially. We are investigating the matter and further action will be taken as per the directions received from the higher authorities.”3 JEs accuse SDO of fraudulently transferring 77 books in their namesAccusing a subdivisional officer (SDO) of forcibly trying to hand over 77 already filled measurement books, three JEs deputed in Zone-C office of the MC have submitted a complaint with the additional commissioner’s office. The JE alleged that the SDO, who was in possession of the books for the last seven to eight years, has fraudulently transferred them in their (JEs) names after an inquiry into the missing books was initiated by the higher authorities. Over a week has elapsed after the books have been transferred to us in the official records, but the same have still not been handed over to us, alleged the JEs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/200-measurement-books-missing-from-ludhiana-mc-records-since-2013-101623183528629.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram seeks more funds to fortify areas along China border||With China rapidly upgrading its infrastructure along the Himachal Pradesh border, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has requested the ministry of defence to infuse more funds to accelerate road development in frontier areas. Thakur, who had met defence minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi on June 7, said, “I apprised the Union minister regarding the situation along the Indian border and urged him to provide more funds to the Border Roads Organisation (BRO). I also asked the Union minister to handover the army-run Walker Hospital to the state government. The hospital, which is at walking distance from the Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC) will provide additional medical facilities to the people of the state.” The CM, on his return from the Capital, said, “My two-day tour to Delhi was successful as several issues pertaining to the development of Himachal Pradesh were discussed with Union ministers of different ministries.”On the announcements made by the Prime Minister regarding the country’s vaccination policy, the CM hailed the decision to provide free vaccines to all the states for inoculating everyone above the age of 18 from June 21.“Allowing private hospitals to directly procure 25% vaccines will go a long way in ensuring more people get inoculated at pre-decided prices.”The PM has extended the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana till November this year, which will go a long way in benefitting around 80 crore people of the country by providing free ration every month during the pandemic, he said.While meeting with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the CM had asked that the state be provided the GST compensation due from the Centre for the financial years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-2020 and that the hill state be provided all financial assistance recommended by the 15th finance commission.The CM had asked that the state’s allocation for vaccine doses be enhanced during his meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah. He also urged for early approval for a bulk drug park in Una besides sanctioning of a medical devices park, and electric devices manufacturing hub in the state..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-seeks-more-funds-to-fortify-areas-along-china-border-101623181967903.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sentencing in Kotkhai rape case deferred to June 15||A special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation on Tuesday deferred announcement of the quantum of sentence in the Kotkhai rape and murder case to June 15. The hearing has been deferred for the fifth time since April 28, when the court had held the lone accused, Anil Kumar, alias Nilu, a wood cutter, guilty of rape and murder.The verdict had been announced by special judge Rajiv Bharadwaj after hearing both the defence and prosecution through video conference. The accused could not be produced in court because of the coronavirus curfew. A Class-10 student in Kotkhai town of Shimla district had gone missing on July 4, 2017. On July 6, the victim’s body was found in Tandi forest. Initially, the special investigation team constituted by the state police had arrested six people in the state. The death of one of the six suspects, Suraj Kumar, in police custody after an alleged severe beating, triggered widespread protests in the state. The case was later transferred to the CBI, who arrested the 25-year-old lumberjack after DNA testing on April 14, 2018, which led to the exoneration of the six people arrested by Himachal Pradesh Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sentencing-in-kotkhai-rape-case-deferred-to-june-15-101623181847919.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala: Ex-serviceman, son duped of ₹58 lakh by brother||A retired army man from Ambala was allegedly duped by his own brother and his family on the pretext of sending him to the United States, the police said on Tuesday.The complainant, Gurcharan Singh, a resident of Barara village, said that his elder son, living in the US, had wanted him and his wife to settle there. “When my brother, Paramjeet, got to know of this, he and his relatives living in Kurukshetra and Spain conspired against us. First, they took ₹5 lakh along with my passport from me, and later they took nearly ₹53 lakh from my son in instalments on the pretext of sending us to US,” he said.He further added that since they never made it to the US, “when Paramjeet’s relatives arrived from abroad, we asked for our money back, but they intimidated us”.An FIR was lodged under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) against Paramjeet Singh and his relatives, Jaswinder Kaur, Lakhwinder Singh, Lakhbir Singh, Lakhbir Kaur, Sukhwinder Singh, Gurwinder Kaur and Surender Kaur, at Barara police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambalaexserviceman-son-duped-of-58-lakh-by-brother-101623181788006.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||596 more infections in HP||Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday recorded 596 fresh infections taking the state’s Covid caseload to 1,96,351, while the death toll mounted to 3,312 after 13 patients succumbed to the contagion. At 149, the highest cases were reported in Kangra, followed by 105 in Mandi, 60 in Shimla, 53 in Chamba, 52 in Una 51 in Kullu, 42 in Solan, 38 in Hamirpur, 18 in Bilaspur, 16 in Sirmaur, 11 in Lahaul-Spiti and six in Kinnaur. The overall recoveries stood at 1,86,033 after 1,155 people recuperated while the active cases whittled down to 6,983. Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 44,758 infections, followed by Mandi with 26,262 cases and Shimla with 24,493 cases. Solan has 21,920 cases, Sirmaur 14,971, Hamirpur 13,942, Una 12,938, Bilaspur 12,308, Chamba 10,434 , Kullu 8,588, Kinnaur 3,095 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,642 cases. Ramp up vaccination drive: HP Cong to CentreThe Himachal Pradesh Congress on Tuesday submitted a memorandum to the President of India and governor of Himachal Pradesh through deputy commissioner Kangra demanding that the government ensure that at least 1 crore people are vaccinated in day and universal free vaccination is provided to every citizen of India.The delegation led was led by Kangra district Congress chief Ajay Mahajan. State vice-president Pawan Kajal and general secretaries Ashish Butail and Kewal Singh Pathania were also present on the occasion.Mahajan said Union BJP government is guilty of criminal mismanagement of Covid-19. “Vaccination is the only protection amid the raging pandemic but the Modi government’s vaccination strategy has been a dangerous cocktail of blunders and bloopers.” “While other countries had started placing purchase orders for vaccines from May 2020, the Centre and state governments did it only in January 2021. To date, the government has ordered only 39 crore vaccine doses for a population of 140 crore. India has administered 21.31 crore vaccine doses till May 31 but only 4.45 crore people have received both the shots which is only 3.17% of India’s population. In last 134 days, the average pace of vaccination is about 16 lakh vaccine doses per day. At this pace, it will take over three years for us to vaccinate our adult population,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/596-more-infections-in-hp-101623181668006.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Amid downturn in virus cases, J&K experts say no room for complacency||As coronavirus disease cases in Jammu and Kashmir continue their downward trend, experts have asked the public to not lower their guard as it could lead to another upsurge in infections in the Union Territory. Around 4,000 people have died in the UT since the virus outbreak in March 2020. May had proved to be deadliest month with 1,625 deaths and 1,14,382 infections. The lockdown has played a vital role in curtailing the spread, which is being reflected in the hospitals’ reduced caseloads, says Baramulla Government Medical College senior doctor Dr Javeed Iqbal. “We are witnessing fewer cases than what was seen in April,” he said. On June 7, the daily case count of J&K dropped below 1,000. The active cases dropped to 23,524 against the peak of 52,848 recorded on May 13. The overall recoveries reached 2,73,853, prompting the recovery rate to climb over 90% on Monday - after 49 days. SKIMS Bemina senior consultant Dr Abdul Ahad Wani says everybody needs to be extremely cautious. “We cannot lower our guard. The situation vis-à-vis Covid is tense but under control. People need to follow all precautions and not think that the virus is gone.”“Many Covid patients continue to be hospitalised. The situation has improved and so has the need for oxygen concentrators and beds. However, the virus is very unpredictable and any leniency could cause trouble in the coming months,” said Dr Amjid Shah, adding that people should stay masked, avoid crowded places and get the jab. Meanwhile, to determine Covid antibody prevalence, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is conducting the fourth round of the “National sero-survey for COVID-19” later this month in the same 70 districts, in which the first three rounds were conducted. In Kashmir, the survey will be conducted at south Kashmir’s Pulwama district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-downturn-in-virus-cases-j-k-experts-say-no-room-for-complacency-101623181487934.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||NGT pulls up Chandigarh admn over release of untreated sewage into Ghaggar||The National Green Tribunal (NGT), New Delhi, has come down heavily on the Chandigarh administration for its failure to stop the discharge of untreated effluents into the Ghaggar River. The tribunal bench, presided over by NGT chairperson and former Supreme Court judge AK Goel (justice retired), directed UT to ensure that sewage from the city flowing into the Ghaggar River is treated and sought a report within two months.It directed the Punjab chief secretary and UT adviser in coordination with other officials concerned, to take appropriate remedial measures and ensure zero discharge of untreated water out of city. It took serious view of an application filed by lawyer and activist Sunaina, who had told NGT that contaminated water from Chandigarh enters nullahs in Mohali and the river, which is used by nearby farmers for cultivation, thus polluting the entire food chain and jeopardising the health of people and aquatic life. The plea wanted the administration and Punjab to install necessary sewage treatment plants. “If the state itself fails to implement the law, it is nothing but a breakdown of the system itself. Is this tribunal to just remain silent on such gross failure or hold highest authorities accountable by directing their prosecution for their criminal failure and indirectly being party to the crime against the law of the land? We expect answers to these questions from the states,” the NGT bench observed.It further said that for delay and continued violation, realistic compensation has to be recovered from the erring officers, apart from other action or in default, the compensation has to be quantified and recovered. It also sought recommendation from an executive NGT committee in this regard“We hope that the states realise their responsibility to function according to the Constitution and take immediate remedial measures by punishing the guilty of failing to comply with the law and also take prompt measures instead of repeatedly taking the same plea of being engaged in tender process or DPRs. It should not be difficult at this length of time to overcome such procedural requirements and to effectively prevent discharge of the untreated effluents after 46 years of enactment of Water Act and repeated orders of the Supreme Court and other courts,” the bench said.It was in 2019, directions were issued to ensure release of 100% treated water into rivers and nullahs by March March 31, 2020. However, NGT observed that there is hardly any significant improvement. “It is breach of public trust under Public Trust Doctrine. We are left with a feeling that there is no commitment to the rule of law and no concern for the environment and health of the citizens on the part of the authorities concerned,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ngt-pulls-up-chandigarh-admn-over-release-of-untreated-sewage-into-ghaggar-101623181368612.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Antilia case: NIA wants to probe terror angle, seeks 90-day extension for filing charge sheet||The special court on Tuesday sought replies of the accused booked in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran to the plea filed by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) seeking a 90-day extension to file the charge sheet against the five accused. The special court has now posted the plea for further hearing on Wednesday. NIA in its application claimed that the possible involvement of a terrorist organisation, Jaish-ul-Hind, and its alleged demand for money from industrialist Mukesh Ambani needs a deeper probe. The agency also sought an extension of the detention period of the five accused – former Mumbai Police personnel Sachin Vaze, Riyazuddin Kazi and Sunil Mane and Vinayak Shinde, and cricket bookie Naresh Gor – for 90 more days. The agency, while seeking extension of their custody, claimed that the accused “will in all possible manner threaten the prosecution witnesses, cause destruction of material evidences/articles, tamper with the evidences collected by NIA, thus, hampering the very purpose of investigation of this case.” On February 25, an SUV was found abandoned near Ambani’s residence Antilia with explosives and a threatening note addressed to the businessman. Hiran, the owner of the SUV, who had reported it stolen on February 17 was found dead on March 5 in a creek near Mumbra. NIA took over the cases and Vaze was arrested in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-case-nia-wants-to-probe-terror-angle-seeks-90-day-extension-for-filing-charge-sheet-101623181127297.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||At 34.3°C, Kashmir sees its hottest day of the year||With mercury climbing to 34.3°C, Kashmir witnessed the hottest day of the year on Tuesday.While the ongoing first heat wave of the year in Kashmir is expected to continue for the next two more days, monsoon is expected to hit the region and bring light rains from June 11.Meteorological department officials said the Valley is reporting day temperature of over 30°C for the past three days.“We are passing through a heat wave. June 8 was the hottest day of the year with Srinagar recording a temperature of 34.3°C as against a normal of 27.9°C,” said meteorologist Mohammad Hussain Mir.Srinagar also recorded a minimum of 18.6°C during the night. The northern district of Kupwara saw mercury settling at 34°C during the day while the ski resort of Gulmarg saw a temperature of 25°C.Mir said the temperature will remain 4.5 degrees above normal for the next two days after which monsoon may affect the region. He said from June 11, cloudy weather and isolated mild rains can be expected owing to a mild depression in the Bay of Bengal, which will move through Gangetic Plains and mildly affect Jammu and Kashmir. “There will be mostly scattered rains from June 12 to 14 with widespread rains on June 13,” said Mir. The second half of the month of May and early June witnessed extreme weather conditions with sunshine in the mornings and afternoons, and thunderstorms and showers during the evenings.April had witnessed some good wet spells across the region. After a relatively hot February, March had mostly remained cold and rainy with intermittent precipitation across Jammu and Kashmir.Although February had witnessed a number of snow spells, the month also saw an abrupt increase in maximum temperatures. On February 22, Srinagar had recorded a maximum of 18.6 degrees and Kupwara had gone even further to record 20.5 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-34-3-c-kashmir-sees-its-hottest-day-of-the-year-101623181070858.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University research scholars protest curbs on hostel accommodation||Students staged a protest at the Panjab University campus on Tuesday against the varsity’s decision to not allow research scholars whose guides are not from the university campus to avail hostel accommodation.The students assembled outside the office of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and raised slogans against the university authorities.While addressing the students, Sandeep, president of Students For Society (SFS), said, “When scholars are doing their PhD from PU, then it does not matter whether their guide is from the university or from outside.”In a recent communication issued by the office of dean students’ welfare to all heads of the departments and hostel wardens, it was stated that as per the handbook of hostel rule number 19(k), the research scholars whose guides are not from the PU campus, will not be allowed to get accommodation in the hostel.Also, the chairpersons of the departments were advised not to recommend hostel forms of such candidates.The students in their statement said that if a scholar is registered pays fees to PU, then there is no logic behind denying hostel accommodation to those whose guides are not from the varsity. They also said that the authorities have agreed to revisit the decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-research-scholars-protest-curbs-on-hostel-accommodation-101623180889531.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||With 11 deaths, J&K registers lowest daily fatality count in 47 days||Srinagar: Jammu and Kashmir registered the lowest daily fatality count of 11 in 47 days on Tuesday, taking the overall deaths to 4,101.The grim milestone of the highest single-day deaths had been recorded on May 17 when 73 people had succumbed in the virus — 54 in Jammu and 19 in Kashmir. The cumulative cases stood at 3,02,651 after 1,184 more Covid cases were detected in the Union Territory. While the Valley clocked 763 cases and six deaths, Jammu division saw 421 infections and five fatalities.As many as 2,880 patients recuperated, 1,884 from Kashmir and 996 from Jammu, which brought down the active cases to 21,817 and increased the recovery rate to 91.43%. So far, 2, 76,733 people have recovered in the UT. Officials said 44,980 tests had been conducted in the last 24 hours in the UT, with the overall tests reaching 8.93 million. Officials said with 245 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 109 in Baramulla, 89 in Budgam, 84 in Pulwama and 75 in Jammu.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.19 lakh cases and 1,903 deaths of the total. At 1,102, Jammu has the highest number of fatalities, followed by Srinagar with 801 deaths.Farooq urges people to get vaccinated National conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday appealed people to get vaccinated at the earliest in order to stay safe from Covid. “We are in the midst of a pandemic called COVID-19. Hundreds of thousands have died due to it, but thankfully we now have a vaccine which can keep us safe from this disease,” Abdullah, who is the Lok Sabha member from Srinagar, said in a video posted by the NC on its social media handles. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, however, cautioned the people against lowering the guard in the fight against Covid, saying the SOPs such as wearing mask, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene need to be followed in order to stop the spread of the infection.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-11-deaths-j-k-registers-lowest-daily-fatality-count-in-47-days-101623180828409.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Parents want Mohali, Panchkula schools to put balance sheets online||After the Punjab and Haryana high court upheld Chandigarh administration’s law mandating private unaided schools to upload their balance sheets on their websites, the parents of children studying in Panchkula and Mohali are also asking that the schools here follow suit.The chairman of the Panchkula Parents’ Association, Bharat Bhushan Bansal, said, “In Panchkula, some schools do submit details of their balance sheets to the education department, but we want them to put this information out in public domain. The high court’s decision should also be applicable to schools in the state of Haryana.”President of the association, Manish Banger, added that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had recently issued instructions regarding mandatory public disclosure by schools on their websites: “We will write to the CBSE authorities soon if these instructions are not followed by the schools here.”RTE, Haryana Education Act also mandate financial transparencyExplaining the legal angle, advocate Pardeep Rapria, former law officer of the Central Information Commission, said, “In Panchkula, all schools follow the Haryana Education Act, according to which the schools are required to present their balance sheets to the directorate of education for each academic year in a suo-moto manner. However, schools don’t do this. Further, as per Section 4 of the Right to Information Act, they are also required to upload the information online so it is accessible by the people.”Speaking about this, district education elementary officer, Panchkula, Nirupama said, “We have received no instructions regarding this. Private elementary schools under my charge haven’t uploaded the details online.”Chandigarh had adopted its rules from the Punjab Regulation of Fee of Unaided Educational Institution Act, 2016, that has a clause of making balance sheets public; the Independent School Association (ISA) had challenged it in their complaint back in 2018.Clause adopted by UT not applicable in Punjab schoolsThe Act that is applicable in Punjab, however, doesn’t have this clause, as per advocate Charanpal Singh Bagri, who is representing parents in Punjab over the issue of fee for the academic year 2020-2021.“The Justice Amar Dutt Committee in 2013 had recommended that all schools upload their balance sheets online, but this clause was not included in the 2016 Act,” said Bagri, adding that the matter of uploading balance sheets during the pandemic by Punjab schools is currently pending in the Supreme Court.Parents of children studying in Mohali schools are also seeking similar rules. Raman Sidana, who has a son studying in a private school here, said, “Though the classes have gone online, we continue to pay the same fees, which is unjustified. Once the summer vacations are over, parents are sure to object to these.”Another parent with two children studying in two different private schools in Mohali, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Some protests were organised by parents in the beginning of April, too, in demand for more transparency of finances by the schools. However, schools tried to threaten us and as Covid cases went up, the protests also stopped. We will start again when the situation improves.”In Chandigarh, while the UT education department will soon start taking action against schools who haven’t uploaded their balance sheets online, the Independent School Association plans to move the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parents-want-mohali-panchkula-schools-to-put-balance-sheets-online-101623180769028.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-servicemen flag liquor quota, CSD canteen problems in Chandigarh||The United Front of Ex-Servicemen, a non-governmental organisation (NGO), in a recent letter to the Army Veteran Cell has said that the veterans were facing problems in availing their liquor quota at various CSD canteens amid the pandemic.While raising their concerns, the ex-servicemen body has said that all liquor shops in states like Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are open to civilians, whereas all the CSD canteens were closed causing problems to the ex-servicemen there.“Some cantonments have CSD canteens located deep inside the campus, forcing the veterans to go through the gate checks. Each canteen needs to have windows and computers as per the veterans’ strength so that each one of us gets time to visit the canteen twice in a month,” reads the letter written by the NGO.The president of the NGO, Lt Col (retd) SS Sohi, said, “We have received complaints that veterans are facing problems due to the closure of CSD canteens. The canteens should be opened at all places as per the guidelines of the local administration. We also request that there should be an ex-servicemen cell at every station.”Proposal for Sainik Welfare CentreIn the letter, the NGO has also proposed that a piece of land on GT Road between Karnal and Panipat, which was donated by a veteran for defence use, could be used for setting up a Sainik Welfare Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exservicemen-flag-liquor-quota-csd-canteen-problems-in-chandigarh-101623180767946.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s civic plaints down by 27% in Covid yr: Praja||In the pandemic year, the number of civic complaints from Mumbaiites declined by 27% as compared to 2019, a report by non-government organisation (NGO) Praja has revealed. Civic body officials have declined to comment on the report.In 2019, there were 128,145 civic complaints that went down to 93,774 last year. The report added that roads, water supply, drainage and storm water drains were the departments that saw a major slump in the number of complaints. However, despite this decline, the average number of days taken to close a complaint went up from 30 in 2019 to 39 days last year.According to the NGO, the complaints went down in 2020 as Covid-related activities had to be prioritised, which may also have resulted in the increase in the time taken to address basic civic complaints. The number of closed complaints also fell to 82% in 2020 from 96% in 2019, the report revealed.According to Praja’s data, complaints related to roads fell by 55%, from 15,239 in 2019 to 6,908 in 2020. The closed complaints pertaining to roads also fell in 2020 to 67% from 95% in 2019, while the average number of days taken to solve these complaints increased to 52 days last year, compared to 31 in 2019.The number of complaints related to storm water drains also went down to 1,409 in 2020 against 2,155 recorded in 2019. The average number of days taken to resolve each of these complaints went up to 62 days from 34 days in 2019. In the case of solid waste management department, the complaints went down by 32%, but the days needed to resolve one issue went up to 43 days from 2019’s 19.However, in the pandemic year, plaints related to pest control saw a surge, indicating that citizens were thoughtful about health and hygiene. In 2019, there were 7,501 complaints related to pest control, which shot up to 10,971 last year. Further, the days required to solve issues related to pest control also went up to 26 days from 17 days in 2019. “Ideally, the days taken to resolve the number of complaints should not have gone up as they had declined in 2020. But as the staff was deployed in Covid-19 duties, the days to address the complaints took longer,” said Milind Mhaske, director, Praja.According to the report, 74% of complainants did not use the Councillor’s Code, a method that would have increased accountability of elected representatives. The report also pointed out to an imbalance in water provided to slum and non-slum areas. It further stated that while the civic body claims achieving 100% door-to-door collection of waste as of 2019-20, the NGO found that 34% of all the solid waste management complaints in 2020 were on non-collection of garbage. The NGO also said that only one out of every four public toilet seats is for women.Praja also stated that in wake of BMC’s Covid-19 management, three key areas of successes came to light that can be carried forward in the post-pandemic rebuilding to improve the services at ward level. These included decentralisation of various functions at local level for inclusive decision-making, better quality of services and setting up of the war rooms. “BMC should collaborate with various stakeholders to find innovative solutions for city’s growth. This will not only help with the day-to-day services efficiently but also in becoming a future ready city,” said Praja’s founder trustee Nitai Mehta||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-civic-plaints-down-by-27-in-covid-yr-praja-101623180708498.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||India-origin US citizen booked for Aadhaar card forgery in Mohali||An Indian-origin US citizen and his uncle have been booked for pretending to be father and son through a fake Aadhaar card to facilitate the former’s kidney transplant in Mohali.The accused, Harjeet Singh, hails from Phagwara, Punjab, and lives in California, US. He and his uncle Surinder Singh were booked on the complaint of his father-in-law, Paramjeet Singh, a resident of Nizampura Hawelian village in Amritsar district.In his complaint to the Mohali SSP in February last year, Paramjeet stated that Harjeet and his father, Resham Singh, lived in the US.For a kidney ailment, Paramjeet approached a private hospital in Phase 8, Mohali, where he was advised a transplant. To circumvent organ transplantation rules that allow transplant within blood relations only, Harjeet prepared a fake Aadhaar card, reflecting Surinder as his father. The complainant alleged that Harjeet also paid Surinder ₹30 lakh for donating his kidney and returned to the US after the surgery. Following an over 15-month investigation, police have booked the uncle-nephew duo under Sections 419, 198, 199 and 200 of the Indian Penal Code at the Phase 8 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/indiaorigin-us-citizen-booked-for-aadhaar-card-forgery-in-mohali-101623180708011.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Youths assault man over his dog touching their football, four held||Angered by his pet dog touching their football, a group of youths beat up a man with hockey sticks near the Sector 42 lake on Monday.The accused, Gaurav and Vijay, both residents of Sector 52, and Rohit and Anuj Singh, residents of Buterla village, Sector 41, were arrested on the complaint of Shivam Yadav of Attawa village. Shivam told the police that he was out for a walk with his dog near the lake on Sunday. The youths were playing football nearby. As the ball rolled over near him, his dog touched it, which angered the group. They hurled abuses at him before leaving. On Monday, when he was again walking with his dog as per routine, the youths attacked him with hockey sticks. As a crowd gathered, they fled the spot. Police were informed and Yadav was admitted to a hospital. Acting on his complaint, the accused were booked under Sections 147, 148, 149, 323 and 341 of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 36 police station and arrested later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-youths-assault-man-over-his-dog-touching-their-football-four-held-101623180647901.html
09-06-2021||Other||UP cabinet nod to proposals to beautify approach roads to Ayodhya temple||The Uttar Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday approved a proposal for alignment, broadening and beautification of approach roads to the under-construction Ram temple in Ayodhya.It approved the proposal to buy buildings and land needed for broadening and beautification of the said roads. It also decided to transfer Nazul land to different departments for the development of ‘Ayodhya Dham’. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath led the cabinet meeting that approved the proposals through circulation method.Polytechnics to be run on PPP model The state cabinet approved a proposal to run government polytechnics and government industrial training institutes (ITIs) in cooperation with private partnership on public private partnership (PPP) model.Centre of excellence at NOIDAThe state cabinet approved a proposal to set up a centre of excellence at NOIDA under the provisions of UP Startup Policy 2020. The IIT Kanpur and FICCI will set up the centre of excellence.The state cabinet approved a proposal to provide free of cost land to transport department for building a bus station at Shikarpur in Bulandshahr. It approved a proposal to set up a roadways depot in Jalesar assembly constituency of Etah district. A proposal for demolition and auction of an abandoned building of principal’s residence at government leather institute, Kanpur Nagar, was also approved. It also approved a proposal to amend rule 17 (1) (a) of the General Provident Fund (Uttar Pradesh) Rules 1985.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-cabinet-nod-to-proposals-to-beautify-approach-roads-to-ayodhya-temple-101623180589735.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mercury crosses 40°C in Chandigarh, rain relief on the cards||The sunny weather on Tuesday took the maximum temperature up to 40.9°C, two degrees above normal and almost three notches higher than Monday’s 38°C.However, relief is likely from Thursday onwards with cloudy weather and light rain, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).IMD officials said, “Due to clear skies a jump in the temperatures was expected. It can rise further on Wednesday, but another western disturbance may arrive on Thursday and will help bring the temperature down.”Meanwhile, the minimum temperature also increased from 26.2°C on Monday to 28.5°C, four degrees above normal. Over the next three days, the day temperature will remain between 38°C and 42°C, and the night temperature may rise up to 30°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mercury-crosses-40-c-in-chandigarh-rain-relief-on-the-cards-101623180589294.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University assistant dean wins Greenpreneur Award||Charu Khosla, assistant dean, office of international affairs, Chitkara University, Punjab, won the prestigious Greenpreneur Award 2021 organised by FICCI in association with Punjab government for exemplary work in ‘energy management’.The Greenpreneur Awards 2021 were organised by Startup Punjab in collaboration with Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI FLO), Amritsar, to honour Punjab’s finest entrepreneurs in energy management, water management, waste and material productivity, and innovative practices in sustainability. FLO is the women wing of the FICCI, which has its headquarters in New Delhi, with 17 chapters covering different geographical regions of India. Charu Khosla is the founder of BB OORJA Pvt Ltd, which has been incubated by Chitkara University. The startup uses clean and green fuel through agro-waste management for its smokeless cooking stove, a unique product for households and hotels.On receiving the award, Charu said, “I am thankful for receiving this honour. I am also thankful to Chitkara University for giving me the right wings and the right platform.”The winner was chosen after witnessing a spate of nominations, from topmost and established industries from all over Punjab competing for this coveted recognition for building a sustainable future.Speaking on the occasion, Madhu Chitkara, pro chancellor, Chitkara University, said, “Chitkara University has a vision to support entrepreneurship and innovation while acknowledging efforts and creativity. We like to encourage our faculty to explore their potential and expand their horizons. We congratulate Charu Khosla for this brilliant accomplishment.”The winner was declared by Alok Shekhar, principal secretary, Industries and Commerce, and Rajat Agarwal, IAS, CEO Invest Punjab, in a virtual ceremony on world environment day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-assistant-dean-wins-greenpreneur-award-101623180528955.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula gets Metropolitan Development Authority||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday announced constitution of the Panchkula Metropolitan Development Authority (PMDA) for swift execution of the district’s integrated development plan.“PMDA will ensure sustained and balanced growth of Panchkula. The authority will work on the lines of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority,” the CM said at a press conference in Panchkula.The authority will work with the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran, the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation and the Panchkula municipal corporation to ensure availability of infrastructure and other key facilities to people.“A map identifying every corner of Panchkula will be prepared, and later hoardings displaying information about completed and ongoing projects will be installed across the city to give people a clear idea,” Khattar said.Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said a detailed order, explaining the structure, powers and role of this authority, was awaited. “However, one of the functions will definitely be to coordinate with nearby regional authorities and the state government,” he added.Haryana’s economic capitalTalking about the state government’s plans for making Panchkula a major hub for industrial investment, the CM said, “Various developmental charges and taxes have been slashed by almost one-third in Panchkula district, bringing them on par with Mohali and Zirakpur to woo investors.”He said they were in regular touch with industrialists to attract investors from the pharmaceutical industry in Panchkula and Barwala.He shared that Morni will be developed as a new adventure destination for paragliders. “Paragliding will be started there on the occasion of International Yoga Day on June 20,” he said.He also assured that the Sector 23 dumping ground will be shifted by December 31, 2021Two big hospitals on the cardsTo develop Panchkula as a medicity, two big hospitals with latest health infrastructure will be set up in Sectors 32 and 5C.“The state’s first joint food and drug testing lab is being opened in Panchkula’s Sector 3 at a cost of ₹22 crore. A Wellness Centre and Panchakarma Centre are also being set up at Thapli. Besides, a nursing college is being established in Panchkula,” Khattar said.Nakshatra, Sugandh Vatikas to promote tourismThe chief minister said for promoting tourism and preserving the lush green atmosphere of Panchkula, Nakshatra Vatika, Sugandh Vatika and Rashi Van were being established on around 20 acres along the Morni road.“Plants related to all 27 nakshatras will be planted in Nakshatra Vatika and detailed information about these plants will be made available to visitors,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-gets-metropolitan-development-authority-101623180468860.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Mhada: 21 south Mumbai structures are extremely dangerous||The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) on Tuesday said that as per its pre-monsoon survey, of the 14,755 dilapidated buildings in the Island city, 21 are ‘extremely dangerous’. It has asked the residents staying in the 21 structures to immediately vacate their houses. There are 717 tenants (460 residential and 257 commercial) in these buildings, located at Mazagaon, Girguam, Khetwadi, VP Road and Nagpada in south Mumbai. The Mumbai Repairs and Reconstruction Board, an arm of Mhada, looks after the maintenance of old buildings in the Island city and conducts survey of old buildings before the onset of monsoon every year. It then directs the residents (owners and tenants) of buildings, which are in a dangerous condition and may collapse during heavy rains, to vacate the premises. The residents are given free transit tenements built by Mhada. Vinod Ghosalkar, chairman, Mumbai Repair and Reconstruction Board, said, “These buildings can collapse anytime and hence, we requested the residents to move out immediately. We will accommodate these tenants at our transit accommodations,” said Ghosalkar.When asked whether the residents are being reluctant to move out, Ghosalkar said, “I will meet them personally, and I’m sure they will heed to my request. We have the power to forcibly evict, but we’ll exercise restraint.” He said that most of the transit accommodations are in the suburbs.Of these 21 structures, 10 have been repeated from last year’s list. Last year, 18 structures were declared ‘extremely dangerous’.These buildings will be demolished after they are vacated. The landlord and tenants will have to go for revamp by appointing a private builder or Mhada will take up the task. The residents of these buildings are, however, unwilling to move out, stating that they will permanently lose their homes in south Mumbai. “We’ve seen that many of the residents who had shifted in the past few decades never came back and languished in the dirty Mhada transit camps in far off suburbs,” said a 45-year-old homemaker living in a Mazagaon chawl. “Mhada should understand that our lives – jobs, schools and everything else – are based in south Mumbai and we will not be able to sustain in far off suburbs. They should give us transit accommodation here itself,” she added.Ghosalkar agreed that the previous experiences of tenants were not pleasant, but assured that to ensure that they be back in south Mumbai. “We are working on a policy to ensure that these tenants get new houses in south Mumbai itself,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mhada21-south-mumbai-structures-are-extremely-dangerous-101623180467255.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Congress slams BJP-JJP regime for denying tube-well connections to farmers||The Congress on Tuesday criticised the Haryana government for denying tube-well connections to those farmers whose land was in the command area of a canal. Describing the decision as “Tughlaqi’, Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala said the anti-farmer move of the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party government will adversely affect the farmers.Quoting a May 1 order, Surjewala said this would mean that tubewell connections will no longer be sanctioned in Ambala, Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Panipat, Kaithal, Jind, Hisar, Fatehabad, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Mahendragarh, Mewat and Gurugram as in these districts, 80-90 % of the area comes under the flow or lift command area of canal irrigation. “The farmers of northern and southern Haryana will be the most affected by this decision. Does chief minister ML Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala know that canal water is available in most of Haryana for only seven days in a month? In southern Haryana, the availability of irrigation water is even lesser as they get it after 45 days and sometimes after 60 days. So how will the farmer be able to cultivate his land?” Surjewala asked. Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said farmers were facing problems in getting electricity and tube well connections. “Connections will be given to only those farmers who get no objection certificate from the irrigation department. In such a situation, farmers who had deposited the security many years ago are left clueless and wondering what to do next,” said Hooda. The former chief minister said the government is changing the rules and standards time and again to the disadvantage of farmers. “Sometimes, the standards of electric motor are changed while at other times, rules of ground water level are changed. Farmers do not even have the freedom to take the motor of their choice,” Hooda said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-slams-bjp-jjp-regime-for-denying-tube-well-connections-to-farmers-101623180347974.html
09-06-2021||Other||After 40 days, Lucknow set for a fresh start today||With the state government extending relaxations in corona curfew to all 75 UP districts after active Covid cases came below 600-mark in each of these districts, shops, temples, government as well as private offices, mandis and restaurants (only for home deliveries) in the state capital will reopen from 7am to 7pm from Wednesday but with strict guidelines, said senior government officials on Tuesday.The state government had imposed partial corona curfew on April 30 for a couple of days after spike in cases in the second wave of the pandemic. However, it kept extending it before relaxations came into effect on June 1 in 55 districts which had less than 600 active cases each. They said government and private offices had also been allowed to function with up to 50% of their staff on rotation. Lucknow divisional commissioner Ranjan Kumar said since active Covid cases had gone below 600-mark fixed by the state government, the ‘corona curfew’ will be lifted in a planned manner from Wednesday.“However, people are expected to follow the Covid protocols of maintaining social distancing and necessarily wearing masks,” he added. Popular city markets like Aminabad, Chowk, Bhootnath, Alambagh and Naka largely wore a deserted look since April 30 when the ‘corona curfew’ was first imposed.Traders expect normalcy will return to markets if people adhere to all guidelines and precautions strictly. President, UP Adarsh Vyapar Mandal, Sanjay Gupta has appealed to traders to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols to keep infection in check in the city. He said although ‘corona curfew’ had been relaxed, corona was very much there and so the traders must maintain social distancing, promote wearing masks among staff and customers as well as keep sanitisers and thermometers.Gupta said it was the responsibility of every trader and shopkeeper as this only will allow their business to return to normal. He said all markets and shops will be functioning on weekdays (Monday to Friday) from 7am to 7pm and will observe weekly closure on Saturdays and Sundays.A senior district administration official said only five visitors at a time will be allowed to enter a temple avoid crowding. He said meat and fish shops will be allowed to open only on the condition that proper cleanliness and sanitisation is maintained there.He said the masks will be mandatory for all people riding two and four wheelers. He said marriage functions and other programmes will be allowed with restrictions of 25 people who will have to follow Covid protocols. Similarly, maximum 20 people will be allowed at a funeral, he added.He also said schools, shopping malls, cinema halls, coaching institutes, swimming pools and bars will stay closed across the state capital till further orders. However, restaurants can operate only for home deliveries across the city as well as roadside (highways and expressways) dhabas, carts, and kiosks will be allowed to function.Lucknow commissioner of police Dhruv Kant Thakur said patrol parties and picket duties will be deployed in market areas to ensure strict adherence of Covid guidelines. In addition, vehicular traffic and maintaining law and order will be our priority, he added.Earlier, the government had announced relaxations in corona curfew on June 1 for the districts having fewer than 600 active cases. The order had highlighted that restrictions would automatically return to any district where active cases went beyond 600-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-40-days-lucknow-set-for-a-fresh-start-today-101623180288367.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily cases see slight uptick, 10 more dead||After less than 200 cases for two consecutive days, the tricity logged 204 Covid-19 infections on Tuesday. Also 10 deaths were reported for the second day in a row.Mohali led the daily tally with 113 cases, higher than Monday’s 74. Chandigarh also saw a rise in cases with 71 people testing positive against 48 the day before, which was the lowest in the 102 days since February 25.But Panchkula saw a slight dip with 20 cases, down from 23 a day ago. For the past three days, the district has logged less than 30 infections.On Sunday, 184 people had tested positive in the tricity and the number had dropped further to 145 on Monday, both lowest in over three months. It was only on March 5 last that the tricity – which saw the cases peaking to 2,612 on May 10 – had recorded below 200 cases (197).Among Tuesday’s deaths, five each were recorded in Chandigarh and Mohali. In some respite, Panchkula reported no Covid fatality for the fifth time in the past eight days.Also, tricity’s active cases continued to see a decline, coming down from 2,596 on Monday to 2,434 on Tuesday. As many as 1,298 people are recuperating in Mohali, followed by 779 in Chandigarh and 357 in Panchkula.Mohali’s daily positivity rate – proportion of samples testing positive – rose from 1.4% a day ago to 4%, but it was 2% in both Chandigarh and Panchkula. The recovery rate continued to remain over 96% across the board.Mohali’s toll crosses 1,000 markMohali’s total fatalities breached the 1,000 mark on Tuesday with the district reporting five deaths and taking into account six legacy deaths that were reported late.As many as 1,003 people have died in Mohali, highest in the tricity. Chandigarh and Panchkula have recorded 779 and 357 deaths so far, respectively.“The severe cases were being reported late. Therefore the number of deaths is high. Most of these patients were on ventilator support. However, now the number of severe cases is declining,” said Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali. The district’s caseload stands at 67,481, of which 65,180 patients have been cured. All fatalities in UT senior citizensThose who died in Chandigarh were three men, aged 77, 71 and 68, from Sectors 35, 15 and 68, respectively, and two women, aged 78 and 73, from Sarangpur and Sector 56.Of the 60,778 positive cases in the city so far, 59,314 have recovered.In Panchkula, the cases and recoveries have reached 30,368 and 29,586, respectively.“There is a decline in cases, that’s why some restrictions have been eased. But people must act responsibly. Shopkeepers must follow protocols. People should avoid sitting opposite to each other at restaurants,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-cases-see-slight-uptick-10-more-dead-101623180287929.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Forest dept to focus on 5 key tasks at Aarey||As the state transferred 812 acres of Aarey land to the forest department for safekeeping on Monday, officials will have their work cut out as they take over the area’s administrative responsibilities, which was managed by dairy department.Officials described five major developments that are expected to take place in coming weeks and months: a site inspection by the city surveyor’s office, settlement of rights under the Indian Forest Act (IFA), 1927, creation of a fire management plan for the area, assessing infrastructure requirements and creation of a habitat management plan for wildlife. “There are two things that need to begin on priority. One, we will engage the city surveyor’s office to do field survey so that the final demarcation of the 812 acres can be done on the ground. Once that is done, we can take better steps to protect certain areas if needed, by putting up walls or fences. The other thing that needs to start is settlement of rights of by Forest Settlement officer (FSO). All the relevant documents for this will be provided to the appointed forest settlement officer within a week or so,” said G Mallikarjuna, conservator of forests, Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP).Mallikarjuna also said the forest department will be drawing up a detailed fire management plan for the 812 acres, akin to the one implemented at SGNP. “Fires have been a major problem in Aarey, but as we did not have the land possession, we couldn’t do much. We’ll now be able to create fire lines and use dedicated staff to put out any blaze,” he said, adding that work on this is likely to begin soon after rain.The department is also expected to hold talks with volunteers of various research groups and NGOs to start regular wildlife counts. “There is already a wealth of information available on Aarey’s biodiversity, thanks to citizens and researchers. We will use that and work with volunteers to keep a track of their [animals’] movements and numbers. We’ll also have to prepare a habitat management plan to ensure sustained availability of resources, such as water, all through the year for wildlife,” said Mallikarjuna.The department will also have to assess their infrastructure requirements. “Offices for field staff, lights, barricades, security check posts, watchtowers, vehicles... all that are required for the daily operations will need to be assessed and requisitioned. We have a team of four forest guards and one forester, but if we require more staff then arrangements will be made,” he said.While activists welcomed the steps, they also said the handover has happened too late. “These things should have begun in October itself, when the declaration was notified. The state should complete the resettlement process within a time frame. The final declaration should be expedited before more encroachments come up,” said Stalin D, director, NGO Vanashakti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/forest-dept-to-focus-on-5-key-tasks-at-aarey-101623180228320.html
09-06-2021||Delhi||As stocks run out fast, govt assures free ration to all||A large number of temporary food grain distribution centres set up as a lockdown relief measure by the Delhi government for those who don’t possess a ration card ran out of stocks on Tuesday, forcing officials to turn away people, several beneficiaries HT talked to said.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the scheme on May 18 and it was implemented from June 5. Needy people who don’t possess ration cards, including unorganised workers, migrant workers, building and construction workers, domestic helps are eligible to receive food grains under this relief initiative. The Delhi government estimated 2 million such beneficiaries in the city and identified 280 government schools as distribution centres. In the first phase, the government aims to cover 200,000 people.The Delhi government on Tuesday said the stocks will be replenished soon and grievances raised by several beneficiaries of the scheme will be resolved at the earliest. “We need the ration at any cost. We do not have enough to spend on food grains at this point,” said Pushpa Devi, 43, whose family are migrants from Saran district in Bihar and have their ration cards registered in their home state. Devi reached the Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Narela on Tuesday morning to collect ration but could not get it.Kaushalya Devi, another beneficiary, who too returned home without ration from a centre in north east Delhi’s Seemapuri, said, “We are already troubled by the delay and now we are forced to line up for ration every day. It is extremely painful.”On Tuesday, beneficiaries who queued up at distribution centres operating from government schools in several localities including Hauz Rani, Shahpur Jat, Chirag Dilli, Munirka, Seemapuri, RK Puram, Safdarjung Enclave, New Ashok Nagar and Ber Sarai were reportedly turned away after stocks ran out.Delhi’s food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain said centres ran out of stocks because a large number of people turned up “in excess of what was expected”. “But people should not be concerned. We have placed orders with the Food Corporation of India for more food grains, which will arrive soon,” he said.Over the past two days, there were instances of people being denied ration for not carrying identity documents and not having valid mobile numbers, even though the government order has provision for giving food grains on self-declaration in such cases.Regarding such complaints, Hussain said, “We have taken note of all kinds of grievances reported by the people. We assure you that things will be further streamlined in the coming days to make the entire process smooth and hassle-free. AAP government believes that ration is the right of people.”Anjali Bhardwaj, Right to Food campaigner and a member of Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, said the centres are running out of stocks since the beneficiaries are way above the government estimates. “The Aam Aadmi Party government has claimed that the situation is not grim this year. But they have capped the total distribution at 200,000 beneficiaries in the first phase, which can extend to a maximum of 2 million -- as against 6.9 million beneficiaries estimated last year. This is the reason why most government schools are out of stock or has not received any food grains. The government should fix this problem at the earliest.”The Delhi government had launched a similar scheme in March 2020 in light of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-stocks-run-out-fast-govt-assures-free-ration-to-all-101623180016320.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||After massive slump in Covid cases, Chandigarh starts unlock process||With Covid-19 cases registering a significant decline since the lockdown was imposed on May 4, the UT administration on Tuesday began the unlock process with major relaxations. After five weeks, restaurants/bars have been allowed to offer dine-in services at 50% capacity from 10am to 9pm. Previously, these were allowed to only deliver food. Similarly, shopping malls can remain open from 10am to 6pm. However, the eating outlets inside the malls can operate till 8pm. The malls must ensure that there is no crowding within the shops or in the open areas. Necessary temperature screening of visitors and sanitisation should be arranged at the entrance.The administration has decided against opening of cinemas and theatres, but allowed gyms, wellness centres, clubs and spas to resume operations at 50% capacity. Owners must ensure that the members using the facility are vaccinated and Covid protocol must be followed.Sukhna Lake will once again be accessible to visitors, from 5am to 8pm on all days except Sundays. Boating is not allowed. Police will issue challans to people not observing Covid-appropriate behaviour here. Museums and libraries will also reopen. Rock Garden will continue to remain closed.Up to 30 people have been allowed at weddings and cremations, and religious, political and social gatherings.Same timings for all shopsIn the Covid review meeting on Tuesday, it was also decided to allow all shops to open from 10am to 6pm. Earlier, non-essential shops could open from 9am to 4pm and those selling essential commodities till 5pm.Shop owners will have to ensure that Covid protocols are followed. All persons must wear masks and shopping areas must be regularly sanitised. Any violation will invite penalty.Night/weekend curfew timings changedThe administration has also curtailed the night curfew timings. While earlier it was from 6pm to 5am, now it has been fixed from 10pm to 5am. The weekend lockdown has been limited to Sundays, when only essential shops, including barber shops, will be allowed to open and movement of vehicles will be restricted.While the second wave was climbing relentlessly in the beginning of May, the city had recorded 5,795 cases in the month’s first week.In comparison, the number plunged to 661 in the first seven days of June, five weeks after the UT administration imposed lockdown in the city on May 4. Similarly, against 5,874 cases after the first week of the lockdown, the number dropped by 89% (661) in the fifth week.“Keeping in view the reducing number of coronavirus cases and the need to bring the economy back on track, these relaxations have been allowed. We are balancing life and livelihood,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida. “However, these relaxations will be reviewed and can be withdrawn too, if Covid protocol is not strictly followed. Nobody can rule out a third wave,” he said.Preparing for third waveUT administrator VP Singh Badnore directed all heads of medical institutions to ensure that their health staff and frontline workers were duly vaccinated.He directed that beds be reserved for children in preparation for the third wave. It was decided to ready the Sector 45 Civil Hospital, ESI Hospital, GMSH-16, PGIMER and temporary army hospital at Panjab University for paediatric Covid patients.Badnore also directed that a sero survey be conducted in the entire city to determine the presence of antibodies in the population. While the administration will bear the expenses, PGIMER will conduct sero tests for those aged below 18 and GMCH-32 will cover those above 18 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-massive-slump-in-covid-cases-chandigarh-starts-unlock-process-101623180048620.html
09-06-2021||Delhi||Clear ration scheme in national interest: Kejriwal writes to PM||he Delhi government is ready to make whatever changes the central government will suggest in its long-delayed doorstep ration delivery scheme, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to approve the project in “national interest”.He said his government only aims to provide ration to the poor and does not want any credit.“The centre through the media has also said that the Delhi government will charge money from the poor for doorstep delivery of ration. This is absolutely wrong, sir. We shall not charge a single penny from the beneficiaries for this scheme… I have just one aim — to provide ration to the poor at any cost. You please allow me to implement this scheme. All credit will be yours. I myself will tell the whole world that this scheme has been rolled out by the Prime Minister of India… Till date, I have supported you in all your decisions of national interest… You also support us in this scheme of national interest, sir,” Kejriwal wrote.In his letter, Kejriwal said all governments, for the past 75 years, have forced the poor of the country to queue up for ration.“Do not make them stand in queues for ration for another 75 years, sir. If that happens, they will neither forgive you nor me,” he wrote.“Delhi was supposed to start delivering ration to all its beneficiaries at their homes from next week. Under this scheme, the poor would not have to go from pillar to post for ration. Instead, the government would have hygienically packed the ration and delivered it to the ration card holder’s house. All preparations were done. The tender was also done. The scheme was supposed to start from next week and suddenly it was stopped two days ago. People are asking why did you do this?” Kejriwal wrote.On Saturday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said that Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal “rejected” the scheme citing lack of Centre’s approval and a pending case in the high court. The L-G office, however, said Baijal did not “reject” the scheme and only “advised for the constitutional scheme of things to be followed in letter and spirit”.This was the second time this year that the scheme was stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre. The scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumers affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections to the scheme — the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism in the NFSA requires an amendment that can be done only by Parliament.In his letter to the PM, Kejriwal said despite not being legally bound to do so, the Delhi government sought Centre’s approval for the scheme five times to avoid any dispute but the Union government did not raise any objection.“Delhi food minister Imran Hussain sent letters on February 4, 2019, March 4, 2020, June 17, 2020, November 19, 2020, and December 3, 2020, informing the central government that the Delhi government was going to implement the Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna. No objection was raised on this from your side even once then,” he said.Kejriwal said the Delhi government even dropped “Mukhya Mantri” (chief minister) from the name of the scheme. “Our aim was not to glorify our name. We agreed to your objection and changed the name of the scheme. We agreed to all your objections and made the necessary changes in the policy. Even after all this you are telling us that we did not take your approval? People are asking if pizza, burgers, smartphones and clothes can be home delivered, why can’t ration be delivered at the doorsteps of the poor?”“The central government has also reasoned that the scheme has been rejected because owners of ration shops have moved the court asking for a stay on the home delivery scheme. Did you reject the scheme for this? When the high court refused to give them (ration shop owners) a stay, how can the central government give them a stay? If the central government stands with the ration mafia, then who will stand with the country’s poor, sir?” Kejriwal wrote.The Union food ministry said the Delhi government can distribute ration the way they want, but it should not tinker with the national food security act (NFSA). “They can do so under any other scheme. The government of India will provide additional ration for the same. As per notified rates. Where is the issue? The Delhi government wants to tinker with the nationally administered programme at the cost of Delhi consumers by charging the cost of milling. etc from them. The government of India had only informed them about the rule position,” the ministry said.Kejriwal said if the Delhi government starts a separate scheme, it will lead to creation of two separate ration distribution mechanisms in the national capital -- one by the Centre, other by the state government.“The central government is also saying that the Delhi government can run its own ration scheme separately, without tinkering with the existing national scheme of the Centre. Sir, since when did we become different? Sir, since when did the central government and the Delhi government become different? Since when did your and our scheme become different? Sir, everything is of this country and everything is for its citizens. Now, will there be two schemes on the same issue - one of the central government and another of the Delhi government. You mean the central government will spend ₹2,000 crore to distribute ration in Delhi and the Delhi government will spend another ₹2,000 crore for the same thing? Is this practical, sir?… The responsibility of stopping the theft of ration is yours as much as it is mine,” Kejriwal wrote.Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the Delhi government should implement the One Nation One Ration Card scheme instead of pushing its own ration plan. “Kejriwal talks of his own CM ration scheme, but he has done nothing to implement the Centre’s One Nation One Ration Card scheme due to which thousands of workers have not got ration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clear-ration-scheme-in-national-interest-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-101623179885675.html
09-06-2021||Lucknow||Shahjahanpur suicide: Police probing role of loan shark||A day after a couple along with their two minor children allegedly committed suicide at their Shahjahanpur home, police on Tuesday focused its investigation towards involvement of a loan shark for forcing the family towards the extreme step. Four members of a family, including 43-year-old father, 38-year-old mother, their 12-year-old son and six-year-old daughter were found hanging inside their house in Shahajahnpur city area on Monday.Reportedly the man took a loan from private lender on exorbitant rates to start his business. “It has come to the notice that the father had returned double the principal amount to the loan shark, yet there was a huge interest pending. The father was worried because of it and decided to end his life,” said a senior police official privy to the investigation.Police have recovered three suicide notes from different places in the house. “All the suicide notes were copies of each other and mentioned financial troubles. The three copies were placed in different part of the house probably to ensure that they were recovered by the police,” said superintendent of police of Shahjahanpur S Anand. “The things mentioned in the suicide notes are being verified with the help of friends and family members,” he added.Meanwhile, a police complaint has been lodged against a businessman of Shahjahanpur by a relative of the deceased alleging abetment to suicide. “The allegation in the complaint are also being verified and we will lodge an FIR after preliminary investigation,” said the SSP and added that the post mortem report confirmed death by hanging. According to locals, the family-- a native of nearby Bareilly -- had moved to Shahjahanpur over a decade ago. The father was a retailer of medicines. The family had moved to the house, where they were found hanging, in October last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shahjahanpur-suicide-police-probing-role-of-loan-shark-101623179927316.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 38 more fatalities even as virus continues to recede||Twenty Haryana districts detected between two and 50 new cases of the Covid-19 on Tuesday even as 38 people succumbed to the infection in 16 different districts, according to the health bulletin. The highest 75 fresh cases were detected in Palwal followed by 56 in Bhiwani on a day when 635 new positive cases were recorded, and 33,930 samples were tested across the state. In Nuh district, two fatalities and two new cases of the contagion were recorded in the past 24 hours. The Covid-19 infection has started retreating in Haryana. On Monday, there were 640 new cases and 39 deaths while on Sunday, 654 new cases and 48 fatalities were recorded. As per the bulletin, five people died in Hisar; four each in Gurugram and Rewari; three each in Sonepat, Yamunanagar, Sirsa and Bhiwani; two each in Panipat, Kurukshetra, Fatehabad and Nuh, while one patient each succumbed in five other districts. There were 7,531 active Covid patients in the state on Tuesday when 1,090 more people recovered, and the positivity rate rose to 97.86%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-records-38-more-fatalities-even-as-virus-continues-to-recede-101623179807750.html
09-06-2021||Lucknow||As markets reopen, traders demand relief from UP govt||With the state government relaxing ‘corona curfew’ in all 75 districts of the state after over a month, various trader bodies are now demanding a relief package from the Uttar Pradesh government, claiming to have lost business worth over ₹90,000 crore in this period. President of Uttar Pradesh Adarsh Vyapar Mandal Sanjay Gupta said, “Today a trader is expected to pay commercial house tax, commercial power tariff, water, solid waste collection. Besides, even a small shop has to dole out taxes despite the pandemic. We want the government to waive off commercial charges and collect normal house tax, normal power bill. This will come as some sort of relief for the debt-ridden traders of the state.”Trader leader of Uttar Pradesh Udyog Vyapar Mandal Amarnath Mishra said, “We have met chief minister Yogi Adityanath and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and other ministers for waiver in power bill, house tax, water tax, besides giving relief in GST and income tax. The chief minister had praised the contribution of traders in the development of the state. The state government has a sympathetic attitude towards the problems of traders.”The state government had imposed partial corona curfew from April 30 after spike in cases in the second wave of pandemic. However in Lucknow, traders had voluntarily started closing markets from April 14 which they claim to have led to losses worth ₹10,000 crore.They are happy that all markets in the state will be opening from Wednesday as the number of active Covid cases have come below 600 in all the districts of state.Speaking on the issue, Sandeep Bansal, president of All India Udyog Vyapar Mandal claimed that traders of the state capital had suffered the most. Most of the traders have taken loans and they have to pay it back so they need some sort of stimulus from the government. The state saraffa market has recorded loss of around ₹40000 crore in state as marriages have been postponed, the cloth and textile business has lost ₹25000 crore, FMCG has lost ₹15000 crore business besides crores of business of construction material, electronics, automobiles, spare parts, beauty products, hospitality etc has been lost, he said.“The state government must come out with a stimulus package for traders like they have done for big industries and street vendors,” Bansal said.More than 40 lakh traders have been paying crores of rupees as GST to the government in the state and now it was the turn of the state government to give them some relief, said Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/as-markets-reopen-traders-demand-relief-from-up-govt-101623179748462.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Police cane-charge protesters demanding jobs in Patiala||The district police on Tuesday resorted to cane-charging to disperse protestors demanding jobs under the banner of Unemployed Teachers’ Sanjha Morcha here.The police also detained over 100 youths when they attempted to march towards chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence. The agitators were stopped near the YPS Chowk.Sukhwinder Singh, state president of Unemployed BEd TET Pass Union, said a joint forum has been constituted under which the jobless physical education teachers, multipurpose health workers, PTI teachers and art and craft union have come together to voice their concerns.“The police resort to lathicharge every time we try to protest near the CM’s residence. We were holding a peaceful protest when the police used force. The government has completely ignored our demand,” he said.He added that despite multiple assurances of recruitment, the government failed to keep its word.The union demanded that instead of making lame excuses, the state government should immediately advertise vacant posts in the respective departments.“We are well qualified and have cleared all eligibility tests, but the government is testing our patience and exploiting us by not opening any job opportunities, especially in the education department,” the union members said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-cane-charge-protesters-demanding-jobs-in-patiala-101623179689068.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s diversification push: Don’t grow any crop during paddy season and get ₹7,000 per acre||Determined to push farmers towards switching over to alternative crops in place of water guzzler paddy, Haryana government has linked cultivation of more varieties of pulses and cereals with its financial-incentive driven crop diversification drive. Kheti Khaali – Fir Bhi Khushali is another and newly added lucrative feature of this “push and pull” policy under which ₹7,000 per acre incentive will be given to farmers if they do not grow any crop in their fields during the paddy seasons. Yet another contour of the diversification drive this year is that the government will give ₹10,000 as incentive to farmers adopting agroforestry for three years. If a farmer opts for agroforestry and plants 400 trees on his land, he will be eligible for ₹10,000 (instead of ₹7,000) for three years.The second phase of the crop diversification drive of the Bharatiya Janata Party-Jannayak Janta Party coalition government comes ahead of the start of paddy transplantation on about 30 lakh acres from June 15. For the first time, farmers switching over to an alternative crop in place of paddy were paid ₹7,000 per acre incentive under the ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ policy launched in May last year. At the heart of this policy is the objective to encourage farmers to choose alternative crops and reduce area under paddy as the cultivation of paddy leads to degradation of natural resources, such as water and soil. The ground water table of Haryana has been declining steadily. “Farmers had cultivated crops other than paddy on 96,000 acres last year. We have included more incentives this year in this scheme to encourage farmers,” said Jai Prakash Dalal, agriculture and farmers welfare minister. Target to diversify 2 lakh acre Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP government had claimed on the floor of the House in Vidhan Sabha that farmers diverted from paddy to cotton, maize and pulses on 38,000 hectares last year. The government has now set a target to diversify two lakh acre this year. According to agriculture and farmers welfare minister Dalal, the target this year is to also promote cultivation of pulses in Southern Haryana under the diversification drive. As the southern Haryana belt is considered conducive for growing pulses and cereals, the government has included a number of alternative crops such as groundnut, arhar, guar, soyabeen, etc. “We have set the target to diversify two lakh acre land this year as there is a huge potential for pulses cultivation in Southern Haryana. I am meeting the stakeholders personally to make this drive a success,” said Dalal while pointing out that patience is the key to convince farmers to accept new initiatives. The state has this year been divided into four zones under the crop diversification drive to make farmers aware about its benefits. In each zone, an additional director rank officer will spearhead the drive. If in north zone, focus will be on maize cultivation, in south zone, pulses will be promoted. Sumita Misra, additional chief secretary (agriculture and farmers welfare), said chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has given approval to enlarge the ambit of crop diversification drive this year. “The number of alternative crops included in the policy this year is much more than last year,” said Misra. Learning from last year’s experience, ACS (agriculture) Sumita Misra has set up committees and fixed deadlines for verification of the diversified land so that the ₹7,000 incentive is released on time to the farmers. While ₹2,000 is given after first verification, ₹5,000 is released at the time of harvesting of the alternative crop. The Mera Paani - Meri Virasat scheme will be linked to Meri Fasal - Mera Byora so that farmers get their payment without any delay. Farmers will have to give detailed information of crop being sowed per acre on Meri Fasal-Mera Byora and Mera Paani-Meri Virasat portal after June 25 when this portal will be opened for public. The verification exercise for release of ₹7,000 per acre starts once the farmer updates information about the crops sown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-diversification-push-don-t-grow-any-crop-during-paddy-season-and-get-7-000-per-acre-101623179687876.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers hold protest, gherao BJP leader in Barnala||Scores of farmers under the banner of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) laid siege to the residence of former chief minister late Surjit Singh Barnala after BJP leader Gurtej Singh Dhillon reached there to meet the ex-CM’s wife Surjit Kaur on Tuesday.A heavy police force was deployed near the house and Dhillon managed to leave the place. However, farmers tried to gherao the BJP leader on motorcycles.Later, they staged a protest outside the Barnala family’s residence.BKU Ugrahan local leader Jarnail Singh claimed that the BJP leader came there to hold a meeting with the Shiromani Akali Dal-associated family, but they gheraoed Dhillon on the direction of senior farm leaders.“On one hand the Barnala family claims that they support farmers, but on the other, they are holding meeting with BJP leaders ahead of the upcoming state assembly elections. Surjit Kaur Barnala says Dhillon is her relative. If that is the case, why did Dhillon escape from her residence,” said Jarnail Singh.Former Dhuri MLA and son of ex-CM Barnala, Gaganjeet Singh said that Dhillon is his cousin and he came to meet his mother. “I am recovering from Covid-19. Dhillon came to meet my mother who is his aunt to inquire about my health. There was no official meeting. It is Dhillon’s personal decision whether he wants to work with BJP or any another party,” added Gaganjeet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-hold-protest-gherao-bjp-leader-in-barnala-101623179629921.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Admission beyond limit: HC seeks reply from Punjab on schools’ plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought response from the Punjab government on a plea from a private schools’ association.The Amritsar-based Recognised Affiliated Schools Association, a body with schools affiliated with Punjab School Education Board (PSEB), has assailed the May 25 communication from the education department in which it was decided to increase fine for admitting students beyond permissible limit from ₹1,000 per student to ₹5,000. The association has sought quashing of the communication, arguing that the letter should have been issued at the starting of the session so that the schools could have applied for the additional section. This now will cause unnecessary financial burden to the private schools where no such prior notice was ever issued for such enhancement, the court was told, adding that the affected schools are those who are charging fee between ₹500 and ₹900. The court has sought response from the government by July 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/admission-beyond-limit-hc-seeks-reply-from-punjab-on-schools-plea-101623179628888.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM moots research facility to combat Covid-like pandemics||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday mooted a research facility, under the guidance of national and global healthcare experts, for combating Covid-like pandemics and other serious diseases.The chief minister, while chairing a virtual meeting of the state’s healthcare experts’ group for Covid management, extended his government’s continued and unequivocal support to the medical fraternity in battling this unprecedented crisis till Covid-19 is completely eliminated.Urging people not to be their own doctors but to seek the advice of the medical fraternity at the first signs of the infection, the CM said his government was distributing food packets and Fateh Kits to wean the people away from hesitancy in going for treatment.The video conference was joined by more than 250 health experts from Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh, besides four foreign doctors.Amarinder said Punjab will soon win the fight and succeed in pushing the disease back. The state, he said, was gearing up for a possible third wave and, despite the decline in cases, was not letting down its guard. Earlier, Dr Talwar kicked off the meeting by sharing the objective of the session – one of many over the past year. The aim, he said, was to set treatment protocols, guide doctors, and put in place guidelines for management of Covid patients.He said it was important to ensure capacity building and monitor patients through well-laid-out guidelines as very little was known about the disease, adding that experts from AIIMS and PGIMER as well as from US, UK and other countries, had been participating in these sessions. Expressing concern over the high CFR in Punjab, Dr Talwar said the expert group was analysing all deaths to be ready to deal with future crises. He further said that unlike some other states, Punjab had made no attempt to hide or fudge its Covid death figures.In a brief presentation, Group member Dr GD Puri, anaesthesia and intensive care head at PGIMER, Chandigarh, disclosed that as many as 130 classes, seminars, lectures and key discussions had been held so far. From time to time, the Covid management techniques were updated based on experience of doctors from other countries, who were battling with Covid much before India faced the crisis.Dr Anup Singh, a consultant doctor from New York, said his hospital had shared experience of how it dealt with cases when health infrastructure was collapsing. “We limited use of excessive medicines and even steroids that’s why no cases of black fungus and other complications have been witnessed there,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjba-cm-moots-research-facility-to-combat-covid-like-pandemics-101623179627728.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC asks Faridkot police to look into protection plea by live-in couple||The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked Faridkot senior superintendent of police (SSP) to look into a protection plea from a married woman and a single man.The high court bench of justice Vivek Puri acted on the plea from the woman and her live-in partner, who had sought directions to the SSP for their protection and safety and appropriate action on their representation in this regard.“...the present petition is disposed of with a direction to respondent No. 2, the Faridkot SSP, to look into the grievance of the petitioners as projected in the representation,” the court said adding that this order is not to be construed as any expression to validate their relationship or upon any civil and criminal proceedings.The petitioners had told court that both have attained the age of majority; the woman got married in 2016 and it is still subsisting, but since 2020, she has been living with her partner who is unmarried. They had apprehended threat and danger to their life and liberty at the instance of the woman’s husband and her relatives.This apparently is the first instance in the recent past when a court intervened into the protection plea from a married woman and unmarried live-in partner.Different benches of the high court have given conflicting judgments on live-in relationships while disposing of pleas for protection filed by runaway couples. On May 11, one of the benches observed that the “entire social fabric of the society will get disturbed” if the plea for protection from a live-in couple is accepted, while another bench termed live-in relationships “morally and socially not acceptable” and dismissed the plea. The decision on the second plea was overturned by the Supreme Court on June 4.These judgments were followed by two other benches ruling the opposite. While a bench on May 18 held that a live-in relationship is not prohibited, another bench observed that such relationships may not be acceptable to all, but could not be termed illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-asks-faridkot-police-to-look-into-protection-plea-by-live-in-couple-101623179567744.html
09-06-2021||Other||Haryana govt will save around ₹11 crore a month by stopping mustard oil supply under PDS||Haryana government’s decision to stop distribution of two litre mustard oil to below poverty line (BPL) families and beneficiaries of the Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) will help it save around ₹11 crore every month.The scheme, through which the government distributes two litres of fortified mustard oil to families at ₹20/litre through the public distribution system (PDS), was started in September 2018As per a recent notification, the distribution of mustard oil and salt to beneficiaries through fair price shops has been suspended until further orders. In lieu of it, the government will be directly transferring ₹250 into the bank accounts of over 11.41lakh families for the purchase of mustard oil and salt from June 1.The decision, however, is being criticised by beneficiaries as the retail price of mustard oil has reached an all-time high of ₹180 per litre. Opposition parties too have condemned the decision to cut government expense by ₹90 per family per month. “Though the government will disburse around ₹28.51 crore every month to the bank accounts of beneficiaries, the move will help the government to save around ₹11 crore every month,” said a senior official from the Haryana social justice and welfare department.Nasib Singh, a beneficiary from Kurukshetra, said, “Mustard oil is being sold at ₹175- ₹180 a litre. How will we buy two litre mustard oil and one kg salt with ₹250?”The government, however, maintains that the distribution has been suspended only temporarily. It was stated that Haryana State Co-operative Supply and Marketing Federation Limited (Hafed) could not procure mustard at minimum support price of ₹4,650 per quintal as the prices of oilseed had reached beyond ₹6,000.Though the government has not announced any date for resumption of the distribution scheme, it stated that beneficiaries will be able to get mustard oil from fair price shops once it is available with Hafed.A mandi manager of Hafed said, “The supply of mustard oil may remain suspended for several months till mustard harvesting in March next year. This year, we were not able to procure sunflower seed also as it was being bought by private players above MSP and farmers sold most of their produce to private buyers instead of Hafed. So, now we do not have much stock even for our sale counters.” Hafed managing director Dusmanta Kumar Behera did not respond to phone calls or text messages about the possibility of resuming mustard oil supply under PDS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-govt-will-save-around-rs-11-crore-a-month-by-stopping-mustard-oil-supply-under-pds-101623179447740.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD hits out at govt for registering case against party leaders||A day after Punjab Police booked its leaders and workers on the charge of violating Covid curbs, the SAD hit out at the Congress-led Punjab government on Tuesday for “suppressing” the voice of those standing by the people in this hour of crisis.Police registered a case on Monday against Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and other senior party leaders, besides 200 unidentified people for staging a sit-in against health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu in violation of the restrictions imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus.Acting on chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s directions, the police registered the case under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Disaster Management Act.The protesters were demanding Sidhu’s dismissal from the cabinet over the “diversion” of coronavirus vaccines to private hospitals.Several Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders and workers were also booked for holding a protest on Sunday.Reacting to the registration of the case, senior SAD leader and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra said the state government is trying to “suppress” those who are standing by the people in this hour of unprecedented crisis.He dubbed the state government’s move as “bizarre and ridiculous” and said the SAD will not stop standing by people.Chandumajra said the Congress-led government in Punjab has “completely let the people down” in the time of the pandemic.When the SAD demanded free vaccines and healthcare for people, the government was resorting to “suppressing” it by registering cases against the party leadership, he said.handumajra claimed that the SAD had followed all the Covid norms at the sit-in staged in front of Sidhu’s residence.“In a democracy, people have the right to question the government, but it is behaving like a dictator,” he alleged. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-hits-out-at-govt-for-registering-case-against-party-leaders-101623179388435.html
09-06-2021||Other||CBI probe against ex-Maha minister: Jaishri Patil seeks to be added as party||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday adjourned the hearing of the petition filed by the state of Maharashtra challenging the first information report (FIR) filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against ex-home minister based on the allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Anil Deshmukh after advocate Jaishri Patil sought to be added as a party to the proceedings. She sought to be added as a party respondent on the grounds that the HC’s April 5 order – directing CBI to probe into Singh’s allegations – and the subsequent FIR registered by the Central agency was based on her complaint. She also accused the state of trying to sideline her by not adding her as a party. However, when senior counsel Rafique Dada for the state opposed her request, the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar told Patil that she should follow proper procedure and it would hear her only if she was added as a party. This infuriated Patil and she informed the bench that she had lodged a complaint against the judges with the HC chief justice and the Chief Justice of India for “insulting and humiliating” her during a previous hearing. Justice Shinde then clarified that his comments were part of a dialogue which happens between the bench and the advocates and the comments were not intended to humiliate or insult her, however, if she was offended, he would like to express regret for the same. Thereafter, solicitor general Tushar Mehta for CBI and special counsel and former additional solicitor general Darius Khambatta appreciated the magnanimity of the bench and requested Patil to withdraw her complaint, which she agreed. The court then said that it would hear Patil’s application, which she had already filed, with or after the petitions of the state and Deshmukh. Mehta assured the court that CBI would not insist on the state government to furnish documents pertaining to offences mentioned in the FIR, which includes the minutes of the police establishment board meeting of June 2020 that had ordered the reinstatement of suspended police officer Sachin Vaze and the documents regarding the allegations made by former commissioner of intelligence Rashmi Shukla, wherein she had complained to her superiors of political interference in postings and transfers of police personnel in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-probe-against-ex-maha-minister-jaishri-patil-seeks-to-be-added-as-party-101623179147266.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||AAP seeks probe into purchase of ‘Fateh Kits’||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha on Tuesday wrote a letter to Lokpal, Punjab, demanding an immediate and prompt investigation in the alleged scam by the state government in purchase of ‘Fateh Kits” for Covid-19 patients. In his letter, Chadha alleged that the Congress government purportedly embezzled crores of rupees in the purchase of ‘Fateh kits’ used for the treatment of Covid patients. The alleged massive scam was nefariously executed in the procedure of inviting, acquiring and executing the bids for Covid-19 medical consumables and essential medical equipment kit as numerous overpriced bids were accepted by the government leading to humungous losses to the state exchequer, he alleged. “Under this scam, the price of the medical kits which was supplied to the people during the Covid pandemic was consistently raised in a well thought out manner by repeatedly inviting one tender after another despite the fact the first tender was valid for a period of 180 days,” reads the letter. Chadha claimed that the first tender was awarded at ₹837 per kit, but after ordering only few thousand kits from the vendor at a higher price of ₹940, a new tender was floated and pursuantly allotted the tender to another vendor at ₹1,226 per kit. The vendor did not even legitimately fulfil the criterion of having a medical license but was still chosen to deliver the kits to the government, he said. The AAP leader said the government procured 50,000 “Fateh Kits” as per the price of ₹1,226.40 through the second tender and then another order of 1, 50,000 kits at ₹1,338.40 per kit was placed to the same vendor. The government was evading its accountability, he said, demanding a thorough investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-seeks-probe-into-purchase-of-fateh-kits-101623179089049.html
09-06-2021||Bangalore||Tributes pour in as senior BJP MLA Udasi dies at 85 in Bengaluru||Bengaluru Channabasappa Mahalingappa Udasi or CM Udasi, the senior BJP legislator from Hangal constituency in Haveri district, died on Tuesday due to age-related illness.His son and BJP member of Parliament from the district, Shivakumar Udasi on Tuesday confirmed the news in a Twitter post.The death of the 85-year-old veteran leader was condoled from leaders across political parties.“The legislator of Hangal and former minister was dear to me and a companion for decades. His death has been shocking. He has been with me during my entire political career and we have faced both ups and downs together. Losing him today is like losing a brother,” BS Yediyurappa, the Karnataka chief minister tweeted in Kannada.Udasi entered the state assembly in 1983, the same year as Yediyurappa and has represented the constituency at least six times.He retained the seat in 1985 as the Janata Party candidate and won in 1994 on a Janata Dal ticket, PTI reported. He sided with the Janata Dal (United) when the Janata Dal split in 1999 but later joined the BJP.Udasi was a close aide of Yediyurappa and the former had left the BJP to join the newly formed Karnataka Janata Party (KJP) in 2012 along with the latter. He, however, lost the 2013 polls.“Saddened to learn about the demise of former Karnataka minister & senior BJP leader C.M.Udasi Ji. His service towards the people of the state is noteworthy. His soft spoken and ever smiling personality will always be remembered. My heartfelt condolences to his family. Om Shanti,” JP Nadda, the national president of the BJP said in a post on Twitter.Udasi then followed Yediyurappa back into the BJP’s fold in 2013 and won in 2018. Udasi has served as minister of rural development in the BJP-JD(S) coalition in 2006 and then as minister of public works in 2008.The state government has issued orders to perform Udasi’s last rites with full state honours.Former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda said that Udasi’s death caused immense pain.“My deepest Condolences to the family of Sri C M Udasi, present MLA, Former Minister and a very senior Leader from Karnataka on his demise today. He has served the party in many capacities and his work will be remembered always by the People. Om Shanti,” Arun Singh, BJP’s national general secretary incharge of Karnataka said in a post on Twitter.Congress leaders like DK Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah among others also expressed their condolences to the family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/tributes-pour-in-as-senior-bjp-mla-udasi-dies-at-85-in-bengaluru-101623179087770.html
09-06-2021||Bangalore||K’taka records less than 10,000 new Covid cases||Bengaluru Karnataka recorded less than 10,000 new Covid-19 infections in the last 24 hours for the first time since the second week of April, the state health department said in its daily bulletin on Tuesday. The southern state saw a sharp decline in new infections as it recorded 9,808 cases while the positivity rate stood at 7.53%. There were 23,449 recoveries that brought down the active caseload to 225,004 cases. Bengaluru accounted for 2,028 new infections. India’s IT capital also registered 7,664 recoveries that brought down the active caseload to 101,965. “With 1,30,224 tests and 9,808 new cases in last 24 hours, Karnataka’s positivity rate stands at 7.53%. 23,449 recoveries were reported in the state today including 7,664 in Bengaluru taking the total recoveries to 24,60,165,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education on Tuesday said in a Twitter post. The fatality rate also fell to 1.82%. According to the daily bulletin, 179 more people succumbed to the virus including 44 in Bengaluru. There is a statewide lockdown in force at least till June 14 and the BS Yediyurappa government had indicated relaxations if the positivity rate comes down to below 5%. However, the positivity rate is below 5% in just six out of the 30 districts in the state, according to a seven-day average of the state until 5 pm on Monday evening. The positivity rate is 22.33% in Chikmagalur, 22.06% in Mysuru, 21.86% in Davangere, 18.93% in Chamarajanagar, 17.35% in Kodagu and 16.60% in Dakshina Kannada, data from the state war room shows. The state government on Tuesday said that the family members of health workers will also be included in the vulnerable groups and will be eligible for vaccination. “The family members of healthcare workers have been included in the vulnerable group & frontline workers category identified by state govt and will be accorded priority in Covid-19 vaccination. Our govt is committed to ensure safety of those who risk their own lives to protect us,” Sudhakar said. Karnataka administered 194,246 doses of vaccines till 3.30 pm on Monday including 15,708 second doses. This takes the total doses administered so far to 15,676,863 including 2,907,688 second doses, according to government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-records-less-than-10-000-new-covid-cases-101623179087241.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra tourism corp hands over 466 acres of mangroves in Gorai-Manori to forest dept||About 466.72 acres of mangrove land, formerly owned by the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) in Gorai and Manori creeks, has now been transferred to the state forest department’s mangrove cell and declared as a reserve forest under Section 20 of the Indian Forest Act (IFA), 1927. State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had met MTDC officials in last September, directing them to expedite the handover. “All claims over the land have now been settled, after initial notification under Section 4 of IFA. The land includes about 460.85 acres in Manori creek and 5.87 acres in Gorai creek. The transfer happened on May 24 under the supervision of the tehsildar,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell). The move is in line with the Bombay high court’s directive to the government, which instructs the latter to hand over all mangrove areas on state land to the forest department for better conservation. Declaring areas as reserved forests grants them legal sanctity and protects biodiversity by outlawing activities such as foraging, hunting and harvesting of natural resources in the earmarked boundaries. As per official estimates, there are 17,090 hectares (ha) of mangrove forests in on government land in the state. Of these, at least 10,632ha have already been brought under the purview of IFA in 2019, 2020 and 2021. A total of 2,066ha of mangroves have been excluded from the purview due to community dependence on the land, officials clarified, while the remaining are under process for declaration. Previously, 916ha of mangroves in Borivli taluka of Mumbai (suburban) district were declared a reserve forest under Section 20, IFA, via a gazette notification on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mtdc-hands-over-466-acres-of-mangroves-in-gorai-manori-to-forest-department-101623179028342.html
09-06-2021||Other||K'taka grants ₹2,000 subsidy to registered street vendors||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Tuesday released ₹2000 subsidy to registered street vendors as part of the financial package announced by the state government to help ease the suffering of sections hardest-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown.“Initiated the financial disbursement of ₹2000 to 2.16 Lakh street vendors registered under Deendayal Antyodaya National Urban Livelihood Mission. Banks have been instructed not to adjust this pandemic relief support to other loans availed by street vendors earlier,” Yediyurappa said in a post on Twitter.The street vendors were identified through a survey conducted by urban local bodies, according to a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO). The disbursement of the earlier announced financial package comes at a time when several sections of activists, trade unions and aggrieved people have raised their concerns over the lack of relief provided by the government to compensate for the lack of livelihood.The Congress party, the principal political opposition in the state had lashed out at the Yediyurappa-led government for inadequate relief and demanded that at least ₹10,000 be deposited directly to the bank accounts of all vulnerable people. The chief minister announced two financial packages, totalling to around ₹1750 crores, since the onset of the second wave of infections in March. However, the number of beneficiaries and quantum of relief has come down since the first wave of infections last year, which amounted to around ₹2100 crore.Senior government officials, earlier, told Hindustan Times that the lower number of beneficiaries was because the government could not trace several of them last time.For instance, the government announced relief for 210k auto and cab drivers as against 775k last time, which union workers said was a gross miscalculation of the actual number of people working in these sectors.Several people who spoke to Hindustan Times said that they were yet to receive any financial assistance so far.“A financial assistance of ₹2000 was announced under the special package which was announced on 19-5-2021 for street vendors in the state whose livelihoods have been hit hard because of the lockdown imposed due to Covid-19 second wave. Accordingly, out of 216,439 beneficiaries, ₹38.33 crore have been transferred to 191,684 beneficiaries, whose Aadhar card has been linked to their bank accounts through direct benefit transfer,” according to the CMO statement.Yediyurappa added that banks are directed not to adjust the amount released under the subsidy to any loans availed by the street vendors.“Covid-19 second wave has affected us badly. In these difficult times, a relief package of more than ₹1700 crore has been announced for labourers , farmers, teachers, Asha Workers, priests and others belonging to different sectors who have been hit by the pandemic,” the statement read.The CMO said that cash assistance for construction workers has been disbursed through direct bank transfer. “Action will be taken to disburse the amount to beneficiaries of other sectors under the relief package soon,” the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-grants-2-000-subsidy-to-registered-street-vendors-101623179027788.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||60-year-old runs over 9-month-old while reversing car, booked||The police have booked a 60-year-old man for running over a nine-month-old boy crawling in the parking lot of a building at Rabale on May 30.The child succumbed to his injuries in a hospital on June 2. According to the police, the boy’s father, a native of Nepal, worked as a security guard in the building. “The accused is a resident of the building. He did not notice the boy while reversing the car. Later, he took the injured boy to a hospital, and also bore the expenses of his treatment,” said an officer from Rabale police station on condition of anonymity as he is not authorised to speak to the media. “We have booked the accused under sections 304-A, 337, 338 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We are now investigating the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/60yearold-runs-over-9-month-old-while-reversing-car-booked-101623179027160.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Travel bookings improve across India||As Covid cases across the country continue to decrease, Indians have started making travel plans. Tourists had stopped travelling for around two months amid the second wave of the pandemic. According to RateGain, a SaaS player (a web application managed by a travel technology provider) bookings are growing at a healthy 20% rate, week on week. Moreover, according to RateGain, around 50% increase in week on week bookings have been seen, in the last fortnight driven majorly by Delhi NCR region. RateGain said thatwhile leisure demand would take some time to come back, demand in Delhi, Mumbai went up as businesses, construction activities and manufacturing picked up again. “In Tier-2 cities, Lucknow saw the sharpest increase which can only be attributed to increased political activity in the city due to the upcoming election in 2022. Shimla and Goa both have started witnessing slight improvement with tourists from Delhi and Mumbai looking to go for staycations as normal life resumes back slowly”, said Kamesh Shukla, EVP and Head for APMEA-RateGain. MakeMyTrip said they have seen a steady increase in searches and bookings for air travel in the past week. “This indicates that more people are planning and booking travel again. Over the past two months, last-minute travel for medical or emergency purposes continued and now as the severity of the crisis reduces in the coming weeks, people will take to travel to meet family or friends, and for business purposes,” said Saujanya Shrivastava, chief operating officer, flights- strategic business units, MakeMyTrip. Cleartrip also said there are very initial signs of recovery with reduced caseloads and relaxation of restrictions by several states. “Traffic and booking volumes have almost doubled from a couple of weeks ago. Share of round trips and advance bookings has also seen an uptick. Both these metrics have been good lead indicators of consumer confidence in the past 12 months or so,” said Rajiv Subramanian, vice president, Cleartrip.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/travel-bookings-improve-across-india-101623178969063.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||HC strikes down Navneet Kaur-Rana’s caste certificate||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday set aside the November 2017 decision of the Mumbai suburban district caste scrutiny committee, validating caste claim of Navneet Kaur-Rana, an independent Member of Parliament from Amravati, that she belonged to Mochi community, a Scheduled Caste. The HC also cancelled the certificate issued by then deputy collector of Mumbai in August 2013 to Kaur-Rana and directed her to pay litigation cost of ₹2 lakh to Maharashtra Legal Services Authority within two weeks. The HC also declared that all consequences of cancellation of the validity and confiscation of the caste certificate will follow, meaning Kaur-Rana, who got elected in 2019 general elections as an independent MP, may lose the seat as it was reserved for a scheduled caste candidate.A division bench of justice R D Dhanuka and justice V G Bisht pronounced the judgment on Tuesday on a petition filed by Shiv Sena leader and former MP from Amravati, Anandrao Adsul. The court also considered the allegations that the committee had failed to verify the authenticity of the documents submitted by Kaur-Rana to prove that she belonged to a Scheduled Caste.Senior advocate CM Korde appearing for Adsul had submitted that Kaur-Rana had started taking steps to create forged and fabricated documents in 2013 with the help of her father as she intended to contest the parliamentary election in 2014 from Amravati.Senior counsel Prasad Dhakephalkar for Kaur-Rana had opposed the allegations and the petition.While pulling up the committee, the bench said, “We are of the firm view that Scrutiny Committee did its job rather sloppily and shirked the obligations imposed on it by the provisions of the Act…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-strikes-down-navneet-kaur-rana-s-caste-certificate-101623178907124.html
09-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan cabinet shuffle likely in July to pacify disgruntled leaders||A much-awaited cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan is likely to take place next month as the Congress leadership has begun the exercise amid rising dissent in the state unit, a senior party leader familiar with the development said on Tuesday.At present, Rajasthan has 21 ministers, including the chief minister. The state with 200 assembly constituencies can appoint a maximum of 30 ministers. On Tuesday, Hindustan Times reported that last year’s crisis in the state that the Congress papered over by setting up a committee to address the issues raised by then deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot against chief minister Ashok Gehlot have resurfaced with the former expressing his displeasure at the lack of action.Pilot told Hindustan Times that the Congress high command had failed to deliver on the promises that were made to him when he along with 18 legislators returned to the party after a month-long drama.A senior leader familiar with the development said the leadership has initiated the process of reshuffling and efforts are being made to pacify the disgruntled faction by inducting some new faces.The leader added that while the issue could be resolved in a day or two, demanding appointments on the basis of faction wasn’t justified and was also a cause of concern for the party.What the party high command suggested was appointing and proposing names on the basis of merit after discussions, the leader said. “All efforts are at present focused on building consensus among the state leaders,” he said.Everyone in the Congress, the leader said, understood that any further delay would lead to more damage to the party and demoralise workers and MLAs, be it via political appointment or cabinet reshuffle.“The party after the political crisis last year had included names from the Pilot faction in the state executive. Similarly, three to four ministers as suggested by him (Pilot) would be finding space in the cabinet. It is expected that after Rahul Gandhi’s appointment as the party chief, the cabinet expansion would be done in July,” the leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cabinet-shuffle-likely-in-july-to-pacify-disgruntled-leaders-101623178783291.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||PM Modi-Uddhav Thackeray meeting raises eyebrows in Maharashtra||Eyebrows were raised in Maharashtra’s political circles as Prime Minister Narendra Modi had a one-on-one meeting with Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at the former’s official residence in Delhi on Tuesday. The meeting took place after a Thackeray-led delegation met Modi over Maratha reservation and various other issues.Thackeray, along with his deputy Ajit Pawar and public works department minister Ashok Chavan, met Modi in Delhi on Tuesday over a number of issues, including Maratha and other backward classes (OBC) reservation, goods and services tax (GST) compensation, among others.After the meeting, Modi had a separate meeting with Thackeray. Though Thackeray admitted to having held an in-person meeting with the PM, he did not divulge any details about it. According to a senior Shiv Sena leader, the meeting lasted for half-an-hour, in which Thackeray spoke about political issues. He also sought Modi’s intervention to resolve the issue of nomination of 12 members to the Legislative Council, which Governor BS Koshyari has not cleared for eight months.“Yes, we had a separate meeting. We may not be politically together, but that does not mean that we have snapped our relationship. I did not go to meet Nawaz Sharif. There is nothing wrong in meeting Modiji in person. Tomorrow, even tell my colleagues and go to meet him,” Thackeray said.“The appointment of 12 members from ruling parties to the Council or amicable solution in the car shed land parcel are political battles between the Bharatiya Janata Party and the ruling parties in Maharashtra. Both these issues can be resolved immediately if the Centre wants to. It may be recalled that the solution on the nomination of Thackeray to the Council was drawn immediately after he spoke to Modi last year. This time, too, Thackeray’s diplomacy may work in his favour,” said the Sena leader, seeking anonymity.Another party leader said the CM would have discussed the issue of the action by central agencies against leaders from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi.“Central agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and enforcement directorate have been investigating cases against former home minister Anil Deshmukh and Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik. There is a buzz of similar inquiry against Sena leader and minister Anil Parab. The CM may have had a word on it with the PM. Thackeray’s meeting with Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar on Monday had significance in the backdrop of the PM-CM meeting,” said the leader.He also added that CM may have expressed his displeasure over the way the state unit of the BJP targets the MVA government.Leader of opposition in legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said that one-on-one meeting between the PM and the CM was not unprecedented. “I had been the chief minister of Maharashtra and would have a separate meeting with the PM whenever we went as a delegation to meet him. I am not aware of any such meeting, but I wish it would work in favour of the state.”Fadnavis, however, slammed the state government for raising issues with the PM, saying the state needed to act first.This was Thackeray’s second visit to Delhi after becoming the chief minister. He, along with son and state minister Aaditya Thackeray, had paid a visit to Modi and other key leaders across party lines in February last year.Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “By meeting PM separately, the CM has tried to keep a check on his ruling partners and the Opposition leaders too. Thackeray shares good relations with Modi and seldom attacks him personally. By meeting him in person, he has sent out a message to BJP leaders in the state too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pmcm-meet-raises-eyebrows-in-maha-101623178848277.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||BJP core panel plans for elections||The core committee of the Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday discussed various issues in state politics and chalked out a strategy to take them forward ahead of the ensuing local body elections. The meeting was attended by party’s general secretary and state-in-charge CT Ravi, organisational secretary BL Santosh and core committee members, including leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state unit chief Chandrakant Patil, among others. The leaders discussed forthcoming local body elections including polls to five municipal corporations and strategy to win maximum of them. The strategy was also discussed to corner the state government led by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on reservation to Marathas and other backward classes, handling of Covid 19 pandemic etc. “The reservation to Marathas and political reservation to OBCs was struck down due to the inefficient handling by the state government. We will stand by these communities in their fight for the reservation. We want to stand by the general public during the challenging times of the pandemic to extend them a helping hand. We will raise these issues in the forthcoming monsoon session of the state legislature. The state unit will design a programme based on the strategy chalked out today,” said party leader Ashish Shelar.Elated after the victory in Pandharpur bypoll last month, the party has decided to concentrate on the local body elections. “The party fared well in the gram panchayat polls last year and won Assembly bypolls last month. The central leadership had expressed its unhappiness over our performance in Council polls early last year. We have been asked to fight the forthcoming elections with full strength and win maximum of them,” said a core committee member, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-core-panel-plans-for-elections-101623178847729.html
09-06-2021||Bangalore||Govt plans CET score for science admissions||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Tuesday said that it is deliberating if the Common Entrance Test (CET) should be a base for admission into all science courses and not just for professional streams like engineering and medicine.“It has been in consideration about making marks obtained in CET as the common basis for all science based courses including B.Sc.(bachelor of science) and registration process for the CET-2021 will begin on June 15,” Dr CN Ashwath Narayan deputy chief minister of Karnataka said.The statement comes at a time when the Karnataka government has cancelled exams for second year pre-university college (PUC) students on account of the Covid-19 pandemic that continues to remain a potent threat in the state.The state government, however, has decided to hold two papers, which will include all six subjects, for Class 10 students in order to help them decide their stream of choice for further studies.Narayan, who is also the minister for higher education, said that the minimum eligibility marks which was set as a criterion for writing CET has been relaxed for the current academic year and the department of higher education is mulling to consider CET marks as the common base for admission into all science-based courses for the academic year 2021-2022.“Minimum eligibility marks of 45%(40% for SC/ST/OBC) to secure in PCM (physics/chemistry/mathematics) subjects in 2nd PUC examination which was considered as a criterion all these years to write CET will not be applicable for this year. For professional courses including agricultural science, pharmacy, veterinary, engineering, medical courses current academic year and only CET ranking will be taken into account,” he said.The cancellation of exams has added to the prevailing confusion of grading of children without conducting proper evaluation. According to the primary and secondary education department minister, S Suresh Kumar, the grades obtained by the student in their first year PUC will be used to grade them for their second year PUC.Narayan said that the suggestion given by Kumar to use CET ranking as a parameter for admission into professional courses has been considered.With competitive cut off percentages in all leading colleges, it remains to be seen how the admission process will be taken forward by these institutions.“Ranks for admission to engineering courses will be awarded on the basis of the marks obtained in PCM subjects of the CET examination only. The earlier method of considering the PCM marks obtained in the annual exams and CET in equal proportions will not be applicable for this year, he pointed out.“This year the number of students who pass out may increase by 30% and this would result in about 2,00,000 more students seeking admission for degree courses. Accordingly, measures will be taken to accommodate these increased numbers of students in government and private colleges,” Narayana added.“CET-2020 will be held on August 28, 29, and 30th as scheduled earlier; CET for maths & biology will be held on 28 & physics & chemistry on 29th of August and each paper will carry for 60 marks,” he added. The language test for students from other states and border regions will be held on August 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/govt-plans-cet-score-for-science-admissions-101623178847094.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Allocate one-fourth of mucormycosis drugs to Maharashtra: HC to Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) has suggested that the Central government should allocate one-fourth of the Amphotericin B injections available with it, from time to time to Maharashtra, given the spike in the number of active black fungus cases. The suggestion was made after the court was informed that though the in-house manufacturing at Haffkine Institute in Mumbai would yield about 40,000 vials by June 10, the injection was insufficient to treat 6,200 active cases. The state held that as each patient required four-five injections per day for a period of three-four weeks, the court should direct the Centre to meet its demands for allocation of more injections, in light of a higher number of cases in Maharashtra compared to other states. The bench also sought details of the state-wise distribution of injections from Centre. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi and others, was informed by the state through advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that situation concerning procurement and distribution of oxygen and Remdesivir was taken care of, and the focus of the state was now on combatting mucormycosis. He said that while in the previous hearing it had submitted data of around 4,000 active cases, the same had gone up to beyond 6,000, hence the state was trying to procure more Amphotericin B injections. Advocates Rajesh Inamdar and Atharva Dandekar for the petitioners informed the bench that there was an alarming rise in the number of cases and sufficient steps needed to be taken to inform the masses of the precautionary measures and treatment just like it was done for treating Covid-19. Additional solicitor-general Anil Singh informed the bench that while the centre was cognizant of the situation in Maharashtra it was trying to allocate injections as per the state-wise requirement. He added that the Centre would have around 2.7 lakh vials to distribute as it had allowed private manufacturers to start producing the injection. He said that the states with maximum cases were being allocated the larger chunk of the injections available with it. The bench suggested that as the number of cases was increasing in Maharashtra, the Centre should allocate one-fourth of the injections available with it from time to time. Bench also directed the state to create awareness of the precautionary measures, treatment regime and hospitals among masses and posted a hearing of the PIL on Thursday, June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allocate-one-fourth-of-mucormycosis-drugs-to-maharashtra-hc-to-centre-101623178787733.html
09-06-2021||Bangalore||Under 5% of Karnataka’s homeless inoculated, reveals govt data||Even though declared a vulnerable section of the society who require vaccine on priority, the Karnataka government doesn’t have a plan to vaccinate the homeless in Bengaluru city. As per the government data, less than 5% of the city’s homeless, the majority of whom are above the age of 60 years have been vaccinated.SG Raveendra, special commissioner (welfare), Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), said that at present the vaccines are being provided only to those homeless persons lodged at the nine homeless shelters across the city.“At present, we have 218 homeless persons at our centres, out of which 137 have received the first dose of the vaccine and 10 have received the second. We are in process of getting everyone at our centres vaccinated soon,” said Raveendra.In a letter dated May 13, 2021, the government had said that homeless persons are one of the vulnerable sections of the society and hence, should be provided vaccine on priority. However, Narasimhappa TV, a member of the Supreme Court-appointed Independent Impartial Committee (IIC) on urban homeless, said that the number of people at homeless centres is only a fraction of the total homeless persons in the city.“As per a survey conducted in 2019, there are around 4,200 homeless persons in the city. Even this number is not precise. This was the result of a headcount conducted in the main areas of the city. If a thorough survey is conducted, then the numbers could be more than 10,000,” he said.Talking about the vaccination drives, Narasimhappa said that the lack of identity cards also becomes a problem for the homeless in the city. “At present, the city doesn’t have enough shelters to take care of the homeless in the city. In such a case, someone who is not in the shelter has to go to a vaccination centre to get the dose. Most of all don’t have any identity cards. So, if the government is going to focus only on those who are in the shelters, a large number of homeless will not get the vaccination,” Narasimhappa added.Over the past year, 24 persons staying in these shelters have tested positive for Covid-19 and two have succumbed to the virus, as per the BBMP figures. That raises concerns over several more infections and deaths among homeless persons.Asked about the plan for vaccinating the homeless as the government order to give them vaccination of priority, Raveendra said that there any homeless person can avail vaccination at the centre. “At the same time, we are working with NGOs to identify the vulnerable groups and to get them vaccinated. We will ensure that those identified will be brought to the shelters, where they will be vaccinated,” said Raveendra.An NGO based in Bengaluru, working with the homeless people, said that no reach out has taken place in Bengaluru as claimed by the BBMP. “We are working with several groups providing them food. From nomadic families, waste pickers, daily wage workers and employees of small eateries there are several homeless persons in the city whom we help. From our interaction, there has been no effort by the authorities to approach them for vaccination,” said the NGO worker, who didn’t want to be named.“What is concerning is that the central government has issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP), which asks the state to create a district task force to identify such persons. But no one has done this so far,” the NGO worker said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/under-5-of-karnataka-s-homeless-inoculated-reveals-govt-data-101623178787146.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Unlock Day 1: 1.8 million travel by BEST buses; over 3 million travel by local trains in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) witnessed an increase of 200,000 passengers on the first day of unlocking in the city on Monday. Nearly 1.8 million passengers travelled by the BEST buses in the city as opposed to 1.6 million passengers that travelled on Friday.Even as the general public are not allowed to commute by local trains, the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) witnessed an increase in the number of passengers as compared to Friday. The number of passengers travelling by local trains includes daily tickets and monthly season ticket holders. The monthly season ticket holders are counted by railways have nearly doubled. On Monday 1.9 million passengers travelled by local trains on the CR as opposed to 1.1 million passengers on Friday, while 1.3 million passengers travelled by local trains on Western Railways on Monday as opposed to 900,000 passengers on Friday. Meanwhile, the BEST increased the number of buses on Tuesday and operated 3,369 buses in the city as opposed to 3,344 buses on Monday.Queues of passengers for BEST buses were witnessed outside bus depots on Tuesday as well. “We increased the number of buses operating in the city on Tuesday as an increase in the number of passengers was witnessed on Monday,” said a senior BEST official. No standing passengers are allowed to travel by the BEST buses. The organisation has also made it mandatory for citizens to wear a face mask while travelling in the buses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/unlock-day-1-1-8-million-travel-by-best-buses-over-3-million-travel-by-local-trains-in-mumbai-101623178727060.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s Covid-19 situation is improving with every week, but danger not over||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 10,891 Covid-19 infections, pushing the count to 5,852,891. The tally of active cases further dipped to 167,927 as 16,577 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state saw 295 casualties, taking the toll to 101,172. Kolhapur reported the highest toll with 32 deaths. The district recorded 28 deaths, while the city reported four fatalities. It was followed by Ratnagiri and Satara with 27 and 26 casualties respectively. Mumbai reported 682 cases, taking its tally to 712,055. It also recorded seven fatalities, taking the toll to 15,006.The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra is improving. For the past five days, it is reporting fewer than 15,000 cases and the average daily cases of the past week (June 1-7) have also dropped to 13,586. In the previous week (May 25 to 31), it was recorded at 20,696 cases. whereas the average daily cases of May was 36,820, according to figures released by the state health department. In the past eight days, it has reported 105,999 cases and 2,340 casualties.However, experts are of the view that the danger is yet to pass as the lockdown restrictions have been relaxed and people are not following Covid-appropriate protocol. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor on Covid-19 and former director-general of health services, said if the existing decline in daily infections is not maintained till the end of this month, then the state will be in trouble“To be in a safe zone, we have to either vaccinate 60% to 70% of the total population and if that is not possible, then the entire population should wear masks and follow Covid-appropriate protocol diligently. In our case both are not happening. Since the past two days, people are behaving as though the coronavirus has died and they are crowding in public places,” Dr Salunkhe said.“The state government has given relaxations as the number of daily cases is going down, but this has to be maintained till June-end. If not, then we are in trouble. This is because if Pune, for example, is reporting 700 to 800 cases a day then it means daily 7,000 to 8,000 new people are getting infected there as it is believed that one patient infects around ten people. We need to be very careful,” he added.Experts have already predicted the possibility of a third wave that is likely to hit the state by July or August. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has also directed the local administrations to be prepared for a possible third wave, considering the shortage of oxygen and medical facilities.From June 7, the state government has imposed a fiv- level unlock plan and districts and cities are given relaxations based on the positivity rate and oxygen-bed occupancy. Those areas coming under level one are free of all restrictions. In the past 24 hours, the state had tested 211,042 samples and had a positivity rate of 5.16%. However, the overall positivity rate of the state stood at 15.86%, according to data issued by the state health department on Tuesday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-covid-19-situation-is-improving-with-every-week-but-danger-not-over-101623178667687.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Near-to-door vaccination is good, consider door-to-door as well: HC to Centre||The Central government on Tuesday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the National Expert Group for Vaccine Administration of Covid-19 (NEGVAC) had unanimously opined that “near-to-door” vaccination was an appropriate solution for the elderly and specially-abled persons than door-to-door. However, after the petitioner pointed out that the expert group had failed to address the issue of bed-ridden persons, HC asked the Centre to consider door-to-door vaccination as well. The Central government on Tuesday informed HC that till May 28 in all 25,309 adverse events following immunization (AEFI) were reported, of which 1,186 were serious and severe, and 475 post-vaccination deaths were reported across country. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing public interest litigation (PIL) filed by city-based lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, seeking directions to the Centre, the state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to provide door-to-door vaccination to those aged over 75, the specially-abled and bed-ridden.During the course of the hearing on PIL, the bench was informed by additional solicitor general Anil Singh, that the NEGVAC had convened a meeting of experts at Delhi following the court directions on May 20. The affidavit filed through Satyendra Singh, under-secretary, Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) stated, “NEGVAC agreed that since the specially-abled and bed-ridden elderly persons have limited mobility due to their physical conditions, there is a need to increase access by bringing vaccination services closer maintaining all necessary precautions.” Singh submitted that all members in May 25 meeting unanimously agreed that vaccines cannot be given at home due to the risks cited by the expert committee, which include addressing AEFI in an effective manner and maintaining protocol of observation of every beneficiary for 30 minutes after vaccination, maintaining the cold chain and ensuring low vaccine wastage. The affidavit stated near to home vaccination centres strategy for the elderly and specially-abled was flexible, people-centric and followed a community-based approach and sessions can be conducted at facilities near home, such as schools, old age homes, Resident Welfare Association (RWA) office, sub-health centres, panchayat ghar etc. On her part, Kapadia pointed out that some civic authorities and societies had undertaken door-to-door vaccination and there were no adverse effects reports. She also pointed to the data provided by the Centre wherein out of the 20 crore Indians vaccinated there were only 1,186 serious cases and 475 deaths which showed that the apprehensions of NEGVAC were over-cautious. Thereafter, the court asked the Centre that while it appreciated the near-to-door policy suggested by NEGVAC and in light of the affidavit, why it could not consider taking a step further and visit homes of beneficiaries who are unable to visit vaccination centres. Court then posted the hearing of PIL to Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/neartodoor-vaccination-is-good-consider-door-to-door-as-well-hc-to-centre-101623178667142.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||State govt may scrap tendering process to get vaccine doses||With the supply of vaccine doses back with the Centre, the Maharashtra government is set to stop its plan to buy vaccines from manufacturers for the 18 to 45 age group. The state will also scrap the tendering process to get vaccine doses from manufacturers which had not materialised. On Monday, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi announced that the Union government is again centralising the vaccine procurement and the Centre will supply free vaccines for the 18-45 age category. Senior officials informally said that the announcement by PM Modi has taken the load off of the government.“The [tendering] process was not moving forward as the bidders weren’t able to provide any connection between them and the [vaccine] manufacturers. It will be formally scrapped after a discussion with the health minister and senior bureaucrats,” said official requesting anonymity. The matter could be discussed in the state cabinet meeting scheduled to be held on Wednesday.Meanwhile, the state is awaiting the revised guidelines from the Centre. “Though the announcement has happened, so far we have not got the guidelines. We expect it in a few days. Till then our vaccination drive will go on as it is,” said DN Patil, state immunisation officer. Maharashtra could go past another landmark by surpassing the 25 million mark on Wednesday. So far, the state has administered 24,725,242 doses. About five months into the vaccination programme, nearly 22% of the state’s 91,435,000 eligible population has been covered with the first dose, while 5.30% have taken two doses. As per the data on the Co-Win portal, Maharashtra has administered 19,792,475 first doses till 8pm on June 8. “We have been at the top in the country for a long time. In a day or two, we will go past 2.5 crore (25 million) doses of which nearly two crore (20 million) are first doses. The pace is good and we want to cover maximum population in the first dose,” said Patil.Even though the Maharashtra government has suspended the inoculation of the 18-45 age category since May 13, the inoculation in the category has seen nearly a three-fold jump. On May 13, the number of doses administered in the category was 634,570, which reached 1,804,173 on June 7, as per the state health department’s data. Health department officials said that the drive for the category was going on at the private hospitals and through the drives taken up by corporates, which tied up with private hospitals to give shots to their employees. As of June 7, 51,459 beneficiaries in the 18-45 age category are fully vaccinated. Patil said that around 3.15% of the eligible population in the 18-45 age bracket have been administered doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-govt-may-scrap-tendering-process-to-get-vaccine-doses-101623178607122.html
09-06-2021||Other||MMRDA starts 24x7 control room to look at rain-related complaints in Mumbai||In view of the upcoming monsoon season, the Mumbai Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (MMRDA) has set up a 24X7 control room to deal with rain-related complaints so that pedestrians and motorists are not inconvenienced due to rains. Citizens can call on 8657402090/ 02226594176 to lodge their complaints.“The primary role of the control room will be to take up monsoon-related complaints, follow them up, coordinate and interact with the state government, civic corporation and other disaster control agencies. The objective of this control room is to avoid any inconvenience to pedestrians and motorists due to the several ongoing projects of MMRDA. The officials will keep a watch on unusual threats and the dangers that lie ahead,” stated a press release by MMRDA.“The Mumbai Monorail will be monitored separately from its 24x7 central control room (OCC) at Wadala depot,” it added.MMRDA officials says that some of the most vital jobs would be to ensure that barricades are proper and do not hinder motorists, the damaged roads are repaired, and dirt is removed from the streets. SVR Srinivas, MMRDA commissioner, in order to prevent waterlogging, has directed contractors to install water pumps where there is no connectivity at drains and reservoirs.BMC being ruled by Shiv Sena for decades always saw MMRDA as a rival, as it is a department of the state, which was ruled by the Congress-NCP for many years. As the three parties have now come together, this is an attempt to build coordination between the two agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mmrda-starts-24x7-control-room-to-look-at-rain-related-complaints-in-mumbai-101623178547129.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||No plans for water cut in Mumbai, says BMC||With monsoon around the corner, the seven lakes that supply drinking water to the city have water stock that can last for around 50 days, and with forecast for sufficient rain, there are no plans for water cuts, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). According to the data, the water level in the seven lakes supplying drinking water to the city is 12.84%, which is 185,864 million litres, of the total capacity of 1,447,363 million litres. The level was 14.25% in 2020 and 8.30% in 2019. Vihar Lake and Tulsi Lake that are located inside Mumbai are 38.75% and 35.34% full, respectively. Vihar was 24.66% full last year at this time, while Tulsi lake was 32.53% full. Further, Bhatsa, which supplies 55% of the total annual water requirement, is at 12.40%, compared to 14.08% last year.In case of Upper Vaitarna, the water level is 0%, as of Tuesday, same as last year. Modak Sagar has 31.87% water compared to 38.81% last year. In case of Tansa lake, the water level is 12.27% compared to 13.33% last year, 12.60% in Middle Vaitarna dam compared to 13.65% last year. The city had experienced 20% water cut in August 2020 amid the Covid outbreak owing to low level of water in the lakes. Last year, BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal had also prepared a backup plan to bring water to Mumbai from Bhandardara dam in Ahmednagar, if required. A BMC official from the hydraulics department said, “The forecast of rainfall for this year is good, and it looks like there might be no need for any water cut. However, we are monitoring the situation. A decision will be taken in the next one month depending on the rainfall and water stock.” The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems – the Vaitarna system that supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai as well as neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. The civic body supplies 3,850 million litres of water daily against the city’s demand for 4,200 million litres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-plans-for-water-cut-in-mumbai-saysbmc-101623178307025.html
09-06-2021||Other||Need uniform protocol for auto units operating amid curbs: Madras HC||Chennai: The Madras high court on Tuesday insisted on the need for a uniform set of guidelines to be issued to automobile manufacturing units to function following Covid-19 norms amidst the ongoing lockdown in Tamil Nadu. The bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy passed this order in response to the petitioners –workers of Renault Nissan in Oragadam – who had approached the court against the employer not complying with Covid-19 protocols, particularly social distancing in the assembly line. The court directed senior representatives of the Directorate of Industrial Safety to make further visits to the Renault-Nissan manufacturing facility as well as other automobile manufacturing units in the vicinity so that uniform guidelines can be imposed everywhere. “...and if a departure from the uniform is necessary, indicate the special reasons, therefore,” the court said. “It must also be borne in mind that the conditions prevailing in a certain manufacturing the facility may not be identical to those prevailing in another manufacturing facility and oranges and apples may not be dealt with merely by the numbers.” In the previous hearing, the court had ordered a government official to inspect the facility on June 1 and if required, to help the workers and manufacturers reach a consensus. The state government has exempted these industries from the ongoing lockdown as they are ‘continuous process industries’ that have export commitments. The workmen submitted on Tuesday that in a lockdown situation, where only essential production is permitted, it is unreasonable for the management to continue production at the same rate by citing export orders. The management contended that it cannot be singled out for following certain norms because its workmen desire, so a submission was made for uniform guidelines for all assembly line production of passenger vehicles. “Pursuant to the initial disagreement between the petitioning workmen and the management at the Renault-Nissan manufacturing facility in Oragadam, production is now going on upon a tentative modus operandi on a trial basis being put in place under the aegis of a senior official of the Directorate of Industrial Safety,” the court said in its orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/need-uniform-protocol-for-auto-units-operating-amid-curbs-madras-hc-101623178247064.html
09-06-2021||Mumbai||Heavy rain: BMC chief directs officials to take all precautions||In view of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) issuing a yellow alert for Mumbai for the next three days, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday directed officials to ensure all precautions are taken to protect citizens. Chahal undertook a high-level meeting with ward officials, along with officials from other agencies. The civic chief directed that manholes in all 24 wards are checked and closely monitored to prevent any untoward incidents, especially in areas where there is heavy waterlogging.Apart from senior Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, authorities from BEST, Mumbai Police, Central and Western Railways, Mhada, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), and Mumbai Metro were also present.Further, the BMC on Tuesday also said that it removed around 324,000 tonnes of silt from the city’s drains, adding that it has completed desilting works in the city before the monsoon. The BMC had planned to remove around 311,00 tonnes of silt, but it ended up removing 324,000 tonnes.According to BMC officials, of the total silt removed, 43,766 tonnes was removed from the island city and remaining was removed from the eastern suburbs and western suburbs. It took 11,004 truck trips to transport all this silt from the drains to sites outside the city.In a statement, the BMC said, “The BMC chief has ordered to immediately remove the silt from outside drains after cleaning and has asked to move it to the designated places. In all, the above 24 wards, teams of tackle water logging are deployed. Also, dewatering pumps have been installed in all the areas where water is being drained at low speeds and adequate stock of diesel are being ensured from time to time to run the pumps. Mock drills have also been conducted in all the wards on the use of these pumps.The statement further added that hospitals should not be affected due to heavy rain in the city. It noted, “Last monsoon, Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central and JJ Hospital in Byculla were flooded. It was observed that some water was stagnant in these two important and big hospitals. In view of this, the municipal commissioner also directed to ensure that the drainage system at both these hospitals is functioning properly.”The BMC has also directed Metro authorities to ensure that there is no waterlogging wherever there are barricades installed for Metro works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/heavy-rain-bmc-chief-directs-officials-to-take-all-precautions-101623177827864.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Noida cops help missing girl reunite with family||Noida: An 11-year-old girl, who had gone missing last week and landed in a Noida shelter home, was reunited with her family in Greater Noida on Tuesday, police said. According to police officials, an interaction session was organized at the shelter home in Sector 12/22. “During the session, apart from her parents’ name, the girl told us her village’s name as Salarpur which falls under Sector 39 police jurisdiction. Her information was shared immediately with the authorities but no output came. When we asked for more information, she said that her brother studied in Dadri. We then used Google Maps to find another Salarpur in the Jarcha area,” said Devendra, inspector at the anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) of the Noida police.The officials then reached out to the village pradhan who confirmed that the girl had gone missing the previous week. No missing person report was registered at Jarcha police station, police said, adding that the girl’s maternal uncle confirmed her disappearance and told officials that she had left home following a fight and eventually got lost. The officials said that the girl was handed over to the family after getting clearance from the child welfare committee. This is the second such incident to occur in a week. On June 2, a 16-year-old specially-abled boy, who was staying in the same shelter for nearly three months, got back to his family in the Sambhal district. “The boy had said that he was from a village in Aligarh district. When we tried verifying the village location, it turned out to be in the Sambhal district. The boy’s photo was sent to the village head and the family came to Noida on June 2 to take him back,” said a police spokesperson.The shelter home in Sector 12/22 has about 60 children, police said.The officials said that the AHTU team organises frequent interaction sessions at shelter homes and helps such children reunite with their families. “Sometimes missing children come directly to police and sometimes they reach shelter homes. Our AHTU team is trying to counsel many such children and help trace their families,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women and child safety), who also heads the AHTU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-cops-help-missing-girl-reunite-with-family-101623177649627.html
09-06-2021||Noida||GB Nagar gets its annual target to plant over a million saplings||Noida: Gautam Budh Nagar will see another plantation drive this year, with the state government setting a target of planting over a million saplings in the district. Officials said that the current year’s target is about two lakh more saplings than that of the previous year. The move is aimed at increasing the district’s green cover, which is just 1.56% of the total area.The officials said that the government on Tuesday announced the annual mass plantation drive with a target of 300 million saplings throughout the state.According to the forest department, while the target of 1.026 million saplings has been set, the date of plantation drive, which is usually a single-day event, is yet to be decided.“We are yet to receive a date for the massive plantation drive. We will try to plant 1.05 million saplings. We already have 1.20 lakh saplings in the state-run nurseries across the district,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar.He added that the department will plant more indigenous species and the aim will be to notify maximum places for plantation along Hindon and Yamuna, and within 5km area of the two rivers.“We will soon come out with a plan, including department-wise plantation target, as different government departments will have to come together to achieve such a big target. Last year, 26 departments came together to plant over 0.9 million saplings in a day,” said Srivastava.On July 5, 2020, GB Nagar had witnessed a massive plantation drive during which, the officials said, about 0.936 million saplings were planted against a target of 0.85 million. The massive plantation drive in the state was started in 2019, when over 0.8 million saplings were planted in GB Nagar on August 15. The aim of the drive is to increase the green cover of the state to 15% (36,146 sq km) of its geographical area by 2021, against 12.09% (29,133.5 sq km) as in 2019.Of its total geographical area of 1,282 sq km, GB Nagar has 19.99 sq km (1.56%) of the area under green cover. The district has five moderate dense forests (70%-40 % density), while 15 are open forests (39%-10% density).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-gets-its-annual-target-to-plant-over-a-million-saplings-101623177649041.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Bhangel elevated road project deadline now Dec 2022||Hit by Covid-19, the deadline for the construction of the Bhangel elevated road has been pushed back till the end of next year.The UP Bridge corporation, the state agency building this road, had started work on June 8, 2020, with a deadline of December 2022, said officials. Once completed, the 5.5 km six-lane road could save 30 minutes between Noida and Greater Noida, and avoid congestion at Barola and Bhangel villages.Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, Noida Authority chief general manager Rajiv Tyagi and other senior officials inspected the project on Tuesday.“Work got delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic. So far 42% of the work is complete,” said Rajiv Tyagi chief general manager of the Noida authority, which is spending ₹467 crore on the project. “It was supposed to be completed by the end of 2021. Now it will be completed by end of 2022.” “We are mindful of not causing pollution and are sprinkling water regularly and also following all Covid safety protocols for the safety of our workers,” said Tyagi.The Bhangel elevated road will ease traffic pangs at Dadri-Surajpur-Chhalera (DSC) road that cuts Noida and Greater Noida into two parts. DSC road begins from Delhi-Noida border and ends at Dadri town that is located on GT road. The Noida authority is building the elevated stretch to make the thousands of commuters, who travel from Delhi to offices in city’s Phase-II industrial areas do not face traffic congestion. This project will immensely benefit the residents of sector 40, 49, 46, 47, 48, 71, 81, 82, 85 and 89 among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-bhangel-elevated-road-project-deadline-now-dec-2022-101623177648367.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Illegal medicine manufacturing unit busted in Greater Noida||An illegal medicine manufacturing and packaging unit was busted in the Ecotech 3 area on Tuesday afternoon, said police, adding that some of the substance found at the unit could even be fake. No one had been arrested till the filing of this report.The unit allegedly ran from a rented space in a factory. Police said they were questioning the landlord to trace the suspects.According to police, they acted on a tip on unlicensed production of medicines from the area.“A similar case was busted in Maharashtra last week, based on that another racket was busted in Meerut on June 6 and following that, the raid was conducted today,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Ankur Aggarwal, adding that police partnered with the drugs department and administration in the raid.Police said they found sacks of substances marked antibacterial and antivirals, along with packaging material and machines. “We also obtained empty packets labelled Fabiflu (a drug used to treat Covid-19). Some of the packets carried a ‘Made in Solan, Himachal Pradesh’ tag and ‘For sale in government hospitals only’ warnings,” said the officer.Police estimate the haul could have cost ₹50 lakh. “The unit in Greater Noida is an extension of a much more extensive racket,” said a police official. “When we questioned workers at other nearby units, they said that there had been no production here in the last few days. Most probably the helpers had gone underground when the operations in other cities were busted.”The substances found at the unit were sent for forensic examination. Based on the complaint of the drug inspectors, a case will be registered at the Ecotech 3 police station soon under relevant sections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/illegal-medicine-manufacturing-unit-busted-in-greater-noida-101623177588280.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Master Plan 2041: G Noida to offer Singapore model of civic services||The Greater Noida Authority on Tuesday said that it has started work on the city’s geographic information system (GIS) master plan 2041 on the lines of Singapore.GIS is a digital framework that uses geographically referenced data. The plan will leverage technology to plan housing and industrial units and other important civic facilities.“We are following Singapore model of delivering civic or property related services smartly to citizens via GIS master plan. We have engaged a private agency that will conduct a survey, gather all property details and prepare the master plan in one year;s time. Once it is done, the GIS master plan will help residents and the civic officials in understanding an issue quickly and working out a prompt solution for the same,” said Narendra Bhooshan chief executive officer of the Greater Noida authority. “GIS analyses spatial location and manages layers of data into visualizations using 3D maps and helps identify patterns, connectivity and situations for smart decision-making for a civic body.”The authority has already prepared a GIS master plan for 2021, and now it will now revise it for the new plan.The plan will contain details of all utility service, including underground ones such as sewer lines, electricity cables, internet wires and drains.“If there is a sewer blockage in any area and we need to clear it then we can check where the blockage is and clear it without residents waiting for days for a solution,” said Bhooshan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/master-plan-2041-g-noida-to-offer-singapore-model-of-civic-services-101623177587605.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Nine teams formed to handle Covid-19 situation in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Anticipating the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration has replicated the concept of ‘team-9’ which has been put in place by the state government for daily review of different works in the state. RK Singh, newly appointed district magistrate of Ghaziabad, on Tuesday formed nine teams headed by senior administrative officers from different departments. He said that the teams were formed so that different works related to tackle the Covid-19 situation are streamlined. “Each team is headed by a senior officer. The teams have also been given an option to rope in more officers or specialists who may help them discharge assigned works. This will also ensure that there is no shortage of staff. The review of works will be taken up on a daily basis,” Singh said. The officials said that the teams comprise at least 77 officers from different departments, like police, municipal corporation, UP Jal Nigam, local bodies, and health department.One of the teams headed by chief development officer has 11 officers and the team is tasked to make availability of ICU and oxygen beds, ensuring adequate manpower in hospitals and streamlining of vaccination process, among others, the officials said.Another team headed by the additional district magistrate (finance) is tasked to ensure ambulance services; ensure availability of life-saving drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab, besides ensuring proper home quarantine to patients and making availability of free medical kits to patients. Similarly, a team headed by additional district magistrate (executive) is tasked to set up coordination with the state administration on different aspects, besides ensuring inter-departmental coordination. “The idea is to ensure that all Covid-19 related works go on smoothly. This will ensure that overall work is streamlined, and we will be able to tackle any likely wave of Covid-19,” the DM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nine-teams-formed-to-handle-covid-19-situation-in-ghaziabad-101623177586992.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Noida traffic dept invites suggestions from public as city unlocks||The Noida traffic department is seeking suggestions and feedback from the public for smooth traffic movement in the city as the district unlocks.Since the unlock began on Monday, traffic is back on the roads of Noida after almost a month of the “partial corona curfew”. The Noida traffic department hopes to fine tune its response after the lull.“We have had online meetings with office bearers of residents welfare associations (RWAs) and apartment owners’ associations (AOAs). Traffic sub-inspectors have been instructed to ]interact with them too and understand specific issues. Every locality has its specific problem, and we would like to work on them out as soon as possible,” said deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ganesh Saha.Citizens felt that unorganised gathering of local vendors and unauthorised parking are also major concerns.“Traffic violations by public are a serious issue. But we also need traffic personnel to manage traffic during weekly markets. In addition, the routes and number of passengers in auto and e-rickshaws also needs to be monitored. Illegally parked buses and vehicles also create nuisance for the sectors,” said Sanjeev Kumar, president, sector 51 RWA.Traffic officials said that despite the unlock Covid protocols such as regulating the number of passengers in autos, e-rickshaws and private cars remained and that the traffic department will creating awareness about them among the public.“However, multiple violations of Covid protocols will result in challans,” said the DCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-traffic-dept-invites-suggestions-from-public-as-city-unlocks-101623177528356.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Trans-Hindon residents battle pandemic without govt hospital||The decade-old demand for a government hospital in the trans-Hindon region of Ghaziabad continues to be stuck in limbo with the district health department wanting land free of cost, but the land-owning agency offered a plot for ₹140 crore.The trans-Hindon areas comprise of localities like Indirapuram, Kaushambi, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Prahlad Garhi, Jhandapur and Sahibabad, among others. During the ongoing pandemic, and particularly the receding second wave that hit in April, residents had no option but the more expensive private facilities.The two nearest government hospitals, MMG district hospital and Sanjay Nagar combined district hospital, are located almost 10 - 12 kms from Vasundhara.“We have demanding a government hospital for the past 10-12 years. Apart from high-rises and plotted development areas, the trans-Hindon also has a large population of people from lower income group who cannot afford private treatment,” said U B Garg, president of ‘Vasundhara Vikas Samiti’ that is spearheading the issue.As per the official records, localities like Indirapuram (1,397 cases), Sahibabad (1,237) Vaishali (746) and Vasundhara (782) suffered in May.“The situation was scary. We families running from pillar to post, day and night, in order to get oxygen and beds. Had it not been timely effort by the Gurudwara in Indirapuram (that offered free oxygen), casualty count would have been more,” said Mohan Sangwan, general secretary of Confederation of trans-Hindon RWAs. “A multi-specialty and super specialty hospital with 200 could have been useful.”“The land at Vasundhara has been earmarked for a hospital. If it is not available free-of-cost, does it mean that hospital will not be constructed?” asked Garg.That seems to be the stand of the Ghaziabad health department and UP Avas Vikas Parishad.Where the proposal is stuckLast October, the health department was offered two plots in Vasundhara- 5,000 square metre (sqm) in Sector 3 as residential quarters for the staff of the proposed hospital, and 7,500 sqm in Sector 6 for the main building with 100 beds. “The estimated land cost given to us was about ₹140-150 crore, but headquarters rejected last year,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.While the UP Avas Vikas refused to officially comment on the matter, a senior official, on the condition of anonymity, said they did not have the power to offer land free-of-cost.“Both plots are reserved for a hospital. We have done our part and now the decision rests with the health department,” said the officer.Government officials familiar with the development said that only the UP cabinet had the power to direct allotting land free-of-cost for a hospital in Ghaziabad.Sahibabad MLA Sunil Sharma said that he had taken up the matter with the government.“UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath knows about it. Even the land for his dream project of Kailash Mansarowar Bhawan in Indirapuram was given by the Ghaziabad development authority at a price. The pandemic has hit the people badly and so too the government coffers. Once the situation improves, a decision is likely to be taken up,” said Sharma.The district has about 500 beds available in different government facilities and is likely to increase to 580 with upcoming hospitals in Loni and Bamheta.“However, there will still be shortage of about 300 beds considering the 4.5-5 million population of the district,” said an officer from the district health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-trans-hindon-residents-battle-pandemic-without-govt-hospital-101623177527747.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Post-Covid complications: MIS-C cases reported among children in Noida and Ghaziabad||Noida/Ghaziabad: Amid a decline in Covid-19 cases in Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad, post-Covid complications are coming to the fore. Nearly 70 cases of multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) have been reported at various hospitals in both the districts in the past three weeks. Experts said that all the MIS-C patients, who are usually in the age group of six months to 15 years, have had a history of Covid-19 infection in their families. The MIS-C is a condition where different body parts can become inflamed, including heart, lungs, kidneys, brain, skin, eyes, or gastrointestinal organs, the experts said, adding that most common symptoms are respiratory and abdominal issues.Dr Rakesh Gupta, director of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), said that two cases of MIS-C have been reported at the hospital so far. “Two children aged six and seven years were admitted at GIMS with a moderate case of MIS-C last week. Both were discharged after a week of treatment. They both had a history of Covid-19 infection and had been positive a month back,” he said.At Fortis Hosital Noida, there have been 15 mild to moderate cases of MIS-C in the age group of six months to 13 years in the past three weeks. Dr Ashutosh Sinha, head of department of paediatrics at the hospital, said that an antibody test is carried out to confirm Covid history in such children.“It is not necessary that the child got Covid and then developed MIS-C. In majority of the cases, children were asymptomatic of Covid and have tested negative in RT-PCR test as well. However, since their parents or someone in family had the infection, the children developed antibodies against Covid and tested positive for the same in IgG antibody test,” Sinha said.At Felix Hospital in Noida, two such cases have been reported in the past two weeks where one child was two years old and another seven years old. “Parents need to be very alert and suspicious of early signs of this disease among their children, especially if they have a history of Covid infection in their house. If it is not diagnosed at the earliest, it can prove dangerous as well,” said Dr Rashmi Gupta, child and neonatology specialist at the hospital.Gupta said that doctors can use medicines such as intravenous immunoglobulin, steroids and other anti-inflammatory drugs to reduce the inflammation in such patients.If the cases are identified early on, doctors are able to discharge the patients within four to six days, said Dr Ramalingam Kalyan, director and HoD (paediatrics), Max Hospital’s Vaishali and Noida branches.“We are getting at least one case a day for the past three days. About 25-30% of such cases are being managed in the out-patient department. The mild stage of MIS-C is called ‘febrile inflammatory state’, in moderate state, the syndrome presents features of Kawasaki disease and at the highest level, toxic shock syndrome is reported,” said Dr Kalyan.He also said that it is important to vaccinate the parents in order to avoid such complications in kids. “MIS-C is reported 4-6 weeks after the onset of Covid symptoms in the parents. Hence, the after effects of a possible third wave among adults will be borne by children since they may not get infected directly, but may develop post-covid complications. Therefore, it is vital that apart from following all Covid protocols, parents are vaccinated,” said Dr Kalyan.At Yashoda Hospital, Nehru Nagar in Ghaziabad, there have been 19 cases of MIS-C, with the youngest one being a five-day-old baby. “The mother of the baby had contracted Covid-19 in her seventh month. When the child was born, it started vomiting and had fever. After an antibody test, the baby was diagnosed with MIS-C,” said Dr Sachin Dubey, primary paediatrician at the hospital.At the Yashoda Hospital in Kaushambi too, about 20 cases of MIS-C were reported in the past two weeks. “70% of the cases reported at the hospital had inflammation of cardiac region that resulted in coronary abnormalities. Other cases were of subacute intestinal obstruction where the child had abdominal problems like diarrhoea, vomiting or loss of appetite,” said Dr Vidya Ghosh, head of paediatric intensive care unit at the hospital.Dr Sumit Gupta, paediatrician at Columbia Asia Hospital, Ghaziabad, said that in the past two weeks, seven cases between 2 years and 13 years of age have been reported at the hospital. “Paediatricians in Ghaziabad are seeing a rise in cases of MIS-C in the last one month. The common symptoms include cold, fever, gastroenteritic issues like vomiting, diarrhoea, pain in the abdomen, or rashes. Younger children below six years of age are having more abdominal symptoms while in older ones fever is the main symptom,” he said.When asked, GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that the district health department is not keeping a record of MIS-C cases. “Most of such patients reported in the district have recovered. Moreover, a very small number of MIS-C cases have been reported in the district so far,” he said. Ghaziabad CMO Dr NK Gupta couldn’t be reached for a comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/postcovid-complications-mis-c-cases-reported-among-children-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-101623177348145.html
09-06-2021||Noida||Staff assaulted after 25-year-old succumbs at MMG hospital in Ghaziabad||The MMG district hospital in Ghaziabad was vandalised and staff assaulted on Tuesday morning after the death of a 25-year-old man who was injured in an accident the previous night.Police said around six persons were involved in the vandalism and assault, and that two persons were arrested in the case. The incident affected the hospital’s out-patient services.Police identified the dead man as auto-rickshaw driver Aman Sharma who suffered a blow to the head in the accident in Sahibabad and was referred to the hospital early morning. “After nearly 20-25 minutes of treatment, the man died. His injuries were severe. As soon as the doctors declared him dead, people who had come along with him went on a rampage and vandalised the hospital and also beat up staff. A ward boy and a nurse were injred,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent of the hospital. “The incident was also captured on the CCTV system. We have given a police complaint.”After the attack, the hospital staff abstained work and demanded the immediate arrest of the suspects and invoking section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against them. Dr Bhargava said that the out-patient services was held up for one hour until the police were able to assuage the staff. Police registered an FIR under IPC sections 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and section 427 (causing damages) along with section 34 (common intention). “We added IPC section 307 to the investigation and also levied provisions of Uttar Pradesh Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (​Prevention of Violence And Damage to Property) Act, 2013. Two persons were also arrested and more will be identified soon,” said Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1). Police identified the suspects as Mohammad Adil, resident of Pasonda in Sahibabad, and Rahul Kumar, resident of Vaishali sector-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/staff-assaulted-after-25-year-old-succumbs-at-mmg-hospital-in-ghaziabad-101623177347589.html
09-06-2021||City||Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Tripura's GDP witnesses a rise||Tripura recorded growth in Gross State Domestic Product (GDP) in the current fiscal year amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, state law minister Ratan Lal Nath said."In the current fiscal year, the GDP growth is ₹59,752.61 crores while it was ₹55,984.08 crores in the last fiscal year, i.e., in 2019-20," Nath said.In the 2018-19 fiscal year, Tripura's GDP was at ₹49,845.47 crores while in 2017-18, it was ₹43,715.80 crores and in 2016-17, it was ₹39,479.40 crores, Nath added.Besides, the per capita income of people in the state has also increased to ₹1,31,128 in this fiscal year from ₹1,25,191 in the previous one. The per capita income was ₹1,12,849 in 2018-19, ₹1,00,444 in 2017-18 and ₹91,596 in 2016-17.The minister further said that nearly 6,92,050 people got loans worth ₹16,884.65 crores under various schemes, including Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana, Swavalamban, among others, from different banks in the state."Though there has been an increase in GDP and per capita income since the past many years, clinical symptoms of the economy is not good. The state has faced unemployment, especially during the Covid-19 lockdown. The unemployment rate is 21 per cent in our state. The rubber market is not in a good position and large-scale exports have also been affected," said Dr Selim Shah, an expert in economics.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-covid-19-pandemic-tripura-s-gdp-witnesses-a-rise-101623176919735.html
09-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Dusty winds push air quality into poor zone, rain likely from June 12||After experiencing a long spell of good air days, courtesy the Covid-19 lockdown, the effects of two cyclones and numerous western disturbances, Delhi’s air quality slipped into the ”poor” category on air quality index (AQI) on Tuesday with dust carrying south-westerly winds sweeping across the city at speeds ranging from 30-40 kmph.India Meteorological Department (IMD) said such dry and dusty conditions are likely to continue on Wednesday and Thursday as well. But some relief is likely from June 12, when a fresh western disturbance is expected to trigger rain in the city.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the overall air quality in Delhi on the AQI scale was 205 or ”poor”, a step-up from Monday’s AQI of 180 or “moderate”. On a scale of 0 to 500, a reading between 100-200 is considered moderate, while that between 200 and 300 is considered poor.A senior IMD official said dry and dusty conditions are expected to prevail over the entire north-west India till June 10. “Winds carrying dust from the Thar Desert are blowing over Delhi, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh. Through satellite images, we can see a layer of dust hanging low over the region. Similar conditions are expected till June 10, which means that pollution levels, especially the levels of PM10 (particulate matter with a diameter less than 10 micrometres), are likely to deteriorate further in the next two days,” the official said, asking not to be named.As dusty winds continued to impact Delhi’s air quality throughout Tuesday, the average reading of PM10 was 244.2ug/m3 at 4pm, as compared to 160ug/m3 on Monday evening. Localised recordings from Delhi localities also showed that the predominant pollutant in most areas was PM10.CPCB’s hourly average recordings show that around 7pm, the pollution levels at two monitoring stations -- Chandni Chowk and ITO -- had already touched the “very poor” zone (a reading between 300 and 400 on AQI scale), with the PM10 readings breaching the 300ug/m3 mark, as against the national permissible limit of 100ug/m3.Delhi experienced a long spell of good air, thanks to the Covid-19 lockdown, the impact of two major cyclonic storms and the higher than normal western disturbances. CPCB data shows that before Tuesday, Delhi witnessed ”poor” air quality on May 23, when the average AQI had dipped to 237.IMD forecast also said after a spell of dry and dusty weather, Delhi is likely to receive another bout of rain from June 12 under the impact of a western disturbance. “On June 12, we might receive light rain in isolated pockets, but on June 13 most parts of the city are expected to get rain,” the IMD forecasters said.Delhi on Tuesday recorded a maximum temperature of 41.7 degrees Celsius at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city. The minimum temperature was 28.6 degrees Celsius.“We have a forecast of the temperatures rising further tomorrow (Wednesday) and reaching around 42 degrees Celsius. But after June 12, the temperature will start dropping and we are expecting it to go below 40 degrees Celsius,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Despite the high-temperature forecast, Met officials said Delhi is unlikely to record a heatwave this season. In the plains, heatwave days are recorded when two things happen – when the maximum temperature crosses 40 degrees Celsius, and when the day temperature exceeds the region’s normal maximum temperature by 4.5 degrees Celsius. A severe heatwave is declared when there is a departure of 6.5 degrees Celsius or above from normal temperatures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-dusty-winds-push-air-quality-into-poor-zone-rain-likely-from-june-12-101623175426812.html
09-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt goes extra mile in Covid-19 vaccination drive||Groups of booth level officers (BLO) and their teams comprising civil defence volunteers spread across Burari locality in north Delhi on Tuesday afternoon. As they navigated the narrow lanes, visiting shops and knocking on doors of residents, they engaged with a large number of people aged above 45 years who are yet to be take their Covid-19 vaccine.“I have recently recovered from Covid-19. I do not have to take the vaccine for at least three months now,” said Aman Tyagi, a property dealer, as the group of officers approached him at his office in the locality. While Tyagi had a legitimate reason, his neighbour Brij Tripathi showed some hesitance without citing a proper reason.During the conversation, Tripathi opened up. He told the officers that he had heard somewhere that the vaccines have led to a large number of cases of glaucoma. The officials convinced him that it was a myth and booked a vaccine slot for him in the nearest government school – where people in the locality cast their votes during elections – for Thursday.These teams are part of a government initiative – Jahan vote, wahan vaccination – aimed at increasing vaccine coverage against Covid-19 among the 45+ age group in four weeks. It was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday.According to government records, Delhi has around 5.7 million people who are aged above 45, of which around 2.56 million have taken one dose of Covid-19 vaccines and more than 860,000 have taken a second dose.On Tuesday, several Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs joined the initiative and accompanied door-to-door drives in their respective assembly constituencies.“I appeal to representatives of RWAs, youth groups, women’s groups, market associations, NGOs and religious organisations to do their bit in encouraging citizens aged 45+ to get vaccinated at local polling booths in their assembly constituency,” said Delhi’s food minister Imran Hussain, who was one of the AAP MLAs who joined the drive in his constituency, Ballimaran, on Tuesday.AAP MLA from Kalkaji, Atishi said, “In the 45+ group, Delhi’s vaccine coverage touched 50% with a sharp rise in the graph which eventually plateaued. During the drive today, we have come across a lot of cases in which people aged 45+ have not taken the vaccines because they have recently had Covid-19. But then there were people too who were hesitant. We are sure that setting up vaccine centres closer to their residences will help increase turnout and more vaccine coverage in the coming days.”Kejriwal said on Monday that the Delhi government has activated all its 13,000 booth level officers (BLOs) for this drive. Delhi has around 280 wards. Under the initiative, 70 wards will be chosen every week. On Monday, the government started with wards located in assembly segments that include Kalkaji, Ballimaran, Timarpur and Burari. Under the initiative, temporary vaccine centres are to be set up in polling booths of localities chosen every week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-goes-extra-mile-in-vaccination-drive-101623175367413.html
09-06-2021||Gurugram||Illegal arms suppliers held, 20 guns and 50 cartridges recovered||The police on Sunday night arrested two men on charges of smuggling and selling illegally made weapons to criminals in Delhi-NCR, and recovered at least 20 illegal pistols, 11 magazines and 50 live cartridges from their possession.The police said that the demand for illegal weapons is on the rise and since January, they have recovered more than 300 illegal weapons and arrested at least 50 persons in connections with crimes. The police said the guns are manufactured in Uttar Pradesh, and over 200 pistols and magazines were set to be sold in Gurugram.The suspects were identified as Kuldeep alias chief minister (27) and Mukesh Kumar (24) of Mathura in Uttar Pradesh.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that these suspects have been associated with gangs supplying illegal weapons for the last four years. “They have attended a training camp, where they are taught how to carry illegal weapons, and the process of dealing and supplying to other criminals. They are part of a 20-member gang that buys illegal weapons from Uttar Pradesh and sells them in Haryana, Delhi-NCR, Rajasthan, and Punjab. They motivate unemployed people to join them and later train them,” he said.According to the police, the suspects revealed during questioning that they used to run training camps for people who wanted to engage in crimes. “Apart from weapons training, they also taught people on ways to conduct robberies, how to cover their faces and identify victims, directing them only to target pedestrians to avoid being caught,” said Sangwan.The police said the gang members bought illegal firearms for ₹5,000- ₹20,000 and sold them for nearly ₹50,000.Narender Chauhan, the in-charge of the Sector 17 crime investigation unit, said that they were tipped off about the movement of the suspects and arrested them from Sohna. “This was their first visit to Gurugram. They have supplied illegal weapons in Delhi, Punjab and Rajasthan. We are yet to identify the receiver. We are questioning them and have taken their call detail records,” he said.According to the police, this is one of the largest consignment of illegal weapons recovered in Gurugram. Also, the arrested persons were close associates of a manufacturer based in Uttar Pradesh.Sangwan said the smugglers used various social media platforms to establish a wide network of contacts in Delhi-NCR, Rajasthan and Haryana. These suppliers target gangsters who are lodged in jails and their aides, who are struggling to run operations without weapons, the police said.Sangwan said that they are conducting a detailed investigation to unravel the entire weapons manufacturing, smuggling and supply chain, as well as identify the physical and financial flows associated with the recovered weapons.A case under sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act was registered against the duo at Sohna police station and raids are planned at more than 10 locations to arrest more suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-arms-suppliers-held-20-guns-and-50-cartridges-recovered-101623172306957.html
09-06-2021||Pune||Supply-demand gap leads to shortage of mucor injection in Pune||PUNE A shortage of the Amphotericin (Ampho) B injection, required to treat Mucormycosis, has continued in Pune district. As of June 7, there are 586 “black fungus” patients undergoing treatment in Pune district. There were 538 patients under treatment on June 1. Health officials said that the shortage of Ampho B is because supply is still lower than demand. On the other hand, as the number of Covid cases have reduced, the demand for Remdesivir, an antiviral drug, has drastically dropped. Ampho B is distributed to hospitals in the district through the office of a civil surgeon. Whereas other medicines such as Posaconazole tablets, injections, and liquids required to treat Mucormycosis are distributed by the control room at the Collector’s office. Civil surgeon Dr Ashok Nandapurkar said that the supply of Ampho B is still not in proportion to demand. “The supply of Amphotericin B is not adequate as per the number of cases. There are currently 586 cases of black fungus in the district. The number of patients undergoing treatment keeps fluctuating because of discharges and deaths. Pune gets patients from outside the district as well,” said Dr Nandapurkar. Shyam Pratapwar, assistant commissioner, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Pune, said that there is no shortage of Posaconazole tablets, and also the demand for Remdesivir has reduced. “The distribution of Ampho B is done from the office of the civil surgeon in Pune. Other injections and tablets are distributed by the FDA. The demand for Remdesivir has been reduced now to 300 injections per day,” said Pratapawar.On June 7, 86 strips of Posaconazole tablets, 50 vials of Posaconazole injections, and five bottles of Posaconazole liquid were distributed to private hospitals in the district. Dr Varsha Doiphode, additional civil surgeon in Pune, said that the Ampho B is supplied to hospitals as stock becomes available. “On Monday, we distributed Ampho B to 10 hospitals. The fresh stock was not received until Tuesday afternoon. Available stock is distributed to government and private hospitals,” said Dr Doiphode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shortage-of-key-injection-to-treat-black-fungus-because-supply-not-meeting-demand-health-officials-101623170386015.html
09-06-2021||Other||Shelter home head, wife booked under Pocso||The director of a children’s home, his wife who is also the chairperson of East Singhbhum district child welfare committee, and three other people have been booked for sexual exploitation of two minor inmates, police said on Tuesday.Jamshedpur assistant superintendent of police Kumar Gaurav said all five have been booked under various sections of Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and the Indian Penal Code.The FIR has named Harpal Singh Thapar, director of Mother Teresa Welfare Trust, his wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey, caretaker Deepa Singh, her son Aditya Singh and his friend Tony Singh.ASP Singh added that the survivors have recorded their statements under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the special Pocso court of an additional sessions judge.The girls escaped from the children’s home on Saturday, following which Thapar went to the police to file a missing complaint. The police tracked down the girls through their cellphone numbers to a house in Birsanagar late Sunday night. The girls told the police that Thapar and the other men used to sexually harass them while Tirkey used to beat them up. They were students at a girls’ school who were sent to the home after the school closed during the lockdown.Thapar and his wife called the charges motivated and said they were ready for a fair probe. Tirkey also submitted a memorandum to the police on Monday evening.There was already a pending complaint against Thapar, his wife and a few others, filed by a woman who alleged that her husband, a panchayat ward member, was falsely implicated in a case of sexual harassment of a minor girl by Thapar and his wife and sent to jail. In her complaint to the Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police, the woman also alleged that Thapar and his associates were demanding ₹15 lakh to settle the matter.Thapar’s shelter home made news for the wrong reasons on Monday too when a video showing girl inmates working in garbage dumps and other menial tasks went viral, forcing the district administration to take notice. A four-member team of the district labour department led by labour superintendent Avinash Thakur spoke with the children regarding this.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/childrens-home-director-4-others-booked-for-sexual-harassment-of-two-minor-inmates-101623166545416.html
09-06-2021||Patna||Imam killed in blast at Bihar mosque||A high-intensity explosion ripped through a madrasa (seminary) in Bihar’s Banka district on Tuesday morning, killing an imam (religious teacher) and damaging other houses in the locality, police said.According to superintendent of police (Banka) Arvind Kumar Gupta, the blast took place around 8am at the complex situated in Nautolia locality, pulling down a major portion of the seminary.Bihar plans to erase Muzaffarpur shelter home blot with modern care centres“The compound’s front portion comprises the madrasa. It was locked from outside. There is a pathway inside which leads to the mosque, the gates of which were found open. The explosion has caused extensive damage to the seminary building,” Gupta told news agency PTI.A preliminary probe suggested the presence of gunpowder or explosives at the site of the explosion, said Shresthan Kumar, assistant director of the Forensic Sciences Laboratory at Bhagalpur.The madrasa, which had close to 200 students, was shut on May 5 due to the Covid-induced lockdown. The deceased, identified as Mohammad Abdul Sattar Mobin, was from Jharkhand‘s Madhupur district and resided at the seminary as a caretaker.Not a single person, including the imam of the mosque could be traced when a police party reached the spot, added Gupta.Mobin’s body was recovered just outside Navtolia locality. Preliminary investigations revealed that the injured imam died on the way to the hospital, following which his aides abandoned the body in the car and fled, said police.The explosion was so powerful that people staying one kilometre away could hear the sound, said Bibi Rukhsana, who lives in the neighbourhood.Deputy inspector general (Bhagalpur range) Sujeet Kumar said a team of forensic experts and a dog squad are examining the site of explosion to ascertain the cause of the blast. Officials familiar with the developments in the Bihar Police headquarters said the investigating officers will also probe a terror angle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/imam-killed-in-blast-at-bihar-mosque-101623166426155.html
09-06-2021||Pune||Pirangut industrial estate with over 200 firms has no fire station||Pune: The major fire incident at SVS Aqua Technologies that claimed 17 lives on Monday has exposed the severe lack of fire safety measures in the industrial zone of Pirangut-Ghoatawade, around 40 kilometres from Pune. The Pirangut area that houses over 200 small and medium industrial units with at least 10 of them engaged in producing chemicals does not have a fire station. Locals said that fire tenders had to be called in from other stations and it delayed the dousing exercise. They claimed that the blaze in the chemical manufacturing firm could be controlled only after two hours. The victims, including 15 women, were charred to death . “There is no allocated space right now (for the fire station) and we have demanded it from the district collector. There was a provision for a fire station in the DP (development plan), but we have to demanded it from the district on an urgent basis. We have identified one location, but it was taking time. After yesterday’s incident, everybody wants a fire station so we will ask for that land,” said Suhas Diwase, chief executive officer, Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), under whose jurisdiction the area comes. PMRDA depends on three fire stations with latest one being Wagholi, and two others at Marunji and Nanded City. The nearest PMRDA fire station to the Pirangut-located SVS Aqua Technologies is the Life Republic fire station in Marunji. However, geographically, the nearest fire station is one at Hinjewadi Phase 3 under Pimpri-Chinchwad fire department. Six fire brigade vehicles helped in the rescue operation, including units sourced from Hinjewadi Phase 3, Wagholi, Marunji, and MIDC. Around 50 officials were involved in the four-hour operation to douse the fire. “The fire started around 3:30pm and the fire brigade arrived around 4:15pm. I managed to run out of the company, but my wife could not,” said Baban Margale (34), who lost his wife Mangal Margale (29) in the blaze. The committee report pointed out various shortcomings in the company’s operation, including lack of NOC from the fire department and fire safety measures at the production unit. Pirangut industrial zone has many small and medium size industrial units. Though the Pirangut Industry Association could not give an exact number, but the association’s general secretary Raman Govitrikar said that the Pirangut-Ghotawade Phata industrial zone has 10-15 chemical units among 200-250 small and medium sized industrial units. “A fire on a large scale had broken out at Vulkan Tech in March 2020, but no casualty was reported. We started raising our long-standing demand for a fire station since then before the lockdown probably slowed things. Now a fire brigade station and basic necessities for industry - water, electricity, and roads - needs to be given to this area. Whether it comes from gram panchayat, PMRDA, or the state government is up to them,” said Govitrikar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pirangut-industrial-estate-with-over-200-firms-has-no-fire-station-101623165345247.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Drugs case: Axed Patti SHO gets interim bail, asked to join investigation||The Punjab and Haryana high court has granted interim bail to a former Punjab Police inspector absconding in a drug case for the last two months.The court has asked Baljit Singh, former station house officer (SHO) of Patti Sadar police station, to join investigation being conducted by deputy superintendent of police (DSP-narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances) Sukhdeep Singh. Baljit, along with assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Davinder Singh, who was posted in Amritsar judicial complex, allegedly released Malkit Singh, alias Palta, and his brother-in-law Bau Singh on March 31. They alleged drug peddlers were arrested from the Tarn Taran city police station jurisdiction with 1kg of heroin. Baljit was dismissed from the service after he went underground. Davinder was also placed under suspension and a departmental probe was ordered against him. Earlier, a local court had dismissed the bail applications of both the cops.A case under Sections 21-29-59-61-85 of the NDPS Act, 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, (amended as 2018), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered against the inspector, ASI, smugglers and one Jasbir Singh on April 13 at the city police station.The case was registered on the complaint of ASI Jatinder Singh of city police station. He said Baljit and Davinder had released Malkit and Bau after taking ₹3.5 lakh bribe. Jasbir played a middleman in striking the deal between the accused and the cops, it was alleged. According to Tarn Taran police, the seized contraband is with the former inspector.Baljit approached the court through counsel pleading “this kind of vague allegations can be levelled against anyone”. His lawyer told the court that the petitioner, who has an unblemished service record, has been falsely implicated.“The petitioner shall join the investigation and would be present as and when called for and in the event of arrest. He shall be admitted to interim bail on his furnishing personal and surety bonds to the satisfaction of investigating officer,” noted justice Manoj Bajaj, while issuing notice of motion to Tarn Taran police for September 22. Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale confirmed the bail order and said the former cop has not joined the investigation yet. “We have adequate evidence against Baljit. ASI Davinder Singh has already confessed to the crime. We have yet to recover 1kg heroin that was seized from the drug peddlers,” said a senior police official, who didn’t wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drugs-case-axed-sho-gets-interim-bail-asked-to-join-investigation-101623158084432.html
09-06-2021||Chandigarh||Discontent brewing in Kangra’s tea gardens||The Covid-19 pandemic and erratic rainfall have hit the Kangra tea industry for the second consecutive year. Once in demand in Europe, Central Asia, Australia and Afghanistan, Kangra tea is already facing a crisis due to the shrinking area under cultivation, high input cost and tough market competition. According to the economic survey, the total area under tea in 2019-20 was 2,314.71 hectares with a production of 1,002 tonnes. The number of tea growers has come down from 5,000 to 1,100 since 2010, while the area under cultivation has declined from 4,000 hectares in the early ’80s to 2,300 hectares today. Nearly 1,000 small tea growers of Kangra and Mandi have reported losses. In 2020, even though the produce was good, the tea growers suffered losses due to the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of Covid-19. This year, the erratic weather had a major impact, while the state imposed a lockdown to deal with the second wave of the pandemic. Erratic rain ruins 70% of first flush pluck Gokul Butail, the spokesperson for the Kangra Tea Planters’ Association, said” “Erratic rainfall pattern and hailstorm destroyed the first flush of Kangra tea. A first flush is the first round of leaf buds coming out of the tea bush in the harvest season. First flush, plucked in April, teas are often the best, as the year’s first harvest— rich in aroma, quality, flavour and value. Each additional flush produces a different flavour and aroma as the growing season for that tea plant progress season. “At least 70% of the first flush crop tea produce, which fetches the highest price (around ₹600- ₹700 per kg) in the market was destroyed this year,” said Butail. Temperatures were comparatively higher in winter, while rainfall, which is must for plant growth, was low. In summer, when it should be warmer, hailstorm and untimely rainfall ruined the yield. “The estimated first flush production in Kangra would be around 200 tonnes but the production this year was only 60 tonnes,” he said. Delayed transportation, labour shortage The tea industry was further hit by problems in transportation due to the lockdown amid rising Covid cases in April. Though the government had given relaxation to the agriculture sector, but fear of the virus caused problems in getting transport. “This led to delay in the tea reaching the market. There was a lockdown in Kolkata and the wholesale tea market, which impacted the auction,” said Butail. If there is delay in auction, the tea loses its moisture content, aroma and flavour, fetching a low price. Another tea grower, Sachin Butail, said the retail market has also been hit hard due to the Covid-19 lockdown. “People are afraid of going anywhere and there has been negligible tourist footfall. The tea industry is also facing labour shortage which has slowed down the plucking that continues till October,” he said. Sachin said most of the labour engaged in tea plucking comes from Jharkhand. “They left for home last year and not even half of them have returned,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/discontent-brewing-in-kangra-s-tea-gardens-101623153407145.html
09-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi lost over 300 trees in three weeks. Experts explain what needs to be done||The spell of rain and squalls triggered by cyclonic storm Tauktae and multiple episodes of western disturbance over the last month made the Delhi summer less harsh this year. But the good weather extracted its price.Since May 19, when Delhi witnessed the season’s first big storm, data from the three municipal corporations shows that at least 215 trees fell in the capital. Additionally, according to the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) that looks after the British-era avenue trees, another 95 were uprooted in the last two squalls alone.Officials and experts HT spoke to pointed at a range of factors, from the rampaging winds to poor canopy management and weakened roots that brought down so many trees.Ashish Priyadarshi, director, horticulture at North Delhi Municipal Corporation blamed the unusually strong winds. “The fallen trees couldn’t withstand the cyclonic wind, which had higher intensity and was circular in motion. Also, because of higher buildings and existing roadside trees, there was also this tunnelling effect in the streets, which increased the speed of the wind,” he said.Also Read | How Centre will vaccinate all 940 million adults against Covid by DecemberOthers were unanimous that a large number of trees in Delhi have been decaying from concretisation, disease and termite attacks, even as they underlined the urgency to save the surviving ones, which remain the city’s best health insurance against atmospheric and noise pollution, water-logging, groundwater depletion, and heat islanding.Specialised care To ensure better survival of trees in Delhi, experts emphasised engaging services of specialists in urban tree management.“The forest department will do forestry, the horticulture will look after parks. For urban trees, we need good managers who are trained arboriculturists,” said CR Babu, professor emeritus at the Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems at Delhi University.Agreed Suhas Borker of Green Circle of Delhi, a voluntary group that has been collaborating with NDMC in restoring uprooted trees. There is so much injury inflicted on trees because agencies in charge lack the knowledge of tree architecture and tree conservation, he added.S Chellaiah, director (horticulture) at NDMC, underlined the importance of a focussed approach. “All agencies that manage trees are multi-tasking. If we have trained arboriculturists for tree care management, they can take charge of the tree’s health — from pruning canopies to treating disease and decay,” he explained.Canopy management A large number of trees that got uprooted this season were lacking in balance. Their stability was compromised by a combination of the heavy canopy and shallow, narrow root base.“This happens when trees are not pruned regularly. The weight of the canopy increases disproportionately to the size of the root zone, which is anyway shallow due to heavy concretisation around the base. Such trees lack balance and get uprooted easily,” explained Babu.Pruning is an important part of canopy management and needs to be done scientifically. Maintained regularly, trees can grow in a sustainable manner. “But we often see lopping of large branches, which happens because trees are not pruned for years on end,” said Babu.Root anchorage A large number of urban trees are encased in cement or buried under construction waste, which starves them of water, air and essential nutrients. In 2013, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) made it mandatory to leave one-metre space around the trunk of a tree unpaved, but violations are rampant in Delhi.For structural stability and cushioning, tree roots do not just need to go deep, they also need to spread horizontally. “But when we have an asphalted road with layers of tar running deep into the ground on one side and shops and buildings on the other, and pavements that have been fully concretised, the roots have nowhere to go,” said Babu.The result is altered root patterns. “The deeper roots don’t get water and dry out. The shallow roots survive but are not strong enough to provide anchorage. Rain and strong winds just uproot them,” explained Chelliah.Also Read | Industries cannot operate without prior environment clearance, says NGTRoots are also damaged by frequent digging of pavements by various agencies providing utilities. Also, wheel traffic and overflowing wastewater have a compacting effect on the topsoil that prevents nutrients and water from reaching the roots.“Recently, we put back six Neem trees that had fallen in Lodhi Garden. They seem to be doing fine. We have also restored a mango tree near Pandara Road but we are not sure of its survival since its roots were not breathing because of concretisation,” said Borker.Diseased trunks Termites make root systems and stems hollow, making trees topple easily.The problem is particularly acute among the older trees in Lutyens’ Delhi, said Chellaiah. The majority of the trees that have fallen in the last few years in the NDMC areas are Neem, susceptible to both termite and Ganoderma fungal intrusions, and the growth of gall or tumour-like growth caused by insects laying eggs are also weakening a lot of trees in Delhi.“Many silver oak trees in Nehru Park have also been infested with the Ganoderma fungus. If it is in the advanced stages of infestation, it is difficult to save these trees,” said Chelliah.Therefore, periodical inspection, early detection and timely treatment is the only strategy to control termite and fungal attacks, said experts. To do that, Delhi needs to monitor its trees.Tracking trees The Delhi Preservation of Trees Act, notified in 1994, mandated a tree count but the first city-wide census is yet to be conducted. In 2007, the NDMC along with Forest Research Institute-Dehradun did survey the health of trees in the VIP zone. It also got itself a tree ambulance, the only such facility in Delhi. Another census with geo-tagging of trees in the NDMC area has been completed and the data is awaited, said Chellaiah.Having long waited for the government, residents of Sarvodaya Enclave conducted their own tree census in 2012. They followed it up with another census between 2018 and 2019 and recorded a loss of at least 77 trees. A few other South Delhi neighbourhoods including Gulmohar Park and Vasant Vihar also initiated their own tree health surveys.Also Read | CSE study identifies 14 new pollution hot spots in Delhi-NCRPadmavati Dwivedi, an environmental activist who spearheaded the census in Sarvodaya Enclave, said any long term strategy for tree care management has to start with a census and it was time the government conducted one covering the entire city.“In the absence of a city-wide tree census, there’s only firefighting happening in the name of tree care. Only when we have the data, we know which trees are infested with termites, which ones have gone hollow, which ones have been impaled with nails or wires, which ones have been concretised etc. It is then we can follow up with the agencies and seek remedial action,” said Dwivedi, urging the residents to get proactive and begin their own tree count.While native trees have far better survival rates, most of the species planted in Delhi’s neighbourhoods are monoculture, some of which are not suited for Delhi’s micro-habitat, she added.“As the way forward, we need to plant more indigenous species. Also, instead of saplings, we are now planting young trees — six feet in height — because they establish easily, and we don’t need tree guards to save them from trampling,” said Priyadarshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-lost-over-300-trees-in-three-weeks-experts-explain-what-needs-to-be-done-101623129401475.html
