10-06-2021||Other||Don’t give mobile phones to girls: SWC member||Agra Member of Uttar Pradesh State Women’s Commission (UPSWC) Meena Kumari has advised parents to not give mobile phones to girls as they talked to boys and then eloped with them. According to her, the mother of a girl was responsible for the deeds of her daughter. Meena Kumari was in Aligarh on Wednesday to listen to women’s complaints. Later, when she interacted with the media, she was asked about increasing crimes against women. “Society should also be held accountable for increasing crimes against women. Families should keep a watch on where their daughters are going and mixing with what kind of boys. Parents should keep a watch on the mobile phones of their girls,” she suggested. “It has been seen that girls talk on mobile phones with boys and then elope with them. There are many such cases where girls have married after such conversations on mobiles,” she said. “I would appeal to families to not give mobile phones to girls and if given, then vigil should be maintained. Mothers in particular should keep an eye on the daughters as all that is happening is the outcome of laxity by mothers,” said Meena Kumari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-give-mobile-phones-to-girls-swc-member-101623349759650.html
10-06-2021||Other||Progeria patient Rupesh dies at 23||PRAYAGRAJ: A 23-year-old youth Rupesh, who suffered from the rare disease progeria, died on Wednesday night and was cremated at Leelapur ghat on Thursday. Progeria is a rare genetic disease which causes a person to age prematurely. The patient may be a child but normal growth is hampered and the appearance is like an aged person with wrinkles and hair fall. Doctors say that a progeria patient usually survives for 20 years. The second son of trolley puller Rampati Bhartiya of Dhanecha village of trans-Ganga, Rupesh showed symptoms of progeria some years after his birth. His parents visited many doctors but no one was able to cure him. The doctors at a medical camp diagnosed the disease as progeria but no steps were taken for treatment. Rupesh’s parents also accepted it as an act of God. However, Rupesh’s mother Shanti Devi took good care of him and the family rejected the offer of a local circus to take him away in return for ₹4 lakh. In 2017, Dr Girish of local Ashutosh Memorial Trust started taking care of Rupesh and he provided all possible treatment. He made the family aware of Amitabh Bachhan’s movie ‘Pa’ which was based on a progeria patient. The administration also came forward for Rupesh’s help when news about his plight was published in Hindustan Times. Dr Girish said that Rupesh’s memory was strong. He was good at aiming glass balls and often used to laugh in front of the mirror. He was provided with a mobile for listening to music but his diet was quite low. He said he wished Rupesh could have broken the record of Liyon Botha (26) of South Africa who was the longest progeria survivor .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/progeria-patient-rupesh-dies-at-23-101623349579778.html
10-06-2021||Other||Fake Facebook account in name of PCMC commissioner Rajesh Patil deleted after police probe||PUNE A fake Facebook account in the name of Pimpri- Chinchwad municipal commissioner Rajesh Patil has been deleted, after the cyber department of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police registered a complaint and sent an email to Facebook to find where the account was created from. The account has since been shut down. Messages were being sent from the account asking for donations, the police discovered. The matter came to light when the civic chief as informed of it by a friend. Sanjay Kumbhar, senior inspector, cybercrime cell of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissionerate, said, “A friend request was sent to 300 people and also to a few people asking for money. However, no money was transferred.” On Wednesday night, Rajesh Patil tweeted, “All my Facebook friends and well-wishers, kindly note, someone has created my fake Facebook ID and might approach you for friendship or demand of money. Please don’t confirm it”. “Using my photo, the person created a fake Facebood ID. The person was chatting with people and asking for money. As soon as my friend informed me, I raised a complaint with the cybercrime cell,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fake-facebook-account-in-name-of-pcmc-commissioner-rajesh-patil-deleted-after-police-probe-101623349341012.html
10-06-2021||Other||SPPU extends state eligibility test for asst profs to June 17||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has extended its last date of registration for the Maharashtra state eligibility test (SET) for assistant professors till June 17. Students were facing issues while registering for the exam. This year the SET will be held on September 26.University officials said that students can now fill the form paying a late fee. Registration for SET started on May 17. At present, the registration fee is ₹800 for the open category.Beteen June 18 and June 25, the late fee is ₹500. The last date for editing application forms for correction is now June 30, said SPPU officials.Prafulla Pawar, registrar, SPPU, said that due to the pandemic, many students are at their native villages.“These students may face problems while registering for the SET exam due to network issues. In light of this, we have decided to extend the last date of SET exam registration from June 10 to June 17,” said Pawar.The Maharashtra SET is a qualifying exam for aspirants who want to teach at the college and university level after post-graduation. SET is conducted across the state as a qualifying exam for aspiring assistant professors.Amruta Deshpande, an aspirant from Pune, said that she has been trying to register for SET for the last seven days.“After several attempts to fill the second part of the form, I was unable to. The move to extend the date is welcome as there are many like me who are interested, but have not filled the form due to technical issues,” said Deshpande.Akshay Patil, another SET aspirant, said that after trying to fill the form several times, he has not been able to.“Every time, the website logs me out. Then I have to log in again, but it takes several attempts to do so. I have tried calling technical support and the SET Bhavan to raise the issue. However, there has not been any response,” said Patil.He said it is good that the last date has been extended. “I am at my native village at the moment. Many students who are in rural parts of the state will be facing the same issue. This move is welcome as it will benefit students,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sppu-extends-state-eligibility-test-for-asst-profs-to-june-17-101623349340365.html
10-06-2021||Other||42-year-old woman duped of ₹2.5 lakh via KYC con||PUNE A 42-year-old woman, on June 7, was duped of ₹2.5 lakh through a text message that warned of her bank account suspension if she did not fill her KYC details online.“Dear Customer, Your State Bank of India Account will be suspended! Please Re KYC Verification Update click here link (link) Thank You,” read the text message that the woman received, according to her complaint.The woman did not suspect fraud as she had recently received a hard copy letter from the bank asking her to submit documents for KYC for her bank account. As soon as she opened the link that asked for upload of KYC documents, 14 transactions were made through her bank account and a total of ₹2,50,558 was transferred from her account, according to police. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections 66(c), 66(d) of Information Technology Act has been registered at Vimantal police station. Inspector (crime) Mangesh Jagtap of Vimantal police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/42yearold-woman-duped-of-rs-2-5-lakh-via-kyc-con-101623349281899.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||3 O2 tanks with combined capacity of 171 MT set up across Capital||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday three medical oxygen storage plants with a combined capacity of 171 metric tonne (MT) have been set up across Delhi to meet the demand for oxygen lest a third wave of Covid-19 hits the Capital.“Oxygen facilities are being created at various places in Delhi so that people do not struggle in case a third wave emerges. Nineteen more plants are to be inaugurated within a day or two. The Delhi government has already installed three oxygen storage plants till now of 57 MT each ( total capacity 171 MT) and work is being done on a war footing,” said Kejriwal during his visit to a site at north west Delhi’s Siraspur where one storage tank has been installed.“The Siraspur facility has a 12.5 MT oxygen generation plant. The other two oxygen storage plants have been set up in the premises of Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital and DDU hospital,” he said.“In the second wave, the biggest challenge we faced was shortage of oxygen, because of which people of Delhi had to struggle a lot for a few days. Therefore, preparations are being made so that in case a third wave emerges, there should be no shortage of oxygen,” said the chief minister.Kejriwal further said, “All over Delhi, facilities for oxygen storage and oxygen generation are being created. We faced a lot of problems regarding tankers such that when we had to get oxygen from Haryana and other states, we did not have tankers. So, we are also getting tankers. All preparations are in full swing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-o2-tanks-with-combined-capacity-of-171-mt-set-up-across-capital-101623346941371.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal hails Centre’s policy to buy vaccines for states||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday appreciated the central government’s policy to buy vaccines for all beneficiary groups for distribution among states from June 21 even as he highlighted the role of the Supreme Court in this regard and expressed concerns over low production of vaccines in the country.“Vaccine shortage is concerning. It is a good thing that the central government has decided to buy vaccines and distribute it among states from June 21. We welcome the decision, even though it was done after the Supreme Court’s intervention and its pressure. Better late than never,” said Kejriwal during his visit to a site of an oxygen storage system in northwest Delhi’s Siraspur.On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Union government was taking over the responsibility of procuring vaccines and distributing them to the states. The action comes in the wake of growing demand for vaccines from the states, sharp criticism from the Supreme Court and increasing concerns that supply shortages and the insistence of foreign vaccine makers to deal only with the Union government could derail India’s vaccine drive.The Union government will continue to allow private hospitals to buy up to 25% of the vaccines made in India, although it has capped the service charge they can levy on these at ₹150 a dose. “The details of India’s new vaccine policy will be worked out in consultation with the states in the next two weeks, and will be out on June 21,” said Modi.Kejriwal further said on Thursday, “The biggest question that looms large is where will the government avail vaccines from? Production capacity in the country is still very low. If we have sufficient number of vaccines, and other states follow Delhi’s model, the whole population can be vaccinated in three months.”Kejriwal highlighted the city government’s ongoing initiative of engaging 13,000-odd booth level officers in the city and MLAs to visit every household and convince people aged 45 years and above to get vaccinated at the earliest in temporary vaccination sites set up at the polling booths close to their residences.Delhi has a population of 20 million, of which 15 million are aged above 18 and are eligible for vaccination. Government records show around 5.79 million people in the city have so far received at least one dose of the vaccine and 1.34 million have taken both doses.With vaccine supplies slowly stabilising, the Delhi government has been opening more vaccination centres. Delhi now has 739 centres administering vaccines to 45+ group and 231 centres offering vaccines to the 18-45 group, up from 482 and 95 recorded on Wednesday, showed the government’s health bulletin.While all government-run vaccine centres for the 18-45 group were forced to be suspended for more than two weeks because of shortage of vaccines, the number of sites for the 45+ group had reduced to 414 earlier this week.AAP legislator Atishi, while reading out the government’s vaccine bulletin in a video briefing on Thursday, said, “We are shocked that central government has written to several states, including Delhi, directing them not to disclose vaccine stock numbers. We urge them to invest more on vaccine production and supplies instead of focussing on reducing transparency on stock positions.”Govt to vaccinate delivery agents Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday issued directions to the health department to tie up with companies – especially in the retail and food aggregator sectors – to ensure that their delivery agents are vaccinated.His office said in a press statement: “Deputy Chief Minister Shri Manish Sisodia on Thursday directed the Health Ministry to tie up with organisations such as Amazon, Flipkart, Zomato, Swiggy, Dunzo, and other organisations, to ensure vaccination for the delivery persons working for these organisations.”“Delhi has received vaccines for the 18-44 years (18-45) age group and has begun vaccination drives for this segment of the population... We now need to focus on people who have been working as delivery persons. They are at extra risk as their job involves travelling home to home and meeting multiple people throughout the day. Hence, these agents are making sure that people stay within homes and avoid crowding markets etc, and we should vaccinate them at the earliest,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-hails-centre-s-policy-to-buy-vaccines-for-states-101623346940737.html
10-06-2021||Gurugram||At 27, lowest daily Covid case spike in Ggm since Feb 22||on Wednesday reported just 27 Covid-19 infections, the lowest spike since February 22, but suffered four deaths. The total case count rose to 180403, and the death count was at 860. According to the district’s health department data, active cases were at 581, of which only 48 were hospitalised while the rest were in home isolation. Gurugram chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav said, “Covid-19 cases are reducing gradually in the district, but people still have to be careful and should avoid stepping out if not necessary.” The city has been under lockdown since May.‘Vaccine shortage’There are 31 primary health centres and six dispensaries across the district and all of them allow for on-spot registration. Kanika Sharma a resident of DLF Phase 1, said that there seemed to be a shortage of vaccines in the district. She said she had visited three government centres in the last three days. “The staff asked to come early morning on Monday but by the time I reached, they said that had run out of stock and that they had only 100 doses,” she said. Samarth Singh of Emerald Estate in Sector 65 said that vaccine tokens got over within hours and they have to visit the centres again and again. “For working people, it is difficult to visit health centres again and again, and with the long queues, it’s even worse. It took three visits to get my first jab,” said Singh, an executive with an IT company. A few even travelled to the city outskirts to get their vaccine. There, they said, the footfall at vaccination centres were low. “My wife, mother and I went to Sohna on Wednesday to get the first jab,” said Sandeep Shukla of Sector 56. “That was after we could not get a token even after two days of trying.” CMO Dr Yadav said, “We are regularly receiving vaccines (from the state). On Tuesday and Wednesday, we got 10,000 doses each that have been distributed. (With Centre planning to provide vaccines from June 21)... things will improve and there will be smooth drives by end of this month.”According to the health department, 799,562 doses have been administered in the district till now, of which 17,198 doses were administered on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/at-27-lowest-daily-covid-case-spike-in-ggm-since-feb-22-101623346939981.html
10-06-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram restaurants and bars seek liquor licence fee waiver||Owners of restaurants, pubs and bars in Gurugram have sought a waiver of the quarterly liquor licence fee, citing a loss of revenue in view of their outlets remaining shut since this April, after the government enforced restrictions to curtail the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Owners said they had already paid the first quarter fee of this fiscal in advance, but since then, their establishments have remained shut in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, which were at its peak from mid-April to mid-May. The excise department is yet to consider their requests and have instead asked them to pay the next quarter fee by the end of the month. Officials said they have started receiving applications for surrendering liquor licences and the numbers may go up in the months to come as restaurants stare at an uncertain future due to the pandemic. Inderjeet Banga, the owner of Prankster and Pirates of Grill and the head of the Gurugram chapter of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI), said they have requested the state government and the excise department to consider their appeal and provide some relief. “Due to the lockdown and the current situation, the industry is badly hit. We had demanded that the government should waive liquor licence fee for the lockdown period,” he said. The liquor licence fee for a five-star hotel in the district is ₹25 lakh per annum, while it is ₹24 lakh per annum for bars and restaurants, and ₹10 lakh for microbreweries. Restaurants and bars have been shut since April when lockdown-like restrictions came into effect to contain the spread of Covid-19. They have now been allowed to open on Mondaybut only at 50% capacity. Lalit Ahlawat, the director of Soi Hospitality in CyberHub, Adda in Sector 29 and Striker on Golf Course Road, said they were hopeful that the industry will get back to its glory days soon. “In the current circumstances, we all are trying to revive our businesses. We have appealed to the government and we are hopeful that they will consider our request and will waive at least this quarter’s fee. With corporates still working from home, there is hardly any footfall at restaurants and pubs,” he said. Restaurateurs said despite the fresh guidelines announced on Sunday, allowing them open from 10 am to 8pm starting Monday, the footfall is yet to pick up. Rohit Mann, director, Raise the Bar brewery at Clarens Hotel in Sector 29, said they get the maximum business after 7pm, but now the guidelines stipulate that they have to close at 8pm. “We have already paid the quarterly fee and with in the current situation, we will suffer losses as people are not stepping out. The department will have to consider our situation and give us relief so that we can stay afloat,” he said. Restaurateurs said with the present operational timings, they cannot earn much revenue by only opening for lunch hours. Arjun Sagar Gupta, founder, Piano Man, said revenues will take a while to revive. “Without night operations we cannot earn revenue and the industry is in distress. Considering our request will be a booster for us,” he said. VK Beniwal, deputy excise and taxation commissioner (east), however, said they have already extended the time to pay the quarterly fee by a month, but cannot waive the fee completely. “If they have already written to higher authorities, it might bring some relief, but we are unaware of any appeal filed by them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-restaurants-and-bars-seek-liquor-licence-fee-waiver-101623346939223.html
10-06-2021||Other||Rain brings respite in Lko, water-logging and power cuts too||The morning rain brought power cuts and water-logging in several areas of the state capital, on Thursday. Areas around Kashmiri Mohalla, Chaupatian, Balaganj, Mari Mata Mandir, Kishore Vihar, Monarch city, Ghasiyari Mandi, low-lying areas of Chowk and Thakurganj witnessed water-logging.On the complaint of one Barkha Mehta, mayor Sanyukta Bhatia reached the former’s house in Mahanagar, where she directed city engineer Manish Awasthi to install a pump to clear water from the area. The mayor visited other areas around the city and took stock of the water-logging situation.The mayor said, “We have sent teams immediately from where complaints of water-logging were received. All the water-logging was cleared within three hours.”Meanwhile power supply was hit in areas of Alambagh, Bara Barha, Sujanpura, Tehripulia, Patel Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Mawaiyya, parts of Gomti Nagar extension, Indira Nagar following the rain. Power supply was restored after four hours in these parts due to local faults.Madhukar Varma, chief engineer, LESA, said, “The staff repaired all the local faults as soon as the rain stopped. At a few places where branches of trees fell on the lines, they took time to rectify the fault.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rain-brings-respite-in-lko-water-logging-and-power-cuts-too-101623346879180.html
10-06-2021||Other||Religious places along 84-kosi parikrama route to get facelift||Makeover of religious destinations along the “84-kosi parikrama marg” is also a part of Ayodhya development plan of the state government. The 84 kosi (or around 240 km) parikrama route covers Ayodhya, Barabanki, Ambedkar Nagar, Gonda and Basti districts. It will also incorporate a traffic plan covering these religious places for convenience of devotees.Prominent religious destinations in these districts will be renovated. In December last, the state cabinet had approved inclusion of 343 revenue villages under the Ayodhya Development Zone. This expansion includes 126 revenue villages of Basti, 154 of Ayodhya and 63 of Gonda district. Religious destinations in these five districts are associated with Lord Ram. The parikrama starts in April every year and covers 21 religious destinations in these districts. “Prominent religious destinations along the 84 kosi parikrama route will be renovated,” said Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay. Some of the temples located on “84–kosi parikrama marg” to be renovated include Makhauda dham (Basti), Shravan Khsetra (Ambedkar Nagar), Dulvaghat (Gonda) and Baba Nar Hari Das Ashram (Gonda) among others.International consultant LEA Associates South Asia Pvt Ltd (LASA), India, an operating company of the LEA Group Holdings Inc Canada, is preparing a blueprint for the development of Ayodhya. The state government has hired this consultant to execute development projects in Ayodhya. It is preparing 27 projects out of which detailed project report of 10 will be prepared. The LEA Associates is one of the leading Indian consultancy firms in the area of infrastructure development and management. It has executed several infrastructure projects in India. The state government has selected religious destinations in adjoining areas of Lucknow also for renovation. Temples to be renovated across UP Maa Avantika Temple (Bulandshahr), Soron Temple (Aligarh), Maa Sitladevi Siddh Peeth (Kaushambi), Parashuram Temple (Shahjahanpur), Maa Sitla Devi Mandir (Azamgarh), Avantikapuri Temple (Azamgarh), Jai Ma Palmeshwari Mandir (Azamgarh), Maa Mansa Devi Temple (Baghpat),Others include Pura Mahadev Mandir (Baghpat), Chandeshwar Atishay Jain Mandir (Baghpat), Parsuram Atishay Jain Mandir (Baghpat), Siddheshwar Mahadev temple (Barabanki), Lodeshwar Mahadev Mandir (Barabanki), Bhagwan Parasnath Mandir (Barabanki), Kunteshwar Mahdev Mandir (Barabanki), Saneshwar Mandir (Barabanki) and Gorakhpur temple (Gorakhpur).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/religious-places-along-84-kosi-parikrama-route-to-get-facelift-101623346459147.html
10-06-2021||Other||Now, postman to update/link mobile number with Aadhaar card||Updating or linking phone number with Aaadhar card has got easier, especially for those living in remote areas, with India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) rolling out a facility wherein local postman will be able to do the same right at one’s doorstep, said officials.Till now, people had to visit designated bank branches or post offices for getting the same updated. The service would be beneficial to residents of remote villages where often Aadhaar cards are not linked to phone numbers that leads to great inconvenience to people in getting details on the cards updated or secure a duplicate in case of loss of card. IPPB, which was established under the Department of Posts, Ministry of Communication with 100% equity owned by Government of India in 2018 and tasked with removing barriers for the ‘unbanked’ and ‘underbanked’, and reach the last mile leveraging a network comprising 155,000 post offices (135,000 in rural areas) and 300,000 postal employees across India, has launched this facility in all branch post offices of Allahabad division of Indian Post from this month, said officials. The service will be provided through IPPB bank branch and over 350 plus grameen dak sevaks and postmen across Prayagraj and Kausambhi districts. IPPB offers Aadhaar services through banking service providers via mobile handsets in post offices and at doorsteps of clients as part of Child Enrolment Lite Client (CELC) services. Developed by Unique Identification Authority of India, CELC services enables citizens to add/update mobile number with Aadhaar cards and enrolling children below 5 years for issuing Aadhaar cards. Currently, IPPB is providing only mobile updation services for customers. Speaking on the initiative, Sanjay D Akhade, senior superintendent of post offices, Allahabad Division said, “Through Aadhaar the government has been able to reach out to crores of people and facilitate delivery of direct benefit transfer under various schemes such as LPG – Pahal, MGNREGS etc-- into their bank accounts. Mobile updation is another significant customer-centric initiative from IPPB that will help financially disadvantaged citizens in underserved and unbanked areas of the districts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-postman-to-update-link-mobile-number-with-aadhaar-card-101623346219059.html
10-06-2021||Other||After 79 days, Lucknow reports zero Covid deaths||After a gap of 79 days, the state capital reported zero Covid-related deaths on Thursday. However, 37 fresh cases surfaced there during the last 24 hours. Last time, it was on March 22 and 23 that Lucknow had reported zero deaths for two days in a row. On March 22, there were 147 fresh Covid cases and on March 23 there were 232 fresh cases.However, doctors said people still needed to remain cautious. “Although fresh cases are very few, infection spread rate is high and hence we need to stay safe by following Covid protocol,” said Dr Sandeep Kapoor, director, Healthcity hospital.Majority of those who tested positive during the day were from Indira Nagar, Chinhat, Aliganj and Alambagh areas. The number of active cases under treatment was now 505.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-79-days-lucknow-reports-zero-covid-deaths-101623346039113.html
10-06-2021||Other||AIIMS Pulwama hits a wall as army red flags construction||The construction of the much-hyped All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) at Awantipora in Pulwama district has hit a roadblock as the Indian Army has raised objections over its construction stating that it could comprise a military garrison nearby.The army opposition came up during a recent review meeting chaired by Kashmir divisional commissioner PK Pole, in which the former red-flagged the possible violation of the Works of Defence Act (WODA) in constructing the institute building.Officials here, however, have termed it a minor issue which could be resolved and would have no impact on the project, which has already begun.Pulwama deputy commissioner Basir-ul-Haq Choudhry said some issues had come up based on which a joint survey was carried out. Another survey is scheduled next week and after that the construction work would be taken up again.“It is not a big issue, and can be sorted out during the joint survey. This will not have any impact on the project,” he told HT adding that the work is underway in the other areas where there are no issues.Two AIIMS were approved by the central government in 2019, one in Jammu and another in Kashmir. The projects were scheduled to be completed by 2025, however, army’s objection could delay the construction of Kashmir’s first premier medical institute.During the review meeting held by Pole, army had raised serious concerns over the construction of AIIMS building close to army installations in Pulwama district and said the Central Public Works Department was violating WODA rules.Srinagar-based defence spokesman Lt Col Emron Musavi said that army has been advising AIIMS authorities right from the inception of the project in 2016 that the WODA guidelines have to be honoured for all projects in the vicinity of military establishments.“The final clearance for all such projects is granted by the defence ministry. It was only in January 2021 that the campus construction plans were shared with the army by CPWD. By then the construction had already begun in violation of WODA,” he said.He said the divisional commissioner has assured the army that their security concerns will be factored into the construction plans.“Indian Army, in close coordination with the civil administration, remains committed to extend all assistance to the AIIMS authorities for early execution of the project.”As per the officials, the master plan and construction of AIIMS in Awantipora had been finalised and is scheduled to be completed by 2025.Meanwhile, locals said that army’s objections shouldn’t affect the project. “Kashmir does not have good medical infrastructure or a hospital of the standard of AIIMS. The project should be completed on time,” said Showkat Ahmad, who lives close to the area where the AIIMS will come up.Another local, Abdul Qayoom, opined that army should have sorted out the matter with the authorities much earlier. “Things like approvals and objections usually happen at the beginning. But in this case, army is now raising these issues, which will just delay the work of this much-needed project,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aiims-pulwama-hits-a-wall-as-army-red-flags-construction-101623343944215.html
10-06-2021||Other||J&K sees 25 more Covid deaths, 1,117 cases||With a slight uptick in deaths again, as many as 25 persons lost their lives to Covid-19 in Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday, taking the fatality toll to 4,143.The UT also recorded 1,117 fresh infections taking the overall cases to 3,04,866.There were 785 cases and 12 deaths in Kashmir valley. The Jammu division saw 332 infections and 13 fatalities.From Monday to Wednesday, J&K witnessed below-20 daily fatalities.The UT had witnessed the highest daily deaths of 73, with 54 in Jammu and 19 in Kashmir, on May 17 during the second Covid wave.The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Thursday was 2,363.These included 1,477 from Kashmir and 886 from Jammu. The active cases dropped to 18,581 from the highest-ever count of 52,848 on May 13.The total number recoveries reached 2,82,142, pushing the recovery rate to 92.54%.The officials said that 50,508 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests crossing the 9-million mark.With 194 cases, Srinagar saw the highest number of new infections, followed by 121 in Budgam, 100 in Baramulla, 81 in Kupwara and 74 in Anantnag.Srinagar and Jammu districts account for 1.19 lakh cases and 1,918 deaths. Jammu district has the highest number of fatalities at 1,112, followed by Srinagar with 806 deaths.Srinagar deputy commissioner (DC) Mohammad Aijaz Asad said that the recovery rate in the district has touched 94% percent and the positivity rate has dipped to below 6%. “Srinagar has 94% recovery rate and there are about 2,824 active cases against the 13,500 cases in mid-May in the district,” he said.In Jammu, DC Anshul Garg said, the positivity rate of Covid-19 cases has dropped to nearly 2% in the district, while the recovery rate has crossed 92%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-sees-25-more-covid-deaths-1-117-cases-101623343942043.html
10-06-2021||Other||Himachal logs 533 fresh Covid infections, 15 succumb||Himachal Pradesh recorded 533 fresh infections on Thursday taking the state’s Covid-19 caseload to 1,97,438, while the death toll mounted to 3,342 after 15 patients succumbed to the contagion.At 100, the highest cases were reported Mandi, followed by 86 in Chamba, 70 in Kangra, 46 in Shimla, 43 in Sirmaur, 41 in Hamirpur, 40 in Una, 29 in Bilaspur, 28 in Kullu, 25 each in Kinnaur and Solan, and four in Lahaul-Spiti. Five fatalities occurred in Kangra, four in Mandi, and one each in Chamba, Kullu, Shimla, Sirmaur, Solan and Una. The overall recoveries stood at 1,87,734 after 862 people recuperated while the active cases whittled down to 6,338. Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 44,899 infections, followed by Mandi with 26,462 cases and Shimla with 24,600 cases. Solan has 21,983 cases, Sirmaur 15,032, Hamirpur 14,034 , Una 13,015, Bilaspur 12,380, Chamba 10,609 , Kullu 8,641, Kinnaur 3,133 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,650 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-533-fresh-covid-infections-15-succumb-101623343879423.html
10-06-2021||Ranchi||Vaccine wastage falls to 1.5% from earlier 4.5% in J’khand: State health dept||The continuous effort to create awareness among people about the Covid-19 vaccine has started showing results in terms of reduced wastage of vaccines across the state, health department officials said. As per the vaccine data from the National Health Mission (NHM), Jharkhand administered around six lakh doses of the Covid vaccine from May 26 to June 8. On May 26, the vaccine coverage in Jharkhand was 4,012,142 doses, which increased to 4,607,189 doses by June 8. “Similarly, till May 26, net vaccine availability at the state government was 4,207,128 doses, of which 4,012,142 doses were administered. While on June 8, net vaccine availability was 4,676,990, of which 4,607,189 doses were administered. It resulted in bringing wastage down to 1.5% from earlier 4.5%,” a health department official said. Wastage of vaccination ignited a political controversy last month. The Centre claimed that Jharkhand, with 37% wastage, was on top of the list of states that reported wastage. However, the state government countered the Centre’s claims saying the wastage was only 4.65%. “In May, the state government started a drive across Jharkhand to make people aware of the importance of taking the jab and other relevant information. More than 23 lakh women of Sakhi Mandal, under JSLPS, were trained to hold a mass awareness drive across the state,” an official said. In many parts of Jharkhand, it is very difficult to reach by a four-wheeler due to the difficult terrain and positioning of villages, but the government is putting in every effort to ensure the availability of the vaccine to them also, he said. The official said many districts have adopted bike vaccination drive with the on-spot registration facility, which has helped not only in spreading awareness among the rural population but also mobilised a large population to the nearby vaccination centres. Different districts across the state are also operating mobile vaccination van to ensure vaccination in the distant parts of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/vaccine-wastage-falls-to-1-5-from-earlier-4-5-in-j-khand-state-health-dept-101623342318341.html
10-06-2021||Other||Palamu youths welcome monsoon by distributing saplings free of cost||The youths in Palamu are welcoming the monsoon by distributing saplings free of cost among the masses. They launched this campaign on Thursday. During the second wave, the entire Palamu district had witnessed acute shortage of oxygen. Sunny Shukla, a social worker said, “The greenery has been mindlessly destroyed in the name of development in recent years in Palamu. We realised that only massive plantation can salvage us from this grim situation.”“The recent wave of pandemic has made us realise the importance of oxygen. To replenish the loss incurred to nature by mindless exploitation, we have decided to distribute saplings free of cost all through the monsoon so that people can repay the nature what is due,” Shukla said. One of Shukla’s teammate, Rahul Kumar Dubey also said, “Nature is a part of everyone human. We should now focus more of giving back than continue exploiting the natural resources.”In the first phase of their campaign, the local youths, headed by Sunny Shukla, distributed a good number of saplings among officials, faculty members, villagers at Daltonganj Sadar Block, GLA and JS college campus and different localities of Daltonganj town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/palamu-youths-welcome-monsoon-by-distributing-saplings-free-of-cost-101623342260486.html
10-06-2021||Other||Covid-19/ Third wave NITI Aayog reviews preparation for protection of children in Dhanbad||NITI Aayog Standing Committee Civil Society Organization (CSO) member Sanjay Kumar Mishra reviewed the preparation of Dhanbad district for protection of children from the third wave of the pandemic and directed to speed up the search for Covid orphans.In a review meeting with officials of district administration at Dhanbad circuit house on Thursday, Sanjay Kumar Mishra directed the district social welfare (DSW) officer to identify the children, who lost their parents to Covid, by taking help of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and ChildLine so that the minors, besides other Covid-hit families could be benefited from the Prime Minister Care Fund.Mishra also restricted the officials from sharing the names of identified children with media or on any public platform. “Disclosing the names of the children in need would trigger action under Juvenile Justice ( care and protection of children) Act, 2015,” he said.Mishra expressed satisfaction over work done by the Dhanbad administration as 22 children have been identified who lost their parents in the pandemic so far. Besides, for combating the third wave of Covid, which is said to be dangerous for children, Mishra informed that the district administration has already set up 20-bed paediatrics ward at the community health centres in 10 blocks.District social welfare officer Sneh Kashyap informed him during a review meeting that the district has fixed a target of identifying a total of 50 children who lost their parents to Covid. “The district sent a report to the government on June 1 for fund allotment for providing help to identified children,” said DSW officer Sneh Kashyap.Mishra, who reached Dhanbad on Wednesday evening after assessing preparation for protection of children from Covid third wave in six districts of Santhal Pargana, said Dhanbad is the first district in the state that has demanded funds so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-third-wave-niti-aayog-reviews-preparation-for-protection-of-children-in-dhanbad-101623342261073.html
10-06-2021||Other||700 kg marijuana seized in city’s biggest drug haul||A joint team of Sakchi police and Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) from Ranchi seized 700 kg of marijuana worth ₹70 lakh hidden in a mango-laden truck near Jubilee Park gate in Jamshedpur and arrested four persons late Wednesday evening, police said on Thursday. “The contraband was coming from Odisha and was supposed to be delivered in Bagbera here and Bihar. The arrested smugglers have been sent to jail after Covid-19 and other medical tests,” Kunal Kumar, Sakchi police station officer-in-charge (OC), said. As per available information, the team intercepted a mini truck near Jubilee Park around 6 pm on a tip-off. This was the biggest marijuana haul in the city to date.Police said the arrested smugglers confessed that the contraband was to be delivered at the godown of Dipak Kumar Paswan, a notorious marijuana dealer, at Kitadih under Bagbera police station.Apart from Dipak Paswan, the other three arrested persons have been identified as Krishna Chowdhary and Vikas Kumar from Sanjhauli village in Rohtas district of Bihar and Arjun Kumar Yadav from Rahargora under Parsudih police station here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/700-kg-marijuana-seized-in-city-s-biggest-drug-haul-101623342259632.html
10-06-2021||Ranchi||Monsoon likely to hit J’khand on Saturday||The southwest monsoon, considered crucial for agriculture, is likely to hit Jharkhand on Saturday with an expectation of normal shower during four-month of the seasonal rainfall, officials said on Thursday. Major parts of Jharkhand witnessed a change in weather on Thursday with cloudy sky and light to moderate rainfall due to an approaching low-pressure system, which would help accelerate the monsoon in the state, weather officials said. “Conditions are favourable for further advancement of south-west monsoon in Jharkhand, West Bengal and some parts of Bihar by June 12. Under its influence, widespread rainfall activity along with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over the districts of Jharkhand between June 12 and June 15,” said Abhishek Anand, senior scientist at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD).He said, a low-pressure area is likely to form over the northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood during the next 24 hours, which is likely to move westwards across Odisha. The development will trigger monsoon in Jharkhand, he said.This is expected to be another year after 2020 when monsoon onset is likely to be almost on time in the state. Monsoon had hit Jharkhand on June 13 in 2020, while the normal date for monsoon onset in Jharkhand is June 10.The seasonal rainfall has not been on time for many years. The monsoon hit Jharkhand on June 21 in 2019, June 25 in 2018, June 16 in 2017, June 17 in 2016 and June 21 in 2015.Anand said they are expecting to receive normal rainfall from June to September. “Rainfall in June would be encouraging. Overall, the rain is expected to be normal in Jharkhand this year,” he said.Anand, however, alerted of lightning activity with the arrival of the monsoon. “During the onset of monsoon, lightning activities increase in Jharkhand. Therefore, people need to be alert and protected,” he said.With the prediction of a timely and normal monsoon, the state agriculture department is also set to cash in on the opportunity. State agriculture department director Nisha Oraon Singhmar said they, for the first time, started the distribution of seeds much in advance of monsoon onset.“Due to lockdown, we had some limitations. Despite, we have made all efforts to make farmers aware about the availability of subsidised seeds in their respective locations through SMS, publicity and Krishi Rath,” she said.She said, “We have a database of 35 lakh farmers in Jharkhand with their Aadhaar and mobile numbers. They are receiving messages on these numbers. Field workers have also been deployed to make farmers aware of seed and fertilizer distribution. In a bid to maintain transparency in distribution, we have introduced seed token.”“Very soon, we will register all farmers and provide them Aadhaar like unique ID. Under this unique ID, farmers will be given the benefit of all government schemes. The initiative will minimize the scope of repetition and role of middlemen,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/monsoon-likely-to-hit-j-khand-on-saturday-101623342258934.html
10-06-2021||Other||No relaxations in Jamshedpur as cases still on rise||Jamshedpur will not get exemptions and relaxations extended in the other 23 districts during the Unlock-2, as the city continued to report the highest number of cases in the state.The Unlock-2, announced by chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren and state disaster management minister Banna Gupta late Wednesday evening, allowed the opening of all kinds of shops in 23 districts but prohibited clothing, footwears shops and saloons, besides some other categories from working in Jamshedpur. They also announced a complete weekend lockdown from 4pm on Saturday to 6am Monday across the state. Nine districts were left out of the relaxations last week under Unlock-1.“Lockdown regulation on shops and trades under five-six categories have been discontinued in Jamshedpur as a precautionary and preventive measure. The Covid-19 curve was consistently coming down, but 348 new patients and five deaths were reported on Tuesday. It seemed to have tilted the decision. We feel this regulation will help us, and if things show downward swing, Jamshedpur too will get the relaxations next week,” Suraj Kumar, Jamshedpur DC, said on Thursday.The DC said that the number of new patients shot up drastically on Tuesday because the pending RTPCR tests came that day. “But it is also a matter of concern that Jamshedpur has still been reporting highest number (40-45) new Covid-19 patients on a daily basis in the state,” added Kumar.Jamshedpur had reported 827 new Covid-19 patients and 20 deaths between June 1 and 8, while 1,222 patients were cured during the period. It reported 48 new patients and one Covid-19 death on Wednesday.“Government’s main objective is to break the Corona chain. We are keeping a close eye on the situation in Jamshedpur and hope to break the chain soon here also. We intend to step up tests and increase the number of tests and vaccination before we take stock again,” Banna Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-relaxations-in-jamshedpur-as-cases-still-on-rise-101623342258389.html
10-06-2021||Other||AQI of Bihar cities worsens despite huge investment, policy support||PATNAHuge investments, policy support and tie-ups with multiple expert groups notwithstanding, air quality index (AQI) of top Bihar cities remains a major worry. The average AQI of Patna, Gaya and Muzaffarpur in the first week of June this year was found to be worse than the corresponding period of last year, which passed under the lockdown phase. This is despite the fact that the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) started striving for stringent implementation of the clean air action plan and spending of around ₹208 crore to check air pollution. As per the Central Pollution control Board (CPCB) data, average AQI of Patna was found to be 92.25 micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m3) parts per million (ppm) between June 1-8 this year as compared to last year’s 85.75 µg/m3, which too was beyond the permissible limit of 60 µg/m3. Similarly, average AQI of Gaya and Muzaffarpur was found to be 61 µg/m3 and 100.62 µg/m3 respectively against last year’s 58.57 µg/m3 and 68.57 µg/m3 during the corresponding period. The state environment and forest department and the BSPCB had signed agreements with various agencies like United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), Development Alternatives Group, Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI), etc, for different types of intervention to check air pollution over the last couple of years. The BPSCB has also inked a deal with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi, to help identify the major factors responsible for release of toxic contents in the ambient air. “The study would help up check those factors, which generally affect the air quality,” said Ghosh. BSPCB chief Ashok Ghosh said that meteorological conditions should be taken into account while comparing the data. “The board has been actively pursuing the goal of implementing the clean air action plan, which was formulated with support from the ADRI a year and half ago. The action required convergence of roles of different government departments. A committee headed by the chief secretary has been formed to implement the action plan, but the outbreak of Covid19 pandemic slowed the process,” Ghosh said. Principal secretary, department of environment and forest, Dipak Kumar Singh, said improvement of air quality was a long-term process and hence the change could be visible in so quickly. “Dust particles is a major issue for a state like Bihar that has a large tract of alluvial soil in Gangetic plain. Construction is another important irritant. We are coordinating with different departments to check the pollutants, but desired result remains elusive so far,” he said. Environmentalist and public health expert Gopal Krishna said the Bihar government had done a lot on paper, but it was unable to implement the policies and schemes which could really bring about perceptible change. “Neither the common people nor the government agencies are bothered about the issues of air pollution. The government could not be serious to improve the air quality until it is linked with public health. BSPCB is grappling with infrastructure issues. The act related to air pollution, which was enacted in 1981, also needs to be amended,” said Krishna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aqi-of-bihar-cities-worsens-despite-huge-investment-policy-support-101623342138924.html
10-06-2021||Other||Mob attacks police team during liquor raid||PATNAA mob attacked a police team in Patna on Wednesday night and freed a liquor smuggler from their custody. The incident took place Magadh colony under the Digha police station where a police team had gone to arrest Vikas Kumar, an alleged liquor smuggler.“As the police team took Vikas into custody, his family members and other locals attacked police and managed to free Vikas,” said Rajesh Kumar, station house officer of Digha police station.The police, however, managed to arrest one Manoj Kumar, also wanted for liquor smuggling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mob-attacks-police-team-during-liquor-raid-101623342138335.html
10-06-2021||Other||NIA likely to probe Banka madrassa blast||PatnaThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely to take over the probe into the blast at a madrassa (seminary) in Banka district on Tuesday that killed an Imam (cleric) and left four others injured, officials said. An NIA team is likely to visit the site, Noorie Islampur madrassa, on Friday. A team of Bihar’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which visited the spot on Wednesday, had found a mini-LPG cylinder in good condition and a steel box in damaged condition. They suspect explosives could have been kept in the steel container, sources said.Deputy inspector general (Bhagalpur range) Sujeet Kumar said the Banka police had initially registered an FIR (first information report) under sections of the Indian Penal Code and Explosive Substance Act against unknown miscreants with the Town police station on the statement of its station house officer Sambhu Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nia-likely-to-probe-banka-madrassa-blast-101623342081434.html
10-06-2021||Other||Heat in HC after Buxar led to Covid toll revision||PATNAIt’s thanks to the rigourous questioning by the Patna high court, which has been hearing a public interest litigation on Covid-19 management in Bihar, that the state government has finally corrected the figures of fatalities due to pandemic, putting the combined toll during the first and second wave to 9,375 after verification of data.The trigger was Buxar, where 81 corpses were found floating in the Ganga river last month, sparking a widespread outrage. On May 18, a bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar, detected inconsistency in figures of death in Buxar and expressed its anguish over failure to update websites for death registration even in the digital era. The court had sought details of the deaths – be it Covid or non-Covid. “We are ‘aghast’ at the manner in which the affidavits are being filed. We notice that the official website maintained by the State of Bihar for recording the births and the deaths has not yet been updated. We see no reason as to why the deaths, whatever be the number and wherever they may have taken place, would not have been updated on the official website. Deaths may have also taken place in home isolation, at care centres, private hospitals etc. This would apply to all the districts of Bihar,” the bench observed. On May 21, when former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay drew the attention of the bench to the issue of delay in issue of death registration certificates, which was causing problems to the kin of victims in availing insurance claims and other compensations, the court said Buxar was a test case and threatened “if the officials of the panchayati raj institutions and others don’t comply with the court’s order within a week and fail to update death registration, we will stop their salary and even seize their powers.” On May 25, when the bench reiterated that it was important to that every death was recorded and documented from every village, block, district or town, as it could go a long way in helping the state prepare for the third wave with an overall view of the ground situation, the AG said that the chief secretary had directed all the district magistrates for the same and sought 10 days of time. The bench had then said it would not mind giving more time, but every death must be documented. On June 1, the court again said it had been insisting from day one that the Centre’s digital programme for death registration be put in place, as it would help the state in forward planning with a clear picture. “If correct and up-to-date data is not there, how can the state plan?” the court askedAdvocate General (AG) Lalit Kishore admitted before the court that the registration of deaths needed to be expedited and that he would pass on court’s directions. Kishore said on Thursday he would present the details before the court during the next hearing later this week.Dr Sunil Kumar, state secretary of the Indian Medical Association, said the actual death toll could go higher still as the state was still considering the positive reports of the rapid antigen test (RAT) and RT-PCR only as the yardstick, while there were many who just did not go for any test and were in home isolation or others who tested negative in RAT and RT-PCR but were positive as per chest scan. “The data collection In the rural areas is also very weak and so is the level of awareness. A large number of people remained in home isolation and those deaths are not reported in the absence of test reports,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heat-in-hc-after-buxar-led-to-covid-toll-revision-101623342080877.html
10-06-2021||Other||Bihar BJP chief defends revised Covid toll, RJD smells blood||BETTIAHBJP’s state president Sanjay Jaiswal on Thursday defended revision of Covid death toll by the Bihar government, calling it data transparency and a move aimed at ensuring assistance for families of those claimed by the pandemic.On Wednesday, Bihar had revised its Covid death toll upwards by a whopping 72.84%.Talking to HT over phone from New Delhi, Jaiswal, a doctor and MP from West Champaran, said, “There were several suspected cases of Covid where the patients died before their reports came in. Deaths at many private hospitals weren’t included either. A proper scrutiny was made and all such cases were included in our attempt to ensure that the bereaved families get the ex gratia,” Jaiswal said.The three-time Lok Sabha MP said such practices were also followed in states like Delhi and Maharashtra. “There is nothing wrong in that. A fresh study was made to maintain the data transparency,” he said.The state government on Wednesday said the death count had gone up by 3,951, which, in effect, is a whopping 72.84% after verification of deaths across each of its 38 districts, as directed by the Patna High Court on May 18. The state’s Covid-19 cumulative death toll jumped to 9,375 on June 8, as against 5,424 reported a day earlier.Meanwhile, Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) dubbed the revised toll as “death scam” and demanded a judiciary inquiry into the matter. “The government was forced to present data only after being rapped by the high court. As per our estimates, the death toll is 20 times higher than what the government has shown in its revised data. The manner in which Covid tests were ignored, a large number of deaths are still unaccounted and need to be looked into by a judicial magistrate,” RJD spokesperson said.Mrityunjay Tiwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-bjp-chief-defends-revised-covid-toll-rjd-smells-blood-101623342079634.html
10-06-2021||Other||Ex gratia for post-Covid deaths too||PATNAPost-Covid victims, who died after testing negative or being discharged from hospitals, will also be eligible for ₹4 lakh compensation under the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, official said. The state had released ex gratia funds for 3,737 Covid-19 victims so far, but it was not sure how many of them had received it. “We will have to check that and then revert,” Bihar’s additional chief secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit had said at a press conference on Wednesday. The government had included deaths due to post-Covid complications as well while revising its cumulative death toll, leading to an increase in the death count by 3,951 on June 8. The state’s Covid-19 cumulative death toll jumped to 9,375 on June 8, as against 5,424 reported a day earlier. As per the Centre’s changed norms, a Covid-19 negative report was not necessary at the time of a patient’s discharge from a health facility. Patients with no Covid-19 symptoms like cough, cold or fever for three consecutive days could be discharged after 10 days hospitalisation, without RT-PCR negative test report. “Many health facilities had not accounted for post-Covid deaths. We issued instructions to the district magistrates and civil surgeons to include all such deaths as well while verifying Covid-19 deaths,” Amrit had said on Wednesday. He, however, did not specify the duration till when such deaths will be treated as post-Covid deaths and the next of kin of the deceased will be entitled for compensation. The government also did not share the break-up, leading to the built-up of Covid deaths post-verification even as Amrit said the increase was due to deaths reported at private hospitals, in transit to health facilities, under home isolation and those dying of post-Covid complications. He, however, said the government would take stern disciplinary action against lax and insensitive officers responsible for this. A day later on Thursday, the health department still did not respond to requests for sharing break-up of deaths reported from private hospitals, crematoria, home isolation, people dying in transit and due to post-Covid complications. Top health officials did not respond to phone calls or text messages. Patna, for instance, which reported 87.48% rise in deaths—up for 1,223 on June 7 to 2,293 on June 8 — saw an uptick of 1,070 deaths, but the district administration did not share a break-up of where the additional deaths had been reported from. “We verified Covid deaths from different sources, including private hospitals, crematoria, the district control room and other sources,” said Chandrashekhar Singh, Patna’s district magistrate. He did not elaborate. Dr Sahajanand Prasad Singh, president (elect) of the Indian Medical Association, however, praised the government. “The state government has done a course correction and it has been transparent enough to mention the actual number of Covid-19 deaths in the state,” said Dr Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ex-gratia-for-post-covid-deaths-too-101623342080159.html
10-06-2021||Kolkata||Punjab gangster Bhullar shifted to Kolkata apartment week after killing 2 cops||Kolkata: A Haryana man who claimed to be an automobile parts dealer, took the New Town apartment on rent for the Punjab gangsters, Jaipal Singh Bhullar and Jaspreet Jassi, who were shot dead in an encounter on Wednesday afternoon.Sumit Kumar, the businessman from Haryana completed the paperwork on May 22. The following day, the two gangsters moved into the second floor apartment at Sukhabrishti, a complex built by the Shapoorji Pallonji Group, the criminal investigation department (CID) of the West Bengal police said on Thursday.Jaipal Singh Bhullar, son of a retired assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of Punjab Police, was on the run after he and three others killed two police officers in Ludhiana’s Jagraon on May 15. He was already wanted in several states in connection with over 45 cases, including murder, kidnapping, robbery and smuggling.On Wednesday, Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh were killed in an encounter with the Special Task Force (STF) of West Bengal Police in the eastern outskirts of Kolkata. STF inspector Kartick Mohan Ghosh was shot in the shoulder in the gunfight.Akbar Ali, who owns the apartment and lives at CIT Road in central Kolkata, told the media that he did not know the tenant and the broker, Sushanta Saha, prepared the legal documents. Sumit Kumar allegedly told the broker that the apartment was required for a man who worked for a private company and was coming to Kolkata on transfer.Incidentally, Sumit Kumar initially contacted Kolkata-based property dealer Saurav Kumar looking for an apartment. Saurav Kumar referred him to Sushanta Saha, a broker who operates in the New Town area, said officers probing the case.Sushanta Saha told the police that Sumit Kumar took on rent apartment No 201 at Block B of Sukhabristi, an upmarket residential complex that has a few hundred apartments.Residents and security guards at the complex told the investigators that once Bhullar and Jassi moved in, they never left the apartment and ordered food from local outlets. One of the delivery boys told the media that the duo always ordered north Indian dishes. They rarely opened the windows.CID officers said Bharat Kumar, who drove the black luxury sedan used by the two to reach Kolkata, revealed their new address in Kolkata after he was caught by the Punjab police on his return. The car was also caught on a security camera at Gwalior. The vehicle, which has a West Bengal registration number, was reportedly sold six years ago by a Kolkata-based company but the new owner did not register it in his name.Residents of Sukhabristi apartments said this wasn’t the first time that the police had arrested some criminals from the complex; it was the first incident where shots were fired. They alleged that many apartment owners do not even live in Kolkata and rent out their properties without checking the background of tenants.Bengal housing minister Firhad Hakim on Thursday said, “Many of the residents are tenants. It is difficult to keep track of these people. The apartment owners are supposed to keep the local police informed about the identity of the tenants but many people do not comply. We cannot force them as there is no stringent law which makes it mandatory.”Bharatiya Janata Party’s Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh on Thursday criticised the state’s law and order situation on this issue. “This is not the first time that terrorists and gangsters from Punjab have been nabbed or killed in Bengal. Punjab terrorists were killed here during the 1990s as well, when the Left Front was in power. Criminals see Bengal as a safe haven. The National Investigation Agency should look into this,” said Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/haryana-auto-parts-dealer-rented-kolkata-apartment-for-punjab-gangsters-cops-101623341900915.html
10-06-2021||Other||Pre-monsoon shower brings relief from hot, humid weather in Prayagraj||The first pre-monsoon showers of the year lashed Sangam city on Thursday giving the residents much-needed relief from the hot and humid conditions that had continued for the last over one week.Though the day started off with sultry conditions but by noon the weather took a pleasant turn and dark clouds from north accompanied by strong winds arrived in the city. A brief spell of dust storm was followed by heavy rain that continued for around an hour. Not only the city but rural areas of trans-Ganga and trans-Yamuna region also received heavy rains. The maximum temperature in the city settled at 33.1 degrees Celsius while the minimum was 23.8 degrees Celsius. The city received 33.9 mm of rainfall, said the local weatherman. The rain also led to waterlogging and disruption in power supply. Several localities and roads were submerged in knee-deep water. Be it the road under the rail under bridge near Niranjan cinema hall, the road leading to Sant Nirankari Bhawan, Rambagh, the under bridge at Kydganj, Alopibagh and many others remained water logged for several hours. “These pre-monsoon showers would come at regular interval till first week of next month when the city would witness full-fledged monsoon. Although, the second fortnight of the present month would be hot with temperature reaching around 47 degrees but hot winds and right conditions are critical for proper monsoon,” said emeritus professor at department of Geography, AU, HN Mishra.Villages in Phulpur, Meja, Karchana etc in Prayagraj and Kunda in Pratapgarh too received heavy rain for around one hour giving the farmers a much-needed relief. “The pre-monsoon showers have come at an appropriate time as even in rural areas, people were facing the brunt of the hot and humid conditions. This will also help the crop of mango to ripe and become sweeter. Besides, we can now prepare the nursery for getting the sampling for paddy which would be planted with the advent of monsoon,” said Ram Awadh Mishra, a farmer of Jasra development block of the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/premonsoon-shower-brings-relief-from-hot-humid-weather-in-prayagraj-101623341898946.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Smog tower in Connaught Place to come up by August 15: Gopal Rai||The Delhi government’s pet protect, the construction of a smog tower in Connaught Place, will be completed by August 15, environment minister Gopal Rai announced on Thursday. Rai, who visited the site where a 25-metre-high smog tower is being constructed, said that the work had slowed down because of the Covid-19 lockdown but the pace of construction has picked up again. “The country’s first smog tower is being set up here as a pilot project by the Delhi government. We surveyed the site today. Because of Covid-19, the work had slowed down and it should be sped up now. If this pilot project is successful, more such towers will be set up in Delhi,” Rai said. He added, “The tower will be made functional by August 15 and its performance will be monitored by experts, based on which further plans will be made.” The Delhi government is funding the construction of this smog tower, which is being built on directions of the Supreme Court on a budget of ₹20 crore by its private partners, Tata Projects Limited. IIT-Bombay is providing technical support to the project in collaboration with IIT-Delhi, and the National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC) is a project management consultant. Another such tower is being set up by the Centre, at east Delhi’s Anand Vihar, under the expertise of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Both towers were earlier supposed to be built by June, but Covid-19 induced lockdown delays have slowed down completion. Officials said that both the towers will use 1,200 air filters, developed by a team of experts at the University of Minnesota in the United States. “The towers are estimated to reduce the concentration of PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) by 50% to 70% in an about one-kilometre radius around them,” the Delhi government said in a statement on Thursday. Each tower would have 40 fans and 40 noise control devices and would cover an area of 28 square metres. Air would be pulled in from the top of the towers, passed through the filters and released at the bottom, officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/smog-tower-in-connaught-place-to-come-up-by-august-15-gopal-rai-101623341478958.html
10-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh vaccinates more than 5 million people in 18-45 age group||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday said that the state has crossed the five million-mark in the 18-44 years category and claimed that it is the first state to vaccinate the most number of youth, according to a statement issued by the state government.Uttar Pradesh said that under chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s ‘Mission June’, it has been raining vaccines. The state government has said that it administered 391,449 vaccines on June 9.“Right now we are administering around 4 lakh doses every day, it should be increased to around 5 to 6 lakhs within the next two-three days. The target is to expand the daily dose capacity to 10-12 lakh by July. To meet the new target, intensify the number of vaccinators by giving training to the nursing students amongst others,” the government said in a release.The state said that it has vaccinated 21.5 million people so far out of which 17.86 million people received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and 3.7 million people have been fully vaccinated.In June, the government is also planning to inoculate street vendors, auto rickshaw and e-rickshaw drivers, bus drivers and conductors will be vaccinated at special centres set up in each district from June 14 under Mission June programme.The government release also said that chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked authorities to increase threefold and take it to 10 lakh doses per day in July. He also highlighted that to achieve this target the state requires 100,000 more healthcare professionals and has asked nursing students to prepare for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-vaccinates-more-than-5-million-people-in-18-45-age-group-101623339524615.html
10-06-2021||Pune||Boat Club road, DP road to face power cut on Saturday||Pune: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has announced a 12-hour power cut on Saturday in some areas along the Boat Club road due to replacement of transformer and repair work, according to the firm’ s press release.Besides Boat Club road, other areas that will face power outage from 7am are Tadiwala road and Dhole Patil road. Naidu hospital on Raja Bahadur mill and Wadia hospital will remain unaffected, the release added.Power supply will be restored by around 6pm. Around 8,000 households are likely to be affected. The decision to replace power transformer on Saturday instead of Thursday was taken keeping in view the exam season and many working from home, said MSEDCL officials. There are many offices providing IT services located in this area.The MSEDCL press release stated that of the six high tension lines, five will be non-functional during the transformer replacement. The sixth line will remain operational to provide power supply to Naidu and Wadia hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/boat-club-road-dp-road-to-face-power-cut-on-saturday-101623339437919.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 tally goes up; 393 deaths, 12,207 cases recorded in 24 hours||After reporting a downward trajectory in daily infections, Maharashtra on Thursday saw an incline of 12,207 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 393 fatalities in the previous 24 hours. On Wednesday, daily infections dropped to 10,989, while 261 people lost their lives to the fatal disease.As many as 228,611 samples were tested for Covid-19 in the previous 24 hours, according to the Covid-19 dashboard of the state. The number of tests from Wednesday rose by 8,000 on Thursday, as the bulletin showed. A total of 37,356,704 samples have been tested for identification of the virus in the state population so far, the bulletin showed.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19In addition to 393 deaths reported on Thursday, 1,522 deaths were reconciled and added to the state's tally. The active cases tally in Maharashtra after today's addition stands at 160,693 and the total deaths touched 103,748. More than 11,449 patients recovered from the disease in a single day, as per the data.Mumbai on Thursday logged 655 new Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths in the past 24 hours. The financial capital, which is currently battling with waterlogging due to the monsoon, saw a decline in the number of new infections. Fatalities from the virus decreased by five in the last 24 hours, the data showed.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday showed the doubling rate of infection in Mumbai at 566 days, while on Wednesday it stood at 553 days.Also read| Covid-19 in Mumbai: Rehana Shaikh, who helped patients get beds, O2, felicitatedThe Covid-19 caseload in Mumbai reached 714,450 after the infections registered in the last 24 hours. The death toll is at 15,122.Currently, active containment zones (slums and chawls) in Mumbai are 25, declining from 28 on Wednesday. The number of active sealed buildings in the state capital amounts to 93, while on Wednesday 62 buildings were sealed to contain the spread of the virus, according to the BMC data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-logs-12-207-new-covid-19-cases-393-fatalities-in-last-24-hours-101623332063095.html
10-06-2021||Pune||SSC assessment: Principals, teachers undergo one-day training||Pune: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Thursday conducted a one-day online training for school principals and teachers from across the state on the detailed evaluation plan for assessing Secondary School Certificate (SSC) Class 10 students. The state board on Wednesday issued a notification about the evaluation plan for Class 10 with instructions to principals and teachers on how to assess students. Dinkar Patil, MSBSHSE chairman, said principals and teachers from across Maharashtra participated in the online webinar. “We are expecting to get the results by July 3 and will need another 10 to 15 days to declare the class 10 results,” said Patil. Ashok Bhosale, secretary of MSBSHSE, said that out of 100 marks, 50 marks will be evaluated based on the performance of Class 9. “Principals are instructed to calculate the marks of class 9 out of 100. And then convert and consider the marks out of 50 to include in the class 10 evaluation,” said Bhosale. “Schools who have not conducted the first semester exam and tests throughout the academic session due to the pandemic should evaluate students based on one or more activities, including class test, projects and homework. Subject-wise students should be evaluated for 30 marks,” said Bhosale. In its notification, the state board has issued instructions that repeater students who have appeared for one or more subjects will get marks out of 80 from their previous scores conducted earlier by the board. “Students who have enrolled through Form 17 should be evaluated out of 80 based on tests arranged by their centres,” the board officials said. The board has also directed schools to form a seven-member committee at every school headed by the principal. “These exam committees will ensure that exam results are unbiased and fair. They will strictly adhere to the notification given by the board,” said Bhosale. The teachers and principal will be given a detailed training on the same on June 10. “Schools are expected to work on the evaluation till June 20. Till June 24, the exam committee of respective schools will assess the evaluation. And final evaluation by the schools is to be submitted to the board by June 30. The divisional board and state board will then take necessary action from July 3,” said Bhosale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ssc-assessment-principals-teachers-undergo-one-day-training-101623337637741.html
10-06-2021||Other||Child rights panel seeks report on sex abuse in children home||JamshedpurThe National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Thursday sought a report from East Singhbhum deputy commissioner (DC) on the alleged sexual abuse and violation of child labour laws at Mother Teresa Welfare Trust children home within seven days. The trust has no links with the Missionaries of Charity founded by Mother Teresa.Earlier this week, two minor girls had escaped from the children’s home, alleging sexual abuse and torture, following which the police had lodged an FIR against its director, his wife who is chairperson of child welfare committee in East Singhbhum district, and three others. All of them, booked under the Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and for other offences, are at large.“I have forwarded the SSP’s report, copy of the FIR and investigating officer’s report to the state social welfare and women and child development department for further action. The IO has stated in his report that Pushpa Rani Tirkey, a named accused and wife of the main accused, continuing in the post of CWC chairperson might influence and hamper the ongoing investigation,” East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar said.The DC said removing CWC chairperson from the post was not within his powers as their appointments are done at the departmental level in Ranchi. “Hence, I have neither recommended any action nor sought any guideline. I have sent the case details to the department concerned,” Kumar said.The DC said he has formed an 11-member committee consisting of doctors, police and administrative officials to investigate the charges of sexual abuse, child labour, misappropriation of government funds and private donations by MTWT director and other accused. Meanwhile, police were yet to nab director Harpal Singh Thapar, his wife Tirkey, warden Geeta Singh, her son Aditya Singh and trust employee Tony David, who are the named accused. A Delhi Court last year had convicted 19 persons, including main accused Brajesh Thakur, in connection with sexual and physical assault of girls at a shelter home in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/child-rights-panel-seeks-report-on-sex-abuse-in-children-home-101623336977462.html
10-06-2021||Other||Robbers loot ₹1.19 cr from HDFC branch in Vaishali||PATNAArmed robbers looted ₹1.19 crore from an HDFC branch at Jadua in Bihar’s Vaishali district on Thursday, the police said.According to police, the robbers, five to six in number and wearing masks and gloves, entered the bank at 10.30 am, when around 10 persons, including customers, were present at the bank. One of them waved a gun and warned those present against raising an alarm. They also disabled the alarm system and thrashed the branch manager when he resisted their loot attempt. Another robber picked cash from the strong room at gun point. Police said it took the robbers nearly 20 minutes to execute the crime and flee the spot on two bikes after snatching mobile phones of all the bank employees and customers and locking them inside the building.After they were gone, vendors nearby rescued the staff and reported the matter to the police. Inspector general (Tirhut range) Ganesh Kumar and Vaishali superintendent of police (SP) Maneesh later visited the spot. The SP said they were trying to identify the miscreants through footages of CCTV cameras installed inside and outside the bank. “We have started an investigation. District borders have been sealed to prevent the robbers from escaping,” he said. The IG said the case was a challenge for police and a special investigation team has been formed under the supervision of Deputy SP (Sadar) to crack the case. Locals in the area said that in February this year, criminals had looted ₹43 lakh from AXIX bank just three kilometres from the HDFC branch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/robbers-loot-rs-1-19-cr-from-hdfc-branch-in-vaishali-101623336978085.html
10-06-2021||Other||Rains bring relief as MeT dept warns of more showers, strong winds across UP||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rains-bring-relief-as-met-dept-warns-of-more-showers-strong-winds-across-up-101623336677363.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police lodge FIR against group of JNU students for breaking into library||The Delhi Police on Thursday filed an FIR against a group of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) students for allegedly breaking into the University’s central library, vandalising public property, and having an altercation with security guards. The case has been registered after a complaint filed by the University administration.According to the police, a group of 15-20 students vandalised the glass of the BR Ambedkar Library at JNU, had altercations with the security guards and forcibly entered the library at around 11 am on Tuesday. “Some of them spent the night there and the next day too they refused to leave. Thereafter, the university administration approached the police and filed a complaint, alleging that the students were not complying with Covid-19 guidelines and damaging public property, the police said. “We have registered a case of disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant, damaging public property and obstructing government officials in the discharge of their duties. Nobody was injured in the incident. No arrest has been made in the case, so far,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (southwest) Udit Pratap Singh.Like other educational institutions in the national capital, JNU is also shut for students in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Students had been demanding the reopening of the library and other facilities for the last few months. On Wednesday, the JNU students union had also written to the administration requesting it to reopen the central library following Covid-19 protocols.The JNU administration on Thursday also issued a statement saying that some “unruly” students entered the library forcibly on Tuesday. “When no amount of persuasion by the Librarian and the security personnel convinced these students against violating the law and Covid-19 guidelines, the JNU Security Office lodged a police complaint in view of the seriousness of the issue. It has been found that these students did not even use masks or follow other related Covid-19 guidelines,” the statement read.“It is underlined that the curfew imposed by the Delhi Government is still in place and no new guidelines have yet been announced regarding resuming normal academic activities. The Chief Proctor Office in the meantime has been tasked with taking necessary disciplinary action against these students as per the university rules,” it added.JNU students’ union (JNUSU) vice president Saket Moon said, “Students, especially research scholars, have been witnessing several issues due to the prolonged closure of the central library. Instead of addressing their issues, the administration has filed a police complaint against students. It clearly displays their so-called students’ friendly approach.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-lodge-fir-against-group-of-jnu-students-for-breaking-into-library-101623335957968.html
10-06-2021||Lucknow||Food joints back in business, awaiting dine-in nod!||With corona curfew being relaxed on weekdays, Lucknow’s popular chaat, kebab, curry and biryani joints are back in business. Earlier only accepting online deliveries, these joints are finally open for takeaways too. Though the food joints and restaurants are still waiting for dine-in to resume along with the relaxation in closure timings (7 pm) as that is the peak hour of the business. Some of the joints were operational during the corona curfew for home deliveries and now with markets being functional they are witnessing a swift rise in takeaway numbers. Popular street food joint Bombay Pav Bhaji saw a takeaway rush and many requesting dine-ins. “We are just offering takeaway to patrons. Many are asking for dine-in and in-car service which is not allowed for now as per the guidelines. We hope soon dine-in starts and 7 pm restriction is relaxed,” said Padmesh Sharma. Their Soya Chaap joint is yet to open and is operational with restricted menu. He informed that due to heavy losses they had to permanently shut three of their joints in the city. Delicacies at Moti Mahal and chaat at Royal Café too have started drawing foodies to pick delicacies for takeaway and some were witnessed savouring the chaat sitting at the pavement benches in Hazratganj. Restauranteur Jatin Ahuja said, “All our restaurants are back in service with takeaways and home delivery. We are making live chaat but only providing takeaways and not allowing people for dine-in. Pandemic is still on, and we need to follow guidelines strictly.” On a rainy Thursday, Madhurima Restaurant too saw large number of foodies turn out for piping hot food. “Since dine-in is not allowed we are offering good disposable takeaways so that people can enjoy their favourite items siting in their vehicles. Our home delivery was on during the curfew but since Wednesday we have seen a big jump in sales due to takeaway orders for which we have opened our entire menu,” said Srajal Gupta. All the five restaurants of Dastarkhwan are now open. “The Press Club food hub has started drawing people for takeaway, but biggest hurdle is closure time as night curfew starts at 7 pm,” said Arshi Jamal. In the food hub of Old City, Tunday Kawabi, Mubeen’s and Raheem’s are back with what do best — dish out authentic Awadhi cuisine. Abu Baker of Idrees Biryani informed that they too will be in action from Monday as they are waiting for their staff to return. “Our Chowk, Kapoorthala and Aminabad restaurants are providing home delivery and takeaways out of which most of them are of kebab-paratha that people were missing for long time. We are ready to dine-in and as we get orders we will restart it,” said Mohd Usman from Tunday. Saud Ahmed of Raheem’s informed that two of their three restaurants are not operational, and they hope dine-in starts and night curfew and Saturday-Sunday closure is relaxed. “Bahut loss ho chuka hai, hope life becomes normal soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/food-joints-back-in-business-awaiting-dine-in-nod-101623335177929.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||‘Better late than never’: Kejriwal on Centre’s policy to buy vaccines for states||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday appreciated the central government’s policy to buy vaccines for all beneficiary groups for distribution among states from June 21 even as he highlighted the role of the Supreme Court in this regard and expressed concerns over low production of vaccines in the country.“Vaccine shortage is concerning. It is a good thing that the central government has decided to buy vaccines and distribute them among states from June 21. We welcome the decision, even though it was done after the Supreme Court’s intervention and its pressure. Better late than never,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said during his visit to a site of an oxygen storage system in northwest Delhi’s Siraspur.On Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Union government will take over the responsibility of procuring vaccines and distributing them to the states. The action comes in the wake of growing demand for vaccines from the states, sharp criticism from the Supreme Court and increasing concerns that supply shortages and the insistence of foreign vaccine makers to deal only with the Union government could derail India’s vaccine drive.The Union government will continue to allow private hospitals to buy up to 25% of the vaccines made in India, although it has capped the service charge they can levy on these at ₹150 a dose.Kejrival, however, asked if there would be enough vaccines in view of the production capacity.“But the biggest question mark looms over where will the government avail vaccines from. Production capacity in the country is still very low. If we have a sufficient number of vaccines, and other states follow Delhi’s model, the whole population can be vaccinated in three months.”Kejriwal cited the city government’s ongoing initiative of engaging 13,000-odd booth level officers in the city and MLAs to visit every household and convince people aged 45 years and above to get vaccinated at the earliest in temporary vaccination sites set up at the polling booths close to their residences.Nearly 15 million of Delhi’s population of 20 million is above the age of 18 and eligible for vaccination. Government records show around 5.79 million people in the city have got at least one dose of the vaccine and 1.34 million have taken both.The city government has been able to increase the number of vaccination centres due to improvement in vaccine supplies. The government’s health bulletin indicated there were 739 centres administering vaccines to the 45+ age group on Thursday, a substantial increase over the 482 centres a day earlier. Similarly, the number of centres offering vaccines to the 18-45 group also went up from 95 on Wednesday to 231 centres on Thursday.Inadequate supplies had earlier forced the government to suspend government-run vaccine centres for the 18-45 group for more than two weeks. The number of sites for the 45+ group reduced to 414 earlier this week.AAP legislator Atishi, while reading out the government’s vaccine bulletin in a video briefing on Thursday, said, “We are shocked that the central government has written to several states, including Delhi, directing them not to disclose vaccine stock numbers. We urge them to invest more on vaccine production and supplies instead of focussing on reducing transparency on stock positions.”Govt to vaccinate delivery agentsDelhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday told the health department to tie up with companies – especially in the retail and food aggregator sectors – to ensure that their delivery agents are vaccinated.In a statement issued by Sisodia’s office, the deputy chief minister instructed the officials concerned to tie up with organisations such as Amazon, Flipkart, Zomato, Swiggy, Dunzo, and others, to ensure vaccination for the delivery persons working for these organisations.“Delhi has received vaccines for the 18-44 years age group and has begun vaccination drives for this segment of the population... We now need to focus on people who have been working as delivery persons. They are at extra risk as their job involves travelling home to home and meeting multiple people throughout the day. Hence, these agents are making sure that people stay within homes and avoid crowding markets etc, and we should vaccinate them at the earliest,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/better-late-than-never-kejriwal-on-centre-s-policy-to-buy-vaccines-for-states-101623334757613.html
10-06-2021||Other||IMA Agra comes in support of Paras hospital||A day after the state government ordered suspension of license and sealing of Agra’s Shri Paras Hospital for allegedly turning off oxygen for five minutes on April 26 to see which patients would survive, and left 22 people gasping for breath, the Agra chapter of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Thursday came out in support of owner Dr Arinjay Jain.Blaming the administration for arbitrary action, the IMA said action was taken without waiting for the report of the probe committee constituted for the purpose.“We demand that the seal of hospital is removed, and license of hospital restored till the committee submits its report. It is false to say that 22 deaths took place because of the mock drill on April 26,” said Dr Rajeev Upadhaya, president, IMA, Agra chapter, who informed that five-member committee of doctors has been asked to investigate the matter.Past president of IMA, Dr Sudhir Dhakre will head the committee of doctors.“There should have been proper enquiry about video going viral and then only appropriate action should have been taken against Dr Arinjay Jain who was being blackmailed in the name of video,” said Dr Dhakre. The allegations about the hospital are related to a video that surfaced on Monday where Shri Paras Hospital owner, Arinjay Jain, is heard saying that he conducted a “mock drill” at 7am on April 26 during an acute oxygen shortage in the city and 22 people were “eliminated” after they “turned blue”.Jain denied the allegations on Tuesday said such an exercise was not done.After the video went viral on social media, a case was registered against Jain at New Agra police station for violating the Epidemic Diseases Act, creating false alarm under the disaster management act and disobeying official orders under the Indian Penal Code. After the Shri Paras Hospital was sealed, 55 patients were shifted to other hospitals. Two committees have been entrusted with separate inquiries.Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party, the Congress and the Shiv Sena have been protesting against the hospital.Shiv Sena activists were beaten up by hospital staff on Tuesday when the matter was exposed.The Shiv Sena activists have lodged case against the hospital staff and are demanded arrest of Dr Arinjay Jain.The Aam Aadmi Party organized a sit in protest at St John’s College crossing on Thursday.“We are demanding that Dr Arinjay Jain be booked for murder of 22 patients, and we would continue holding dharna till our demands are met,” said Kapil Vajpayee from AAP.The Congress Party undertook candle march from Bhagwan Talkies crossing till Shri Paras Hospital seeking arrest of Dr Arinjay Jain, said Amit Singh, secretary for Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee.Despite these protests, Agra Chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has decided to stand with Dr Arinjay Jain, the owner of Shri Paras Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ima-agra-comes-in-support-of-paras-hospital-101623333437801.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Pawar dismisses suspicions over stability of MVA government||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday said he has no doubt that the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will complete its five-year term and will perform well in the next elections. He called Shiv Sena a trustworthy party.The comments of Pawar, who was addressing NCP workers on the eve of the party’s 22nd foundation day, came days after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a one-on-one meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi.“There was a lot of speculation soon after the chief minister’s one-on-one meeting with the Prime Minister in Delhi. As I said we have never worked with Shiv Sena in the past, but Maharashtra has been watching the party for the past many years… Shiv Sena is a party that can be trusted even if people are raising doubts following the meeting. I have no doubt that the MVA government will not only complete its tenure of five years but will also perform well in the Lok Sabha and state assembly elections and represent the state and the country,” Pawar said as he made his first appearance at a public function after he was hospitalised in April for gall bladder surgery and treatment for mouth ulcer.Pawar recalled how late Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray once supported Congress and did not contest a single seat in the state assembly elections. “After Morarji Desai led Janata Party came to power at the Centre, Congress was facing defeat in all the states. At that time, only one party came in support and that was Shiv Sena. Balasaheb Thackeray promised not to field a single candidate in the state assembly elections in Maharashtra then and also fulfilled his promise. He did not even care about the impact of his decision on the organisation and kept his word (to Indira Gandhi),” Pawar said.He said the people of Maharashtra accepted the unusual coalition as no one would have thought about NCP joining hands with Shiv Sena. “We did that and fortunately people accepted the alternative. I remember senior journalists... guessing the number of days, the MVA government was going to last since day one, but all this has stopped now,” Pawar said.He added they will have to resolve the issue of quotas for the Maratha community as well as for the Other Backward Class community. Pawar added the NCP will have to ensure the power will be shared with more people to prevent it from getting corrupted. “Power gets corrupted if it is concentrated and thus should be shared with more people. We will have to ensure that Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, Other Backward Classes, and all the other communities are getting their share of power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pawar-dismisses-suspicions-over-stability-of-mva-government-101623332899090.html
10-06-2021||Patna||NIA likely to take over Bihar madrasa blast probe||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely to take over the probe into the blast at a madrasa in Bihar’s Banka district on Tuesday, officials aware of the matter said and added a team of the federal agency is expected to visit the explosion scene on Friday. A case has been registered against unknown people in the case.The NIA is expected to probe the nature of the explosive used in the blast, which left one Abdul Momin Sattar dead and four injured. The blast damaged a portion of the seminary. Central agencies and the Bihar Anti-Terrorist Squad have inspected the site and found the slain man had procured an e-pass for travel between Deoghar and Chatra districts of Jharkhand from May 17 and 19. Also Read | Consistent HC pressure led to correction of Covid death figures in BiharThe central agencies are looking into the quantity of the blast that brought the roof down. An official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that the roof came down points to use of some powerful explosives of big quantity.The central agencies are probing the possibility of any terror module and if there were people in the vicinity in contact with any foreigners via the internet. Police are also looking for the vehicle in which Sattar died while being taken for treatment. The body was found while four persons in a car managed to flee.Bhagalpur range deputy inspector general Sujeet Kumar said the four suspects, who were taking Sattar in the car, could give clues about what exactly happened. He added the man’s mobile number has been located.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nialikely-to-take-over-bihar-madrasa-blast-probe-101623332537299.html
10-06-2021||Other||Tribals in Odisha village flee to avoid Covid vaccine jab||Fearing that the Covid vaccine shot may result in their deaths in a few years, people in a tribal village of Rayagada district of southern Odisha fled their homes on Wednesday.Health department officials said people of Champakana village of Rayagada’s Kolnara block fled hours before the team from Kolnara community health centre arrived there. “Almost all the doors in the village were locked after we reached their around 8am. We waited for them for the next 2-3 hours, but as no one turned up, we wound up the camp,” said Dr G Shailaja, medical officer of Kolnara community health centre.Health officials were aware of vaccine hesitancy among the 500-odd Kond tribals in the village and organised an awareness drive on Monday. At the meeting attended by local sarpanch, faithhealers and witchdoctors, the tribals expressed their reluctance to get the jab. “They had seen some video which said that whoever who gets the vaccine would die within 2-3 years. We tried hard convincing them that doctors and health workers have also taken the vaccine,” said Shailaja.Also Read | Odisha reports 6,097 new Covid-19 cases; tally climbs to 837,226Aware of vaccine hesitancy, the medical team took 100 doses of Covishield with them on Wednesday. “We discussed the importance of testing and vaccination with the villagers of Mukundpur, Kailashpur and Rekhapadar. We hope they realise the gravity of the situation and get jabbed,” said block programme officer Kalpana Mishra.Health officials have also faced stiff resistance from the villagers over Covid testing. A few days ago, a medical team in Kolnara block was driven away after it arrived for Covid testing in Goudalelibadi vilage. Two persons in the village had earlier tested positive for Covid-19.Rayagada district collector Saroj Mishra said vaccine hesitancy is a matter of worry. “While vaccine hesitancy has come down among Niyamgiri’s Dongaria Kondhs, a particularly vulnerable tribal groups, it is still there among other tribals. Many of the villagers are scared after seeing a fake video that claims people who get jabbed would die within two years,” said Mishra.So far 167,000 doses of vaccine have been administered in the district of which 132,000 were first doses. About 6,000 persons in the age group of 18-45 have also taken the vaccine in the district. The district collector said that at least one third of the total number of Dongaria Kondh tribals have taken the jab since last month.Facebook’s Covid-19 Symptom Survey in India last month showed that India’s vaccine hesitancy rate is around 28.7% with variations across states and Union Territories. To be sure, while overall vaccine supplies may be there at the state level, individual vaccination centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tribals-in-odisha-village-flee-to-avoid-covid-vaccine-jab-101623332238400.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi gets three medical oxygen storage tanks with combined capacity of 171 MT||Three medical oxygen storage tanks with a combined capacity of 171 MT have been set up in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday.“Oxygen facilities are being created at various places in Delhi so that people do not struggle in case a third wave of Covid-19 emerges. Nineteen more plants are to be inaugurated within a day or two. The Delhi government has already installed three oxygen storage plants till now of 57 MT each, a total capacity of 171 MT, and work is being done on a war footing,” said Kejriwal during his visit to the site of one of the storage tanks at Siraspur, located in the northwest peripheries of Delhi.The Siraspur facility also has a 12.5 MT oxygen generation plant, he said.The other two oxygen storage tanks have been set up in the premises of Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital and DDU hospital, he said.“The Delhi government is rapidly making arrangements in case a third wave comes. In the second wave, the biggest challenge that we faced was a shortage of oxygen, because of which the people of Delhi had to struggle a lot for a few days. Therefore, the preparations for that are being made so that in case a third wave emerges then there should be no shortage of oxygen,” Kejriwal said.The Delhi CM further added, “All over Delhi, facilities for oxygen storage, oxygen generation are being created. We faced a lot of problems regarding tankers such that when we had to get oxygen from Haryana and other states, we did not have tankers. So, we are also getting tankers. All preparations are in full swing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gets-three-medical-oxygen-storage-tanks-with-combined-capacity-of-171-mt-101623330976939.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University reopens library for research scholars||Relenting on the demand of research scholars, Panjab University (PU) on Thursday reopened the varsity’s AC Joshi library for them at 50% capacity.For now, only research scholars have been allowed access to the library, which was closed last month due to the surge in Covid-19 cases.The university said scholars will be allowed entry only with ID proof, no outsider will be allowed to sit in the library and all Covid protocols have to be followed.Practical exam schedule extendedPanjab University also extended the schedule of practical examinations of even semester students up to June 30 instead of the earlier June 26. The practical exams will begin on June 15 in online mode.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-reopens-library-for-research-scholars-101623330797175.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Rehana Shaikh aka Mother Teresa who helped patients get beds, O2 felicitated by police||A 40-year-old woman and a cop by profession who won the hearts of many with her acts of humanity towards those in need during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Rehana Shaikh was felicitated with a certificate of excellence, according to reports.Called Mother Teresa by her husband, the social worker took upon herself the responsibility of providing for 50 school children till they reach class 10. Not only that but she also actively helped people with supplies of medical oxygen, plasma, blood and beds during the peak of Covid-19 in Mumbai.Recognising her role in helping those in dire need, police commissioner Hemant Nagrale facilitated the honour upon her."Last year we were about to celebrate my daughter's birthday when I learnt about Dnyani Vidyalaya in Raigad's Waje taluka. I spoke to the principal and he invited us. The kids mostly come from poor backgrounds. Some of them didn't even have footwear. We used up the money saved for my daughter's birthday and Eid shopping to help them," a national daily recently quoted Rehana as saying.One day when she got a call for help from a police constable who was struggling to get an injection for his mother in 2020, she helped him out by arranging for the crucial medical aid after making a few calls. This, she said, encouraged her to help people in whatever way she could.The social worker had joined the police force as a constable in 2000. In addition to a compassionate asset to the police force, she is also a volleyball player and an athlete. She won silver and gold medals in these sports in 2017, when she represented her force in a competition organised in Sri Lanka, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rehana-shaikh-aka-mother-theresa-who-helped-patients-get-beds-o2-felicitated-by-police-101623327460895.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Provide relief to alleviate financial burden on airports: Operators urge government||The Association of Private Airport Operators (APAO) on Wednesday said that airport operators are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to sustain operations. APAO specified that airports require relief measures not only to ensure sustaining operations but also to save jobs and allow economic recovery of the airport. It also stated that the first two waves have made it difficult for the operators to survive and the third wave will allow continued muted traffic in FY 2022 as well. APAO, which represents airports at Mumbai, upcoming Navi Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Lucknow, Mangaluru, Ahmedabad and Kochi, stated that due to the pandemic, the cash flow situation is ‘precarious’ and that the government needs to provide some relief measures to the airport operators. The onset of the second wave of Covid-19 has further compounded the crisis and according to APAO, domestic passenger traffic has dropped to less than 18-25% of pre-Covid levels.According to APAO, air traffic is barely expected to reach the FY 2021 level in the much predicted third wave, which itself was not adequate for the financial survival of airports.“Airports have to incur fixed costs for maintaining and operating its infrastructure such as runways, taxiways, apron, parking bays, and terminal buildings etc. In airports, of total costs incurred, 80-85% of it is fixed costs. While on one side revenues have dried up, on the other hand, airports have to continue incurring high fixed costs. Airports are the worst affected in the aviation sector,” a statement from APAO read.It also said airports are not generating sufficient cash flow to sustain operations and meet debt obligations. The organisation stated that poor cash flows and consequently downgraded credit ratings have made it impossible for airports to take further financing support from financial institutions. It also stated that airports generate jobs for skilled and unskilled categories in big numbers and help the economy. “With stress on the finances, there is a worry that many of these jobs will be lost. This is the reason, many countries are supporting by giving part wages to these workers, like Germany and France,” APAO said. “Airport revenue generation is directly linked to traffic levels. It is important for the government to understand that along with airlines, airports are also in dire straits. If the situation continues airports will find it difficult to sustain even day to day operations. Job losses would be across all departments of airports. Every lost passenger is a loss not just to airports but to the retailers in airport terminals, the taxis and rideshare drivers etc. and any other airport business that relies on airports and the passengers they serve,” said Satyan Nayar, secretary-general of APAO.As per forecasts by international agencies, the global passenger traffic will not return to pre-Covid-19 levels until 2023-24. “As the cash flow situation is precarious, airports have been requesting the government amidst an extremely challenging environment to provide some relief measures to the airport operators which will directly alleviate the financial burden for airports. Relief measures are required not only to ensure sustaining operations at airports but also needed to save jobs and allow economic recovery of the airport sector,” APAO concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/provide-relief-to-alleviate-financial-burden-on-airports-operators-urge-government-101623329416182.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi government cancels class 9, 11 annual exams||The Delhi government on Thursday cancelled class 9 and 11 annual exams and said the students would be promoted on the basis of mid-term exams. Earlier, the Centre had cancelled class 10 and 12 Central Board of Secondary Education examination.Amid rising Covid-19 cases in April, the Delhi government’s education department had, on April 12, postponed class 9 and 11 annual exams. Addressing a press conference on Thursday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said, “While students of kindergarten to class 6 were promoted to the next grade on the basis of the no-detention policy, students of classes 9 and 11 were anxious about how they would be promoted. Today, we have taken a decision to cancel their exams which were postponed on April 12 and promote them on the basis of their mid-term results.”Watch | Class 9, 11 exams cancelled in Delhi: Where & when to check govt school results﻿﻿The education minister also announced that those private schools that had managed to conduct their mid-term and annual examination may declare their results on the basis of those tests. Sisodia also said in case both public and private schools were unable to conduct mid-term examination for all papers, heads of schools can prepare the result on the basis of the best marks scored by the student in any two subjects.Also Read | Delhi reports 337 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deaths in last 24 hours“Those students who did not take their mid-term exams or appeared for only one paper, or failed to secure the qualifying marks, will be given another chance. However, there will not be any physical examination for such students. The reassessment will be done on the basis of projects and assignments – the guidelines for which will be made available in the coming days,” Sisodia said.Sisodia also said that government schools in the city will declare the results of class 9 and 11 on June 22. “Students can check their results on our website or will be informed through SMS. They do not have to come to school for their results,” he said.He also announced the timeline for non-planned admission in Delhi government schools for classes 6 to 9. The education department will conduct the admission process in two phases and the registration for it, like last year, will be done online.“Those children seeking admission in a government school in classes 6 to 9, can apply for registration process online. The application process will begin tomorrow and will continue till June 30. Admissions under this phase will be declared by July 14. The second phase of admission registrations will be from July 23 to August 6,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-cancels-class-9-11-annual-exams-101623329176720.html
10-06-2021||Bangalore||BS Yediyurappa stays chief minister, says BJP’s Arun Singh ahead of Karnataka visit||There is no proposal or even a discussion to change Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Arun Singh said on Thursday. Singh’s statement is seen as a renewed effort to stamp out the swirling rumours about the future of the 78-year-old BJP veteran in Karnataka’s top seat.“(BS) Yediyurappa is the chief minister, is doing good work and will remain the chief minister,” Arun Singh, Rajya Sabha member and national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka said in Delhi on Thursday, describing suggestions that there was talk of changing the chief minister as “imaginary”.He also showered praises on the Yediyurappa government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, something that has been cited by the chief minister’s critics to attack him.Singh, who is expected to travel to Karnataka next week, also delivered a warning to Yediyurappa’s many detractors within the party, declaring that the party was ready to listen to anyone with grievances but could not allow them to criticise the chief minister in public.The senior BJP leader’s support for BS Yediyurappa comes at a time when the BJP is trying to stop his critics within the party from targeting the chief minister. Over the last few days and weeks, several state leaders within the BJP have sought Yediyurappa’s exit over allegations of corruption, mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic and charges that his son, BY Vijayendra, runs a parallel administration under the aegis of his father.Several ministers and legislators have made several trips to Delhi to complain against the chief minister as well as seek his ouster.The statements had added to the challenges of the saffron outfit, whose image was getting dented in the process, prompting the state unit to finally take some action against those speaking out.On Monday, the Karnataka BJP issued gag orders, restricting its ministers, legislators and party workers from speaking out against the chief minister.However, the party is yet to take any action against Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand legislator from Bijapur city, who has repeatedly levelled charges of corruption against Yediyurappa and his family over the last six months.CP Yogeshwar, Karnataka’s minister for tourism, environment and ecology, has also visited Delhi and sought a change in leadership as well as indicating that Yediyurappa’s son was wielding power in the minister’s home district of Ramanagara.The expression of support from the BJP’s state and central leadership comes days after Yediyurappa announced on Sunday that he was ready to step down as chief minister if the high command told him to do so. Yediyurappa’s assertion, which came as a surprise, was interpreted by many to imply that he had reached an agreement with the top brass to continue in power.On Thursday, Arun Singh reiterated the state unit’s order prohibiting state leaders from attacking the chief minister. Singh said no one within the party should speak out against the chief minister and instead, should focus on Covid-19 relief.“I am going to listen and talk to anyone who has grievances,” Singh said, referring to his upcoming visit to Karnataka.“Such statements (attacking Yediyurappa) are given by one or two people. But my opinion is that no one should give such statements in public. If anyone has any such things to say, I am going to hear it. But such public statements should not be given by anyone. Those who have given such statements, I will definitely talk to them asking why they did so,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yediyurappa-stays-chief-minister-says-bjp-s-arun-singh-ahead-of-karnataka-visit-101623328756671.html
10-06-2021||Other||Yogi asks UP officials to administer over a million Covid vaccine doses daily in July||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday asked officials to scale up the administering of Covid-19 vaccines to five-six lakh (500,000-6000,000) doses daily in the next three-four days and then increase it further 10-12 lakh doses (1-1.2 million) each day the next month (July).He also said that from June 15, a special drive would begin to send kits of useful medicines for children door-to-door as the approaching rainy season was known for increased instances of encephalitis and malaria. All necessary arrangements should be made to protect children, he said.So far, 2.15 crore (21.5 million) Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the state, including 3.91 lakh (391,000) doses in the past 24 hours, he said at a Covid-19 review meeting here.“The state is currently administering approximately four lakh doses each day. Increase it to five-six lakh doses per day in the next three-four days and then scale it up to 10-12 lakh doses each day the next month. From June 21, according to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement, the central government will provide free vaccines for all age groups. Then, further speed up the vaccination according to the guidelines of the central government,” he said.The Covid situation in all 75 districts of the state was under control and the recovery rate had touched 98% now, he said.The positivity rate was a mere 0.3% in the state, and only 642 new cases were recorded in the past 24 hours, he said. He also said a total of 1,231 people recovered and were discharged from hospitals in the same period.“Yesterday (Wednesday), no district reported more than 38 fresh Covid cases, which is a good sign towards the falling Covid infection rate. So far, 16.67 lakh people in the state recovered from Covid (since March last year) and currently the state has 12,244 active cases,” he said.The chief minister asked the medical corporation of the state to buy and procure medicines for Covid keeping in mind their quality, packaging, and smooth supply.“Make sure that all medicines are bought at the company rates and the system should be transparent,” he said.Increase capacity of dialysis units in all districts: CMThe chief minister asked officials to increase the capacity of dialysis units in all the districts and make efforts to establish more blood banks.Dialysis is a procedure to remove waste products and excess fluids from the blood when the kidneys stop working properly. It often involves diverting blood to a machine to be cleaned.“Increase the capacity of such dialysis units that are running on PPP (public-private partnership),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-asks-up-officials-to-administer-over-a-million-covid-vaccine-doses-daily-in-july-101623328155851.html
10-06-2021||Other||UP polls 2022: BJP to set up IT, social media teams in 17 districts of East UP||VARANASI: Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Kashi region will create social media and IT teams in 17 districts and all the teams would be functional in a month’s time, party leaders said.There would be a sub-IT and social media teams to cover all localities in these districts, party leaders said adding that the decision was taken with an eye on 2022 UP assembly polls, following instructions from UP BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal.Some of 17 districts in Kashi region, where social media teams would be set up would include Varanasi, Ghazipur, Mau, Sonbhadra, Mirzapur, Jaunpur, Bhadohi among others.Bansal urged the cadre to strengthen social media teams and popularise development and welfare activities of BJP governments at the centre and the state.“Each social media team will comprise of three media savvy BJP workers, the IT cells would comprise two tech savvy BJP volunteers having knowledge of both hardware and software,” said Navratan Rathi, BJP’s Kashi region spokesperson.Rathi said the process to choose BJP workers for the district BJP social media and IT teams has begun under guidance of Kashi region BJP president Mahesh Chandra Srivastava.“The party workers who are well versed with of social media platforms like Twitter and Facebook will be preferred for social media teams. Their knowledge about the social media platforms will be evaluated before selecting them,” Rathi said adding same parameters will be followed for setting up the IT teams.He said that while social media teams will post information about various development works and welfare schemes of the state and central government, welfare activities done by party workers. The IT team will address the problem related to hardware and software that social media teams face.“The social media teams and IT teams will be created in each BJP mandal. In our organisational system, each mandal comprises five mohallas. All the social media teams will start working within a month,” Rathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-polls-2022-bjp-to-set-up-it-social-media-teams-in-17-districts-of-east-up-101623327855919.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||‘PM Modi top leader of country and BJP’: Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party owes its success to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and he is currently the top leader in the country and in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Raut, who is currently touring north Maharashtra, said this when reporters asked him if the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is planning to project leaders from the state as the face in the Maharashtra elections.“I do not go by the media reports. There is no official statement on this. The BJP owes its success to Narendra Modi for the last seven years and currently he is the top leader of the country and his party,” the parliamentarian said.The Rajya Sabha leader’s statement comes days after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and PM Narendra Modi held a one-on-one meeting for 30 minutes. The meeting between both leaders led to several speculations in political circles but Sena leaders said that Uddhav and PM Modi discussed the issue of nomination of 12 members to the Legislative Council and other political issues.“Yes, we had a separate meeting. We may not be politically together, but that does not mean that we have snapped our relationship. I did not go to meet Nawaz Sharif. There is nothing wrong in meeting Modiji in person,” the chief minister had said.Raut also said that the Prime Minister belongs to the nation and not to any particular party citing that administration may get affected if the Prime Minister gets involved in electoral campaigns.“ The PM should not get involved in election campaigning as it puts pressure on the official machinery,” Raut further added. Raut also commented on state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil’s remarks on the BJP renewing its friendship with the Shiv Sena. “No one can make friends with a tiger. It is the tiger that decides whom he wants to be friends with,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-top-leader-of-country-and-bjp-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-101623327163187.html
10-06-2021||Other||Bheem Army activist beaten to death in Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh||A 21-year-old Bheem Army activist was allegedly beaten to death for complaining to police about the tearing of Bhimrao Ambedkar’s poster outside his house in Rajasthan’s Hanumangarh.Vinod Bamania succumbed to his injuries two days after he was attacked on June 5. Hanumangarh police superintendent Preeti Jain said they have arrested Anil Sihag and Rakesh Sihag for the assault.Bamania filed police complaints in May against some villagers for assault on him and his family for resisting a roadblock. He later filed another complaint about life threats to him for objection to the distribution of the copies of Hanuman Chalisa in April.“On June 5, Anil Sihag and Rakesh Sihag along with others stopped Vinod and me when we were going to our agricultural fields,” said Mukesh, Bamania’s cousin. He added the attackers told them they will teach them Ambedkarite ideology.Also Read | Cong’s rumblings grow as Pilot gets support from party leaders“They got hold of us and beat us... I somehow managed to run away but they caught hold of Vinod and hit him with sticks several times,” said Mukesh.Jain said the two attackers were earlier booked for the attempt to murder and now murder charges have been slapped too.Satyavan Indasar, Bhim Army state president, demanded an impartial probe and compensation to their activist’s family. Bheem Army chief Chandrashekar Azad Ravan was also likely to visit Hanumangarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bheem-army-activist-beaten-to-death-in-rajasthan-s-hanumangarh-101623327138130.html
10-06-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC asks state govt to conduct audit on deaths in Covid second wave||The Uttarakhand High Court has asked the state government to conduct an audit of the deaths that occurred during the second wave of coronavirus in the state, and also explore the possibility of carrying out door-to-door vaccination in remote hill areas.      Hearing petitions related to the state's handling of the pandemic, Chief Justice R S Chauhan and Justice Alok Verma asked the state government on Wednesday if a district-level task force can be constituted with the help of the social welfare department to cater to people who are unable to get their immunisation due to lack of ID cards.      Asking the state government to explore the possibility of creating a system that reaches out to people in the remote hill areas on priority, the high court suggested setting up a panel of ASHA volunteers, home guards and nurses to carry out a door-to-door survey to ensure that the "dispersed" population in such areas is vaccinated. Besides asking the state to conduct an audit of COVID-19 deaths during the second wave, the court also asked it to conduct an audit of ventilators and ICU equipment available in government hospitals in the state to find out how many ventilators and equipment are lying un-utilised and the reason for it. The total number of COVID-19 deaths in Uttarakhand till Wednesday evening was 6,849.   In view of alleged irregularities in COVID testing in May, the state government has also been asked to file a full report on coronavirus tests conducted in the month.The court also observed that private hospitals are charging patients arbitrarily for Covid treatment and reiterated the need to re-issue the mandate which must clarify the maximum fee. Any hospital overcharging the patients must face legal consequences, it said.     The court further directed the state government to prepare a portal for the help provided by social organizations, NGOs and people of Uttarakhand origin, so that the helpers do not face any administrative difficulties.      The state government has also been directed to make arrangements for a possible third wave of coronavirus by creating isolation centres at the village level and to take the help of influential people of the state for creating awareness among people.        The court asked Tourism Secretary Dilip Jawalkar to be present in the court on June 16 when the matter will be heard next and also to create a cordial atmosphere among the Char Dham management, government and the priests.    The court also expressed dissatisfaction with the affidavit filed by Jawalkar, saying "Secretary Tourism has simply been assessing the circumstances sitting in Dehradun and fulfilling the bare minimum of his duty by issuing letters whereas due to the upcoming Char Dham Yatra and tourist season, he should have visited Char Dham to understand ground realities".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-hc-asks-state-govt-to-conduct-audit-on-deaths-in-covid-second-wave-101623325952307.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 305 Covid-19 cases, 44 deaths in 24 hours, positivity rate goes down to 0.41%||Delhi reported a slight dip in the number of daily new Covid-19 cases on Thursday with 305 fresh infections and 44 related fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours. The daily positivity rate further fell down to 0.41%, according to a bulletin from the health department on Thursday. With this, the national capital's total positive cases reached 1,430,433 and the death toll climbed to 24,748, data from the bulletin also showed.Active caseload continues to decline and currently stands at 4,212, a fall of 299 cases from the 4,511 reported previously on Wednesday.As many as 560 people recovered from the disease on the day, as the city continued to report more recoveries than daily new cases. Also, the cumulative recoveries in the city reached 1,401,473, according to the bulletin.Also read | After Centre announces free Covid vaccines to states, Kejriwal asks a questionDaily new cases have been steadily decreasing in Delhi since early May after being battered by the second wave of Covid-19 infections. However, in the week, there were 231 new cases detected on Monday (June 7), 316 new cases on Tuesday (June 8) and 337 new cases on Wednesday (June 9).Meanwhile, there were 75,133 tests conducted in the last 24 hours for the coronavirus disease. This includes the 53,266 RTPCR, CBNAAT, TrueNat tests and the 21,867 Rapid Antigen Tests, the bulletin showed. Also, 20,042,178 samples have been tested as of date in the capital. While the test per million count stands at 1,054,851, the cumulative positivity rate was recorded at 7.14% and the case fatality rate stood at 1.73%, the latest data also showed.In the last 24 hours, 48,022 beneficiaries received a dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, of whom, 25,537 people received their first doses while 22,485 received their second. Cumulative vaccination coverage stood at 5,829,167 beneficiaries, who have received at least one dose of the vaccine as of date.As part of his preparations for handling upcoming Covid-19 situations, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, earlier in the day, visited an oxygen storage centre in Siraspur, Delhi, where a 57MT cryogenic oxygen storage tank is being installed. He also said that an oxygen generation plant with a daily manufacturing capacity of 12.5 tonnes is also being installed alongside in the facility.भविष्य की तैयारियों को लेकर आज सिरसपुर स्थित ऑक्सीजन स्टोरेज सेंटर का दौरा किया। यहां 57 मीट्रिक टन ऑक्सीजन भंडारण क्षमता का क्रायोजेनिक टैंक लगाया जा रहा है, साथ ही यहां 12.5 टन प्रतिदिन की उत्पादन क्षमता वाला oxygen generation plant भी बना रहे हैं। दिल्ली की तैयारियां जारी है। pic.twitter.com/uXztTuU1x7||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-305-covid-19-cases-44-deaths-in-24-hours-positivity-rate-goes-down-to-041-101623325059796.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||No trade with China via Shipki La for second year due to pandemic||For the second consecutive year, there will be no annual cross-border trade between India and China though the Shipki La in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Namgia, the last border village, has been declared a containment zone after 36 new cases were detected in a day recently. Also read: Mixed cropping gaining ground in rural ChambaThe annual trade is carried out through the pass from June to November. Traders, mostly from the tribal districts of Lahaul-Spiti and Kinnaur in the state adjoining China, start registering themselves in May. “So far, there has been no communication from the central government on the trade,” says Jiya Ram Abhilashi, the general manager at the department of industry in Kinnaur. “Normally, after registration for trade, credentials of traders are verified by different agencies,” he said. The traditional trade between India and China has seen many ups and downs. Bilateral trade through Shipki La reopened in 1993 after it was shut due to the Indo-China war in 1962. Shipki La is a mountain pass that connects Kinnaur district to the Tibetan Autonomous Region in China. It’s a border post at 18,599 feet. It is through this pass that the turbulent Sutlej enters India from China-occupied Tibet. Need more facilities to continue trade “Due to the Covid-19 cases, trade is not feasible at present, but if the pandemic subsides in future, we will urge the government to resume the trade. The last two years have been tough,” says Hishey Negi, the president of the Kinnaur-based Indo-China Trade Association. The traders have been seeking more facilities along the border, including a trade centre at Chupan. The government identified land for its construction, but work is yet to start. “The government needs to add more facilities otherwise this trade will die a gradual death. It will not enthuse the younger generation,” says Jiya Lal Negi, a resident of another border village, Chitkul. 29 items imported from China Twenty-nine items are imported from China, including wool, raw silk, yak hair, China clay, borax, butter, common salt, horse, goat, sheep, readymade garments, shoes, quilts, blankets, carpets, and local herbal medicines. Trade suffered a setback when the Indian government banned the import and export of livestock that was a major component of trade in 2012 due to lack of quarantine facility for animals. Livestock comprised a major portion of cross-border trade. Traders imported chigu goats reared for wool and meat in China-controlled Tibet, while Chamurthi horses, known for their sturdiness, were popular among Indian traders. Trade trend before pandemic 2014: ₹7.32 crore2015: ₹9.72 crore2016: ₹8.59 crore2017: ₹59.21 lakh2018: ₹2.52 crore2019: ₹3.05 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-trade-with-china-via-shipki-la-for-second-year-due-to-pandemic-101623325456239.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||AICC panel submits report on Punjab Congress infighting to Sonia Gandhi||The three-member panel set up to end factionalism in the Punjab state unit of Congress submitted its report to Congress party chief Sonia Gandhi on Thursday, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.Captain digs in heels at meet over infightingThe panel was chaired by Rajya Sabha MP Mallikarjun Kharge, AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab Harish Rawat and former MP JP Agarwal. The panel has suggested that all sections, castes and regions be accommodated in the party revamp. People familiar with the developments also said that Navjot Singh Sidhu will be ‘suitably accommodated’ in the revamp and Sidhu’s name is doing rounds for elevation to the post of deputy chief minister.'My stand on CM still same': Sidhu to Cong panelPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh met the panel last week and the panel asked the chief minister about unfulfilled poll promises, his lack of accessibility and “over dependence” on the bureaucracy, according to a report by HT. The panel also met 150 party leaders, including present and ex-state unit presidents, ministers, MPs and other leaders who voiced their suggestions and grievances.The panel also spoke to Amarinder Singh about the Bargari sacrilege case and Kotkapura firing probe which were earlier raised by several party leaders, including Punjab MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu. The former cricketer on June 1 met the Congress panel and accused Amarinder Singh of shielding the Badal family in the sacrilege case, police firing and blamed the chief minister for a botched-up probe in the Kotkapura case.“My stand remains unchanged, I feel that the democratic power of people which goes to the government in the form of taxes should go back to the people. Every citizen must be made a shareholder in the progress of the state. The truth can be punished but it cannot be defeated. We have to make the truth victorious against the anti-Punjab forces,” Sidhu said after meeting the panel. He was also joined by Pargat Singh, another MLA considered close to Sidhu, who raised questions over the chief minister's ways of governance and also highlighted the public perception about Captain and the Badals being close.Congress chief Sonia Gandhi will take a decision on the recommendations made by the panel.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aicc-panel-submits-report-on-punjab-congress-infighting-to-sonia-gandhi-101623323187807.html
10-06-2021||Other||Robbers loot ₹1.19 cr from bank in Bihar’s Vaishali district||In a daylight robbery, five to six unidentified, armed men looted ₹1.19 crore at gunpoint from Jadua branch of HDFC Bank falling in Vaishali district of Bihar on Thursday. The bank branch is barely a kilometre from the town and women police stations and quite close to Union minister Nityanand Rai’s residence. This is the 13th such incident in the last 18 months in the state and criminals have looted ₹2.30 crore from different banks, according to an official at the state police headquarters. According to the police, armed robbers walked into the bank at around 10.30am while there were about ten people, including customers, inside. The robbers had covered their faces with masks and wore gloves.Also Read | 31 engg colleges, 38 polytechnic institutes set up in last 15 yrs, says Bihar CMAs per an eyewitness account, a robber brandished a gun, threatening everyone against raising an alarm. They also deactivated the bank’s alarm and assaulted the branch manager when he resisted their loot attempt, said police sources. They also tied up those inside the bank.One of them picked cash from the strong room by pointing a pistol at an employee and stuffed it in a bag. The robbers confiscated mobile phones of all the employees and customers. Then they fled on two bikes after closing the door from the outside. It took them about 20 minutes to execute the robbery.Police said local vendors close by heard the screams of help from inside the bank. They went in, untied the people, and reported the matter to the police. Tirhut range IG Ganesh Kumar, Vaishali SP Maneesh visited the spot. The SP said, “We are trying to identify the miscreants through the footage of CCTV cameras installed inside and outside the bank. We have started an investigation. The district borders have been sealed to prevent their escape to another district or state.” He said a case was registered under Sections 397 (robbery or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act.The IG said such a crime in the busiest area of Vaishali was a challenge for the police. A Special Investigation Team had been formed under DSP (Sadar) to crack the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/robbers-loot-rs-1-19-cr-from-bank-in-bihar-s-vaishali-district-101623323535943.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Yuvraj Singh on #Mission1000Beds: It’s our opportunity to come together in this war against Covid||Known to always lend a helping hand to those in need, one couldn’t expect Yuvraj Singh to not step up and do his bit especially during a global crisis. As the country reels under the second wave of Covid-19, Singh’s foundation, YouWeCan, recently launched #Mission1000Beds — a hospital capacity expansion solution to rapidly scale up the Covid-19 critical care facilities across India. In a chat with us, the former Indian cricketer tells us how did this all start, what it is aimed at and how the past year has been for him dealing with the pandemic.It has been a year and a half since the pandemic hit. How have you dealt with all the changes, the new normal?Well, Covid-19 has affected everyone directly or indirectly. Initially, it was a bit challenging, as adapting to anything takes time, but I believe the quicker you adapt the better the process becomes in every sphere of life. In this challenging time, I, along with my team, tried to help as many as we can to mitigate the catastrophic situation through all the possible ways. Last year with our foundation YouWeCan, we mobilised resources towards providing over 1 million hygiene kits to Covid affected states across the country. We also worked closely with the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, UNICEF & WHO on running multiple Covid 19 awareness campaigns throughout the year.Given the uncertainties and anxiety amid such gloomy times, topped with negative news everywhere, what has been your coping mechanism?A solution driven ecosystem has always been my coping mechanism. With the devastation happening around where people are losing their loved ones, I couldn’t think of anything else other than extending my help, resources to the affected families where they can access healthcare infrastructure easily at a time like this. The best way to cope with anything orbits around finding the solution and dealing with it. Did this period give you enough time to look back and reflect and introspect into your life? Any learnings or realisations?Yes, times like this always give either the lessons or reasons to reflect back. Though I always introspect time and again, but times like these make you see things from the lens of gratefulness for the family and friends around you. I believe, staying strong, giving warmth and being kind, the need of the hour for everyone. Your initiative Mission 1000 Beds has gained momentum ever since YWC launched it earlier this month. How did this idea come about? What was the trigger?All of us have lost loved ones and also witnessed countless cases of people struggling for oxygen, ICU beds and other critical care facilities required to combat COVID. I have been deeply impacted by this, too, and felt that we all need to step up to support our healthcare providers and the central as well as state governments who are all working tirelessly. So, we launched #Mission1000Beds — a hospital capacity expansion solution, which will rapidly scale up the Covid-19 critical care facilities across India.The second wave of COVID-19 crisis saw human life suffer than ever before. How is this initiative aimed at ensuring the basics to those battling the virus?With this initiative, we aim to strengthen the capacity of government, Army, autonomous and charitable hospitals by setting up oxygenated beds, ventilators and BiPAP machines, along with other essential medical equipment which is required for critical care of COVID-19 patients. Not only will these enhance the current capacity of the hospitals, but will continue to serve patients for 10 years and beyond. By fulfilling this immediate requirement, we also envision to enhance the healthcare infrastructure in other spheres in near future.This activity has already been initiated in Delhi NCR, Punjab, Haryana, UP, J&K, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan, Telangana, Karnataka & MP while various other cities in different states are also being looked at. We aim to strengthen the existing capacity of hospitals by 10%-15% so that they can cater to more COVID affected patients and save more lives. These facilities will have the capacity to serve 6000 patients a month. Moreover, post COVID the facility will continue to serve patients requiring critical care. What results have you witnessed so far since the initiative #Mission1000Beds was launched?It’s been a successful initiative, while we had started with a target of 1000 beds, we have already received requests for more than 2000 beds from hospitals across the country and we see this number going up. This is our opportunity to come together in this war against COVID. I urge others to join this initiative too. Our actions today will go a long way in saving countless lives. We are very grateful for all the support we are receiving from family, friends, fellow colleagues, entrepreneurs, organisations, Individuals and many more.Amid this second wave of the pandemic, we’ve seen how social media has come to people’s rescue like never before with everyone stepping up and responding to SOS calls. How are you using social media to make #Mission1000Beds reach more people?Social media has been a great platform to spread the word since most of us are on it and the reach is really high. One of the most effective bridges to connect with people and deliver the message. Social media contributes a major role in extending help especially at a time like this. With multiple platforms today, we have communicated at each social media handle to create awareness as much as we could.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/yuvraj-singh-on-mission1000beds-it-s-our-opportunity-to-come-together-in-this-war-against-covid-101623323115967.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Missing the vaccine bus to catching coronavirus||The day senior citizens became eligible for vaccination, our daughter, who is a doctor, informed us that she had registered us for vaccination. The next morning, I woke up early and got ready but was surprised to find my husband still in bed because usually he is the one who is eager to visit our granddaughters in the city. What perplexed me further was that there were no signs of anything having been plucked from the vegetable garden. Knowing how our granddaughters love sandwiches and burgers stuffed with crunchy greens, Nanu, as they address him, has a small corner reserved to grow lettuce, broccoli, spring onions and cucumbers just for them. No chemical sprays are allowed near this patch. He tends this garden lovingly and packs the veggies for the girls an evening prior to a planned visit. One look at his face and I knew it was time for me to brace against the impending encounter. When you have been in a marriage for half a century, you know that the best way to weather a storm is to lie low and flat on the ground, pretending to be lifeless. This was not the first time that I was standing in His Highness’ court to face the charges. The torrent of words was actually a lament. “How I wish that the children had not inherited your impatience and impulsiveness. What is the hurry to get vaccinated? This disease afflicts those living in crowded cities and not those who live in farmhouses amid green fields brimming with oxygen.” “But our age...” Leaving my sentence dangling in the air, he left the room to call our daughter to inform her that we were not coming. Before her second call came after a week, her father was well prepared with his arsenal. He had myriad references gathered from news channels and social media platforms, whose purpose seemed to be to malign the manufacturer and cite the dangers and lack of efficacy of the vaccine. What exactly transpired between father and daughter is not clear, but I could see him wearing a smug smile which I recognise as a winner’s smile after he razes an opponent to the ground. The third call came two days later, and I overheard my daughter telling Dad that she was coming to pick up her mother to get her vaccinated. He retorted, “So, I’ve not been wrong when I felt that you loved your mother more than me. Anyway, have patience for a few more days as Sputnik V is on its way to India and both of us will take that vaccine together.” Sputnik V has arrived but there has been no call from our daughter. According to the guidelines, Covid patients have to wait for three months after recovery to receive a vaccine. So here we are, monitoring our oxygen saturations and blowing the white, green and yellow balloons provided to us in the Punjab health department’s Covid Fateh Kits after we tested positive for coronavirus. aswantkaur@yahoo.com The writer is a Tarn Taran-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-the-vaccine-bus-to-catching-coronavirus-101623322995963.html
10-06-2021||Other||Taste of life: Eggscellent page turner, from back in the day, has Poona rice cooking||At the National Library in Kolkata, I have a small heap of vintage cookbooks on my desk. Many of them have yellowed pages. Pages so brittle I am afraid to touch them. The books belong to the Raj era and have recipes written by memsahibs, travellers and army officers. One of the books has only a number to identify it with. The original jacket and the first 42 pages of the book are missing. The catalogue says that it was titled “Receipts from our Camp” and was written by one Mrs E in 1902. There is no other information to identify the book and the author with. The missing pages would have contained menus, “Bazaar lists” and “lists of dishes”, as was the tradition those days. I flip through the book. There are recipes for chutneys and jams and curries and “cold meat cookery”. There are soups and salads and entrees. There are recipes for Madras sauce and Bombay sauce. Most of the dishes are European, few Anglo-Indian. The recipes are succinct. The author does not elaborate on certain cooking techniques and ingredients. Perhaps Mrs E did not intend this cookbook for unaccomplished cooks.Where did Mrs E live, I wonder. Deolali? Ambala? Madras? I try looking for hints. Certain ingredients, Bazaar lists often tell the readers about the geography of the recipe. Cookbooks in the Raj era made sure their readers knew when and where to buy the ingredients. But Mrs E does not let me have the pleasure of finding out where she lived and which Camp the recipes came from. The ingredients are all generic. She does not mention which variety of rice to use for cooking a pilaf, where to buy the tamarind she has used in cooking the Madras curry. Perhaps she did write this in the Bazaar lists, but those pages are now missing.On page 86 are recipes for eggs. “Substitutes for meat are specially required at present and none are better than well-prepared eggs. There are at least 150 ways of serving eggs. Every cook has their own ideas of boiling, but an expert recommends a bain-marie or water bath. Thermometer”, the author says, “should be used and the water surrounding the egg must be kept at or near 180 deg Fahrenheit, the time of immersion being ten or twelve minutes.”What does the author mean by “at present”? Was there a war going on? Or, perhaps a famine?“Eggs cooked in this way”, the author declares, “are tender and delicate, even so through-out; no part being hard while another is semi-raw and slimy. An egg immersed in boiling water from two to three and a half minutes is very soft-boiled, three to four minutes soft, five minutes medium, and eight to ten minutes hard. Though professional cooks consider this the best way of doing them the result of cooking the eggs is some times disappointing. The fault is due to the freshness of the egg, of which the white is rather watery in substance.”While reading the introduction of the section, I realise that the font, spacing and writing style has now changed. In fact, the earlier sections of the cookbook did not have any introduction at all. There is an easily noticeable difference between the previous recipes and the recipes which follow page number 86. The pages are thinner too. These are two books bound together.This is intriguing. Why were two different cookbooks bound together? Is this an honest mistake on the part of the library? The sizes of both the books are identical after all. Or, there’s a possibility that these books were owned by somebody else; they bound the remains of two books together and donated them as a single book to the library.I take my query to the librarian and she is intrigued as well. I go back to my desk and to the two–in–one cookbook. There are recipes for Fried eggs with savoury chestnut puree, Eggs a la Santos, Fricassee of eggs with mushrooms, Eggs a la Nesselrode, Eggs with tomatoes and Fried eggs with savoury rice. This last recipe tells me that the author of the second cookbook might have lived in Poona.The author of the second cookbook asks the readers to use “Poona rice” while cooking Fried eggs with savoury rice - Cook 4 oz. of Poona rice in about a pint of rich stock, add enough reduced tomato sauce to colour it, then add two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese, and two slices of fried bacon cut into small strips. Season to taste with salt, and reduce a little until sufficiently firm to shape. Melt about an ounce of butter in an omelet pan, and fry in it five or six fresh eggs; trim each neatly, or else stamp out with a plain round pastry cutter. Put the rice in a buttered flat mould, press it in well, and turn out quickly on to a hot dish. Place the fried eggs in the form of a circle on the rice shape, then put a tiny pinch of red or black pepper in the centre of each yolk of egg, and serve hot.Raj cookbooks often use Patna rice or Madras rice (the Seeraga samba variety) to cook several dishes. This mention of Poona rice is very rare. Both Ambemohor and Indrayani are referred to as Poona rice in the Southern and Northern parts of India. Which of these varieties did the author use to cook the dish?Poona rice is mentioned again in the last section of this second book in another recipe named “Savoury rice with vegetables”. This recipe is very close to that of Masalebhat, a popular rice preparation in Maharashtra. The author uses potatoes and cauliflower in the dish along with pepper, cinnamon and cloves. The vegetables, spices and rice are fried in butter.The inclusion of this recipe (and that of Poona rice) means that the author of the second cookbook most probably spent at least some time in Poona. There are no other mentions of geographic locations from India in the book.I have not been able to trace Mrs E or the author of the second cookbook. Perhaps she wrote the second cookbook too, and that’s why the two books ended together. In that case, Mrs E lived in Poona Camp and the recipes from the first cookbook belonged there.These are speculations. Or possibilities. I wish someday I am able to find copies of those books with all the pages intact. That would lead us to Mrs E. And to the author of the second cookbook.Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taste-of-life-eggscellent-page-turner-from-back-in-the-day-has-poona-rice-cooking-101623322096192.html
10-06-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru police arrests 2 men for operating illegal telephone exchanges||The Bengaluru police have arrested two men for operating six illegal telephone exchanges in the city, where they would allegedly convert international calls for their customers into local calls and charge them a fraction of what they would need to pay for making them legally.The two have been identified as Ibrahim Pullatti, 36, from Kerala’s Malappuram, and V Gautam, 27, who is from Tamil Nadu’s Tirupur. They were arrested on Monday based on the inputs from military intelligence.A police officer said they have seized over 900 subscriber identification module (SIM) cards and a device, which could operate 32 of them at a time, from the two. “They were converting international calls into local calls, bypassing the authorised routers. This not only caused a loss to telecom companies, but it was also a threat to the national security,” said joint police commissioner Sandeep Patil.Also Read | K’taka HC allows police to release vehicles seized during curbsSix SIM boxes the two allegedly installed at separate locations have been seized. An investigator, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the customers included small firms and individuals, who would make international calls daily as part of their business. “The accused charged ₹1 per pulse rate against ₹10 legal charges. They would make anywhere between ₹10-15 lakh monthly...”A second officer said the Army’s eastern command first flagged the matter. It was passed on to the southern command to investigate whether there was an attempt to target the Army’s telephone exchanges.Police did not comment on the Army’s internal investigation.The illegal exchanges were traced to Bengaluru’s BTM Layout after the matter was investigated.Police were also probing money laundering charges against Pullatti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/illegal-telephone-exchange-busted-in-bengaluru-101623316816930.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers say hike in kharif crops minimum support price is peanuts||Punjab farmers on Thursday said that the Centre’s increase in the minimum support price (MSP) for kharif crops was peanuts at a time when the state’s agricultural sector was faced with an economic crisis.On Wednesday, the cabinet committee on economic affairs announced revised MSPs for summer-sown crops amid the ongoing farmers’ agitation for scrapping the three farm laws and offering a legal backing for MSPs.Also Read: Govt hikes MSP for kharif crops, skews them toward scarce itemsWith an increase of ₹72, the MSP of paddy (common) has been revised from ₹1,868 to ₹1,940, while grade-A paddy will be bought for ₹1,960 as compared to last year’s ₹1,888. Effecting an increase of ₹20, the MSP for maize has been increased from ₹1,850 to ₹1,870. Last year, the MSP for maize was increased by ₹90 and by ₹53 for paddy varieties.This year, the Centre has also mentioned ₹1,239 as cost of paddy production per quintal, while it is ₹1,246 in case of maize production.Formula adopted by Centre faulty: BKU leader BKU general secretary (Dakaunda) Jagmohan Singh said the committee adopts an outdated method to determine the MSP that ignores the formula recommended by the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP).“The formula adopted by the Centre is faulty as it has failed incorporate cost of labour, increase prices of diesel and rent of agriculture land while announcing fresh MSP,” Singh said.Terming the hike in paddy and maize prices a “mere joke”, he said it will not help farmers as the ground reality is different. “Though the government buys wheat and paddy on MSP, but farmers are getting nearly 50% of the MSP in the case of maize. This year, the maize was sold for ₹900- ₹1,000 per quintal against the MSP of ₹1,850,” he said.Manjit Singh from BKU’s Ugrahan faction said farmers have been asking the Centre to adopt the formula recommended by the National Commission on Farmers chairperson MS Swaminathan.“The production cost is much more than what’s mentioned by the Centre. Instead, the government should have provided an MSP that accounts for the basic cost incurred on production and an additional 50% profit,” he said.Economist calls for scientific approach Lakhwinder Singh Gill, a former professor of economics at Punjabi University, said that the Centre has come up with a meagre increase as the paddy MSP has been hiked by 3.85% but at the same time, the prices for diesel are up by 19% in the recent past.“The Centre has not adopted a scientific approach while proposing the pricing for different crops.The government has not fulfilled its poll promise of offering MSP on the C2 (comprehensive cost) and 50% profit,” he said.The C2 formula of calculating cost of cultivation includes the input cost of capital and the rent on the land to give farmers 50% returns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farmers-say-hike-in-kharif-crop-msp-is-peanuts-101623316214976.html
10-06-2021||Patna||Bihar’s Buddhist tourism sector sends SOS to Centre, seeks financial bail out||A prominent tourism body in Bihar has written to Rajya Sabha MP Suresh Prabhu and Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel seeking a financial bailout for hundreds of medium and small businesses, sucked dry in the past 12-14 months due to the coronavirus pandemic’s economic impact, costing roughly 4 crore jobs, as per industry estimates.They have approached Suresh Prabhu expecting he would raise their voice like he had asked civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri to allow fully vaccinated people to travel to help the tourism sector recover from the impact of the pandemic.Association of Buddhist Tour Operators (ABTO) are engaged in Bihar’s Buddhist circuit, most popular among the state’s eight tourism circuits and which covers sites like Mahabodhi Temple in Bodh Gaya where Lord Buddha attained enlightenment; Rajgir, where Buddha gave his famed Lotus sermons; Nalanda, the site of ancient university and Buddhist learning; East and West Champaran and Vaishali, where Buddha delivered his last sermon. These are also the most popular destinations in Bihar among foreign visitors.“But all this has become history now. Since one and a half years, there has been no tourism activity. Though the total lockdown was announced in March 2020, tourism activities started getting hit in December 2019 due to the coronavirus, and by January 2020, foreign tourists started leaving the country. Imagine the life of people who have been totally dependent upon domestic and foreign guests, sales of tour packages and local crafts. There has been no work and no earnings,” Kaulesh Kumar, the ABTO general secretary, said.The association is seeking interest-free long-term loans for tour operators and agencies; tourist transport operators and hotels along with a moratorium of 24 months for existing loan payments.“Hotel business or the entire hospitality sector is the worst affected by corona. Many hotels at the heritage city of Bodh Gaya are on the verge of closure,” Mrityunjay Kumar Rai, general manager of Hotel Anand International in Bodh Gaya and also an ABTO member, said. He said hoteliers are in dire need of a waiver of GST (goods and services tax) and exemption from payment of electricity bills, if they are to see through this crisis.ABTO’s Kaulesh Kumar said most of the hotels were facing a similar situation and the majority of travel agents and operators had shifted to other professions like farming, hawking of vegetables and even manual labour to sustain their families.“We have sent the letter not only to Suresh Prabhu, but a copy has also been sent to Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel to take our requests and requirements to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), ‘’ he said.SK Singh, vice president, Tourism Association of Bihar is backing ABTO’s demand.Drawing attention to the plight of tourism transport operators, Shibani Bhattacharya, head of the ABTO secretariat, says they should be allowed to operate without commercial tourist car road permits for two years. “In fact many have taken property on lease, and as the pandemic and lockdown have stopped earnings, they are unable to pay back the lease money, “she said. She adds that those in the tourism business need financial support for the next two years.State tourism minister Narayan Prasad could not be contacted to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-buddhist-tourism-sector-sends-sos-to-centre-demands-special-package-to-survive-101623316155128.html
10-06-2021||Lucknow||Newlyweds in this UP village have to plant a tree and nurture it as first born||Atul and Sandhya, became the first newlywed couple in Amni Lokipur village in Uttar Pradesh’s Kaushambi district, to plant a sapling with a pledge to nurture it as their first born and in the process set off a unique eco-conservation drive.All 3,700 residents of Amni Lokipur village of Mooratganj development block have resolved that every newly married couple in the village will henceforth enter their house only after planting the sapling of a shade and fruit giving tree, which they will also undertake to protect and nurture till maturity.“Ours is a small village... Over the years, our lush green village with a number of fruit and shade giving trees has lost much of its green cover as the size of farms and houses increased,” former gram pradhan of the village Swatantra Singh said. The ‘Nurture a tree like your first child’ initiative is Singh’s brainchild.Singh said most of the trees planted every year failed to reach maturity in the village owing to lack of proper care, noticing this he ran an information campaign on trees’ role in stabilising the soil and keeping the farmlands fertile. The villagers then jointly came up with the idea for newly-weds to plant and adopt a sapling.“If by any chance the sapling dies, the couple will have to plant a new one and repeat the pledge,” said Lakhan Lal, a marginal farmer and also the new village pradhan.26-years old Atul and 23-years old Sandhya planted the sapling of a Peepal tree on May 30 and said they planned to look after it “as long as we live”.June 16 and 21 will see two more newly-weds repeat the exercise, said Arvind Singh, the secretary of the Amni Lokipur gram panchayat.The village has recently been adopted by the Prayagraj-based Red Eagle Division of the Indian Army that has begun holding medical camps and training educated rural youths to work as nursing assistants in corona times.On June 5, the World Environment Day, the residents of the village along with the army personnel, planted 100 trees in two government-run schools and the teachers pledged to look after them as their kids. They also resolved to involve students in plant conservation.A serving army officer and a village native, Captain Sarvesh Kumar Tripathi said the initiative was more important for the values it would likely inculcate in the young and the kids, who would inherit it in future. “We hope every new beginning in not just Amni Lokipur but also nearby villages is marked by planting a tree,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/newlyweds-in-this-up-village-have-to-plant-a-tree-and-nurture-it-as-first-born-101623314474806.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||After Centre announces free Covid vaccines to states, Delhi CM Kejriwal asks a question||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday questioned the Centre's move to provide coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine to everyone after June 21. Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal said how the central government will supply these vaccins free of cost to all the adults remains a big question.The announcement about free vaccines was made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on Monday. The Union health ministry, which issued guidelines in this regard, said that the allocation of doses to states and union territories (UTs) will be based on their population, burden of the viral disease and progress of their vaccination drive.Also Read| Centre releases revised Covid-19 vaccination drive guidelines“The central government said that after June 21, it will supply vaccines free of cost in the country. The government has done this after the order of the Supreme Court. Better late than never. But even after June 21, where will the vaccines come from is a big question. There is a severe shortage of doses,” Kejriwal said while addressing reporters after he inspected the construction of an oxygen storage tank near Siraspur.The chief minister on May 26 attacked the Centre over its decision to export vaccine doses to other countries rather than inoculating their own citizens. Kejriwal said the impact of the second wave of the pandemic would have been less and so many people would not have succumbed to the viral disease if vaccination was done on time.केंद्र सरकार ने कहा है कि 21 जून के बाद वो पूरे देश में वैक्सीन फ्री सप्लाई करेगी, केंद्र सरकार ने ये सुप्रीम कोर्ट के आदेश के बाद और दबाव में किया है लेकिन देर आए, दुरुस्त आए। लेकिन 21 जून के बाद भी वैक्सीन कहां से आएगी ये बहुत बड़ा सवाल है, वैक्सीन की भारी कमी है: दिल्ली CM pic.twitter.com/6YZ9Z6FLOuDelhi has so far inoculated 5,732,699 beneficiaries against Covid-19 till now. Over 66,000 beneficiaries (66,175 to be exact) were administered vaccine doses on Wednesday.After suspending vaccination for the 18-44 age group for over two weeks, the national capital finally started receiving vaccine doses. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Atishi said on Wednesday said the youth can now register themselves on the CoWin app and get themselves vaccinated.Also Read| Delhi polling stations now vaccination centres, people happy: CM KejriwalDelhi has received 125,000 doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin for the 18-44 age group, Atishi said, adding that the present stock will last for another eight days. “The vaccination centres that were shut for youngsters due to the unavailability of vaccines for the past two weeks have been opened from Wednesday,” the AAP leader said while issuing the daily vaccination bulletin.Kejriwal, meanwhile, on Monday launched a mass vaccination campaign called ‘Jahan Vote, Wahan Vaccination’ (Get vaccinated where you vote), in a bid to speed up the inoculation drive. He said the Delhi government plans to vaccinate all eligible beneficiaries above the age of 45 in the next one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-centre-announces-free-covid-vaccines-to-states-kejriwal-asks-a-question-101623312648715.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Fifteen NDRF teams deployed in Maharashtra in view of heavy rain prediction||Fifteen National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams have been positioned in various parts of Maharashtra in view of the prediction of heavy rains in certain parts of the state, the force chief said on Thursday.Four teams have been based in Ratnagiri, two each in Mumbai, Sindhudurg, Palghar, Raigad, Thane and one in Kurla (east Mumbai suburb), NDRF Director General S N Pradhan said in a tweet.He said the teams are being pre-deployed or positioned at these locations on the request of the state government that acted in response to the prediction of heavy rains made by the India Metrological Department (IMD).An NDRF team usually has 47 personnel and they are equipped with inflatable boats, wood and pole cutters and basic first aid kits to rescue rains and floods affected victims and launch relief operations.Heavy rains lashed Mumbai and its suburbs on Wednesday, causing flooding on roads and rail tracks and disrupting suburban train services as the south-west monsoon arrived in the city.The weather department also issued a 'red alert' for Mumbai, neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts, warning of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fifteen-ndrf-teams-deployed-in-maharashtra-in-view-of-heavy-rain-prediction-101623312043482.html
10-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Waterlogging in various parts of Lucknow after heavy rains||Uttar Pradesh's capital Lucknow witnessed waterlogging in several areas after heavy rainfall lashed the city on Thursday. Visuals from Vidhan Sabha's gate number 7 released by news agency ANI showed vehicles passing through the waterlogged roads. The front gate of the Vidhan Sabha was also underwater, the one minute-video released by the news agency showed.#WATCH | Heavy rainfall in Lucknow causes waterlogging in parts of the city. Visuals from Vidhan Sabha gate number 7. pic.twitter.com/JPqVtKj9QzThe India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain in various parts of Uttar Pradesh for the next few hours on Thursday."Light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Milak, Bareilly, Badayun, Manpuri (UP) during next 2 hours," the weather department tweeted at 12.05pm.The department also predicted thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain in adjoining areas of Milak, Billari, Badayun, Ganjdundwara, Chandausi, Bahajoi, Sahaswan, Kasganj, Chandpur, Rampur, Moradabad, Billari, Amroha, Garhmukteshwar, Siyana in Uttar Pradesh.Also read: Monsoon likely to cover all of east, large parts of central India in 2-3 days"Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Milak, Billari, Badayun, Ganjdundwara, Chandausi, Bahajoi, Sahaswan, Kasganj (UP) during next 2 hours," IMD said earlier in the day."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Chandpur, Rampur, Moradabad, Billari, Amroha, Garhmukteshwar, Siyana (UP) during next 2 hours," the department also informed.The IMD in its daily bulletin projected lightning and gusty winds with a speed of up to 30-40kmph at isolated places over Uttarakhand, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, and West Madhya Pradesh on Thursday.Other cities in Uttar Pradesh like Kanpur also experience weather changes. As per the IMD forecast, Kanpur will have a "generally cloudy sky with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers" on Thursday.Mumbai, where the south-west monsoon has set in, according to the department, saw heavy rainfall leading to waterlogging and disruption to the local train services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-waterlogging-in-various-parts-of-lucknow-after-heavy-rains-101623307985361.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mixed cropping gaining ground in rural Chamba||Farmers in rural Chamba district are reaping benefits of the traditional and time-tested mixed cropping method, also called nau-anaj (nine crops). Under this farming system, nine crops are grown in the same field. They are a combination of lentils, cereals, vegetables, legumes and creepers. The maturity time, water and nutrient requirement of the crops is different. This indigenous practice provides natural resistance from crop diseases, infestations and droughts. Also read: Govt hikes MSP for kharif crops, skews them toward scarce itemsChamba project director of the Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA), Dinesh Kumar says, “More than 10,000 farmers have switched to the ecological farming technique under the Prakritik Kheti Khushal Kisan Scheme since 2018. Unlike the mono-cultural system, farmers are going for mixed crops of maize, French beans, wheat, black gram, black lentils, kidney beans, horse gram, cucumber, bottle gourd, brinjal, tomato and cowpea.” 935 hectares under mixed cropping At present, 935 hectares in the district are under mixed cropping. The crops grown by this technique are chemical-free and the soil and groundwater safe. It helps earthworms and other micro-organisms thrive and they play a key role in cycling nutrients. A benefit of mixed cropping is that if any kind of damage is caused to one crop, the co-crop compensates for it as the moisture in the soil remains intact even during the dry season due to the crop cover. Subsidy of ₹25,000 to each farmer To promote natural farming, the management agency is providing a subsidy of ₹25,000 to each farmer who switches over to this technique to buy an indigenous cow. Apart from it, ₹5,000 is being given for the transportation of the cow besides ₹2,000 as market fee. An amount of ₹8,000 is being given for concreting and pitting of cowshed to collect cow urine and ₹2,250 for drums for preparing various inputs and their storage. Besides, ₹10,000 is being given to each family for opening resource stores. “This financial year, ₹1.32 crore is being spent under the scheme in the district,” Kumar says, adding that training camps for farmers are being held besides a food security group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mixed-cropping-gaining-ground-in-rural-chamba-101623308717630.html
10-06-2021||Other||MP police put notices with skull mark around necks of unvaccinated people||Police in Madhya Pradesh’s Niwari district have been shaming residents, who have not been vaccinated yet for Covid, by hanging notices around their necks with skull signs and the warning: “Stay away from me. I have not taken my jab yet.” Part of a “Roko Toko (stop and remind) Campaign” to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the area, the action has triggered an uproar. Residents say the administration should first ensure proper availability of vaccines before humiliating them in public. “People are not getting vaccinated as there is a limited supply of vaccines in the district. It is wrong to blame the public for that,” said Rudra Pratap Singh, a local resident.To be sure, while overall vaccine supplies may be there at the state level, individual vaccination centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishments.Also Read | Bhopal unlocking from today: Markets to open, night curfew to continueNiwari sub-divisional police officer Santosh Patel justified the campaign. “As the unlock process has started so it is our duty to contain the spread of the virus. We are forcing people to maintain social distancing, use masks, and are now also concentrating on vaccination.” He cited the pandemic and said people should realise their duties to contain a possible third wave. Patel said vaccination is the only way to avoid the third wave. “Our motive is not to humiliate people but to (create awareness). ...we (are also) honouring people who are getting vaccinated (by giving them tri-colour badges).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mp-police-put-notices-with-skull-mark-around-necks-of-unvaccinated-people-101623308715132.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Medical exams begin in Maharashtra amid opposition from students||The second and third year exams for medical, dental and diploma courses for undergraduate students in Maharashtra started nearly six months behind schedule on Thursday, with nearly 40,000 students expected to physically write the exams at designated centres between June 10 and 30.“As if the pandemic was not enough, incessant rains across several districts of Maharashtra, have affected basic travel facilities available to the students. However, our state government is insistent on conducting these exams in the offline mode, putting thousands of lives at risk,” said a student on condition of anonymity.For the past few days, many students have taken to social media sites to share their anger and fear and alleged they were being “forced” to appear for exams in the offline mode despite Maharashtra still registering some of the highest numbers of Covid-19 cases in the country daily.“Students share hostel rooms and bathrooms, which is leading to greater fear of [the infection spreading] among the students. While the examination authorities are insisting on safety protocols at the examination centres, no one is demanding the same at hostels where students are staying and this could lead to chaos,” claimed another student.Usually scheduled in the month of December-January, the second and third year MBBS, BDS, and other para medical and certificate course exams were postponed three times this year due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases recorded across the state. The papers were last postponed from April to June.Last week, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court heard a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by HERD Educational and Medical Research Foundation, a Nagpur-based NGO and a physiotherapy student Nitesh Dhanraj Tantarpale.The plea requested that the court order the state to either conduct examinations online or vaccinate nearly 40,000 undergraduates before holding the exams in the physical mode.Refusing to give interim relief from the upcoming winter session examinations, the court, however, directed the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) to issue an advisory to principals of various medical colleges across the state that it would be desirable that examinees produce a negative RT-PCR report along with the hall ticket when the examinations begin on June 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/medical-exams-begin-in-maharashtra-amid-opposition-from-students-101623307754363.html
10-06-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19 sero survey in Varanasi aims to test around 1400 samples in 3 days||A three-day long sero survey started in Varanasi on Wednesday to assess the prevalence of Sars-CoV-2-- the virus that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-- by projecting the percentage of population likely to have been exposed to the infection in the district.The survey comes close on the heels of the fourth round of the nationwide sero survey, announced by the Indian Council of Medical Research, beginning in 70 districts across the country. This survey will also include children aged 6 years and above.In Varanasi, a total of 16 teams conducting the survey will collect 24 samples each from 31 identified rural and urban pockets, besides, 36 samples each from 18 slums in urban areas. These samples, including the 648 from the slums, will be sent to the microbiology department of the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Lucknow to arrive at the percentage of samples showing antibodies against the virus.Blood samples in a sero survey are tested for the presence of IgG (Immunoglobulin G) antibodies that determine a past infection due to the virus. Sero surveys are also important to determine whether the disease has entered the community transmission stage or not.Varanasi district surveillance officer Dr SS Kanaujia said each team engaged in the sero survey comprises a doctor, a lab technician, an Auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) and an Asha worker. They collected 408 out of the total 1392 samples on the first day of the drive.Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said the health department divided the general population areas into 4 regions on the first day to ensure the samples were uniformly spread. Teams collected 6 samples from each identified region. They included two women and two men (adults) and two boys and girls in the age group of 5 to 17 years. Similarly, samples of 9 residents were taken from slum areas. These included 3 women and 3 men and 3 boys and girls in the age group of 5 to 17 years.The sero survey will give an indication of the spread of the disease within a community, which in turn will establish the level of herd immunity to the disease developed through antibodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-sero-survey-in-varanasi-aims-to-test-around-1400-samples-in-3-days-101623305834713.html
10-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM lauds IISc Bangalore for being ranked top research varsity in world||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday congratulated the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) in Bengaluru for being ranked the world's top research university in the recent ratings published by the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) international agency. In a tweet, the chief minister lauded IISc for "imparting world-class education" and "facilitating cutting-edge research in science, technology, and engineering". He said that IISc Bengaluru has made every Indian proud.Also Read: QS World University Rankings 2022: IIT Bombay, IISc in top 200; check details hereTaking to his official handle on Twitter, CM Yediyurappa wrote, "Congratulations to @iiscbangalore on being ranked the world's top research university in the QS World University Rankings. Imparting world-class education & facilitating cutting-edge research in science, technology, and engineering, IISc makes every Indian proud."According to the prestigious QS World University Rankings 2022 published on Wednesday, IISc Bengaluru has been rated the world's top research university as per the citations per faculty indicator. The IISc secured a perfect score of 100 out of 100 for the citations per faculty (CPF) metric in the analysis by London-based Quacquarelli Symonds (QS).For the QS world university rankings, institutions and universities were judged on six indicators-- academic reputation, employer reputation, citations per faculty, faculty/student ratio, international faculty ratio and international student ratio.Also Read: QS World University Rankings 2022: Jawaharlal Nehru University makes its debut in top 1,000This year, rankings listed the world's top 1,300 universities - 145 more than in the last year's edition, which can be found in 97 locations. Of 13,000 institutions, 6,415 were found eligible for the survey analysis, and 1,705 were assessed for the final table.The results accounted for the distribution and performance of 14.7 million academic papers published between 2015 and 2019, and the 96 million citations received by those papers. They also accounted for the expert opinions of over 1,30,000 academic faculty and over 75,000 employers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-lauds-iisc-bangalore-for-being-ranked-top-research-varsity-in-world-101623304611189.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra lets aspirants apply for learner's driving license from home. Check details here||Maharashtra has now allowed aspirants to apply for a learners' driving license from home, simply by taking an online test using Aadhaar-based authentication, news agency PTI reported, adding that the state government has issued two directives to 50 regional transport offices (RTOs), one of which deals in this regard. The other directive allows citizens to register their respective non-transport vehicles without having to physically visit the RTOs. The latest directives come as part of a series of measures being undertaken by state governments across India to take up several bureaucratic processes online amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and reduce the burden on the staff.Also Read: Applying for learner's license? No need to visit RTO office anymoreMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is expected to inaugurate relevant facilities in the next couple of days, to enable aspirants in the state to take the learners' driving license virtually.To apply for a learners' driving license in Maharashtra, aspirants can watch a few online videos on road safety and opt-in for the learners' license test on the website when it becomes available, said Maharashtra transport commissioner Avinash Dhakane.Here's how to apply online for a learners' driving license in Maharashtra:1. Watch online videos on road safety to understand the importance of driving safely and within limits. Several such clips are available online on the official YouTube channel of the Union ministry of road transport and highways.2. Apply for the learners' driving license test online from the appropriate portal of the Maharashtra government's website. Keep in mind you will need your Aadhaar number for authentication.3. In order to obtain a learners' driving license, an aspirant must answer at least 60% of the questions presented in the test.4. If you clear the test, you will be eligible to obtain a learners' driving license in Maharashtra.5. Print out the learners' driving license and keep the hard copy for convenience and use.The Maharashtra transport department issues around 20 lakh learners' licenses and an equal number of cars and bikes in the non-transport category via the Sarathi 4.0 and the Vahan 4.0 systems, respectively, according to officials. The national informatics center (NIC) is expected to be making appropriate changes in these systems to enable aspirants to apply for learners' driving licenses in Maharashtra online, with the systems likely to be in place in the upcoming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-lets-aspirants-apply-for-learner-s-driving-license-from-home-check-details-here-101623301468246.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||DU’s queer collectives come together to celebrate pride month||June is celebrated as pride month worldwide. The theme for 2021 is ‘ The Fight Continues’. “The theme can be interpreted in many ways; it can be fight against Covid, regressive laws against queer people, or fight against queer rights in general too,” says Suyash, president of Hindu College’s Queer Collective(QC), Delhi University.Pride month brings great zest, and is a month long celebration. “But, this year doesn’t feel like a celebration owing to the sad reality of Covid,” Suyash adds. This pride month is to be celebrated virtually, due to Covid-19 pandemic induced restrictions and lockdowns. The QC of Hindu College is coming up with a series of Insta lives touching on various topics, starting this weekend. Bringing on board film makers, who sensitively bring queer representation on screen, like Faraz Arif Ansari, Onir and Sridhar Rangayan, have been invited for talks every following weekend. Lastly, Queeristan: LGBTQ Inclusion in the Indian Workplace’s author Parmesh Shahani, to read a few excerpts from the book, and reflect on his work for queer community.For Faraz Arif Ansari this representation is very important. “As I always say, the more representation, the merrier! I remember when I was growing up; there was no representation, not on television, nor in films. So, starting my journey as a filmmaker, I knew I have to put out good representation for queer identities. It’s all about leaving behind a legacy of love and acceptance,” shares Ansari.With these sessions in place throughout the month, concluding the month will be a virtual pride in collaboration with queer collectives of Miranda House and Gargi College.President of Miranda House’s queer collective, Rio, doesn’t feel great about having pride online. For him, pride is supposed to be inclusive, intersectional and a safe space. “Being online and having a stable internet connection and a safe space in your own house to attend such events is a privilege that not everyone has,” he adds.Miranda house’s QC is also organising a movie screening of a short film called Devi:Godess by Karishma Dube, on June 12.Although, students are excited for a virtual pride too, as they get to showcase their work, interact with like-minded people and just to take a break. However, they miss the pride events that used to happen in the flesh. “A sense of euphoria is missing on the virtual pride. Physical pride celebration brings great energy on the field, creates visibility on a wide spectrum, and generates mobility among students. This can’t be replicated on any medium,” says Shubh Goel, president of SGGSCC’s QC.After the pride month, QC’s across Delhi NCR will also collectively contribute for a newsletter; called Fakhr, to document pride month. Featuring articles, poems, coming out stories and notable achievements of students. The newsletter will come out in the 2nd week of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dus-queer-collectives-come-together-to-celebrate-pride-month-101623303135081.html
10-06-2021||Other||Woman, 5 daughters found dead on railway tracks in Chhattisgarh||The bodies of a woman and her five daughters, aged between 10 and 17, were found on railway tracks in Chhattisgarh’s Mahasamund district hours after they went missing, police said on Thursday.Also Read | Terror accused claims he was beaten in Tihar jail, officials reject claimMahasamund police superintendent Prafull Thakur said that the bodies have been sent for postmortem and a case has been registered. “The woman was missing since last [Wednesday] night along with her daughters, but her husband did not inform the police and was searching for them at their relatives’ places. On Thursday morning, someone saw the bodies on the tracks and informed the police,” said Thakur. He added that there was a fight between the husband and wife over some issue related to dinner on Wednesday night.“The woman left the home along with her daughters after the fight. Prima facie, it looks like a suicide case and investigation of the case is going on,” said Thakur.Do you need help or know anyone who does? Help is just a call away. Snehi: 011-65978181; Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-5-daughters-found-dead-on-railway-tracks-in-chhattisgarh-101623303133973.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Another hot day ahead, mercury to hover around 42°C||Delhiites are likely to experience another day of simmering heat, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting the maximum temperature to hover around 42 degrees Celsius (°C). IMD officials, however, said that from Saturday, Delhi-National Capital Region (NCR) is expected to received moderate rain, which will bring the temperatures down.On Thursday, the minimum temperature came down to 29°C. On Wednesday, the minimum temperature shot up to 31.4°C, four degrees above normal, and also the highest minimum temperature to be recorded this year.Also Read | Delhiwale: Landmark shop, down shuttersKuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that over the last two days, Delhi’s temperatures have been high because of a layer of dust over the region that trapped heat near the surface. “We received dust carrying winds from Rajasthan and Haryana on Tuesday. This layer of dust did not allow the surface to cool off, resulting in higher temperatures,” Srivastava said.He said that despite high temperatures, Delhi is still experiencing a below normal summer season. IMD forecast said that Delhi will start getting some relief from the heat from June 12. Under the impact of a low-pressure area forming on the north of the Bay of Bengal, the wind direction over Delhi will change to easterly from late Friday night, which will result in light rainfall in parts of Delhi and NCR. From Sunday, the intensity of rainfall will increase and as a result, the temperatures will also fall to below 40°C. “We are expecting moderate rainfall across Delhi and some parts of NCR can also receive heavy showers. From June 12, temperatures will start coming down again,” a senior IMD official confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-another-hot-day-ahead-mercury-to-hover-around-42c-101623299654041.html
10-06-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt to provide financial aid children orphaned by Covid-19||The Uttarakhand Cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to the Chief Minister Vatsalya Yojana, which aims to help children who lost their parents or the earning member of their family during the Covid-19 pandemic.Under the CM Vatsalya Yojana, the government will take responsibility for such children who have lost their parents and will provide assistance of ₹3,000 per month. Besides monetary assistance, the state government will also provide free education, ration and health facilities, till the time they attain the age of 21.In other major decisions, the Cabinet has approved compensation for the people associated with the tourism industry whose livelihoods were impacted by the pandemic. A sum of ₹2,500 will be provided to tour guides and operators and registered rafting guides by the state for two months.The Cabinet has also approved the demolition of Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN) for reconstruction work at Kedarnath whereas a budget of ₹100 crore was approved for flood management at Badrinath.The state Cabinet also approved Mukhyamantri Swarozgar Yojana Ati Shuksham (nano industries). Under the scheme, the state government aims to encourage 20,000 people to take up small-scale works by providing them a subsidy. Under the scheme, the government aims to provide a ₹5,000 subsidy to people who want to start work with an amount in the range of ₹10,000 to ₹15,000.The state Cabinet also waived off the ₹49 lakh for the reconstruction work at Hotel Alaknanda at Haridwar.The Shilpkar Protsahan Yojana was also extended by a period of five years.The Cabinet also decided to set up a trust for the proposed Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor in Udham Singh Nagar. It was decided that 1,000 acres of land would be allotted for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-govt-to-provide-financial-aid-children-orphaned-by-covid19-101623297777481.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||11 dead, including 8 children, as building collapses in Mumbai’s Malad||Eleven people died, and seven were injured, when a portion of a ground floor + 3 storey-residential structure fell on an adjoining ground floor+1 structure in Mumbai’s Malad area late on Wednesday night. The dead include eight children. The Maharashtra government has announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased.The city was hit by heavy monsoon rains all of Wednesday and the officials said the incident occurred at 11.52pm.The collapsed structure is located inside New Collector’s compound in Malad West. BMC disaster management cell said all 11 deceased have been identified. Also Read | How India’s most crowded city Mumbai beat the odds, and the virusThe fire brigade, civic authorities, and police were at the site to clear the debris and ensure rescue and relief operations. According to news agency ANI, 18 people were rescued. The injured were shifted to hospital where the condition of 30-year-old Marikumari Hirangana is said to be critical while the other six are stable. The state government also said it will bear the medical expenses of the injured.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray condoled the loss of lives and visited the Shatabdi Hospital in the city on Thursday to inquire about the well-being of the survivors, a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.Mumbai police said it will register a case under Section 304 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the owner of the residential structure. “Mumbai Police to register a case under Section 304 (2) of IPC (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) against the owner of structure that collapsed and the contractor. They had recently made some structural changes after cyclone Tauktae,” Joint Commissioner Police (Law and Order) Vishwas Nangre Patil said.Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has demanded an inquiry into the collapse and sought action against those responsible. In a tweet, Fadnavis said, “Saddened to know loss of lives in Malad building collapse incident in Mumbai. My thoughts are with families who lost loved ones & prayers for speedy recovery of injured. We demand immediate assistance to the families, in-depth inquiry & action against all responsible. #MumbaiRains”Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also announced ₹2 lakh ex-gratia each for the next of kin of the deceased from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. In a condolence message, his office tweeted, “Pained by the loss of lives due to the collapse of a structure in Malad West, Mumbai. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I pray that the injured recover at the earliest.”A sum of ₹50,000 would be provided to each of the injured, it said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/11-dead-including-7-children-as-building-collapses-in-mumbai-s-malad-101623297793576.html
10-06-2021||Patna||Days after bodies were found floating in Ganga, Bihar sends samples for Covid-19 testing||Days after bodies were found floating in Ganga, pollution control officials in Bihar have sent samples collected from the river for Covid-19 testing. According to state pollution control board scientist Navin Kumar, the tests are being conducted to check whether the river has been contaminated with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since there were reports of bodies of Covid-19 victims being dumped in Ganga. This comes after the central government took a strong note of the media reports of dead bodies floating in Ganga and called on the Bihar government to focus on preventing such incidents in the future.Also Read: Bodies of Covid-19 victims among those dumped in Ganga river: Govt"The sampling of Ganga river is a routine thing which we carry out on a regular basis. The pollution board keeps on investigating the quality of water of the Ganga river. But as you know that there were reports of bodies of Covid-19 victims disposed of in the river, so we are conducting tests to check whether the river has been contaminated with coronavirus or not," Kumar told news agency ANI. At least 71 bodies were fished out of the Ganga river in Bihar's Buxar district last month, after a large number of bloated and partially decomposed bodies were found floating in the river, triggering panic among locals and widespread outrage. Images of corpses drifting down a river which many in India consider holy had shocked a nation already reeling under successive waves of the coronavirus disease pandemic.The current investigation of the samples collected from Ganga is being undertaken by the National Mission for Ganga under the Jal Shakti ministry, in collaboration with the Indian Institute for Toxicological Research (IITR), Lucknow, which is a laboratory of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), state pollution control board, and the district administration.An expert team collected samples from Ganga on June 1 in Buxar and on June 5 in Patna, Bhojpur and Saran. The samples have been sent to Lucknow for Covid-19 testing, the reports of which are awaited, Kumar added.Taking a strong note of the "undesirable and alarming" media reports, the central government had on May 17 asked Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to prevent the dumping of dead bodies in Ganga and its tributaries. The direction to state governments to ensure safe disposal and dignified cremation of bodies had come straight from the 'Namami Gange' programme under the Union Jal Shakti ministry.The 'Namami Gange' mission aims to minimise pollution and amplify the conservation and rejuvenation of Ganga, the national river. However, with the reports of bodies floating in the river and potential contamination of the water as a result, the National human rights commission (NHRC) had issued notices to the Union Jal Shakti ministry, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar, after receiving complaints about the bodies.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/days-after-bodies-were-found-floating-in-ganga-bihar-sends-samples-for-covid-19-testing-101623294356502.html
10-06-2021||Noida||Noida records 2 more Covid-19 related deaths, 1 person succumbs in Ghaziabad||Two more deaths linked to COVID-19 were recorded in Gautam Buddh Nagar while one more person succumbed to the viral disease in adjoining Ghaziabad on Wednesday, official data showed.With this, the death toll climbed to 464 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 454 in Ghaziabad, according to Uttar Pradesh health department data.Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 35 fresh COVID-19 cases that pushed its tally to 62,828 while 47 more patients recovered from the disease in the district, the data showed.Ghaziabad's caseload surged to 55,343 with 26 new cases. As many as 54 patients recovered in a day, it showed.The overall recoveries increased to 62,054 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 54,448 in Ghaziabad.Meanwhile, the number of active COVID-19 cases in UP dropped to 12,959 from 14,067 on Tuesday and the death toll mounted to 21,516, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-records-2-more-covid-19-related-deaths-1-person-succumbs-in-ghaziabad-101623294801744.html
10-06-2021||Indore||Indore: 764 cases, 49 deaths reported due to Mucormycosis till now||As many as 764 cases of black fungus have been reported so far and 49 people have succumbed to the disease in Indore, informed Apoorva Tiwari, District Data Manager, Health Department, Indore."Till now 764 cumulative cases of Mucormycosis or black fungus have been reported in Indore. 149 patients have been discharged and 49 people have succumbed to the disease," Tiwari told reporters here."Currently 566 patients are undergoing treatment for the disease in the district. 37 deaths have been recorded in Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) College and Hospital and 12 deaths in private hospitals. The recovery rate is quite good with more than 10 people getting discharged since the last two to three days," she said.Mucormycosis or black fungus is a complication caused by fungal infection. People catch mucormycosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. It can also develop on the skin after the fungus enters the skin through a cut, scrape, burn, or other type of skin trauma, as per the Union Health Ministry.The disease is being detected among patients who are recovering or have recovered from Covid-19. Moreover, anyone who is diabetic and whose immune system is not functioning well needs to be on the guard against this, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-764-cases-49-deaths-reported-due-to-mucormycosis-till-now-101623291244564.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||11 dead as residential building collapses in Mumbai, minister blames rain||The rescuers are searching for survivors in Mumbai's Malad after a residential structure collapsed in the area. Eleven dead bodies have been recovered and 18 others are injured, according to news agency ANI."It's an unfortunate incident. It was a G+2 building that fell on another building. Eighteen people have been rescued, of whom 11 died. Police will carry out a proper investigation and take further action," Dilip Sawant, Additional CP, was quoted as saying by ANI.The incident happened at 11pm on Wednesday and the collapse engulfed a nearby residential structure, according to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The civic body also said that residents from three nearby buildings were evacuated as structures were not in good condition."There is a possibility of more people stuck under the debris. Teams are present here to rescue people," ANI quoted Vishal Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Zone 11, Mumbai as saying.Maharashtra minister Aslam Shaikh, who reached the incident site, said that the collapse happened due to rain. The injured persons have been shifted to BDBA hospital, he added.Heavy rains lashed Mumbai and its suburbs on Wednesday, causing flooding on roads and rail tracks and disrupting suburban train services as the south-west monsoon arrived in the city.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued a 'red alert' for Mumbai, and neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts, warning of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places there.The waterlogging caused by the monsoon season's first rains prompted the traffic police to shut four subways and forced motorists to abandon their vehicles on roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-building-collapse-11-dead-7-injured-minister-blame-rain-101623290848557.html
10-06-2021||Bhopal||Bhopal unlocking from today: Markets to open, night curfew to continue||Markets in Madhya Pradesh's capital Bhopal will reopen from Thursday after easing of coronavirus-induced curfew. This was announced by state minister for medical education Vishvas Sarang on Monday. Bhopal was put under 'corona curfew' on April 1 to check the spread of Covid-19 cases during the deadly second wave. The unlocking began on June 1.According to Sarang, night curfew and weekend curfew will remain in place in the Madhya Pradesh capital. The decision was taken after a meeting with various trade unions, the minister said.The shopkeepers and their employees have been asked to get themselves vaccinated against the coronavirus disease."The markets will reopen from Thursday. Shopkeepers will need to follow the Covid-19 protocol ensuring social distancing and wearing masks," he said."However, the night curfew from 8pm to 6am will continue," the minister added.The relaxations that will come into effect in Bhopal from today will not be applicable for swimming pools and gyms. Only takeaway facility will be allowed in hotels, according to the state government.The Madhya Pradesh government has, meanwhile, extended a ban on operation of bus services to and from Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan till June 15 in view of the coronavirus disease pandemic.The ban includes vehicles with all-India tourist permits, according to state government officials.The Covid-19 tally in Madhya Pradesh rose to 7,86,755 on Wednesday after the state reported 453 fresh cases, while the death toll reached 8,441 with the addition of 36 fatalities, according to state health department. In Bhopal, 124 people tested Covid-19 positive, which took the district's tally to 1,22,310. Two more people died due to Covid-19, which took Bhopal's death toll to 960.The number of active cases in the state now stands at 7,071, it said.Madhya Pradesh has administered the first dose to more than 10 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group each, according to Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bhopal-to-unlock-from-today-markets-allowed-to-open-night-curfew-to-continue-101623289070268.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||QS World University rankings: PU again fails to feature in top 1,000||Panjab University (PU) has once again failed to make it to the list of top 1,000 varsities in the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings 2022. The rankings were released on Wednesday.PU has been ranked in the 1,001-1,200 category this year while last year too, it fell in the same slot. This comes days after the varsity slid 26 points in the Times Higher Education (THE) Asia University rankings for 2021.The QS world University rankings evaluate the universities according to six metrics, which include academic reputation, employer reputation, faculty-student ratio, citations per faculty, international faculty ratio and international student ratio. A total of 35 Indian Universities have found place in the final tally.According to the QS rankings, the varsity’s score in faculty-student ratio is 4.6 while for citations per faculty, it is 15.1. Its score in academic reputation is 5.2 while in parameter related to employer reputation, it has scored 3.6. In the international student ratio, PU’s score is 1.1.Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) in Bombay and Delhi, besides the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, are the only universities of India to find a place in the top 200 slot in the QS World University Rankings 2022. Student-teacher ratio not improvingIn recent years, the varsity has not been able to recruit full-time faculty and around 50% teaching posts are lying vacant. Director of PU’s Internal Quality Assurance Cell (IQAC), Ashish Jain, said, “We have maintained our score on various parameters this year also but the varsity is lagging behind student-teacher ratio which has not improved over the years due to lack of new faculty recruitments in the University.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/qs-world-university-rankings-pu-again-fails-to-feature-in-top-1000-101623271811127.html
10-06-2021||Other||For 3rd time in nine days, Chandigarh tricity area’s Covid count remains below 200||Tricity’s daily Covid-19 count saw a further dip on Wednesday, coming down to 196 cases from Tuesday’s tally of 204. The death count of the three cities also remained in the single digit, with Panchkula reporting four fatalities following by Mohali with three deaths and Chandigarh with two. It is for the third time in nine days that the daily count has remained below 200 in the tricity. On June 6, when tricity reported 184 cases, it was for the first time in 93 days that the daily infections dropped below 200. The count further dropped to 145 on June 7, which was the lowest since March 5. 84 new infections take UT’s active case count to 649 Two persons, including a 33-year-old man from Sector 15, died of Covid-19 in Chandigarh. The other fatality was a 75-year-old woman from Ramdarbar. With this, the UT’s toll has reached 781. Besides, 84 persons -- 41 women and 43 men-- also tested positive on the day. So far, the city has logged 60,862 infections, of which 59,432 have been cured while 649 are still recuperating. The city’s current recovery rate is 97% while the positivity rate is 3.3%.186 recoveries against 86 new cases, 3 deaths in Mohali The district on Wednesday reported 186 recoveries against 86 new infections and three deaths in the last 24 hours. Of the total new cases, 13 were reported from Dera Bassi, 11 from Dhakoli, four from Lalru, three from Boothgarh, five from Gharuan, 16 from Kharar, nine from Kurali, five from Banur and 20 from Mohali city. The latest infections have taken the cumulative case count to 67,567, out of which 65,365 have been cured and 1,006 have died. The district is left with 1,196 active cases. P’kula’s positivity rate dips to 3%With four deaths, Panchkula had the highest number of fatalities in the tricity but the lowest number of new infections at 26. The deceased include a 70-year-old woman from Industrial area, a 58-year-old woman from Sector 23, a 62-year-old woman from Rampur Seuri and a 64-year-old man from Manaktabra. Panchkula currently has 387 active cases while recovery rate stands at 97% and positivity rate 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-3rd-time-in-nine-days-chandigarh-tricity-area-s-covid-count-remains-below-200-101623271450673.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||New election commissioner Anup Chandra Pandey has a Chandigarh connection||Anup Chandra Pandey, a retired IAS officer of the 1984-batch, who took charge as the new election commissioner of India on Wednesday, has a Chandigarh connection. Born in 1959 in Meerut of Uttar Pradesh, Pandey’s family moved to Chandigarh in the 1960s. As his father, VC Pandey, was a professor in Panjab University (PU)’s department of Ancient History, the family stayed on the campus for many years. Pandey completed his schooling from Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 16, which was one of the most reputed schools of the time. He went on to pursue engineering from Punjab Engineering College and later secured an MBA from PU’s University Business School (UBS) in the 1980s. His sister Amita Pandey said, “He was upright and hardworking even as a child. As an officer, he is a very dedicated and grounded. We grew up in Chandigarh and have a strong bond with the city and the PU campus.” PU’s professor Keshav Malhotra said, “Our family shares a good relationship with his family. His father was the mentor of our family and he himself has been our role model. His father also remained a member of the PU senate and syndicate.” Pandey, who has served as the Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner (IIDC) and chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh, was appointed as election commissioner after the former chief election commissioner Sunil Arora retired. Interestingly, Arora is also an alumnus of PU. A 1980-batch IAS officer from Rajasthan cadre, Arora completed his post-graduation in English from the PU-affiliated Government College, Hoshiarpur, in 1976. PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar said, “It is a matter of great pride for PU that an alumnus of UBS and former chief secretary UP, Anup Chandra Pandey, a retired IAS, has been appointed the Election Commissioner of India.” Former PU V-C Arun Kumar Grover also congratulated Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-election-commissioner-anup-chandra-pandey-has-a-chandigarh-connection-101623271390533.html
10-06-2021||Other||3 Mohali STF cops accused of illegal detention suspended||Three Punjab police personnel, including an inspector, an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and a constable, posted at the special task force (STF) police station in Phase 4, Mohali, have been placed under suspension, reportedly in connection with an illegal detention case. The trio has been identified as Inspector Harnek Singh, the then station house officer of STF police station, Mohali, ASI Angrez Singh and constable Varinder Pal Singh. The trio was placed under suspension after preliminary inquiry, by Kashmir Singh Gill, assistant inspector general (AIG), STF, Ropar range, in which they were indicted for “negligence in duty”. Inspector Harnek Singh was immediately shifted out after the preliminary probe was started. AIG Gill, said, “They have been placed under suspension and departmental inquiry has been initiated.” A superintendent of police from Ludhiana STF will be conducting further investigations. Accused of illegal detention Sources said that the inquiry was initiated after a resident of Mohali village was illegally detained at the police station for two days. Sources said the STF had picked up Jagroop Singh, staying on rent in Mohali, with 3gm heroin and ₹82,000 drug money from Mohali village on May 19. The matter came to light on May 21 after the death of Jagroop’s wife, who had fallen off the roof. Jagroop was then let off by the STF. Sources added the policemen had even returned the heroin and drug money recovered from him. There was no FIR registered with regards to the arrest or recovery from Jagroop. The SHO had even failed to inform his senior officers. Preliminary inquiry nailed the three police personnel for failure to inform the seniors about the detention. CCTV footage went against them After media reports, an inquiry was initiated, during which the footage of the closed circuit television cameras (CCTVs) installed in the police station showed that Jagroop was brought to the police station and detained. The STF team while rounding up Jagroop had even brought the digital video recorder (DVR) of the CCTVs installed around his house. During the preliminary inquiry, statements of the residents in the area confirmed that Jagroop had been picked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-mohali-stf-cops-accused-of-illegal-detention-suspended-101623271030502.html
10-06-2021||Patna||Bihar to start pensions for 2026 Covid-19 widows from June||With the Coronavirus devouring many bread-earners of families, the Bihar government has expedited the process for providing relief to widows by helping them avail the Lakshmibai pension scheme. This is apart from the ₹4-lakh compensation to kin of those who succumbed to Covid-19.Though the scheme, for widows above 18 years of age and who are not covered by the central scheme, the Indira Gandhi national pension scheme, is not new, the state’s social welfare department has worked overtime to enroll women widowed in the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The department has so far identified 2026 such widows, who lost their husbands and are from below poverty line (BPL) families, while 70% of them have also provided their bank account details for transfer of monthly pension of ₹400.“We will soon start disbursing the amount in their bank accounts so that they start getting their pension from June itself. We have the account numbers of 70% of the applicants, while efforts are on to complete the process for the rest also. Our team is working to enroll every needy person so that they get support,” said director, department of social welfare, Rajkumar.The Lakshmibai pension scheme covers widows below the age of 40 years who are not covered by the Indira Gandhi widow pension scheme of the Central government, which caters to women between 40-59 years from BPL families. The Lakshmibai Pension Yojana in Bihar covers all widows above 18 years of age whose annual family income is below ₹60,000.Patna has the highest number of widows due to Covid-19 at 176, followed by West Champaran (153), Begusarai (110), Muzaffarpur and Rohtas (95 each). The figures are still being compiled.The officer said that the effort was to facilitate the pension payment early in view of hardships faced by families. “In many cases, the officials visited the homes of the affected families to get the documentation process completed and bank accounts opened, if they were not there. The officials also helped families apply in the prescribed format. The department has continued with the process, as the chief minister wants that all needy women must get assistance,” he added.The Bihar government has also announced to provide ₹4 lakh as compensation to family of those who succumbed to Covid-19 in the state. According to a health department bulletin, the Covid-19 death toll has touched 5458 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-start-pensions-for-2026-covid-19-widows-from-june-101623270790535.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar, aide gunned down by police in Kolkata||Gangster Jaipal Bhullar and his aide Jaspreet aka Jassi Kharar, who (besides other cases) were wanted for the killing of two cops Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh in Ludhiana on May 15, were gunned down by the West Bengal Police’s special task force (STF) in the New Town area close to Kolkata on Wednesday evening, police said. Bhullar and his associate, who had rewards of ₹10 lakh and ₹5 lakh, respectively, on their heads, were living in an apartment in an upscale locality there.A police officer, Kartick Mohan Ghosh, got injured when the fugitives opened fire at the police party. The West Bengal Police was in touch with their counterparts in Punjab after the STF got information about the gangsters from two men who were arrested near Siuri in Birbhum district on Sunday while they were trying to smuggle in a consignment of explosives and 9mm pistols from Bihar. “The Punjab police have confirmed that the deceased are Jaipal and Jaspreet. We were on the lookout for quite some time and were in touch with several agencies, including the Punjab Police. We went to the apartment to arrest them but had to open fire in self defence when they fired on us, injuring an inspector,” Vineet Goyal, additional director general of police, West Bengal STF, said. “We have recovered around ₹7 lakh in cash, five sophisticated pistols, including a Glock, and 89 rounds of ammunition from the apartment,” Goyal said.Jaipal was wanted in several states including Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh in connection with more than 45 cases involving murder, kidnapping, robbery and smuggling. Punjab director general of police Dinkar Gupta said following inputs from the Punjab police, the West Bengal STF swung into action, raided the apartment where the two were hiding and were subsequently killed. He said Punjab Police received a breakthrough with the arrest of one Bharat Kumar of Sahnewal, from near Shambhu Border in Rajpura on Wednesday, who revealed that both Jaipal and Jassi were holed up in a rented apartment in Kolkata. “I am grateful to West Bengal Police, especially the ADGP & STF chief Vineet Goyal, who acted fast on inputs provided by the Punjab Police,” said Gupta. According to the information, Jaipal was absconding since 2014 and during all these years, he had committed many crimes and was wanted in more than 25 cases. He was currently into drug smuggling from across the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-jaipal-bhullar-aide-gunned-down-by-police-in-kolkata-101623270010373.html
10-06-2021||Other||Pandemic exposes loopholes in Panchkula’s public health care system||The Covid-19 pandemic has exposed the vulnerability of the public health care system in Panchkula, which is completely dependent on private hospitals for critical care.These are the very hospitals that were later indicted one after another with complaints of overcharging. So far, 14 notices have been issued in this regard.Dental surgeons were trained for RT-PCR, AYUSH doctors managed patients in home isolation, and only one intensivist managed the ICUs.In the absence of any public tertiary care hospital, and Chandigarh’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) refusing to take patients during the beginning of the pandemic, Panchkula had to make last-minute arrangements. Tie-ups were done with private hospitals, 20-bed ICUs in general hospitals were made functional, and a molecular lab was set up.General hospital alone unable to deal with caseloadPanchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjit Kaur, who took charge a few weeks ahead of the pandemic, said: “As the general hospital alone was not adequately equipped to deal with tertiary care patients, we had to heavily rely on the private sector.”She said that if there was a public tertiary care institution in the district, they would not have to rope in the private sector for ICU support. “For tertiary care, if not 100%, then about 80% dependency was there on the private hospitals, because the general hospital could take only 18-20 patients in ICUs,” she said.The Panchkula district has only 109 doctors under regular category and hardly 15-20 on outsourcing under the National Health Mission. There are 25 dental surgeons, 103 staff nurses, 13 nursing sisters, 27 lab technicians, and Group D is 253.Dr Kaur said that they need “at least double the number of specialists and triple the number of nurses. There is a great shortage of staff nurses. We would have done much better had we had adequate manpower and infrastructure.”Admitting that the number of staff was “too less”, Dr Kaur said: “I am always told that you (Panchkula) have surplus staff, when compared to other districts of Haryana. We have struggled and only we know how we tried to manage.”Dental surgeons, students trained for testingDr Kaur shared how in the absence of enough manpower, they had to train dental surgeons, dental students, even nurses for RT-PCR and sampling.There was only one intensivist, whereas at least five are needed: “So, we had to train anaesthetists to do this job. Even though we did not have staff nurses trained for ICU, we didn’t have ICU technicians, physicians for ICU.”Dr Kaur said: “We kind of improvised, whatever we could do, but yes, health infrastructure in terms of beds, tertiary care, manpower could not be said to be enough for this pandemic.”She added: “All said and done, private hospitals have done a wonderful job in saving many lives. Let’s not be immediately thankless to them.”Panhckula MLA Gian Chand Gupta said: “In 2015, 25 acre land in MDC-5 was approved for construction of a medical college, but preference changed after the Prime Minister started promoting AYUSH hospitals. We allotted 20-acre space for an AYUSH hospital, and its construction is about to begin.”“For tertiary care services, we are going to have two more big private hospitals. Soon, auction will be held. As far as the medical college is concerned, in the next two years, work will begin, as CM had once mentioned about it,” he added.The virtual foundation stone of the 200-bed mother and child care block at the Sector 6 civil hospital will be laid by the chief minister on June 10 at 11am, and will be showcased from the PWD Rest House, Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pandemic-exposes-loopholes-in-panchkula-s-public-health-care-system-101623269830412.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Many bars still closed, but Sukhna Lake, Elante Mall report good response||Even though the Chandigarh administration has allowed bars in the city to reopen with up to 50% seating capacity, many outlets remained closed on Tuesday even as a moderate rush of people was seen at the Sukhna Lake and at the Elante Mall.Chapter head of the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) and proprietor of Pyramid at Elante Mall, Sunveer Sondhi, said, “We welcome the orders of the Chandigarh administration, but we didn’t open on Tuesday. Most of the staff had gone back to their native villages, so many places are facing manpower crunch.” He added that they will open within the next few days.President of the Chandigarh Restaurants and Hotels Association and proprietor of Hotel Metro in Sector 43, Arvinder Pal Singh, said, “The staff haven’t been paid for April in many places and with bank instalments and EMIs pending, many places will first see what kind of a response bars receive before recalling their staff back in full strength.”While Social in Sector 7 opened up on Tuesday, director Manish Goel said, “Social had remained open for deliveries due to which we already had some staff at hand, which is why we were able to reopen from Tuesday itself.”Since it was one of the few bars open in the city, Goel reported that many customers had to be turned away due to the 50% occupancy limit enforced by the administration.Residents come for morning walk at SukhnaMany morning walkers were seen on Tuesday morning as the Sukhna Lake opened up for visitors. UT adviser Manoj Parida was also spotted in the morning, walking with a cane and clicking pictures.Many of the old regulars, however, said they will wait a few days before returning back to their schedule. As per Ajay Jagga, who would earlier come for walks everyday: “Just because the government has given us some relaxations doesn’t mean we should abuse them. People should still exercise restraint and avoid going out until its necessary.”Local area councillor Maheshinder Sidhu, who is also a regular here, said, “Morning walkers are well disciplined and the lake should have been opened from 6 to 9 in the morning earlier, too. I will ask that this be done during the Sunday lockdown now.” Officials of the Sukhna Lake police post confirmed that despite patrolling, no challans were issued for not wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing.Elante Mall reports good footfallShopping malls were also allowed to open, and officials at the Elante Mall said that the numbers on Tuesday were encouraging. Salim Roopani, centre director, Elante Mall, said, “We are delighted that the Chandigarh administration granted us permission to reopen. The mall was opened at 10am after sanitisation, and over 90% of the stores were opened which will go to 100% by the weekend. By the evening, over 9,000 people had visited the mall.” Floor Covid wardens were also seen with signages and a police team was present to issue challans to those without masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-many-bars-still-closed-but-sukhna-lake-elante-mall-report-good-response-101623269772019.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Tikri rape case: Main accused held from Bhiwani; 2 absconding||The primary accused wanted for the rape of a 25-year-old woman, who was assaulted by three people while travelling in a train from West Bengal to Tikri border to participate in the farm stir on May 28, was arrested in Bhiwani on Wednesday. A reward of ₹25,000 each had been announced for the arrest of Anil Malik of New Delhi, and his associates Anup Chinaut of Hisar, and Ankush Sangwan of Charkhi Dadri. The victim had later succumbed to Covid at a private hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on April 30.Bahadurgarh DSP Pawan Sharma, who is heading the SIT, said, “Anil will be produced before the court on Thursday and we will seek his remand. After interrogating 22 people, we learnt that Anil had raped the woman and Anup had supported him.”“The third accused, Ankush, did not appear before the SIT for interrogation and his interim bail plea has been rejected by the court. One Yogita Suhag, had told the SIT that she had made a video of the victim, in which she had alleged that Anil had misbehaved with her when they were coming to Tikri,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tikri-rape-case-main-accused-held-from-bhiwani-2-absconding-101623269530409.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Succumbing corona warriors’ kin to get ₹20L compensation in Haryana||The Haryana government will grant ₹20 lakh compassionate financial assistance to family members of state government employees who succumb to the infection while on Covid duty. The directions issued on June 8 state, “In case of death of an employee (regular or ad hoc, temporary, work charged, daily wages, honorarium based, guest teacher, engaged under outsourcing policy) while on active Covid duty, especially related to management of Covid or maintenance of essential services, the eligible family member(s) will be paid special compassionate financial assistance of ₹20 lakh.”528 new virus cases, 40 deaths in Haryana Forty people succumbed to the coronavirus disease in Haryana on Wednesday, taking the state’s death toll to 8,829 and fatality rate to 1.16%. As many as 528 new cases were detected across 21 districts. The recovery rate stood at 97.92% after 940 patients recuperated. A total 34,997 samples were collected, as per the health bulletin. Of the 40 fatalities, five people died in Hisar, four in Panipat, three patients each died in five districts, one fatality each was recorded in six districts and two patients each lost the battle to the contagion in five districts. Gurugram and Faridabad recorded 27 new cases each, Sonepat 10, Hisar 37, Ambala 28, Karnal 30, Panipat 11, Rohtak 8, Rewari 14, Panchkula 26, Kurukshetra 31, Yamunanagar 58, Sirsa 69, Mahendergarh and Bhiwani 8 each, Jhajjar 23, Palwal 37, Fatehabad 29, Kaithal and Jind 23 each, and Charkhi Dadri one. Four patients succumb to black fungus in Karnal, 12 new cases (Embedded story) 
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Thieves strike at Sanjh Kendra in Ludhiana||Thieves struck at the Sanjh Kendra located a few metres away from the residence of deputy commissioner in Club Road area and decamped with three batteries, inverter and LED monitor besides other valuables kept in the premises, police said on Wednesday. The Sanjh Kendra is located in the area, which houses the residences of several bureaucrats, police and judicial officials. The incident came to light this morning when a sweeper went to clean the office and found the doors open. He raised an alarm and informed the Sanjh Kendra staff about the crime. A woman staff employee stated that three batteries and an LED monitor kept in the office were missing.Soon, cops also reached the spot and started an investigation. According to Division Number 8 SHO Rajinder Singh, it is suspected that the thieves may have struck at the Sanjh Kendra at midnight. They broke open the door by using a cutter and took away batteries and LED monitors. He said that a CCTV camera was installed in the Sanjh Kendra and its recording will be retrieved to find out how many persons were involved in the theft.The thieves, however, did not take any computer or air conditioner kept in the centre.The police have not ruled out the possibility that the thieves may have carried out a recce of the premises before committing the theft.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thieves-strike-at-sanjh-kendra-in-ludhiana-101623268871562.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||SIT to investigate custodial death of Panipat man||A special investigation team has been formed to investigate the death of a 50-year-old man due to alleged police brutality while in custody at the Quila police station in Panipat.A judicial inquiry has been initiated and the police have already arrested assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Dharamvir and two others for murder. Superintendent of police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan said that the SIT will be headed by assistant superintendent of police Pooja Vashisth. Sawan said, “The ASI has also been booked under the Prevention Of Corruption Act as the family members have alleged that he was demanding money to release the victim, Ayub Khan, a distant relative of a 25-year-old man Irshad Khan, who has been booked under Sections 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage)of the Indian Penal Code for allegedly abducting a 22-year-old woman on the pretext of marriage on May 27.ASI Dharamvir, who was investigating the kidnapping, allegedly called Irashad’s relatives and friends to trace him. Ayub’s family said he was called to the police station and tortured by the officer and relatives of the woman. He was interrogated on the roof of the police station building and died around 6.30pm on June 8, they alleged. Ayub worked in a floor mat manufacturing unit in Panipat’s industrial area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-to-investigate-custodial-death-of-panipat-man-101623268870287.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal call centre duping US citizens busted in Ambala, 9 held||The Ambala unit of Haryana Police’s special task force (STF) busted an illegal call centre being operated from a marriage palace on Ambala-Kaithal Highway near Ambala city on Wednesday. Kulbhushan, deputy superintendent of police (STF), said that around 125 people were found working at the centre and eight men were arrested from the spot, while another was nabbed from Gurugram in an overnight operation. As many as 200 computers, 10 laptops, ₹2.5 lakh in cash, 11 mobile phones and an internet server were recovered. The accused have been identified as Rahul from Gurugram, Kamal from Panchkula, Chintan and Kunal from Ahmedabad, Sumit Chauhan from Pali, Rajasthan; Lakshmendra alias Lucky from Mumbai, Ayan and Rishi from Navi Mumbai and Ajo from Nagaland’s Dimapur. The raid continued for nearly six hours and the accused failed to produce valid documents pertaining to licence by the telecom department, sources of customers and data etc. “The employees were trained to lure United States customers by impersonating as representatives of Amazon or law enforcement department of federal reserve system, Florida. Their modus operandi was to hack the system of a customer, scare them with fund deduction and use their personal details to defraud them. Using the same scare, they would also provide a scratch card and ask for its number along with card details, to siphon off funds to the tune of $200-1,000 from their accounts,” he added. The DSP added that the call centre was being operated from January and the raid was conducted on the basis of a tip-off. On being asked about the whereabouts of the marriage palace owner, Kulbhushan said, “He had rented them the place based on some agreement. We have summoned him and he will be questioned too.”While the employees were let go after questioning, all the nine accused were sent to three days of remand after being presented before a court, it has been learnt. A case has been registered under Sections 120-B, 384, 419 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code and IT Act. Meanwhile, Haryana director general of police Manoj Yadava congratulated the STF Haryana for busting the large-scale illegal call centre and saving people from getting cheated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-call-centre-duping-us-citizens-busted-in-ambala-9-held-101623268753387.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University office to open at full strength from June 10||Panjab University has decided to reopen its office with full staff strength from June 10 onwards. The timings will be 9am to 5pm.However, no public dealing will be allowed till June 25, except with prior permission of the head of department (HoD) concerned, for urgent issues only. However, the varsity said that if the head of the office/department feels that staggered timing/attendance is required to ensure proper compliance with Covid protocols, then they can implement it by issuing proper office orders with appropriate justification, subject to the condition that the normal day to day work as well as time bound assignments are not affected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-office-to-open-at-full-strength-from-june-10-101623268750787.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Derogatory remarks against CM Khattar: Surjewala appears in court for Jind farmer, bail plea rejected||Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala appeared in a sessions court on Wednesday, seeking bail for a Jind farmer who had been arrested for his “derogatory remarks” against chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and other ruling party leaders in a social media post. Additional sessions judge Gurvinder Kaur rejected the bail plea of Dalbir of Bibipur village of Jind. The accused, who had been participating in the farmers’ agitation against the three contentious farm laws, was booked under Sections 506 (criminal intimidation), 500 (defamation), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke), 294 (obscene acts or words in public) and 505(1) (intent to incite) of the Indian Penal Code on May 24. He was arrested five days later. Surjewala argued that the farmer had been implicated at the behest of the state government. “The victimisation at the behest of the state government is evidenced from the fact that the applicant-accused has not been supplied a copy of the FIR. Even the FIR was not uploaded,” he said.The former Haryana minister said they will approach the Punjab and Haryana high court to secure Dalbir’s bail. Rejecting the bail, the judge said, “ Keeping in view the totality of the facts and circumstances of the case and without commenting on the merits of case, the applicant-accused does not deserve the concession of bail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/derogatory-remarks-against-cm-khattar-surjewala-appears-in-court-for-jind-farmer-bail-plea-rejected-101623268630205.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon preparedness: Ludhiana MC focuses on 7 vulnerable points of Buddha Nullah||To avoid waterlogging and overflowing of Buddha Nullah during monsoon, the Ludhiana MC has identified seven vulnerable points of the drain and 172 low-lying areas in the city.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal held a meeting with MC officials regarding the flood protection measures at Zone A office on Wednesday and issued directions to make necessary arrangements to avoid waterlogging and flooding.The vulnerable points of nullah include New Kundanpuri, Shivpuri, Madhopuri, Gandhi Nagar, Gopal Nagar, Fish market on Tajpur Road and near Jamalpur sewer treatment plant (STP). Low-lying areas have also been identified in all the four zones of MC.As per the information, officials have been directed to arrange 2,500 sand bags in each zone of MC, so that corrective steps could be taken. Additional sewermen will also be deployed at all the 172 low-lying areas to expedite the process of draining out the rainwater. The 24x7 flood control room of MC in Daresi area will be made operational from July 1.Sabharwal said, “There are 36,000 road gullies in the city out of which 27,000 have already been cleaned. Super-suction machines have been deployed for cleaning of sewer lines and the process to clean the internal drains of the city, including those in old city areas like Talab Bazaar drain, is going on. The desilting of nullah is also going.” He said joint commissioner Swati Tiwana has been appointed as the nodal officer for flood protection measures and the staff has directed to complete all the works by June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoon-preparedness-ludhiana-mc-focuses-on-7-vulnerable-points-of-buddha-nullah-101623268510197.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||18-yr-old, 8 minors held for gang raping Class-5 girl in Rewari village||Rohtak: An 18-year-old man and eight minors were arrested for allegedly gang raping a Class-5 student and filming the assault in a village in Rewari district, police said on Wednesday. Five of the minors accused of rape are aged between 10 and 12. In their complaint, the 10-year-old girl’s family said the incident took place on May 24 when the victim was playing outside her house. They only realised what had happened after a video of the sexual assault, which was widely circulated, reached them. Rewari DSP (headquarters) Hansraj, said the victim’s family had lodged a complaint on June 8. “The boys took the girl to the government school near her house. They raped her and recorded the incident. They threatened the girl of dire consequences if she told anybody about the assault. After circulating the video, they started blackmailing the victim.” The 18-year-old was presented before a local court in Rewari, which sent him to judicial custody, and the five juveniles were sent to an observation home. Three minors were arrested for filming the incident and will be sent to an observation home on June 10. “The victim and the accused minors will be counselled,” the Rewari DSP said. The accused were booked under Section 376DB (gang rape on woman under 12 years) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act sections of Information Technology (IT) Act and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.A police official, who was part of the team that questioned the accused, said the boys said they had raped the girl after watching a porn video and on the instigation of the 18-year-old man. Haryana state commission for protection of child rights (HSCPCR) chairperson Jyoti Bainda said, “It was a horrific incident. The victim did not confide in her parents until a month and a half after the incident. We will provide a support person to look after the girl. As all the accused were known to the girl, I have sought a status report of her neighbourhood. If needed, we will shift the girl to a children’s home,” she added.Two held for killing boxer for objecting to minor’s molestation Two people were arrested for stabbing boxer, model and actor Kamesh alias Raunak on Tuesday night after he tried to save a girl from molestation.The accused, Rahul and Sunny, have been arrested for molesting the girl and later stabbing Kamesh to death. Rohtak deputy superintendent of police Gorakhpal said, “We are trying to ascertain the involvement of other people.” The minor girl’s mother said the accused had barged into their house and tried to molest her daughter. They killed the actor when he intervened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18yrold-8-minors-held-for-gang-raping-class-5-girl-in-rewari-village-101623268390215.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Landmark shop, down shutters||An era is ending. It never was a celebrity establishment, but it is tied to our city’s contemporary history. The landmark Ahuja Tailors in Gurugram’s Sadar Bazaar will soon close. “The building owner wants the shops in the premises to be vacated,” says tailor Nathuram Ahuja, whose inheritors chose other professions. “But my silai machine and all the other things that were part of my life for 50 years will come back home.”At 85, the fully vaccinated Mr Ahuja is secluded within his home in Gurugram’s Ram Nagar. While lovingly cared for by his two sons, his routine stayed the same for several decades. Every day he would be in his shop, continuing his relationship with the fabrics, the sewing machine, the inch tape and the scissors.That life was rudely disrupted with the first pandemic-ridden lockdown in March last year. Mr Ahuja hasn’t been to his shop since then. “You survive by accepting the situation,” he notes, pointing out that the pandemic wasn’t the only seismic shift he has experienced. The family lost everything when his father, a village grocer in Dera Ghazi Khan, now part of Pakistan, moved to India following the ‘partition’. Then a 7th standard student, Mr Ahuja couldn’t resume his education. The hardships swallowed his early years, obliging him to struggle through odd jobs. “I would pick up coal dropped by steam engines on rail tracks, and sell them to halwai shops in the bazaar... I would do laavri, in which I would help harvest the crops of landowners in exchange for a sack of the harvest... I would get vegetables from the wholesalers and sell them in a basket on my head.” One job profile is now extinct. “I worked as a punkah-coolie in the courts.” Mr Ahuja is talking of a time when the ceiling fans weren’t ubiquitous, and he would sit outside a courtroom continually operating the long rope of a punkah that worked through a pulley, so that the magistrate within wouldn’t be deprived of the breeze.He eventually learnt tailoring from a cousin in Delhi’s Subzi Mandi, and opened his shop in Gurugram.After a prolonged pause, this man who has lived through so many changes casually observes “so what if my shop is replaced by some other shop... khush raho, mast raho (be happy and carefree).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-landmark-shop-down-shutters-101623268148156.html
10-06-2021||Other||38 take recruitment exam for post of accountant in Ludhiana||As many as 38 candidates appeared in the recruitment exam for the post of accountant under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act on Wednesday.Out of the total 67 applicants, 29 skipped the exam, that was held at Shaheed-e-Azam Government Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar.Following the Covid-19 norms, the candidates underwent thermal screening at the entrance and wore masks. Sanitizers were installed outside examination rooms. Arrangements were made to seat only nine applicants in each of the seven rooms to ensure social distancing.Examination controller Jaswinder Kaur said, “The 90-minute exam was conducted smoothly while abiding by Covid-19 norms. A supervisor was deputed in every room to monitor the applicants.”Sushil Kumar, a candidate, said, “The exam was easy, and I was able to complete it in the allotted time. The authorities had made proper arrangements for the applicants in the classrooms. Social distancing was maintained, and every supervisor was wearing a mask.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/38-take-recruitment-exam-for-post-of-accountant-in-ludhiana-101623268212626.html
10-06-2021||Other||Lack of clarity around reopening leaves Ludhiana gym owners in the lurch||A day after the Punjab government in a press statement said that gyms can be allowed to reopen from next week if Covid cases continue to decline, it issued its final orders regarding the guidelines on Tuesday, wherein it didn’t mention anything regarding the same. This has led to a confusion in the fitness industry.Extending the curfew restrictions in the state till June 15, the press statement issued by the government on June 7 had mentioned that if cases continue to decline, gyms can open after a week with 50% capacity. The gym owners were elated with the announcement, as even the local Congress leaders had assured them that the gyms will be allowed to open from next week. Anticipating reopening, many of them ordered sanitisation of the premises and lubrication of equipment. They even informed their members regarding the same.However, in the final orders regarding the revised guidelines issued by the government on June 8, there was no mention of the reopening of gyms, leaving the owners in a dilemma. Even the subsequent orders issued by deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma regarding the curfew relaxations in the district also didn’t mention anything in this regard.The administrative officials stated that the gyms will remain closed till the time official orders are not issued by the government. Caught unaware, the gym owners stated that the government should issue separate orders for reopening ofgyms from next week as announced earlier or the fitness industry will be forced to raise an agitation.“The sector had heaved a sigh of relief after the government in its press statement mentioned that the gyms can be opened next week if the Covid cases continued to decline. Even Congress leaders had assured us of the same. If the state government fails to issue orders regarding reopening, the gym owners will be forced to move on roads,” Gym Ekta Welfare Association president Monu Sabharwal.“There are over 800 gyms in the city and over 80% of them are being run on rental properties. The owners are struggling to pay fixed charges including power bills, salaries, etc. Many gyms are on the brink of closure,” he added.The gym owners are expecting the government to announce the final date for the reopening of gyms and issue SOPs soon. The owners, who have been staging protests seeking reopening of gyms in the state, stated that they were struggling to make ends meet as the gyms had remained shut for five months last year and for almost two months this year.Punjab Gym Welfare Association president Navneet Singh said, “We have already started preparing for reopening and getting the staff vaccinated. We will take up the matter with the DC as the government had announced that the gyms can open from next week. We expect that SOPs for opening the gyms will be issued by the end of this week.”Meanwhile, DC Sharma said,” The orders issued by the state government are clear and no date has yet been announced for the opening of gyms in the state. The gyms will remain closed until the state government issues orders regarding reopening.”Punjab Youth Development Board chairman Sukhwinder Bindra who had, on Tuesday, assured the gym owners that gyms will be allowed to open from next week, said that the government will be working on the SOPs, following which it might issue separate orders regarding the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lack-of-clarity-around-reopening-leaves-ludhiana-gym-owners-in-the-lurch-101623268211375.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to release 7,621 tubewell connections to farmers by July 15||The Haryana government has set a target to release 7,621 tubewell connections to farmers by July 15, state power minister Ranjit Singh said on Wednesday.As many as 9,401 connections have been released so far. “Those who had applied before January 1, 2019, are getting connections in a phased manner. As many as 17,022 connections will be released in the first phase,” the minister said in a statement. Around, 40,000 applicants will be covered under the second phase. The tubewell connections will be provided to farmers by June 30, 2022. Around 39,571 applicants have been asked to have estimates prepared and deposit the fee, of which 19,672 farmers have already made the payment.Singh said, “Micro irrigation will be encouraged in the areas where the water table is below 100 feet. A subsidy of up to 80% will be provided to farmers from the scheduled caste category and 60% to those belonging to the general category for setting up drip irrigation systems.”“The government will provide tubewell connections to the farmers in areas where the groundwater level is less than 100 feet and drip irrigation system will be implemented in areas with a deeper water table,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-release-7-621-tubewell-connections-to-farmers-by-july-15-101623268210294.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Relaxation in curbs raises hopes of Punjab sportspersons eager to be back on grounds||After Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh allowed the training for national and international sports events and directed the department of sports and youth affairs to issue necessary instructions and guidelines, players are hopeful that they will be allowed to practise in the stadiums, grounds, sports academies and under the supervision of their coaches. Sportspersons have been contacting their coaches to know the timings and guidelines they have to follow while visiting the Guru Nanak Stadium and other academies as since February, they have been practising at home due to surge in Covid cases. Players are also enquiring about the hostel facilities as many of them hail from different districts. Coaches said that they have been providing online coaching to the players so that they can continue with their practice at home, but most of them are keen to come to stadiums to join their team members. Gini, an 18-year-old Judoka, who had bagged a gold medal in the National School Games, said, “I am excited to go back to stadium for practice as online classes are not proving very beneficial. In judo, we have to follow techniques, speed and require another person for training. At home, it is difficult to concentrate. I am playing in the 63kg category and have to maintain weight, otherwise I will not be allowed to participate. I gained 5kg than the actual weight required and was not able to maintain the ideal weight.” A native of Faridkot, she said, “I have been playing judo since 2014 and miss other players while practising at home.” Sarajot Singh,18, a hockey player, said, “For the last three months, I have been out of regular practice and miss my fellow team members. Staying at home since March has affected my health and performance. As the Covid cases are on a decline, the government must allow all sportspersons to practise in stadiums and reopen academies.” Guidelines to be issued next weekPunjab sports department deputy director Kartar Singh said, “Proper guidelines will be issued keeping in mind the health advisory and after receiving the orders in writing, the district sports department will be able to allow players to practise in the stadiums. The instructions will be issued by next week and players can then be trained for the national and international-level competitions.” District sports officer Ravinder Singh said, “We are waiting for the orders from the sports department after which we will allow players to practise here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/relaxation-in-curbs-raises-hopes-of-punjab-sportspersons-eager-to-be-back-on-grounds-101623268150760.html
10-06-2021||Other||Govt primary school heads, staff appreciated for increased enrolment||The centre heads, school heads, and staff of 42 government primary schools (GPSs) in the district were in for a pleasant surprise on Wednesday when they received appreciation letters via WhatsApp from state education secretary Krishan Kumar for increasing enrolments by 20% in their schools during the academic session 2021-2022.The letters sent on WhatsApp groups, state that the efforts made by the school heads and staff are commendable.“The department acknowledges and appreciates the extraordinary efforts put in for enhancing the enrolment. As a result of their efforts, the department has been able to enhance the enrolment for session 2021-22 in the campaign: Each one brings one,” reads the letter.According to the school heads, the acknowledgment of the work put in by them will encourage them to do better.A total of 132 school heads and staff of schools across Punjab have been appreciated.Kanwaljit Kaur, who heads Government Primary School, Gobind Nagar, and is one of the recipients of the letter, said, “We had a strength of over 390 students last year and now we have 473 students enrolled with us. More students have been enrolled in the pre-primary class this year. All the staff members made extra efforts to enhance the enrolment. The letter has boosted our morale.”Kuldeep Singh, deputy district education officer, elementary, said, “Appreciation letters given to the centre heads, school heads, and staff will further motivate them to pour in more efforts in their educational services. We are also appreciating one school a day for increasing enrolment. The online classes through television and slides sent to students daily have attracted many parents to get their children enrolled in government schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-primary-school-heads-staff-appreciated-for-increased-enrolment-101623268150201.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers begin paddy transplantation ahead of schedule, notices served||Defying government orders prohibiting transplantation of paddy before June 15, many farmers in northern districts of the state have already started sowing seedlings of the water guzzling crop. Authorities say defaulting farmers are being served notices and fined ₹4,000 per acre. However, no checks were seen on ground level as transplantation is in full swing in the several villages in vegetable growing belts, which include Indri and Gharaunda block of Karnal district, Babain, Ladwa and Shahbad block of Kurukshetra district and Radaur block of Yamunanagar district. Officials in Karnal say notices have been served to around 50 farmers, especially in Darar, Ramba, Kheri Mann Singh, Kharajpur, Nalvi Khurd, Samora, Bazidpur, Nasirpur, and Nalvi Kalan villages, which are also notorious for burning crop residue. In Kurukshetra and Kaithal districts, the agriculture department has issued notices to only two farmers each for violation of the Soil Water Conservation Act, 2009.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav has said strict action will be taken against defaulting farmers and their crop will be destroyed, but no action has been taken so far.Farmers say they cannot wait till June 15 to transplant the paddy as their nurseries are already ready and last week’s rainfall had helped them start transplantation. “We have to plant early varieties that will be harvested in the first week of September, after which we will be able to grow vegetables and get good prices for them,” said a young farmer from Ramba village of Karnal, who has already transplanted 5 acres of the PUSA 1509 variety. Farmers taking advantage of farm agitation: Officials Officials say, this year, farmers are taking advantage of the ongoing agitation against the contentious agricultural laws and had the backing of farmer unions. With the area under paddy cultivation increasing,the state government is making efforts dwindle down cultivation as it is the primary reason for depletion of the water table. A senior official from the state agriculture department, pleading anonymity, said the incentive scheme for diversification launched last year did not evoke a good response from farmers. Data from the state agriculture department says area under paddy cultivation in the state in 2020 had been 15.27 lakh hectares against 15.59 lakh hectares in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-farmers-begin-paddy-transplantation-ahead-of-schedule-notices-served-101623267910723.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ahead of Kharge panel report, five more party MPs rally behind Capt||As the three-member panel under leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge on factionalism in the Punjab Congress held a meeting in Delhi to finalise its report, five party MPs met chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday to express their support. The five Lok Sabha MPs, including Capt’s wife Preneet Kaur, Jasbir Singh Gill, Santokh Choudhary, Dr Amar Singh and Mohammad Sadiqe, who called on the chief minister at his residence, discussed with him the strategy for the assembly polls due early next year. They reposed faith in Amarinder’s leadership and ability to successfully lead the party, citing his governance record and administrative as the party’s key strengths. On Monday, three other MPs – Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Manish Tewari and Ravneet Singh Bittu – had met the CM. These meetings, which saw all eight Lok Sabha members of the Congress meet him, are being seen in party circles as a “show of support and accessibility” even as the party high command is trying to find a way to suitably adjust Sidhu without rocking the CM’s boat. The appointment of two deputy chief ministers, including Sidhu and another from the Dalit community, besides rejig of the state unit, is a strong option being considered, a senior party leader familiar with the developments said. However, the biggest challenge for the Congress will be to get both Capt and Sidhu to agree to this. The CM has already on various occasions voiced his opposition to having the Amritsar East MLA back in his team as the deputy chief minister or the state unit chief. On the other hand, Sidhu is now more interested in the state chief’s post, which will allow him a say in ticket distribution for the state polls. “Sidhu is not likely to agree to anything less than the state unit chief’s position. As for the deputy CM’s post, there is hardly any time left for the government,” according to sources close to the former minister. Meanwhile, the Kharge committee, which has been tasked with finding a solution to this squabbling, is learnt to be in touch with the party leadership. “We will have another sitting tomorrow,” committee member and former Delhi Congress president Jai Prakash Agarwal said after the meeting. Kharge also told a news agency that the panel will submit the report within 3-4 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ahead-of-kharge-panel-report-five-more-party-mps-rally-behind-capt-101623267070253.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||2 killed, 15 injured as bus ferrying migrant workers overturns near Jind||Two migrant labourers were killed and 15 others were injured when the private bus they were travelling in overturned near Belarkha village in Jind on Wednesday. The passengers had been travelling to Barnala district of Punjab from Bihar. The deceased were identified as Ganeshi Singh, 56 and Suresh of Bihar. Nine of the injured people were rushed to Jind’s civil hospital and Rohtak’s Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), where they are undergoing treatment, while the rest were given first-aid treatment.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sadhu Ram said the bus had been ferrying 74 migrant workers who were going to work in paddy fields. “When the bus reached Belarkha village, the driver lost control over the vehicle causing the bus to overturn and ram into a tree. A case has been registered under the driver for rash driving and causing death due to negligence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-killed-15-injured-as-bus-ferrying-migrant-workers-overturns-near-jind-101623267010656.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Yamunanagar motorists despair over hour-long delays at railway crossing||Commuters taking national highway 65 often lose hours in chaotic traffic jams at the Indira Market railway crossing, next to Saraswati Sugar Mills, in Yamunanagar, particularly during the morning and evening rush hours. Cars, two-wheelers and three-wheelers can be seen squeezed between trucks and tractor trollies bound for the plywood factories across the crossing. Traffic bound for the market and stand-alone shops and eateries along the highway compound irate motorists’ troubles. Kapil, who works at one of the eateries dotting the highway, says, “Traffic snarls are caused when vehicles from three to four queues on the already congested highway. Customers do not find any suitable parking space because of trucks lined up at the sugar mills, which has further dried down sales that are negligible to begin with due to the pandemic. They cannot wait for takeaways in the morning rush.”“While few passenger trains cross the Ambala-Haridwar line, many good trains take the route leading to traffic jams through most of the day,” a railway employee attached with Yamunanagar railway station said.Overbridge closed till June 15Come Thursday, a major railway overbridge connecting Vishkarma Chowk on NH-65 to Kamani Chowk on Workshop Road will remain closed till June 15. Officials said the flyover will remain closed due to construction-related work on a dedicated freight corridor along the rail line.While the traffic police have created diversions to ease vehicles’ movement, the closure is expected to add to the mayhem at the market.Deputy commissioner Girish Arora could not be reached for a comment. However, MLA Ghanshyamdas Arora said another overbridge had been proposed at the site to ease the congestion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yamunanagar-motorists-despair-over-hour-long-delays-at-railway-crossing-101623266770065.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Hold unconditional talks with farmers: Sukhbir to Tomar||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday urged Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to hold unconditional talks with the agitating farmers instead of outrightly rejecting their demands. Calling upon the NDA government to be sensitive to the anguish of farmers, who were agitating against the three farm laws for more than six months, the SAD chief said: “It is shocking that the NDA government is telling farmers that there is no space for discussion in a democracy.” “The government has done everything within its power to suppress the peaceful and democratic movement and continues to attempt to dislodge farmers from the Singhu and Tikri protest sites,” said Sukhbir, asserting that the farmers want repeal of the three black laws. However, Tomar on Wednesday said the government was ready to resume talks with farmers but asked the unions to point out their objections to the provisions of the three farm laws with sound logic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hold-unconditional-talks-with-farmers-sukhbir-to-tomar-101623266590006.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Barnala farmers show the way, go for direct seeding of paddy||Moving away from the traditional practice, farmers in Barnala district are going for direct seeding of rice (DSR) this khairf season.In the DSR method, seeds are sown in the field rather than by transplanting seedlings from the nursery, thus saving water and labour. Gurpreet Singh, a farmer from Tajoke village in Barnala, has opted for this alternative method on 36 acres of land. Gurpreet owns 30 acres and took another six acres on lease. Earlier, he used to cultivate paddy with traditional methods. “The direct sowing of paddy saves money on labour and water,” he said.Officials said paddy on around 500 acres of land in the village is being sown using the DSR method. Another farmer Buta Singh from the same village has adopted the DSR method on 15 acres of his 26 acres land. Last year, he had used the technique on 10 acres.Barnala chief agriculture officer Charanjit Singh Kainth said that village-level camps and “nukkad” meetings were held to promote DSR technique for paddy sowing. As of now, 19 special camps have been held to promote the technique and the department was conducting special field visits to sensitise farmers.Kainth said 1.13 lakh hectare is under paddy cultivation in the district of which 25,000 to 30,000 acres is expected to be under the DSR, which is 20% more than the last year.He said that around 150 DSR machines were being put to use in the district for direct sowing of paddy. Last year, a subsidy of ₹15 core was given on these machines. This year, farmers have applied online to get the subsidy, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/barnala-farmers-show-the-way-go-for-direct-seeding-of-paddy-101623265990180.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra makes its own draft law to protect farmers||The Maharashtra government has prepared a draft legislation intended to safeguard the interest of farmers concerned over the contentious laws brought in by the Centre and is looking to pass it in the upcoming monsoon session of the state legislature.The state is considering bringing in some vital provisions in the draft law by proposing amendments to the Central acts. Agriculture comes under concurrent list and the states can suggest changes to the Central legislations as per the Constitutional provisions, which, however, has to be approved by the President, it is said.The draft was discussed with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, also former Union agriculture minister, and will now be placed before the cabinet sub-committee headed by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar for approval. It will also be placed before cabinet for final approval before tabling in the state legislature. The ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, a coalition of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, have opposed the provisions of Central government’s farm laws.State revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat said they will make it mandatory for traders to take licence if they intend to buy agricultural produce outside Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC). They will also be bringing a system for grievance redressal of farmers in case of disputes. “The laws passed by the central government have flaws which we feel are not in the interest of the farmers. We want certain changes to be made in the legislations which were discussed in today’s meeting with the NCP chief,” Thorat said, after meeting with Pawar at his residence, along with cooperation minister Balasaheb Patil, agriculture minister Dadasaheb Bhuse and minister of state Vishwajeet Kadam on Wednesday afternoon. “For instance, a trader is allowed to buy agricultural produce on the basis of a PAN card, but what will happen in case of cheating. We have considered all these aspects while drafting our law. We will also be inserting a provision mandating licence for traders to ensure accountability,” he added.The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act passed by the Centre allows a person to trade without any registration or licence outside APMC market. It is against the existing APMC law of the state that provides a security to farmers that if a buyer didn’t pay remuneration against the produce then it can be recovered from the trader concerned.Similarly, in the ‘Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation’, there is no security provided to the agrarian community, in case of a dispute. They can approach a sub-divisional magistrate, who is already overburdened with work in the existing system and has also no jurisdiction in these matters. “The state in its draft has proposed an alternative mechanism and sought authority to formulate rules for the same,” said a minister, wishing not to be named.Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh governments have passed their own laws against the Central laws. Farmers are concerned the Central laws would deprive them of minimum support price (MSP) and thus are holding protests for over a year.The draft legislation of the state may remain silent on Minimum Support Price (MSP) as consensus over its impact is yet to be made, the minister said. To look into concerns and questions raised by various farmer groups against three farm legislations, the state had last year formed a 10-member cabinet sub-committee. Many political parties and farmers’ organisations in the state have opposed implementation of central laws. It has also asked the officials from various departments to study the laws passed by the Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. “The draft was prepared based on the study report submitted by the officials,” said the cooperation minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-makes-its-own-draft-law-to-protect-farmers-101623265929464.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP ex-minister backs Joshi on farmers’ issues||BJP leader and former Punjab minister Master Mohan Lal on Wednesday backed ex-minister Anil Joshi in expressing dissent over farmers’ issues.Joshi had criticised Centre for not entertaining demands of farmers over agri laws.Talking to the media, he said: “If Joshi has come in support of farmers, he did nothing wrong. He told the party that farmers must be listened to. He did not say that he opposed the BJP or Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” He said the state leaders should have guided the Centre for taking the farmers’ demand seriously. “Had the state BJP leadership been wise and visionary, it would have taken the farmers’ agitation seriously. The state leadership has failed to brief the Centre on farmers’ issues in a right way,” he said. He added: “I have asked the state leadership as well as the central leaders to correct course of action. It constituted a committee led by Surjit Kumar Jyani. However, this committee also praised the government. As a result, the party lost its base in Punjab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bjp-ex-minister-backs-joshi-on-farmers-issues-101623265870726.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||IIT-B professor elected to European Molecular Biology Organisation||Roop Mallik, a professor in the department of biosciences and bioengineering at the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay (IIT Bombay), has been elected as an associate member of the European Molecular Biology Organisation (EMBO). He is the fifth Indian scientist and only one from IIT Bombay to join the life scientists’ community. This year, he is the only Indian among nine associate members elected to EMBO. “It is a recognition for the hard work and talent of my students and collaborators. I am happy that they chose to work with me. Together, we have always believed that we can do as well as our peers across the world,” said Mallik, who is also a senior fellow of the India Alliance, funded by the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India and the Wellcome Trust, United Kingdom.EMBO is an organisation of over 1,800 leading researchers in fields of life sciences in Europe and beyond. The organisation is aimed at supporting talented researchers at all stages of their careers, stimulate the exchange of scientific information, and help build a research environment where scientists can achieve their best work.“It (the membership to EMBO) will give us visibility and connect us better to scientists working outside India. This is very important for the advancement of science in our country and across boundaries,” Mallik added.This year, EMBO has added 64 life scientists to its growing list of members. In a statement, EMBO said that the 64 newly-elected members reside in 21 countries: 55 new EMBO Members reside in member states of the EMBC, the intergovernmental organisation that funds the major EMBO programmes and activities. Nine new EMBO Associate Members reside in Argentina, Australia, India, Japan, and the USA. 26 of the new EMBO Members (41%) are women.“I am delighted to welcome the new members into our organisation and look forward to working with them. An election to the EMBO Membership recognises outstanding achievements in the life sciences. The new members will provide expertise and guidance that will help EMBO to further strengthen its initiatives,” said Maria Leptin, director, EMBO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitb-professor-elected-to-european-molecular-biology-organisation-101623265869387.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Don’t implement Tenancy Act: Sena leaders tell CM Thackeray||Shiv Sena leaders on Wednesday urged chief minister Uddhav Thackeray not to implement the Centre’s Model Tenancy Act in the state. Sena functionaries Anil Desai, Arvind Sawant, Anil Parab, Sunil Prabhu and three others wrote to the CM, saying the rent control is the prerogative of the state government and that the Act passed by the Centre is not beneficial for tenants.The tenancy Act has always been a controversial issue in Mumbai as about 600,000 tenants living in old dilapidated buildings and chawls have been resisting any changes to the existing Rent Control Act. Their contention is any change will result in massive hike in rentals and make their eviction from the premises easier. The state is at liberty to not adopt or partially adopt the Act, which was passed by the Centre last week.The letter signed by party secretary and five vibhag pramukhs (divisional heads) of Mumbai stated there is no need for a new law for Mumbai and that the Bombay Rent Act and Maharashtra Rent Control Act are enough. It also said that the new law does not provide any “protection” to the tenants.According to the Model Tenant Act, after its enactment, all the existing Rent Control Acts will be deemed repealed, in short, if the law is passed, more than 2.5 million people will become homeless, the letter stated.A large chunk of these buildings and chawls that could get affected with the new law are in central and south Mumbai. With the civic election coming up in February 2022, the Shiv Sena has taken a pro-tenant stance. “In Mumbai and other cities in Maharashtra, many houses are vacant and so there is no point in introducing a new rent control law. There is no need for a new fare control law for Mumbai. The Bombay Rent Act and the Maharashtra Rent Control Act are competent and adequate for this. In any law made for tenants, they would be protected because the landlord has unlimited control over his land and is ready to grab the land by expelling the tenant. Therefore, the Rent Act should be a tenant’s charge. In contrast, the Centre’s law is the opposite,” the letter stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dont-implement-tenancy-act-sena-leaders-tell-cm-101623265809426.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||22 yrs on, NCP all set for challenges||The Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which has been a significant force in Maharashtra politics, except for the five years of the Devendra Fadnavis-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule, completes 22 years of its formation on Thursday. Among the many challenges ahead for the party, the most important one is leadership – the party still remains dependent on Pawar’s appeal though there seems to be internal struggle over leadership. While Pawar’s nephew and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar is making it clear that he would prefer to be clear number two in the party, two other power centres are making their presence felt – Pawar’s daughter and MP Supriya Sule as well as party’s state president Jayant Patil. Ajit suffered a setback after he tried to split the party and form a government with the BJP, just when senior Pawar was busy stitching together a three-party alliance with Shiv Sena and Congress after the 2019 Assembly elections. Ajit failed and had to return to the party. However, he managed to get the position of deputy chief minister and is leading the party in the Uddhav Thackeray government. Although there are three other party heavyweights in the government, Jayant Patil, home minister Dilip Walse-Patil and food and civil supplies minister Chhagan Bhujbal, Ajit is seen as NCP’s undisputed leader in Thackeray’s cabinet. But that is not the case when it comes to taking decisions regarding political issues. Senior Pawar is also making it clear that Sule and Jayant Patil have weightage in party matters, besides the NCP supremo’s close confidant Praful Patel. The rise of Sule is a clear indication that the NCP chief has been grooming his daughter for bigger responsibilities. She is increasingly getting involved in key decisions of the party. She is also accessible to party leaders and workers as the party chief is now unable to meet everybody due to his health condition. “We all used to believe that Ajit dada is the natural heir of Pawar sahib, but now things are changing slowly. Supriya tai is more accessible. She makes a point to meet at least 25 to 100 workers and leaders every day, which gives them a sense of belonging. Not only this, she takes people to the ministers and ensures their problems are resolved. Ajitdada now has limitations in meeting partymen, as he is busy with responsibilities in the government,” said a senior NCP leader, requesting anonymity. Besides Sule, Jayant Patil is even positioning himself as one of the candidates for the chief ministerial position. Many in party think he won’t feel emboldened to make such remarks unless he has the support of senior Pawar. The NCP’s performance in 2019 was noteworthy considering the mass exodus of senior leaders and its struggle to boost morale of the party workers. It lost many of its prominent faces who were also considered as Pawar’s loyalists, apart from eight of its sitting MLAs and a sitting Member of Parliament Udayanraje Bhonsle. But the party managed to get 56 MLAs, 13 more than what it could secure during the Modi wave of 2014. In the 2009 assembly elections, it had won 62 seats. Political analyst Pratap Asbe said the party will have to create ideology-based cadre to prevent a 2019-like situation. “The party cadre will not move if he or she is ideologically committed. This will keep the organisation united and help in moving forward. For this, the leadership is required to hold training and programs of its cadre,” Asbe said. Another political analyst Prakash Bal said the primary challenge of the party is to maintain its regional presence and upcoming local bodies elections would be crucial. “The NCP is a regional party just like the Shiv Sena. In the long term, it has to maintain its regional presence and hence it will be trying to consolidate its position in south and western Maharashtra. Encroaching voters from Konkan and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) would be a challenge for the party. BMC elections, crucial for all political parties, are due next year, but the NCP’s presence in the city is nowhere to be seen. The party is expected to perform better, especially when it is in the government,” said Bal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/22-yrs-on-ncp-all-set-for-challenges-101623265749401.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Two cops enjoyed service benefits for 8 years without doing the duty; dismissed||Two police constables have been dismissed from service after departmental enquiries revealed that they were absent absented from duty for eight years, but continued to enjoy the service benefits.The two did not turn up even during departmental enquiry to justify their prolonged absence, following which they were sacked from the police force.Rajeev Jain, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, has issued orders, dismissing police constables Ramlal Manjule and Samad Shaikh, both of whom were last attached to the Malabar Hill police station, under Rule 3 of Mumbai Police (Punishment and Appeals) Rules, 1956.Manjule was transferred to Malabar Hill police station from Tardeo local arms division in June 2012, but despite being relieved from the previous post, he never reported to the police station. Several reminders and notices were sent to him to join duty at the police station, but in vain, police officials said.Before taking the final decision a show-cause notice was sent to Manjule, but he did not respond to it.Similarly, Shaikh too remained absent for over eight years and did not report on duty at the Malabar Hill police station. When a final show-cause notice was slapped to him in March this year, he responded to the notice and gave explanation for remaining absent. But the reasons furnished by him in his defence were found not satisfactory and hence procedure for his dismissal was initiated, another officer said.Both the policemen continued to avail of various benefits of a government employment all these years, a police source said.The zonal DCP observed that both the police constables have violated the rules under Maharashtra Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1979.“Their irresponsible approach for duty, indiscipline and misconduct makes them liable to face any punishment under Mumbai Police (Punishment and Appeals) Rules, 1956. Hence they have been dismissed from the service recently,” said an officer from Zone 2 police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-cops-enjoyed-service-benefits-for-8-years-without-doing-the-duty-dismissed-101623265690489.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers advised to install pheromone traps in cotton fields to check pink bollworm pest||BATHINDAAlarmed over last year’s pink bollworm outbreak in the cotton crop in Bathinda, the Punjab agriculture department has started a state-wide programme asking farmers to use a low-cost pheromone traps in fields to contain infestation of the deadly pest. A pheromone trap uses chemicals secreted by insects to lure pests. One hectare area needs a trap that costs about ₹60-80. The pest attack in Bathinda district’s Jodhpur Romana village in August last year had left the cotton growers and farm experts worried. Cotton is sown over 3.3 lakh hectares in Punjab.Principal entomologist of the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) Vijay Kumar said the first case of the pest attack among the cotton growing states in north India was noticed in Haryana’s Jind district in 2017.“Bollgard 2, or BG-2, Monsanto’s second-generation insecticidal technology for cotton, was considered to protect crops against the pink bollworm. It cannot be ruled out that the pest has now grown resistant to the toxins produced by this trait. It is a deadly pest that appears when the cotton plant is in the flowering stage after 65-70 days of sowing,” Kumar said. State agriculture director Sukhdev Singh Sidhu said the department is taking measures to check any incident of pink bollworm infestation. “We have advised farmers to install pheromone trap in fields. A capsule lures male pests in the traps. Regular monitoring indicates pest population in the fields through the trapped pests,” said Sidhu.He said studies from last year’s infestation in Bathinda concluded that pest larvae reached the state with cottonseed consignments from south-west states, including Maharashtra and Karnataka.“Oil mills and cotton ginning units across the state are being asked to follow a protocol to ensure the pest do not entre fields from where it could potentially harm the cotton crop. They have been instructed to sanitise the factories and remove cotton crop residue to contain the situation,” he said.Paramjit Singh, director, PAU regional research station, Bathinda, said it is a challenging task to detect pink bollworm in time and control it through pesticide spraying as it stays inside a cotton boll.“Cotton bolls look normal from outside. But each infected boll has a pink bollworm inside. The worm eats cotton seeds and prevents the development of cotton staple fibre around it well before the boll opens,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-advised-to-install-pheromone-traps-in-cotton-fields-to-check-pink-bollworm-pest-101623265689995.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Centre’s order to cap vaccine price too late, says Balbir Sidhu||Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said that central government’s order of capping of Covid vaccines prices for private hospitals is too late. Reacting to the latest decision of the central government to cap the vaccines prices, Sidhu said this decision was taken at a much later stage when private hospitals had already made huge profits, while the BJP leaders raised the false allegations that Punjab government is making profit by supplying the vaccines to private facilities. The state government is under fire for selling vaccines at a premium to private hospitals. The minister also asked the Centre for administering free vaccines to all. “Keeping in view of administering free vaccine to all, the Centre should abolish 25% quota allocated to private players,” he said. He also urged to the Union government to refund all payments made by state governments for Covid vaccines under new policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/centres-order-to-cap-vaccine-price-too-late-says-balbir-sidhu-101623265569904.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 66 deaths, 1,407 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Wednesday reported 66 more coronavirus deaths as 1,407 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection count to 5,83,474, according to a medical bulletin. So far, the infection has claimed 15,293 lives in the state. Nine deaths were reported from Amritsar, eight from Ludhiana and six each from Jalandhar and Patiala, the bulletin said. Jalandhar reported 142 infections, followed by 117 in Bathinda, 104 in Amritsar and 96 in Hoshiarpur. The number of active cases dropped to 17,344 from 18,546 on Tuesday. The state’s positivity rate stands at 2.29%. With 2,521 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,50,837, as per the bulletin.There are 240 patients on ventilator and 3,024 on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 98,23,991 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-66-deaths-1-407-fresh-covid-cases-101623265389962.html
10-06-2021||Other||Madras HC refuses to extend stay on arrest of ex-AIADMK minister||Chennai: The Madras High Court on Wednesday reserved its orders after refusing to grant further interim relief to former AIADMK minister M Manikandan in his anticipatory bail petition. The minister had moved the bail plea in a case booked against him by an actor, who is a Malaysian national, for cheating her on the pretext of marriage.Justice Abdul Qudhose passed the directions after the prosecution submitted that interrogation of the former minister of Information and Technology (2016-2019) is required. Since he had held an important position, there is every possibility of him tampering with the evidence in the case, the prosecution added.Earlier, Justice R Subramanian had ordered the police to not arrest the former minister till June 9. During the hearing on Wednesday, the counsel for the minister, John Sathyan argued that there is no iota of truth in the allegations levelled against the minister and the entire complaint and the accompanying documents are concocted after several attempts for compromise with extortionist demands were not accepted by the minister. The change in government was also noted.The counsel for the minister also added that the offence under section 313 (causing miscarriage without woman’s consent) of the Indian Penal Code made by the actor is done with a malafide intention since she voluntarily caused abortion and there is no material whatsoever to show that it was done on the inducement of the minister. However, the counsel V Raghavachari, appearing for the actor, submitted that the consent given for sex on the promise of marriage by the minister to the actor cannot be considered as consent if the promise is not honoured. In her complaint, the actor had charged that Manikandan had lured her into a relationship for five years on the pretext of marriage but had forced her to abort, and had issued death threats to her. The single-member bench directed both the counsels to file their written submissions on the plea and reserved its orders without extending interim relief to the former minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/madras-hc-refuses-to-extend-stay-on-arrest-of-ex-aiadmk-minister-101623265269370.html
10-06-2021||Other||Madras HC orders probe into encroachment of forest land in Nilgris||Chennai: The Madras high court on Wednesday came down heavily against encroachments of forest land stating that “It is imperative that not an inch of forest land be allowed to be encroached upon in the state without a policy decision in such regard being made upon due justification.” The first bench comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed concerned officials to visit a spot in Nilgiris from where the complaint arose and asked officials to reverse the encroachment. The bench also called for action against negligent officers for not protecting forest land. The case pertains to a plea filed by a petitioner, S Prabakaran against an individual from Chennai for purportedly encroaching on forest land to set up a resort in Naduvattam village of Tamil Nadu’s Nilgiris district. The petitioner informed the court that despite the district forest officer bringing the matter to the notice of the Additional Principal Conservator of Forest, no action has been taken and construction has commenced. The petitioner also said that the respondent has laid pipelines that extract water out of forest land. “If such is the case, the same must be stopped immediately and the negligent or recalcitrant forest officials identified and steps are taken against them for not being able to protect the relevant forest,” the court said. “The District Collector, Nilgiris, and the Chief Forest official exercising jurisdiction over the area should immediately visit the spot and conduct surveys, if necessary, and ensure that the last inch of forest land that might have been encroached upon is returned to its pristine status.” The court has directed the concerned forest official to file a report when the matter appears next in three weeks on June 30. The court asked for the petition to be forwarded to the office of the Advocate-General for the state, R Shunmugasundaram “to treat the matter with the degree of seriousness it deserves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/madras-hc-orders-probe-into-encroachment-of-forest-land-in-nilgris-101623265209399.html
10-06-2021||Other||UPRTOU to conduct offline exams for final year, semester students in August||: Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU) would conduct exams of its final year and final semester students of all courses in the first week of August, said varsity officials. The examination will be conducted under the Covid-19 protocol in which around 60,000 candidates from across the state will appear. The number of examination centers will be increased to ensure proper social distancing, said vice-chancellor Prof Seema Singh. “For the convenience of the students, all papers of a subject will be included in a single question paper. The questions will be multiple choice questions (MCQ) and for which OMR answer sheets will be provided to them,” she said.The VC said that students of degree and post graduate courses would get one-and-a-half-hours to answer the questions while the students of diploma and certificate courses would get one hour to do so.The VC said that besides the final year and final semester students, those students who were promoted last year in first year and first semester or intermediate semesters would also need to appear in the exams this time.Prof Singh said that the varsity would soon convene the meetings of its examination committee and finalise the examination schedule and other aspects related to the exams. The VC said that full transparency would be maintained in centre allocations across the state for these exams.She said that all students have been provided a final opportunity to complete and submit their assignments before the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uprtou-to-conduct-offline-exams-for-final-year-semester-students-in-august-101623265150717.html
10-06-2021||Other||Popularise schemes of Yogi govt, adopt health centers: Sunil Bansal||: Uttar Pradesh (UP) BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal on Wednesday said the party would contest the 2022 assembly elections on the basis of the achievements of its governments at the state and the Centre and asked the party cadres to take the various initiatives of the government to the people. He said this while addressing the meeting of office bearers of Kashi region, working committee members, district presidents and district in-charges in Varanasi. During the meeting, Bansal also took feedback from the BJP district unit heads regarding preparations for the election of zila panchayat adhyaksh (district panchayat chiefs) in July. “People are well aware of the works of the done by the Narendra Modi government. This has been possible due to the efforts of the organization and now we must ensure that works of Yogi Adityanath government too are well publicised among the masses,” he said. The BJP leader said that the party has taken responsibility of improving the health of over 1000 health centers in UP and said MPs, MLAs, heads of presidents of commissions and corporations and the party’s national, state and regional office bearers will adopt the community and primary health centers. “There is a plan to take cooperation from industrialists, businessmen and social organizations,” he said adding the CHC and PHC buildings will be painted and equipment and beds will also be increased. Bansal said that the party MPs and MLAs will take photographs of the CHCs and PHCs where the doctors and medical staff are posted. “Photograph of the adopted CHC or PHC is to be taken before adoption so that it can be assessed as to how it was before and how much it has improved after adoption,” Bansal said. BJP workers should help post covid patients Bansal said that party would make efforts to help those suffering from post- Covid complications through post Covid centers, medical help line, yoga camp and by appointing a dedicated team of doctors. “The BJP workers should visit the service providers, including vegetable vendors, fruit sellers, milk vendors, washer men, maids and servants and those working at the cremation ground and help in getting them vaccinated. Party workers should also help the needy at the vaccination centers,” Bansal said. He instructed the party workers to strengthen and empower social media team and said such teams should be formed at the district and divisional level for better publicity of achievements of the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/popularise-schemes-of-yogi-govt-adopt-health-centers-sunil-bansal-101623265029325.html
10-06-2021||Bangalore||K’taka HC allows police to release vehicles seized during curbs||Bengaluru: The Karnataka high court on Wednesday allowed the police department to release over 1.5 lakh vehicles seized for violation of Covid-19 restrictions imposed across the state. The court noted that since a large number of vehicles have been seized, it would be difficult for the police to find adequate space to park these vehicles. As per the data submitted to the HC, 1,37,503 two-wheelers, 7,432 four-wheelers and 7,123 other vehicles have been seized in the state so far. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj ordered that such vehicles can be released to their owners after verification of documents along with an undertaking and deposit of fines. The order was passed on an application filed by the state government seeking the release of such vehicles. The government, in its application, had sought authorisation for the jurisdictional police to release the seized vehicles as such a large number of vehicles could not be transported to the jurisdictional courts. In the normal course, the vehicles owners will have to file applications for the release of the vehicles before the jurisdictional magistrate or wait till the case is finally adjudicated. Observing that the jurisdictional magistrates would be overburdened if the owners apply separately for return of vehicles, the bench said: “In the event, the persons claiming to be the owners of the vehicles which have been seized for violation of various orders issued concerning Covid-19 make an application to the jurisdictional Police Officers to grant custody of the seized vehicles, after verification of the ownership of the applicants, it will be open for the jurisdictional Police Officers to give custody of the seized vehicles to the owners by exercising the powers under sub-section (3) of Section 102 of Cr.P.C.” In another order, on Tuesday , the HC has directed the state government to ensure all those domestic workers eligible to receive the ₹2,000 compensation must get the said benefit. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said: “The applicant’s counsel is prima facie right in submitting that it will be very difficult for domestic workers to get themselves registered on Seva Sindhu portal. In fact, the government order states that the benefit has been extended to workers from other states working in Karnataka,” the bench noted in its order. The bench asked the state how unorganised domestic workers would travel to Seva Sindhu Centres to claim ₹2000 compensation at a time when public transport remains suspended due to Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-hc-allows-police-to-release-vehicles-seized-during-curbs-101623264850928.html
10-06-2021||Chandigarh||How Jaipal Bhullar became Punjab’s most wanted gangster||Failing to make it big in the world of sport, Jaipal Bhullar — one of Punjab’s most wanted drug smuggler and gangster who was killed in an encounter in Kolkata on Wednesday — achieved notoriety in the world of crime.Son of a cop, Bhullar was on the run after gunning down two assistant sub-inspectors of Punjab Police in Ludhiana’s Jagraon town on May 15.Belonging to Ferozepur, Bhullar had a long association with Ludhiana. A national-level hammer thrower, his sporting career had picked up in 2003 when he joined Speed Fund Academy, a government-run training centre in Ludhiana. Also, it was here in July 2004 that he made his first foray into the world of crime by kidnapping a cinema hall owner’s seven-year-old son.With this his sporting career came to an end and his crime graph took a flight, as he came in contact with other gangsters in jail. First such associate was Rajiv Raja who was arrested in 2006 for killing three family members of a jeweller in Ludhiana. Later, out on bail, Bhullar met Shera, with whom he decided to form a gang. In January 2009, both helped Raja flee from police custody at the Barnala bus stand. Later, the gang carried a series of robberies, including at a gun house in Hoshiarpur, followed by more crimes in Mohali and Panchkula. They were also behind several carjackings on the highway.Arrested in Chandigarh, Bhullar came in contact with gangster Rocky of Fazilka and formed a new gang. With witnesses reluctant to speak up, the gangsters were acquitted in July 2010, and soon there was a rift between the duo. Rocky decided to enter politics and allegedly helped cops hunt down a number of gangsters, before he was finally killed by Bhullar at Parwanoo in Himachal Pradesh’s Solan district in 2015.Bhullar had also masterminded the ₹1.33-crore cash van robbery in Banur in 2017 besides executing robbery of 30kg gold at a Ludhiana firm in February 2020.Jaspreet Singh, 29, the other man gunned down by the West Bengal police special task force on Wednesday, was Bhullar’s close aide. A resident of Kharar in Mohali, he was involved in several crimes with the gangster, including kidnapping of a businessman in Zirakpur last year.He was also involved in killing the two ASIs in Jagraon, and was the one who started firing at them after alighting from the driver’s seat of the drug-laden vehicle. According to police, Jaspreet, alias Jassi, was facing over 15 criminal cases and had met Bhullar at Chandigarh Model Jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/how-jaipal-bhullar-became-punjab-s-most-wanted-gangster-101623264850420.html
10-06-2021||Bangalore||Curbs in K’taka to be lifted in 4 to 5 phases: Minister||Bengaluru: Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka on Wednesday made it clear that there will not be a complete lifting of lockdown post-July 14. He said that the restrictions in the state will be removed in four to five phases. He didn’t mention any timeframe for these phases but said a final decision will be taken in the next couple of days. Talking about the immediate relaxation in norms, he said that the window for purchasing essential services would be extended. Currently, people can shop for essentials between 6 am and 10 pm. “After June 14, the government is mulling of unlocking the state in five phases. In the first phase there is a plan of extending the time of buying essential things from the present 6 am to 10 am to 6 am to 12 noon,” he said. He further added that in the first phase, people will be allowed to visit parks. “Experts are of the opinion that people can be allowed to walk in the park. So, this activity may be allowed in the first phase of unlocking itself. The final decision will be taken by chief minister B S Yediyurappa in the meeting in which the deputy commissioners and district in-charge ministers will take part,” he said. The minister said that several meetings are underway to decide the details of the phase-wise unlock in the state. “Keeping the number of deaths and new cases in mind and aim at bringing down the Covid infections further, lockdown will not be relaxed at one go. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai, health minister K Sudhakar and I have held detailed discussions with the chief minister in this regard,” Ashoka said. The Karnataka government had initially announced 14 day close down from April 27 but subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24, as Covid cases continued to spike. Citing that the lockdown was yielding desired results and experts advice, it was further extended till June 7 and then again till June 14. Noting that the number of daily new cases in Bengaluru is still in the 2,000 range, Ashoka, who is also the vice-chairman of Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority said, the numbers have to come down further. “Bengaluru is currently reporting about 2,000 cases. If we want to have a normal life, the caseload must come down to 500 per day. We will also be analysing what will be the positivity rate once unlock process sets in,” he said. We will also have to keep in mind the rise in positive cases as we unlock, he added. Karnataka on Wednesday logged 10,595 new cases and 192 deaths while Bengaluru alone recorded 2,395 cases and 50 deaths. The current positivity rate in the state is 6.68%. The minister clarified that no new industries, other than those that are currently functioning, will be allowed to resume operations for the time being. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar said that lifting all restrictions at one go may trigger a surge in cases. The restrictions will be eased in a staggered manner and CM will take a final decision on the modalities of unlock, he said. “There is no confusion regarding lifting the restrictions. Other states like Maharashtra, have opened up only after reduction in cases. The advice of expert’s will be conveyed to CM and then he will take a final decision after discussion with senior ministers. As per experts’ opinion, if positivity rate is less than 5% and the cases are less than 5,000 restrictions can be lifted,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/curbs-in-k-taka-to-be-lifted-in-4-to-5-phases-minister-101623264789276.html
10-06-2021||Bangalore||Amid pandemic, K’taka raises power tariff, Oppn slams move||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Wednesday increased the electricity tariff by 30 paise per unit for the current financial year, resulting in an average increase of 3.84%. The decision has come under sharp criticism from all quarters, questioning the timing of the increase when the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown has affected livelihoods and all businesses alike. “The electricity supply companies (ESCOMs) had sought an average increase of 135 paise per unit accounting for 17.31% increase,” according to a statement by the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) on Wednesday. “The revised retail supply tariff includes the revised transmission tariff to be payable by ESCOMs to KPTCL for Financial Year 2021-22,” the statement added. The revised tariff will come into effect for electricity consumed from the first meter reading date falling on or after April 1, the government added. “ However, to soften the burden of increase in tariff on the consumers, during the prevailing lockdown in the state, the arrears towards revision of tariff for the month of April 2021 and May 2021 is ordered to be recovered during the month of October 2021 and November 2021 respectively, without charging any interest,” the KERC added. Karnataka is among the worst Covid-19 impacted regions in the country. The government said that the order was delayed due to by-elections as well as other polls for city municipal corporations and other urban local bodies earlier this year. The government added that it delayed its order dated April 4, 2020 in view of the adverse financial situation prevailing among all the sectors of economy due to the pandemic. The statement said that an approved discounted rate scheme, wherever there is power surplus, large industries, commercial will be at a discounted rate of ₹6 per unit. “To encourage consumption by lower and middle-class domestic consumers, the first slab of 0-30 units (lifeline consumption) has been increased to 0-50 units,” the government said. “The remaining increase (12.64 paise per unit) is towards overall increase in the operational costs of ESCOMs, which includes the approved revenue deficit as per annual performance review (APR) for FY20 and also the increase in the cost of power purchase due to procurement of energy from new thermal stations and from renewable energy sources to meet the demand,” the government added. It added that input costs towards operations, maintenance and borrowings for capital expenditure were also increasing each year. “Hence, in order to enable the ESCOMs to carry on their business of supplying the electricity, which is the basic need of the society, the increase in the tariff has become inevitable”, the government added . The government said that the total revenue gap assessed for financial year 2022 including the gap for FY 2020, regulatory assets created during the FY20 due to the reasons explained above, is Rs. 1,819.38 crores, which has to be recovered as revenue gap to be filled by tariff revision from 1st April 2021 to 31st March 2022. The fixed charges will also be raised by ₹15, the government added. “If they hike 35 paise, then it will add 9% tax. Already there is no business for two months (this year) and nearly six months were lost last year due to lockdowns. Our overheads will be more, there will be no financial liquidity and no orders. The government has to give discounts. No other state has increased power tariff at this time,” Perikal M Sundar, the president of the Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) told Hindustan Times. Most businesses are shut in Karnataka and other parts of the country where similar restrictions have been imposed to contain the pandemic. Sundar said that it was “unfortunate” that the state decided to increase tariffs despite industry bodies like the FKCCI making representations to the government, requesting not to announce any hikes. He said that the industry body strongly objects to the hike and that it will reach out to the chief minister and seek withdrawal of the new changes. Yediyurappa on 2 tranches, had announced ₹1,750 crore financial package to several sections of people hardest hit by the pandemic but barely provided any relief as select individuals who have lost months of livelihood were entitled to a one-time payment of ₹2000- ₹5000, HT reported. As part of the relief, Yediyurappa had announced concessions for MSME industries for paying fixed charges for the month of May/June and for other industries payment will be extended till 30.07.2021. The said relief would cost the state exchequer ₹120 crore, the chief minister said. “The decision of @CMofKarnataka to increase electricity tariff is disastrous for everyone. Common man to industries, all are suffering due to pandemic and the increase will kill everyone,” Siddaramaiah, former chief minister and Congress’ leader of the opposition tweeted. “K’taka has surplus power & yet @BJP4Karnataka continues to purchase power from Central grid, Adani & others at higher cost. Price for which our people have to pay. It’s unfortunate that K’taka CM @BSYBJP cannot keep his head high in front of @narendramodi &Adani,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/amid-pandemic-k-taka-raises-power-tariff-oppn-slams-move-101623264729311.html
10-06-2021||Other||Chorus grows louder for statehood to Jammu||Amid speculations that the Centre is about to make some major decisions on Jammu and Kashmir, Jammu-centric parties have again started raising the demand for separate statehood seeking “freedom from Kashmir’s hegemony”.In the past couple of days, more paramilitary troops have been rushed to Kashmir stoking rumours that the central government was planning something big for the UT.However, Kashmir inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar has claimed that the troops were returning from West Bengal where they had been deployed for election duty.“Conducting delimitation of constituencies on the basis of fudged Census 2011 is the surest way to once again sell out Jammu and keep it hostage to fundamentalist Kashmiri Islamic hegemony,” said Ankur Sharma, president of IkkJutt Jammu.He demanded full statehood for Jammu and bifurcation of Kashmir into two UTs, with one exclusively for the victims of genocide.Sharma said, “It is only because of the fudged Census 2011 that Kashmir’s population was falsely shown to have increased by 14,11,000 in 10 years from 2001 to 2011. While the fact is that in 2002, the number of voters in Jammu was more than Kashmir by 1.41 lakh.”“Similarly, the average population growth of Jammu province, which was 31% between 1971 to 2001, dropped to 21% in 2011, and due to migration within and outside the state on account of Hindu and Sikh genocide in Kashmir, the percentage growth in Kashmir’s population should have been lower but it grew by 26% post 1991,” he said. Sharma emphasised that delimitation at this stage and that too on the basis of an erroneous Census would consolidate subversives, Jihadists, Islamists and further perpetuate J&K as a non-secular, theocratic Muslim domain part from the rest of India.“The only way to take abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A to their logical conclusion is reorganising the state once again by dividing Kashmir into two UTs and granting full statehood to Jammu,” he said.“The fraud of Census 2011 was aimed to destroy Dogra Hindus politically, socially, culturally and economically and create the basic foothold for demographic Jihad in Jammu,” he claimed.Sharma urged the Prime Minister and Home minister to eschew the “sinister idea of conducting delimitation and immediately reorganize JK UT into 2 UTs and one state namely state of Jammu”. Former minister and chairman of Dogra Sadar Sabha Gurchain Singh Charak said, “The Centre bifurcated this vast princely state into two UTs in August 2019. Our forefathers from all religions had toiled hard to make it such a vast state. Subsequently, big parts of it were usurped by China and Pakistan and then the state was bifurcated into two UTs on the grounds of checking terrorism and ending discrimination with Jammu, which had been going on for the past 70 years.”“Despite downgrading the state into two UTs, we welcomed the move, but to our utter dismay, discrimination with Jammu region went up further. Then we asked that secretariats be set up in both the capitals. We also sought that delimitation of assemblies be conducted after Census 2021 because today half of Kashmir is sitting in Jammu. However, if the Centre gives statehood to Jammu, and Kashmir remains a UT under direct control of the Centre to combat terrorism and anti-national elements, then it will be a good step and we would welcome it,” said Charak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chorus-grows-louder-for-statehood-to-jammu-101623264489917.html
10-06-2021||Other||L-G unveils DRDO’s 500-bed Covid hospital in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir Lt governor Manoj Sinha on Wednesday inaugurated a 500-bed Covid hospital, established by Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), at Khonmoh here.After creating a makeshift hospital in Jammu, this is the second 500-bed hospital established by the DRDO in the union territory in the last 17 days.Housing all the requisite modern facilities, the centrally air-conditioned facility has the capacity for 375 beds with 24-hour oxygen connectivity and 125 ICU beds, out of which 25 are reserved for children. A 10-bed triage area has also been built in 100 square metres. The facility will fully start its operations once the trial-run is complete.Sinha expressed gratitude towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi for providing the necessary assistance and interventions in augmenting healthcare and medical facilities across J&K.The Covid care facility will fully start its operations once the trial run of all the medical facilities is completed.The L-G also lauded the DRDO for playing a key role in India’s fight against Covid-19. “I acknowledge the hard work of DRDO officials, who have completed both the hospitals in a short span of time, adding 1,000 additional beds to serve the people in Jammu and Kashmir,” he added.“J&K now has a greater capacity to treat Covid and other patients, all because of the dynamic impact assessment of various interventions and taking timely decisions to increase hospital capacity in response to the pandemic,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lg-unveils-drdo-s-500-bed-covid-hospital-in-srinagar-101623264434546.html
10-06-2021||Other||ED to take over financial probe of drug trafficking cases in Himachal||In the wake of increasing pharma-opioid smuggling from Himachal Pradesh, the police department has decided to the hand over the financial investigation of such cases to the enforcement directorate (ED).“Information on this subject is being shared with the ED to investigate cases under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) with the request to attach all properties acquired as a result of proceeds of pharma-opioid trafficking,” said a police spokesperson in a statement issued here on Wednesday.There are 139 factories having licences to manufacture pharma-opioids/ psychotropic substances, listed in the schedule of NDPS Act, in Himachal Pradesh. A few of them have been found misusing these licences and selling pharma products to illegal markets.Recently, on May 29/30, in a joint operation with the Punjab Police, the Himachal police seized over 30 lakh intoxicant tablets, including 12.45 lakh tramadol capsules, 7.72 lakh tramadol tablets, 9.99 lakh alprax (alprazolam) tablets worth ₹15 crore from Unique Formulations in Paonta Sahib, Sirmaur.Probe revealed that their marketing company, PB pharmaceuticals, New Delhi, was fake and non-existent. The Sirmaur police registered another case against Unique Formulations and recovered 745kg of tramadol raw material worth ₹3 crore. One of the accused, who is the main conspirator, has already been arrested and the case is under investigation.Similarly in 2019, Apple Field Pharma Company, Paonta Sahib, was shut down by the state narcotics cell for unaccounted stock of 47,000 tramadol tablets and 10,000 codeine-based cough syrups. This case stands chargesheeted and is now under trial.On May 31, 2021, another company Orison Pharma International in Kala Amb of Sirmaur district was found manufacturing tablets containing tramadol which it sold to a marketing company, PP Pharma, located in Ahmadabad, Gujarat. Investigation revealed that Orison Pharma did not have any agreement with the Gujarat firm. Police seized opioid raw material worth ₹3 crore from the firm.Large-scale operations to address pharma-opioid trafficking have been carried out during the last two months in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-to-take-over-financial-probe-of-drug-trafficking-cases-in-himachal-101623264433389.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s rain woes back on first day of monsoon||Flooded areas, disrupted train services, halted traffic and stranded citizens — nothing went off script in Mumbai’s monsoon story, right from day one, as heavy rain lashed the city and its suburbs on Wednesday, washing away the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) claims of having completed pre-monsoon work. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) declared the arrival of the south-west monsoon in Mumbai, two days prior to the official onset date, as between 8am and 5.30pm, the island city recorded 102mm rain, eastern suburbs received 169mm and western suburbs got 137mm. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal and mayor Kishori Pednekar blamed the excess rain within a short time for the city’s flooding woes. “No one claimed that there will be no waterlogging in Mumbai due to heavy rain, nor can anyone make such a claim. But after waterlogging, if the water does not recede within four hours, we can say that pre-monsoon work has not been done properly,” said Pednekar. Chahal said, “Between 9am and 10am, areas like Sion and Chunabhatti received 55-60 mm rain. Owing to this, rain water flooded railway tracks. Road and railway traffic is affected only at three spots, namely Dahisar subway, Sion and Chunabhatti.” The city’s flooding situation prompted chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to visit BMC’s disaster management control room to take stock of the situation. While the BMC blamed excess rain and high tide for the waterlogging, citizens pointed out the insufficient cleaning by authorities.Activists said rainwater accumulated across several areas in the morning did not drain out even by 4pm, despite the rain receding. According to the BMC, waterlogging was reported at 13 locations, including seven areas in the island city (Hindmata, Sion, Sion bridge, Kalachowkie, Matunga, Dadar TT and BPT Colony). Further, two locations in Kurla and Mankhurd were flooded, along with four spots in the western suburbs — Milan, Malad, Khar and Andheri subways. Rainwater started accumulating in several parts of the city as floodgates were closed in the morning, owing to a high tide of 4.13m around 11.43am, officials said. Post this, several areas like Andheri subway, Milan subway, Sion, Matunga, Dadar TT, Postal Colony in Chembur witnessed waterlogging. In a span of 12 hours, between 5am and 5pm on Wednesday, the city received 137mm of rain, western suburbs got 190mm and eastern suburbs recorded 214mm. Most of this rain was between 9am and 2pm.A BMC official said, “This heavy rain coincided with high tide at 11.45am, because of which many nullahs (stormwater drains) and rivers were not able to empty the water into the sea. In all, we had installed 189 dewatering pumps at 445 locations.”The IMD had on Tuesday issued a yellow warning for the city, but by afternoon it was upgraded to a red alert, warning of very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall. An orange alert has been issued by the IMD till Sunday.Also, on Wednesday, a total of 32 tree-fall incidents were reported in the city and suburbs, followed by six incidents of house and wall collapses, and 14 incidents of short circuits. No injuries were reportedOn the waterlogging situation, Chahal said, “At Andheri subway, the construction of Mogra pumping station is the only solution and in the coming years, problems for Andheri subway will get resolved. Further, at Hindmata and Gandhi Market, our work is going on, and starting next month, we will see a change. But this time, we installed ramps at Hindmata due to which there was no disruption in traffic.”Pednekar said, “On the accumulation of water on railway tracks, we have been continuously coordinating with railway authorities. We are in continuous touch with railway authorities to ensure culverts are cleaned.”Nikhil Desai, a resident of Matunga and a civic activist, said, “The BMC claims there was waterlogging due to high tide, but waterlogging started at 9am. Also, after both high tide and rain stopped, water did not drain out immediately. It was only at 7pm that the water drained out. This has exposed the preparations done by BMC for monsoon.”On the other hand, Gautam Rao, a resident of Santacruz, said, “They spent ₹120 crore to build a pumping station in 2019, but still we see flooding around the Gazdar scheme and now the water accumulates at SV Road and Linking Road. The waterlogging started since 9am after hardly an hour of rainfall. We are witnessing waterlogging every time there is rain. The entire problem starts with the flawed design of the newly built pumping station.”Meanwhile, according to BMC officials, traffic was diverted at 17 locations — near Mankhurd station, Sion road no: 24, Antop Hill, Gandhi Market, Hindmata, Air India colony, National College in Bandra, RCF colony, Andheri Market, Oshiwara, Dahisar check naka, Chunabhatti station, Siddharth Nagar, Goregaon, among other spots. Traffic from the above locations was diverted owing to waterlogging in roads connecting these junctions. Viraj Mamania, a Borivli resident, said, “I travel to Dadar daily for office work, but on Wednesday I could not get out of my house due to waterlogging. We had complained to the BMC, but no one attended to the complaint and it was only by evening, that the water drained out on its own.” Meanwhile, the central and harbour lines of the Central Railway (CR) were suspended for almost the entire day. Meanwhile, corporators across party lines slammed the BMC and the mayor. Ravi Raja, leader of Opposition in the BMC and Congress corporator, said, “The mayor herself has indicated that one cannot stop water logging in the city. So, I feel the administration should come out in the open and say that waterlogging cannot not happen. Like every year, it is clear now that all tall claims made by the BMC get washed off in the first spell of rain.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-rain-woes-back-on-first-day-of-monsoon-101623264431179.html
10-06-2021||Other||Dharamshala man shoots dead brother with father’s gun, held||A man shot dead his elder brother and severely injured his sister-in-law over a dispute in Ketlu village, about 15 km from Dharamshala, police said on Wedndesday.The crime took place on Tuesday night, said Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Vimukt Ranjan.The victim has been identified as 58-year-old Rumi Kumar. The accused, Pawan Kumar Chaudhary, 45, has been arrested for the murder.Rumi’s wife Pushpa Devi has been admitted to Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College and Hospital, Tanda, where her condition is stated to be stable.The SP said the two brothers would often quarrel over domestic issues. On Tuesday night, the accused visited his brother and the two engaged in an argument over their father’s gun. After a heated exchange, he returned to his house, but managed to steal the gun.Later in the night when his brother and sister-in-law were taking a walk outside their house, he opened fire at them, leaving both with grievous injuries. The couple was rushed to the Tanda hospital where Rumi was declared dead on arrival, but his wife survived.The SP added that investigation into the case was on and the accused was being questioned. He would be produced in a court on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dharamshala-man-shoots-dead-brother-with-father-s-gun-held-101623264429828.html
10-06-2021||Other||Reserving jobs for Ladakh residents a half-hearted effort, says CPI (M)’s Tarigami||CPI (M) leader Mohamad Yousuf Tarigami on Wednesday said that the latest decision to reserve jobs for residents of Ladakh region was another half-hearted attempt of the BJP government as it didn’t even bother to consult two functional hill development councils in the region.“CPI (M)’s stand on J&K Reorganisation Act-2019, by which the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was divided into two union territories of J&K and Ladakh, is that it was unconstitutional, arbitrary and against the interests of the people of the region,” said party leader and former legislator Tarigami.The party has already challenged the Act in the Supreme Court.“Article 35-A, which was scrapped by the BJP government along with Article 370 unconstitutionally, was there to protect the land and job rights of residents of all three regions of the erstwhile state. The decision harmed the interests of people of Kashmir, Jammu and Ladakh equally,” he said in a statement issued here.There is no clarity in the latest order issued by the Lt governor of Ladakh whether those applying for jobs will have to submit permanent residence certificates, as was the practice prior to 2019, or domicile certificates. Unlike Ladakh, the recruitment rules framed for J&K last year allowed all domiciles, even those who have been living in J&K for more than seven years or studying in the UT up to Class 12, to apply for jobs.Already a lot of corporate sector companies are working in Ladakh region and limited employment opportunities have been provided to the outsiders through them.“We once again reiterate that if the BJP government wants to correct its wrongs, it should restore the pre-August 2019 position of J&K. Taking half-hearted measures to appease one region or one community won’t work,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/reserving-jobs-for-ladakh-residents-a-half-hearted-effort-says-cpi-m-s-tarigami-101623264370621.html
10-06-2021||Other||J&K’s active Covid cases drop below 20,000 after 45 days||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday reported 1,098 fresh Covid-19 infections while 3,046 patients recovered from the disease, bringing down the active cases to below 20,000.The overall active positive cases dropped to 19,852 after 2,102 patients were cured in Kashmir and 944 in Jammu division. The last time the UT had below 20,000 active cases was on April 25.As many as 17 persons lost their lives to the contagion on Wednesday, taking the overall deaths to 4,118. The total cases in the region have reached 3,03,749.There were 774 cases and 10 deaths in the valley. Jammu division saw 324 infections and seven fatalities. The UT had witnessed the highest daily deaths of 73 — 54 in Jammu and 19 in Kashmir — on May 17 during the second Covid wave.Recoveries have reached 2,79,779, taking the cure rate to 92.10%.Officials said that 52,256 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the total number of tests reaching 8.98 million.With 254 cases, Srinagar saw the highest number of new infections, followed by 113 in Budgam. The cases in other 18 districts ranged between 8 and 97.Srinagar and Jammu districts account for 1.19 lakh cases and 1,906 deaths. Jammu district has the highest number of fatalities at 1,104, followed by Srinagar with 802 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jks-active-covid-cases-drop-below-20-000-after-45-days-101623264315985.html
10-06-2021||Other||Stand firm on Article 370, J&K bifurcation, says Gupkar alliance||The People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has not changed its position on the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state, its leaders said after a meeting here on Wednesday, vowing to continue its struggle.The meeting was held at the residence of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, after a six-month lull in party activities, in the backdrop of speculations over further bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir.PAGD and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, CPI (M) general secretary Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, Anantnag MP Hassnain Masoodi, former minister Javid Mustafa Mir, Awami National Conference vice-president Muzaffar Ahmad Shah, and senior PDP leader Mehboob Beig were present on the occasion.Tarigami was also nominated as the spokesperson of the PAGD, a post that was earlier held by Sajjad Lone, the chairman of Peoples Conference, who quit the alliance soon after the district development council (DDC) elections.Alliance head Farooq Abdullah told mediapersons after the meeting that he will continue to fight for the rights people of J&K. “I will fight for it in the parliament.”He said that PAGD’s doors are open for all, and anybody can join the alliance.When quizzed about the speculations about new divisions of J&K, Farooq said that they have no information about the same so far.The PAGD, a conglomerate of political parties, was formed in J&K to fight for the restoration of pre-August 5, 2019, status of the erstwhile state. Nonetheless, silence prevailed within the alliance for the last couple of months.The PAGD had last year held meetings in Jammu, Kashmir, and Kargil and participated in the DDC polls. It won 110 out of the 280 seats. The BJP won 75.J&K was stripped of its semi-autonomous status in August 2019 and split into two union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stand-firm-on-article-370-j-k-bifurcation-says-gupkar-alliance-101623264313482.html
10-06-2021||Other||Govt depts in Jammu owe ₹1,800 crore to power discom||Various government departments here owe a whopping ₹1,800 crore to the Jammu Power Distribution Corporation Limited (JPDCL), officials said on Wednesday.The Jammu municipal corporation (MC) has pending dues worth ₹300 crore.JPDCL chairman and managing director Jagmohan Sharma and engineer Gurmeet Singh said that several government establishments, including the MC and Jal Shakti department, were yet to pay around ₹1,800 crore in power dues.“We serve them reminders from time to time to clear their arrears. The matter has also been taken up with the higher authorities, but to no avail,” said Sharma.With mercury touching 44°C in Jammu on Wednesday — season’s highest so far — power supply has worsened across the region.A densely populated locality, Lakshmi Nagar in Sarwal area of the winter capital remained without electricity for over 36 hours after a transformer and transmission lines were damaged due to excessive load.On May 26, Lt governor Manoj Sinha had set an eight-hour deadline to replace damaged transformers in urban areas and 48 hours in rural areas.During the peak of summer, day temperatures soar past 47°C in Jammu.Sharma said, “JPDCL is toiling hard to meet the demand. Out of a requirement of 1530 MW in Jammu region, we are providing 1258 MW power. We are hopeful of meeting the deficit by the end of June.”He, however, urged the people to make judicious use of electricity and refrain from unethical practice of power pilferage.“We are augmenting our capacities, but due to Covid-19 pandemic, the process got a bit delayed. The augmentation projects will be completed by June-end. Our effort is to it improve power scenario across the region, but we also need active support from organisations, political parties and all individuals,” he said.Managing director Gurmeet Singh also appealed to the people to ensure there was no power theft.Urging them to inform JPDCL about power pilferage, he admitted that there may be black sheep within the system. “We need to expose them as well. If you come across such elements, let us know. Strict action will be taken against them,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-depts-in-jammu-owe-1-800-crore-to-power-discom-101623264309864.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai got 43.6% of June’s average rain in nine hours||The south-west monsoon announced its arrival in Mumbai on Wednesday, two days prior to the official onset date of June 11, with 220.6mm rain between 8.30am and 5.30pm, according to data from the weather bureau’s Santacruz observatory — representative of the city. The downpour within nine hours has already accounted for 43.6% of the city’s average rainfall for June (505mm).The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicts that the city may get another 200mm or more of rain between June 11 and June 13, and that heavy rain is likely to persist till at least June 15. The high probability of heavy to very heavy rains prompted the IMD on Wednesday to issue an “extremely severe weather warning” for the entire Konkan coast and some parts of Madhya Maharashtra till June 13. The IMD placed Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts under a red category storm warning on Wednesday (upgraded from the initial yellow category warning issued a day prior), although the intensity of rain significantly reduced after 3pm. From Thursday until Sunday, all seven coastal districts are placed under an orange category warning, indicating that local authorities should “be prepared” for “heavy to very heavy rainfall”.With rainfall accumulated due to pre-monsoon showers between June 1 and June 8, the city has already achieved 84% of June’s monthly average in just nine days. Mumbai has so far recorded 416.2mm of rain this month (until 5.30pm on June 9) against a monthly average of 493.1mm. For comparison, Mumbai received only 344.4 mm of rain in June 2020, its lowest average for the month in five years.There are two significant weather systems driving these torrential showers, including an upper air cyclonic circulation over the Arabian Sea, and a low pressure zone forming over the Bay of Bengal. Experts described these simultaneous circulations as having a “push and pull” effect on the monsoon trough, which has now entered most parts of interior Maharashtra, some parts of south Gujarat, parts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, most parts of central Bay of Bengal, and some more parts of north Bay of Bengal today. “Due to the strengthening of westerly winds along the west coast, along with the these circulations in the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal, dense moisture laden clouds are kept spinning over Mumbai resulting in heavy to very heavy showers,” said KS Hosalikar, senior scientist with the IMD in Pune. Weather models had not, until Wednesday, predicted the circulation in the north Arabian Sea, leading to heavier than expected rain on the day. Officials were reluctant to comment on the outlook for the season beyond June 15. “It will depend on what weather systems develop and where. For Mumbai, such heavy rain this early in June is certainly an abnormality, but it is likely to be an isolated event due to prevailing weather systems. Once they pass, Mumbai may get a break from high intensity, short bursts of rain. Drawing links with broader climate change conditions is not as easy in this case as it is with cyclones, for example,” said one meteorologist with a government institute in Pune, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-got-43-6-of-june-s-average-rain-in-nine-hours-101623264251016.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 9,000 more Covid deaths added after reconciliation||Since May 1, Maharashtra has added almost 9,000 deaths from Covid-19 under the category of “reconciliation deaths”, which has pushed the total fatality to 100,000 in the state, government data shows. The discrepancy that’s being corrected, though, has simply to do with delayed reporting rather than underreporting or misreporting of deaths. Public health experts say two things can explain this. First, the time-consuming process of fact-based categorisation of deaths as Covid and non-Covid as per rules laid down by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Second, the shortage of manpower and other resources during the more infectious and deadly second wave of the pandemic that led to delays in updating data on the centralised portal. Going by data provided by the state health department, between May 1 and June 7, as many as 22,099 deaths were recorded in the state of which 8,756 were added after reconciliation. Majority of the reconciliations have been from rural parts of the state such as Satara, Sangli, Aurangabad, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Bhandara, and Wardha. Here’s how the numbers add up: On Wednesday, the state recorded 261 Covid deaths, and an additional 400 deaths were reconciled, pushing up the state’s case fatality rate to 1.74%. The reconciled deaths, according to the state public health department’s daily press release, were deaths that occurred even earlier in various districts and corporations. Categorisation takes time Last year, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued guidelines based on the parameters provided by World Health Organisation (WHO) to categorise deaths into Covid and non-Covid. The aim was fact-based bifurcation of fatality cases related to Covid-19 infection. Dr Avinash Supe, chairman of the state’s death audit committee said, “Just because a patient has been diagnosed with Covid-19, doesn’t mean the cause of death is the infection. If a patient has severe comorbidities like chronic kidney disease or has recently undergone organ transplantation which has compromised the immunity, we have to check all medical reports of the patient before declaring it a Covid-19 death. We have to categorise such deaths by following the scientific parameters laid down by the ICMR and WHO. This process often takes between six-eight days.” In rural-peripheral parts of Maharashtra, all hospitals have to send updates of Covid-19 patients on the centralised ‘Facility app’ including time of admission, reference to other hospitals and death. Dr Sanjay Salunke, civil surgeon at Sangli, said most hospitals mention Covid-19 as the primary cause of death on the application. But it is officially confirmed only after the auditing team puts a confirmation stamp on it. “All districts have Covid death audit committees that examine health complications or casualties that are part of the deceased patient’s medical reports before confirming the death as Covid or non-Covid. If a deceased patient had too many health complications which the district-level experts fail to categorise, then it is referred to the state audit committee,” he said. Citing an example, Salunke said when a person meets with an accident and comes to the casualty ward, he undergoes RT-PCR test for Covid-19 as per rules. If he is found Covid-19 positive, but dies because of a head trauma, it can’t be categorised as a Covid-19 death. “There are a few parameters that need to be checked like positive RT-PCR report, CT scan findings, inflammatory markers and upper respiratory infections. If the deceased person had severe comorbidities, we also clinically examine them,” said Dr Vishal Rakh, professor, community medicine, BYL Nair hospital. “A death certificate has two sections, underlying and immediate. If a Covid-19 infected patient had upper respiratory syndrome, it is counted under immediate. Other comorbidities like hypertension, diabetes and kidney ailment comes under underlying,” Rakh added. Since last year, public health experts have been regularly updating backlog death data into total fatality, and said similar exercise of death reconciliation is observed across all Indian states. “We aren’t trying to hide any deaths. We are just filtering the deaths as per the category laid down by ICMR and providing fact-based information which is more transparent,” said Dr Suryakant Gitte, civil surgeon, Beed. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, 2,862 deaths in the state have been categorised as non-Covid deaths after reconciliation by the audit committees. Of these, 2,181 are from Mumbai followed by Wardha with 151 non-Covid deaths. Delay in update on centralised portalWith the outbreak of the second wave, in the middle of February, hospitals got overwhelmed with a large inflow of Covid-19 patients. Many with manpower crunch were struggling to attend to patients. As a result, timely upgradation of data on the centralised portal took a backseat. “Each hospital has one-two staff members in the monitoring cell who are responsible for updating the data. But during the peak of the pandemic, all hands were on deck. So, there have been delays in data update,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer.“This also delayed the physical documentation of the deceased patients,” he added. Along with this, many hospitals in rural parts of Sangli, Nanded and Wardha also faced infrastructural issues. “There have been regular issues of load shedding, many centres don’t even have fax machines,” said an officer from Wardha. The state health department have held a series of meetings with the districts to discuss the delay in reporting deaths. “We have decided to form WhatsApp groups so that district-level experts can directly communicate with higher officers if they are confused about categorisation of deaths due to underlying health complications,” said Dr Supe. On Sunday, Maharashtra went past the grim mark of 100,000 Covid-19 fatalities, 15 months after it recorded its first death due to the virus on March 17, 2020. However, the overall mortality rate has gone down compared to last year. This year, the case fatality rate (CFR) is 1.2%, which was 2.3% in 2020. Talking to HT, Dr Supe said, “In 2020, we had 19 lakh cases, now (this year) we have nearly 40 lakh cases. Nearly 50,000 deaths happened in the first year. Among the 40 lakh cases, we had an equal number of deaths. So, it is important to see that even after cases doubled, the fatalities remained the same. However, the deaths this year have come in a shorter time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-9-000-more-covid-deaths-added-after-reconciliation-101623264250504.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||DU collects data on students to lost parents to Covid-19||: Delhi University colleges are collecting data on students who lost their parents to Covid-19, as part of a programme to subsidise their education in the varsity, senior officials said on Wednesday, a plan that was formulated in the wake of a brutal nationwide second wave of infections that claimed over 160,000 lives in April and May alone.While paying tribute to staff and students of the university who died of Covid-19, acting vice-chancellor PC Joshi on Friday said the university will work towards clearing payments due to the deceased employees and to provide “free education to all Delhi University students who lost their parents in this pandemic till they are in the university.”The DU administration on Monday asked colleges to furnish information on the number of students who lost either or both of their parents to the infection. Several principals HT spoke to said compiling the information will take some time due to the ongoing semester exams, the scale of the task, as well as the limited physical interaction with students due to the pandemic, while others noted that several students’ will take time to come to terms with the loss of a loved one.Manoj Sinha, principal of Aryabhatta College and general secretary of the DU Principals’ Association (DUPA), said that since around 2,200 students are enrolled in the college, departments will take time to confirm the numbers.“We have asked our departments and teachers from the mentorship programme to contact the batches of students under them and find out what they need. We have also put a notice up on the college website asking students to step forward and inform us about the death of their parents so that appropriate steps can be taken to help them,” he said.He said the institution will also analyse each case and decide on the best appropriate aid for each student, adding that some students may need non-financial aid as well.“Students from affluent families may not need help paying the fees, but might require a social support system... Even during the pandemic, we reached out to people to arrange for funds for students who were unable to pay their fee due to loss of income [in the family] during the pandemic,” he said.Other institutions such as Hansraj College, Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Indraprastha College for Women, and Ramjas College have sent student mails and asked teachers and departments to work on collecting the information required. Many principals said that some of the students were still hesitant to step forward with the information as they will still processing their grief.“It is not easy for a child to step forward and say they lost their parent to Covid-19. Many of these students have neither connected with the teachers nor come to college due to online classes. We are still compiling the information. So far, around 20 students in our college have lost either of their parents,” said Bijayalaxmi Nanda, principal of Miranda House. “We are also creating mental health support groups for all students especially those who have lost parents or family members. Grief counselling initiatives have also been started.”The university has also started an online and tele-counselling initiative for individuals and families affected by Covid-19 in collaboration with the District Magistrate (Central District) through helpline number 1149127700. The initiative aims to provide counselling advice and emotional support for the rehabilitation of people affected by Covid.DU registrar Vikas Gupta said, “We are currently in the process of taking stock of the situation, collecting the data, and it will be a time consuming process.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-collects-data-on-students-to-lost-parents-to-covid19-101623264011208.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Antilia explosives scare: NIA gets two more months to file charge sheet||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Wednesday granted the federal agency two more months to file charge sheet against five accused booked in connection with the Antilia explosives scare case and the subsequent murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran. The investigation agency sought 90 days extension for filing charge sheet, over and above 90 days from the date of first remand of the accused, under provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). In the Antilia scare and murder cases, the period of first 90 days will end on June 10. Hence, NIA had last week moved a plea before the special court, seeking extension to complete the probe and file the charge sheet.However, the special court on Wednesday granted NIA extension of 60 days and said, “There are many aspects in which investigation is carried out. Because of the complicity of the matter, it requires more time for thorough investigation. The tentacles of the investigation are deep rooted; hence, it requires more time to search out each and every cause.” NIA, in its application, claimed that the possible involvement of a terrorist organisation, Jaish-ul-Hind, and its alleged demand for money from industrialist Mukesh Ambani need a deeper probe. The plea was opposed by defence advocates Sudeep Pasbola for Sachin Vaze and Vaibhav Baghade for Sunil Mane who claimed the charges of UAPA are not applicable in the case. The defence argued that the prosecution submitted the progress report in the sealed envelope which was not provided to them. The lawyers argued that the accused must know the reason for detention or extension of custody period as part of fundamental rights.NIA had, however, claimed that the report was based on confidential information, and therefore the court refused to share the report with defence lawyers.While objecting to the extension, Pasbola argued that gelatin sticks cannot explode without a detonator and hence there was no actual threat to the society. He added that the accused has always co-operated with the investigating agency and all the articles are already recovered and nothing was left to be investigated. “There was no conspiracy about terror and in absence of the intention, there is no conspiracy or intent to terror,” Pasbola argued.He further submitted that there must be progress in investigation but it has not found any place in the application. Baghade argued that analysis was not an investigation and further contended that the prosecution has not complied with provisions related to UAPA and Criminal Procedure Code while seeking extension to file the charge sheet. Baghade argued that his client, Sunil Mane, had no role in the Antilia case but his role is shown only in the subsequent murder case. In view of this, he argued that UAPA charged were not applicable in his case.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia, industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai residence, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to the businessman. A case was registered with Gamdevi police station on the same day. Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, the owner of the SUV, who had reported it stolen on February 17. On March 5, Hiran was found dead in a creek near Mumbra. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the car from Hiran in November and returned it in early February. NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and the murder case on March 24.To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh for his alleged management of the case. The police officer subsequently wrote a letter to the chief minister, alleging that the then home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai Police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars, restaurants, and hookah parlours, and when no action was forthcoming, approached the courts.The Bombay HC eventually asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. Accordingly, CBI conducted the preliminary inquiry and registered an offence against Deshmukh on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-explosives-scare-nia-gets-two-more-months-to-file-charge-sheet-101623264010587.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Member of Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party arrested in sexual assault case||A member of Shivpal Singh Yadav-led Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), who was aspiring to contest the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections from the Meerut Cantonment seat on the party’s ticket, was arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with a sexual assault case registered at south Delhi’s New Friends Colony (NFC) police station, officers associated with the probe said on Wednesday.Police said party leader Rohit Pandey, who is also the part owner of a real estate company, was arrested from his house in Meerut’s Ansal Town, following a search conducted by the NFC police team on Monday night. The Meerut police also confirmed Pandey’s arrest from his home, which comes under the territorial jurisdiction of Pallavpuram police station.His two friends have also been arrested in the same case and all three have been sent to judicial custody, the police said.“The Delhi Police team arrested Pandey and informed us that he was wanted in a case registered under Indian Penal Code Section 376D at the NFC police station. They did not inform us before the search; we were telephonically informed about Pandey’s arrest and that they were taking him to Delhi,” said Devesh Kumar Sharma, station officer (SO) of Pallavpuram police station.Deputy commissioner of police (south-east) RP Meena said a woman had filed a complaint at the NFC police station stating that she was sexually assaulted by two persons – Pandey and his friend – in the NFC area and again by three persons – Pandey and his two friends – in Shilma, Himachal Pradesh. Accordingly, a case was registered on June 6 and Pandey and his two friends were arrested on June 7, Meena said.Since the test identification parade (TIP) of Pandey’s two associates is yet to be conducted, the police have withheld their names.Police said the allegations pertain to a crime that took place a “long time ago” -- they did not disclose any dates -- and added that they are “investigating the entire case thoroughly”.Deepak Mishra, chief spokesperson of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia), said he was aware of the charges under which Pandey was arrested, even as the police have not officially communicated anything about the case or the arrest. He said Pandey was a member of the party but did not hold any post or portfolio.Confirming that Pandey had claimed a candidacy for Meerut Cantonment assembly seat in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, Mishra said the party leadership has not yet announced Pandey as the candidate.“We have sought details from the party’s Meerut district unit about Pandey and the crime for which he has been arrested. The procedure to cancel his membership from the party has been initiated. Respecting women and protecting their rights is a part of our party ideology. We have a zero-tolerance policy to crimes against women. If any of our party members is found disrespecting women or involved in any sort of women-related crimes, they will be sacked at the earliest,” Mishra said.The Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) was founded by former senior leader of the Samajwadi Party Shivpal Singh Yadav. Shivpal is the brother of three-time chief minister and founder of the Samajwadi Party Mulayam Singh Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/member-of-pragatisheel-samajwadi-party-arrested-in-sexual-assault-case-101623264009268.html
10-06-2021||Other||Workshops for govt teachers to facilitate ‘deep learning’||In order to help students and teachers cope with the losses triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Delhi government has collaborated with an international research institute to conduct workshops for its teachers, that will help guide them towards “deep learning and collective healing,” the government said in a statement Wednesday.“Our teachers and students have gone through a lot of pain during the time of the pandemic, we want to support them in overcoming the grief. We want to create a space for our teachers and their students for sharing, and meaningful dialogue and listening before the resumption of teaching-learning activities,” said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia at the first online workshop with this year’s Inter-Faith 20 (IF20) Education Working Group. IF20 is an international platform for discussions with experts and leaders on various subjects aiming to share recommendations that would help shape the G20 (an international forum for the governments of 19 countries and the European Union) and the global policy agendas.The state government has partnered with the Guerrand-Hermès Foundation for Peace Institute (GHFP) for the IF20 Education Working Group (IF20 Edu WG) initiative on how education can contribute to “healing and well-being.” The education minister said teachers need to be emotionally ready to support their students following a difficult time due to the pandemic. The initiative will help teachers to prepare themselves for the task, he said. Experts associated with GHFP will be conducting a three-day session with mentor teachers in Delhi government schools, who will conduct similar sessions with two teachers at each public school. “These two teachers will then help the fellow teachers in their own schools to initiate dialogue with their students and parents if needed,” the government said.“Pandemic has given us the opportunity to re-imagine schooling and adapt it to the new emerging realities. We need to ask the question that whether we want to start teaching right away or do we want to give the space for the teachers and students to reconnect with each other. For us, school reopening is not just about opening the books; it’s about opening the heart and mind to reconnect with each other,” Sisodia said during the workshop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/workshops-for-govt-teachers-to-facilitate-deep-learning-101623263950502.html
10-06-2021||Other||Terror accused claims he was beaten in Tihar jail, officials reject claim||A plea has been filed in a Delhi court on Wednesday by an alleged ISIS member--arrested for planning suicide attacks and serial blasts across the country--claiming that he was beaten up by other inmates in Tihar jail and forced to chant ‘Jai Shri Ram’. Tihar jail officials have denied the allegations. Rashid Zafar was arrested in December 2018 on the allegations of being a member of an ISIS-inspired group, which was planning suicide attacks and serial blasts targeting politicians and government installations in Delhi and other parts of north India. Advocate M S Khan, who represented Zafar’s plea, said his client disclosed the incident to his father telephonically from Tihar Jail.The plea said Zafar was beaten up and forced to chant religious slogans like ‘Jai Shri Ram’ by his inmates. It has sought appropriate directions be passed to the jail superintendent to look into the matter.Tihar jail officers said that the allegations made by the prisoner are false. Sandeep Goel, the prison’s director general, said, “ The prisoner had gone to the jail dispensary duly escorted by the jail guards. While returning he ran towards another ward, where he was not supposed to go. He is a prisoner from a high-security jail. Our jail guards tried to stop him from going to that different ward. During that process, he got violent and inflicted injuries on himself. We got his medical examination done at the prison hospital. The injuries were not of serious nature. He has now come up with these allegations. Prima facie the allegations are false but we are still conducting an inquiry into it.”Zafar was arrested, along with nine others, after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) carried out searches, in coordination with the special cell of Delhi Police and the Anti-Terrorism Squad of Uttar Pradesh Police, at six places in Jafrabad and Seelampur in Delhi, and 11 places in Uttar Pradesh. The searches and the arrests came a month before the Republic Day celebrations on January 26.According to NIA, a locally-made rocket launcher, material for suicide vests and 112 alarm clocks to be used as timers were recovered from the searches.The agency also said it recovered 25kg of explosive material, such as potassium nitrate, ammonium nitrate and sulphur.The group had also allegedly purchased remote control cars and wireless doorbells to use circuits in assembling remote-controlled improvised explosive devices. Besides, the NIA also recovered steel containers, electric wires, 91 mobile phones, 134 SIM cards, three laptops, knife, sword and ISIS-related literature during the searches.The probe agency had initially rounded up 16 people of the group ‘Harkat ul Harb e Islam’, which loosely translates into war for the cause of Islam.Of the 16 detained, 10 were later arrested - five from Amroha in UP and five from Seelampur and Jafrabad localities in north-east Delhi, the agency had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/terror-accused-claims-he-was-beaten-in-tihar-jail-officials-reject-claim-101623263949922.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Pharmacies in Delhi continue to update stock of Covid-19 medicines despite drop in cases||Pharmacies across the city still have to keep updating the stock and prices of eight medicines used for the treatment of Covid-19 on a display board despite there being a significant drop in the number of infections in the Capital. The Retail Distributions and Chemists Association (RDCA)-Delhi has written to the chief minister, health minister, and Lieutenant Governor, asking them to withdraw an order dated May 22 that stipulates the said action but is yet to receive a response. The eight medicines for which the drug stores were asked to display stock position and price includes medicines, such as iveremectin and favipiravir, prescribed to mild Covid-19 patients, and steroids, such as budesonide and dexamethasone, prescribed to moderate and severe patients suffering from the viral infection. “Everyone has to update the stock position every few hours; there isn’t much demand for the medicines now that the Covid-19 cases have gone down. We have written to the authorities asking them to withdraw the order as it is no longer relevant. Some of the medicines have also been removed from the treatment guidelines,” said Sandeep Nangia, president of RDCA. The new guidelines, released by the Union health ministry’s directorate general of health service this week, has dropped all medicines, other than those meant for fever and cold, for mild cases from the treatment. The association wrote to the Delhi government even at the time when the guidelines were released suggesting that the stock position need not be displayed. “We suggested that drug stores should just mention whether medicines are available or not available on the display board. What use is it for a customer to know whether the shop has 500 strips of the medicine or not? All the medicines are under schedule H or H1 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, so the stores have to maintain register of their stock and sale. The drug department can check that to prevent black-marketing although there hasn’t been a single case of a drug store selling medicines more than the MRP,” said Nangia. He added, “An issue that a lot of people faced was that they would say that so many doses of a particular medicine are available but there are several brands manufacturing these medicines. If the doctor prescribes a glaxo (name of the company) drug, we cannot substitute it for a cipla drug, to which many customers protested.” The office of the Delhi’s drug controller could not be reached for comments despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pharmacies-in-delhi-continue-to-update-stock-of-covid-19-medicines-despite-drop-in-cases-101623263949322.html
10-06-2021||Other||Jab centres in Delhi reopen as vaccine supply stabilises||With vaccine supplies slowly stabilising, the Delhi government has reopened 95 vaccine centres for the 18-45 age group and 68 sites for the 45+ group on Wednesday, showed government records. All 368 vaccine sites set up by the Delhi government for the 18-45 group last month were suspended for more than two weeks in the light of shortage of both Covishield and Covaxin. For the 45+ group, around 306 centres out of 720 were suspended over the last one week for shortage of Covaxin.Government officials said the stock situation is getting better now. As on Wednesday, the Delhi government had 95 vaccine centres spread across 35 locations for the 18-45 age group and 482 vaccine centres spread across 338 locations for the 45+ group.“The government has also opened on-the-spot registration for all beneficiaries in the state-run centres for the 45+ group and plans to start the same for beneficiaries in the 18-45 group, but for only for those scheduled for the second dose,” said a senior official. This initiative is in line with the directions issued by the central government on Tuesday.“Yesterday (Tuesday) late-evening, Delhi government received 30,000 doses of Covaxin for the 45+ group. Number of vaccine centres is likely to go up from Thursday. Covaxin centres will be open only for people scheduled for the second dose. There is no availability issue with Covishield. We have 27 days’ stock for the 45+ group,” said AAP legislator Atishi while reading out the Delhi government’s health bulletin in a video briefing on Wednesday.She further said, “For the 18-45 group, we have received 125,000 doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Centres offering Covaxin are only catering to people scheduled for the second dose. We are happy to announce that vaccination for the 18-45 group in government centres have resumed again. I urge people to book their slots and get vaccinated. We have sufficient stock for eight days and we hope to get more deliveries before the government-run centres run out of stock.” So far, around 4.44 million in Delhi have got one dose and 1.34 million have got both doses, showed government records. The city has a population of around 20 million of which 15 million are eligible for vaccination.Chief minister takes stock of jab booths Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday visited a temporary vaccine site set up by the government under its “Jahan vote, Wahan vaccine” initiative, which is aimed at increasing vaccine coverage among the 45+ population through door-to-door awareness drives and convincing them to take the shots at vaccine sites set up at their nearest polling centres.Under the initiative that has been planned across four weeks, the government shall choose 70 municipal wards in the city every week. All AAP MLAs and leaders are participating in the drive which is primarily being conducted by booth level officers. “We have received an overwhelming response to this campaign of the Delhi government. We have also arranged for e-rickshaws to travel from home to vaccination sites. Just like BLOs give slips door to door before voting, in the same way, they are giving slips of scheduled slots to people for vaccination. Those who do not come to the centre to get the jab even after getting the slot, the BLO will go again to their house and clear doubts,” said Kejriwal.He further said, “Various kinds of rumours are rapidly spreading, thereby increasing vaccine hesitancy. It is the responsibility of all of us to dispel them. Within the next four weeks, the entire population of 45+ will be vaccinated with the first dose all over Delhi. Our electoral structure is competent enough. If we use it all over the country, we can vaccinate everyone in two to three months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jab-centres-in-delhi-reopen-as-vaccine-supply-stabilises-101623263891041.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi-based rapper MC Kode, who went missing on June 2, traced to Jabalpur||A week after Delhi-based amateur rapper, MC Kode, went missing after allegedly posting a suicide note on Instragram, police have traced him to Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday.His mother had filed the missing person complaint last Thursday, police said. Based on her compliant, a kidnapping case was registered and multiple teams were searching for the rapper, whose given name is Aditya Tiwari. Police said he had recently faced flak on social media for a 2016 video in which he allegedly made derogatory comments about a religion and the Indian army.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said on June 4, Aditya’s mother Deepa Tiwari filed the missing person report in which she said Aditya was missing since June 2. She also told the police that her son had allegedly uploaded a suicide note on his Instagram account and later, his mobile phone was found to be switched off.“We registered a case and made efforts through the human intelligence network and technical surveillance to find Aditya. Through a source, we learnt that Aditya may be living with his friend in Jabalpur. A team was sent there and he was found at the house of his friend, who had studied with him in college,” said Thakur.The team members have left Jabalpur with Aditya and are likely to reach Delhi by Thursday. Aditya told the police that he left Delhi for Madhya Pradesh on June 2 itself. After reaching Jabalpur, he stayed at different places before moving to his friend’s home. “We will ask him the reason for his recent actions once he reaches Delhi,” added the DCP.Deepa Tiwari said she will now file a complaint over the “mental harassment, threat and trolling” that her son had to face on social media, which she claimed made him take the steps that he did.“I had last seen Aditya on May 26. The video surfaced around May 20 and till June 1, he was with friends. It was only on June 2 that I came across his suicide post and tried contacting him. However, his phone was switched off. I panicked and approached the police,” she said.“The person who dug up my son’s five to six years old video and began harassing him has disappeared from social media. We will file a complaint and seek police help to go after the people who put my son under extreme mental stress,” Deepa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhibased-rapper-who-went-missing-on-june-2-traced-to-jabalpur-101623263890407.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Dust carrying winds push AQI to very poor, minimum temp highest this year||High-velocity winds, carrying dust from the deserts of Rajasthan, continued to blow over Delhi on Wednesday, pushing the air quality in the national capital into the “very poor” category for the first time since this February. The layer of dust over Delhi-NCR also kept the night temperature from falling, with the result that Wednesday recorded a minimum temperature of 31.4 degrees Celsius, the highest so far this year, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that on Wednesday, the overall air quality index (AQI) in Delhi was 305, categorised as ”very poor” on the AQI scale. On Tuesday, the average AQI was 205, in the “poor” category. On the AQI scale of 0 to 500, a reading between 200-300 is rated as “poor”, while that between 300-400 is classified as “very poor”.IMD scientists said dusty south-westerly winds have been blowing through the national capital since Tuesday, spiking pollution levels. Pollution recordings confirmed that PM10 (coarse particulate matter with a diameter less than 10 micrometres) was the primary pollutant in Wednesday’s foul air.At 5pm Wednesday, the PM10 level peaked at 384ug/m3, over three times higher than the acceptable standard of 100ug/m3 in India.Experts said now that Delhi is on its way to unlocking the economy, focus should be on managing pollution sources to prevent such spikes.Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) said, “Cities across the country need to tackle dispersed sources of pollution such as open burning of waste, dust from construction sites and unpaved roads. Pollution control boards and urban local bodies should have dedicated field inspection teams to identify such sources and ensure that they are addressed. Secondly, we need robust citizen grievance redressal mechanisms. The Green Delhi app is a great move but citizens should be encouraged to use it more actively.”Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “Post-noon on Wednesday, the dust film over Delhi cleared up a bit, but since pollution observatories take a 24-hour average of pollutants, an improvement will be visible on the charts only on Thursday.”Srivastava also pointed out that this layer of dust as well as clouds were keeping the minimum temperature higher than normal.The Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the entire city, recorded a minimum temperature of 31.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, which was four degrees above what is considered normal for this time of the year. The maximum temperature was 42.2 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal.“The layer of dust and the clouds trapped the heat from the surface and did not allow the ground to cool off. This kept the minimum temperature high. Wednesday’s is the highest minimum temperature that Delhi has recorded this year,” Srivastava said.The IMD forecast, however, said that Delhi will get rain from June 12, bringing some relief from the simmering heat. Under the impact of a low-pressure system, which is forming north of the Bay of Bengal, the wind direction over Delhi will change to easterly from late Friday night, which will result in light rainfall in parts of Delhi and NCR.From Sunday, the intensity of rainfall will increase and, as a result, the temperature will also fall to below 40 degrees Celsius.“We are expecting moderate rainfall across Delhi while parts of NCR may receive heavy showers. From June 12, the temperature will start decreasing again,” a senior IMD official confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dust-carrying-winds-push-air-quality-to-very-poor-minimum-temp-highest-this-year-101623263889189.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||DU student dies as portion of building collapses in Panchsheel Park||A 26-year-old postgraduate student of Delhi University was killed after a portion of the building that he resided in collapsed, allegedly due to the digging work at an adjacent under-construction building, in south Delhi’s Panchsheel Park near Malviya Nagar on Wednesday afternoon. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the police control room received a call at 4.30pm alerting them about a building collapse. A police team reached there and learnt that the digging work at an under-construction building had caused a portion of the adjacent house to collapse and that one person was trapped under the debris. The police team along with the rescue teams from the fire department removed the debris and found the man who was injured and unconscious. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. Police later identified him as Ishan Sethi, from Mussoorie in Uttarakhand. DCP Thakur said a case was registered and the building contractors, Vikas Bhayana and Rahul Bhayana, were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-student-dies-as-portion-of-building-collapses-in-panchsheel-park-101623263832742.html
10-06-2021||Other||Draft Master Plan recommends annual ‘Renewable Energy Plan’ in Delhi||Delhi on Wednesday recorded this year’s highest peak power demand so far at 6,185 MW, and 80% of the supply continued to come from polluting coal-fired thermal power plants. In this context, the Master Plan of Delhi (MPD) 2041 proposes to mandate that Delhi have an annual “Renewable Energy Plan” that identifies potential energy generation areas within the city along with strategies and projects to meet the targets outlined by the Union ministry of new and renewable energy. To ensure a digitally enabled and connected city, it also suggests total fibre-optic coverage to enable 5G in the future.Real-time data from the State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC) showed that the peak power demand of Delhi was 6,185 MW at 2.45pm on Wednesday. It was 5,808 MW on Tuesday and 5,559 MW on Monday. Delhi’s peak power demand recorded last year was 6,314 MW on June 29. It was lower than the all-time high peak power demand of 7,409 MW on July 2 the previous year because of the lockdown.The MPD also mandates all agencies to adopt strategies to manage peak load demand. “Promote mixed use, permit select commercial/recreational spaces to function for 24 hours and promote night economy. Set up large public screenings of sporting and other events etc. Examine feasibility of shared heating and cooling systems. Use vacant office buildings/ schools etc., for night parking and EV (electric vehicle) charging. Promote EV battery swapping during peak hours and permit EV charging only during non-peak hours,” it states.To increase Delhi’s share in green or renewable energy, the draft MPD has emphasised on solar power generation. To be sure, the city administration in 2016 rolled out a Delhi Solar Policy to achieve this. The MPD has asked the government to expedite its agriculture-cum-solar farm scheme by incentivising landowners to set up solar farms on their agricultural lands.“Delhi has a number of canals that can be utilised for harnessing solar energy as per feasibility. The canal owning agencies may leverage this potential for the generation of solar energy. Government buildings and institutional campuses with a rooftop area above 500 sq.m to install solar PVs (photovoltaics) as per Delhi Solar Policy 2016 and Net Metering Regulations, 2014. Large-scale public facilities such as airports, Metro stations, railway stations, interstate and city-level bus stations/depots, stadiums etc., may progressively meet the majority of their power requirements through solar and other renewable energy,” the document said.It also calls for setting up data centres to meet the need for data storage and server management, and for unified command and control centres to be set up by the local bodies as drivers for effective urban management, especially traffic, safety, and disaster response, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/draft-master-plan-recommends-annual-renewable-energy-plan-in-delhi-101623263831330.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Origin of ransomware attack on MIDC server traced to Bulgaria||Mumbai cyber police, which is investigating the ransomware attack on Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) servers in March this year, has traced the origin of the attack to Bulgaria and approached the east European country for obtaining details of the suspects involved in the attack.Initially, cyber police suspected involvement of cyber criminals from Russia-Kazakhstan region, but the probe has indicated involvement of cyber criminals from Bulgaria. Following this, official channels have been activated to seek help from concerned foreign authorities to nab the culprits, confirmed a senior IPS officer from Mumbai Police.Cyber expert Prashant Mali said, “East European countries like Bulgaria and Romania have many hacker gangs and there are several layers of members from different countries who feed on ransom money earned by targeting sleepy organisations with less or bad cyber security controls. They majorly deal in Bitcoins for ransom.”On March 21 at 2.30am, a ransomware, SYNack, attacked the MIDC system. The attack was on the local server system to take unauthorised access of the computer system of MIDC and encrypted data. Because of this, MIDC personnel could not use the system data for over a week. This also damaged computers at the corporation’s 16 regional offices. The email sent by the attackers explained the kind of attack and their demand for ransom, the police said. Ten days later, MIDC filed an official complaint with the cyber police on April 1. It is being alleged that the hackers had demanded ₹500 crore ransom, however, neither the police nor MIDC officials confirmed the amount. “The first information report (FIR) too did not mention the ₹500-crore ransom amount,” a senior police officer said. After the attack, all computers were disconnected from the server. The corporation also asked all its departments to shut the system and not to switch on computers until issues were resolved completely. This had caused disruption of services across the state. Earlier, MIDC claimed that all their systems were hosted on ESDS (cloud service provider) and local server of the corporation and for security and maintenance purpose, the corporation was using a well-known anti-virus. It claimed that as backup files of its website, single-window clearance system, building plan approval management system (BPAMS), ERP (enterprise resource planning), computerised land distribution system, water bills, etc. are stored on different networks, they are all safe. Later, the services were restored. A team of cyber police officers had visited the MIDC office, made enquiries with technical staff there to understand the nature of attack.MIDC CEO P Anbalagan said, “Our system is well on track with no loss of data. We are going to build further security features.”Earlier, an attempted cyber sabotage allegedly by a Chinese state-sponsored cyber threat group had caused massive power outage in Mumbai last October. Then home minister Anil Deshmukh had said that the Maharashtra cyber police had found evidence which suggested that the grid failure in Mumbai on October 12 last year, which resulted in the city plunging into darkness, disrupting train services and shutting down the stock market, was likely a cyber sabotage. The New York Times, citing a report by a US-based cyber security firm, had claimed the Chinese-state sponsored groups had targeted power sector in India with malware. This came months after the clash between troops of the two nations in Galwan valley in June 2020. BOXIn 2013, two Bulgarian nationals — Tsenev Yulian Georgiev and Ivanov Kalin Ivanoy — allegedly fitted ATM machines with skimming devices at an Axis bank ATM kiosk outside DGP’s office in Colaba to steal data of debit cards. The duo had cloned ATM cards using the stolen data and later withdrew the money in Greece from bank accounts of 79 citizens of Mumbai to the tune of ₹22,88,229. Police probe revealed that the two were part of a huge international fraud syndicate as the withdrawal of money using the cloned cards were done after more than a month’s time, leaving no time for investigators to get on the trail of the accused. Of the 79 victims in the Colaba case, 15 were the policemen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/origin-of-ransomware-attack-on-midc-server-traced-to-bulgaria-101623263830475.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||List steps to address jab booking problems faced by Mumbaiites: HC to state||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the state government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as to why the authorities were unable to provide vaccination booking options for more than a day to city residents, while other districts, including Kolhapur, Hingoli, and Nashik, were offering week or month-long vaccination slots. The HC query was prompted after the petitioner apprised the bench that due to the one-day booking option, which was getting filled up within minutes of being made available on the booking portal, city residents were unable to ascertain when they would be getting the jab. The court also asked the authorities to consider and respond to the six suggestions submitted by the petitioner to streamline the vaccination process. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Yogeeta Vanzara through advocate Jamsheed Master was informed that vaccination booking portal CoWIN was giving slots only for a day, and as there was no fixed time for booking, citizens were facing problems in getting an appointment. In light of this problem, the petition sought a separate portal for booking slots in government and civic-run hospital for Mumbai. Master informed the bench that as per its directions on June 2, the petitioner had prepared a list of suggestions for the Centre and state government which included making available a weekly plan for vaccination, opening of booking slots at fixed time, monitoring of vaccination centres by city task force or ward health officers and walk-in facility for economically backward persons or those without smart phones. It is also suggested that technical experts and system specialists from IIT-Bombay be roped in to ensure vaccination facilities are being offered to marginalised and underprivileged communities and walk-in facility for persons between the age of 18 to 44 years having comorbidities was conducted smoothly. Master submitted that in parts of the state, vaccination slots were made available well in advance, at times a week or month prior, and urged that the same be done in Mumbai as well. Senior Counsel Anil Sakhare for BMC submitted that the vaccination quota is allocated by the state government and the civic authority can arrange a weekly programme only if it receives weekly quota in advance.However, additional government pleader Geeta Shastri for the state informed the bench that allocating weekly quota was subject to availability of stocks of jabs.After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that administrative decisions should be left to the local authorities and the state should look into the suggestions. “If the state feels that some of the suggestions are workable, it does not need to wait for court orders to implement them,” said the bench. Seeking an affidavit in reply to the suggestions made by petitioner from the state, HC posted further hearing to June 17. The bench also asked authorities to address issues raised in other PILs including lack of awareness and access to vaccination in rural areas, steps for vaccinating mentally ill persons, sex workers and transgender persons and those not having requisite documents like identity cards for getting jabs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/list-steps-to-address-jab-booking-problems-faced-by-mumbaiites-hc-to-state-101623263829896.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Covid-19 positivity rate below 1% for 10th day in a row||For the 10th consecutive day on Wednesday, the Covid-19 positivity rate -- proportion of samples that return positive of the total tested – was under 1% in Delhi, even as the national capital reported 337 new cases of Covid-19, the government’s daily health bulletin said.Wednesday’s positivity rate was 0.46% after testing 73,241 samples. The infection has so far affected over 1.43 million people in the city, according to the data. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the Covid-19 spread in an area is considered to be under control if the test positivity rate remains below 5% for at least 14 consecutive days.On Wednesday, Delhi also added 36 deaths due to the viral infection, taking the total toll to 24,704 since the first death was recorded on March 13 last year.With the declining number of cases, the seven day rolling average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – has shot up to 12.4% on Wednesday.The cumulative CFR – based on the total number of cases and deaths -- stands at 1.73% so far, as compared to the national average of 1.22%.With the second wave of infections in Delhi subsiding, the government is busy preparing for a third wave. It has started the unlock process, in which markets were allowed to open from Monday on an odd-even basis, along with malls. Delhi Metro also started operations with 50% capacity.The April-May surge in cases was the worst Delhi has seen with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths being reported on April 20, rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths and 18,043 cases, according to the state health bulletin.The city also faced an acute shortage of oxygen by April-end as hospitals saw a large number of critical Covid-19 patients.Experts warned that while preparing for a possible third wave, it was important to keep an eye out for new variants. “Before planning for a third wave, we need to see why such a devastating second wave had happened. It happened because a new and more infectious Delta variant of the virus was circulating since December which was given an opportunity to spread. We missed the new variant. Now, we need to ensure that we do enough genomic sequencing so that we do not miss any new variants,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-positivity-rate-below-1-for-10th-day-in-a-row-101623263829294.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Emphasis on promotion of rental housing, no more mixed land use streets||The draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041 focuses on promoting rental housing and development of small format housing in the Capital, advocating a paradigm shift in DDA’s role from developer to facilitator in the housing sector with the private sector taking the lead in implementation of policies such as land pooling.The draft plan also proposes major changes in the development control norms to preserve the residential character of localities and prevent rampant commercialisation while allowing mixed-use development.The plan was placed in the public domain on Wednesday to invite objections and suggestions from the citizens. Once approved and notified by the Centre, the master plan will provide a policy framework for the development of the Capital. It has been prepared by DDA.Emphasis on rental housing“There is a need to address the housing needs of students, single working men and women, migrants, etc. through affordable housing, rental housing, hostels, studio apartments, serviced apartments, dormitories, etc,” the draft read. It also said the large unsold housing stock may also be brought back into circulation through the rental option.Rental and affordable housing should be promoted within the city, particularly in areas closer to transit. “Given the high cost of land in developed parts of the city this also ensures availability of housing for a variety of income groups closer to their workplaces, thereby minimising travel trip distances,” the draft reads.The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and other concerned public agencies may take up dedicated affordable public rental housing projects close to activity centres (industrial areas, educational hubs, etc.). To manage rental assets, public agencies will be allowed to rope in Rental Management Agencies and housing aggregators. An online portal will be developed giving information regarding availability, location, rentals, a DDA official said .AK Jain, former planning commissioner with the DDA, said, “It is a good move to provide for rental housing. A large section of the population can’t afford to buy houses, but need affordable space to stay. There has been a decline in rental housing and this policy will arrest the problem. But we need a strong grievance redressal body.”As per the draft plan, “A paradigm shift is envisaged in the supply scenario, with the private sector leading the development/redevelopment of housing over the plan period. Public agencies shall play the role of a ‘facilitator’ and ensure ease of doing business, through appropriate regulatory environments.”As per the draft plan, the land pooling policy under which 17-20 lakh dwelling units are to be constructed on the outskirts of the city and Transit-Oriented Development in which residential projects will be planned near transit hubs, will see major participation from private developers.No more mixed land use streetsThe draft MPD-2041 has proposed some changes in the development control norms to address the issue of rampant commercialisation in residential areas, planned development in greenbelt areas and providing space for more commercial development.As per the new provisions, which will come into effect once the plan is notified, no new street, specially in residential areas, will be notified as mixed-use or commercial streets. DDA officials said that while mixed land use development for vertical development of the city is being promoted for planned development, streets will not be declared commercial as adequate provisions have been made to address the need of commercial spaces in the capital.In the aftermath of large-scale sealing and demolition of commercial establishments operating from residential areas in 2006, mixed land use was allowed by the Centre and regulations were introduced in the MPD-2021 that was notified on February 7, 2007. Since 2007, over 3,000 streets, mostly in residential areas, have been declared as mixed land use, commercial or pedestrian streets due to commercial activity on them.Resident welfare associations (RWAs) in the city say that the mixed land use provisions have “ruined the residential character” of the neighbourhoods.A senior DDA official said, “The new plan has provision for mixed land use development on plots which are located on 24-metre wide right of way. The current provision is for 18-metre right of way. This will help in checking rampant commercialisation to a large extent.”But residents say that the draft plan is silent on how the problems being faced by people who live in such areas will be addressed. Rajiv Kakria, convenor of Save our City campaign and a resident of Greater Kailash-I, said, “But what about the problem which are already there.. The plan is silent on it. Mixed land use provisions have messed up the residential character of the city. Those who have prepared the plan are not aware of the ground situation.”DDA officials said that the plan is an application for future developments only.No local area plansLocal area plans (LAPs), which were a significant feature of the MPD-2021, have been done away with in the current draft.Urban planner Shamsher Singh, former chief town planner with erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi, said it is not a good move. “LAPs are needed to give an idea about utilities and infrastructure that is needed at a municipal ward level. It is prepared with the active participation of residents. This is the most basic level of plan or rather it makes the implementation of the MPD easier.”But DDA officials said that LAPs were never prepared and notified. “We now plan to do more detailed layout plans,” they said.Industrial and greenbelt areasThe plan proposes that plots in industrial area can be used for commercial, group housing, developing co-working spaces, etc, providing new spaces for commercial development.The plan also envisages a green development area policy to allow commercial and institutional establishments in greenbelt villages.Currently, no new construction, either residential or commercial, is allowed in the 47 villages located on the city’s periphery. Some of them are Dhansa, Mitraon, Tikri Kalan, Kapashera, parts of Rajokri, Ghumanhera, Bamnoli and Bijwasan.The new policy, a senior DDA official said, will allow planned development in these villages and make way for institutions, hospitals and big parks. The policy will also be applicable to 23 villages that are currently covered under the Low-Density Residential Area (LDRA) policy that was notified in 2013.Environmentalist Diwan Singh cautioned that the policy will result in rampant commercial activities in greenbelt villages. “These are the green buffers of the city. What will be left, if development is allowed in these villages?,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/master-plan-2041-emphasis-on-promotion-of-rental-housing-no-more-mixed-land-use-streets-101623263771033.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Registrations for MH-CET begin even as state yet to finalise criterion for Class 12 marks||Even as the state government is yet to finalise the criterion for deciding Class 12 marks for state board students, the state common entrance test (CET) cell has started registrations for all upcoming entrance exams for the 2021-22 academic year.In a circular released on Tuesday, CET cell invited all eligible Class 12 students to start online registration and confirmation of application forms along with the required fee starting June 8 and the process will be on till July 7. Forms will also be accepted with a late fee of ₹500 between July 8 and 15. “MH-CET entrance exams for admission to professional courses including engineering/technology, pharmacy and agricultural education for the 2021-22 academic year will be held across various centres in Mumbai and across Maharashtra,” states the circular signed by CET cell commissioner CD Joshi. It further states that the online registration schedule and information brochure for the exam has been made available on the official website, https://mhtcet2021.mahacet.org. “Payment for the exams will only be accepted in the online mode,” the circular said.Earlier this month, both the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council of Indian Secondary Certificate Examinations (CISCE) announced their decision to scrap their respective Class 12 exams keeping the ongoing pandemic in mind. In the same week, Maharashtra government announced the decision to cancel Class 12 exams on similar grounds. Each education board is charting formula/criteria to derive Class 12 marks in order for students to apply for undergraduate admissions. “We are yet to finalise dates for the various exams. For the time being, registrations have commenced to give ample time to applicants to complete the first step of the admissions process,” said an official from state CET cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/registrations-for-mh-cet-begin-even-as-state-yet-to-finalise-criterion-for-class-12-marks-101623263769820.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Draft Master Plan 2041: Focus on density, public spaces in wake of Covid-19||In the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the draft Master Plan of Delhi (MPD) 2041 makes provisions for medical emergencies, with a specific focus on physical distancing, decentralising workspaces, and limiting population density, apart from other post-Covid practices.The draft plan, which was made public for comments on Wednesday, pushes for mixed-use development, creating large public spaces, reducing built densities through planned regeneration to allow distancing during pandemics, as part of its plans to develop “pandemic-resilient” infrastructure.The coronavirus disease pandemic has, for over a year now, forced authorities to issue lockdowns, curb movement and travel, and recommend work-from-home where possible, in a bid to ensure distancing in public places, apart from bringing to light the limitations in the city’s public health infrastructure.Officials of the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) said the problem of population density needs to be addressed using planning provisions.“Decentralised workspaces will be promoted in the form of co-working spaces, shared workspaces within slum rehabilitation projects, support for home-based work, and more. Further, common community spaces must be set up, so that they can be utilised as refuge spots, common kitchens or quarantine spaces as required,” said an official of the land-owning agency.Last year, DDA asked the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), which has drafted the MPD-2041 with the development agency, to incorporate provisions for pandemic resilient infrastructure in Delhi.Hitesh Vaidya, director of NIUA, said, “This pandemic has shown that it cannot be business as usual anymore. Health services need to be integrated with the rest of the city’s infrastructure. There is also a need to plan neighbourhoods in detail.”During the pandemic, several school buildings, vacant housing complexes and stadiums were used to set up temporary Covid care centres. To this effect, DDA officials said the master plan must provide for multi-facility plots (particularly in dense, unplanned areas) that can be temporarily repurposed, if needed, during a disaster.In the past two decades, Delhi has witnessed outbreaks and epidemics of diseases like dengue, H1N1 and now Covid-19.MPD-2041 also stresses the need for better designed buildings in order to reduce the dependence on mechanical ventilation systems, which pose a threat during airborne epidemics, such as the coronavirus.Apart from pandemic resilience, the master plan also has provisions to reduce seismic vulnerability and the chances of floods in urban areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/draft-master-plan-2041-focus-on-density-public-spaces-in-wake-of-covid19-101623263769224.html
10-06-2021||Other||Master Plan-2041: Reuse and conserve crucial to meeting Delhi’s water needs||New Delhi: Delhi Development Authority’s (DDA) Master Plan 2041 draft policy stressed ways to plug water wastage in the city by reusing and conserving water. “Delhi is a water-scarce city and pressure on available water resources has increased manifold due to population growth wasteful consumption and systemic loss of water. There are visible accounts of decline in groundwater levels, heavy pollution in Yamuna River and frequent waterlogging instances across Delhi,” the draft policy read. In the document, the DDA stressed that an integrated urban water management (IUWM) approach be adopted for Delhi where water supply, wastewater management and stormwater drainage can be interconnected for having water-linked infrastructures in an urban water cycle. “Surface water, rainwater, wastewater and groundwater are considered here as four access points of water that have to be managed together. The focus is on reducing reliance on surface water and groundwater and realising the potential of the non-traditional sources of water for the future water needs of Delhi. The IUWM approach maximizes efficient water use,” it read. Quoting the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) data, DDA said that in 2020 Delhi’s total demand was 1140 million gallons per day (MGD), as against the supply of 935MGD. This demand is expected to increase to 1746 MGD by 2031, before it goes down again in 2041 to 1455 MGD. “Due to the limited availability of raw water to Delhi, DJB targets of demand of potable water for domestic use need to be rationalized and progressively reduced to 50 GPCD (gallons per capita per day) and supplemented by using non-potable recycled water of desired quality standard for non-potable purposes,” the DDA document highlighted. The Master Plan 2041 draft highlighted the management of wastewater. “To alleviate the flooding conditions in various parts of the city, stormwater drainage infrastructure needs to be made efficient. So, it is pertinent to apply corrective spatial strategies to address the deficient drainage infrastructure and introduce low-cost flood- prevention measures such as water body rejuvenation, using parks for rainwater harvesting etc. Further, solid waste and sewage need to be managed so that flow of stormwater is not hindered,” the document suggested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/master-plan-2041-reuse-and-conserve-crucial-to-meeting-delhi-s-water-needs-101623263710596.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Doctors remove Covid patient’s cardiac tumour in Mira Road||A team of doctors of a Mira Road hospital removed a 50-gram rare cardiac tumour which had grown in the heart of a 28-year-old Covid-positive woman from Kolhapur.Dr Upendra Bhalerao, surgeon, Wockhardt Hospital, Mira Road, said the patient had complained of breathlessness, swelling over legs and was on high oxygen support. Echocardiography revealed a 7cm x 6.5cm x 5cm massive tumour in the right-side upper chamber (atrium) of her heart which was blocking the blood flow to lungs. “It is a cardiac tumour called myxoma and not treating her at the right time may have led to death,” said Dr Bhalerao.“We first treated her with steroids and Remdesivir for Covid-19, After 10 days, she underwent a high-risk surgery to remove the cardiac tumour,” he said. The tumour was completely removed from the atrial septum after a six-hour surgery. He added that the patient was moved to the ward after four days in the intensive care unit (ICU), and then discharged home in a week after the surgery. The doctor said the patient’s heart is in stable condition with normal blood oxygen saturation. He added that as symptoms of several heart and lung conditions overlap with those of Covid-19, all patients should be thoroughly evaluated based on all symptoms to uncover underlying diseases, if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doctors-remove-covid-patient-s-cardiac-tumour-in-mira-road-101623263709852.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Draft Master Plan lists measures to save ‘green and blue’ assets||The draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041 envisages building a sustainable infrastructure that will help the national capital curb local sources of pollution such as dust from construction sites and vehicular emissions, as well as redeveloping the city’s ‘green and blue’ assets, referring to the city’s forest and green cover and its water bodies.The draft of the plan document, prepared by the Delhi Development Authority, was put in the public domain on Wednesday for suggestions. Once approved, the plan will provide policy framework for the development of the city till 2041.This time, environmental degradation and mitigating strategies have been put in focus since Delhi has to face alarming levels of air pollution specially in winters each year because of a combination of local, external and weather factors.Besides redevelopment and protection of both forest and green cover as well as the Yamuna and other water bodies, the draft plan envisages building infrastructure in a way that connects people with their natural heritage.“The aim is to provide a comprehensive framework to treat green and blue assets (natural and planned) as green-blue infrastructure to facilitate better continuum and strategies for tackling pollution, for protection and enhancement of natural assets with a public interface, to build new city-level assets such as greenways along natural drains, repurposing underutilised sites and wastelands as green-blue assets, and greening of plots and buildings and introduction to green-blue Factor (GBF) for plan approval,” the draft read.The green-blue plan suggests that to protect the depleting number of trees in Delhi, a tree directory will be prepared by all agencies concerned in their respective areas. The agencies will be tasked with identifying unique tree corridors or precincts, heritage trees, precincts with high carbon storage and sequestration rates, etc. Such trees or tree clusters shall be protected and controlled in terms of planting of indigenous trees and integrated with cultural trails or nature trails.Considering that Delhi is yet to have a tree census, such an initiative is likely to help agencies keep an exact count of the number, location, type and age of the trees in their jurisdiction. This will also help authorities keep track of instances of illegal tree felling.To preserve and improve the conditions of water bodies and their floodplains, the draft plan proposes natural resources to be marked as ‘areas under environmental protection’. These areas will be marked by delineated boundaries and a separate database will be created to monitor their protection and maintenance. Also, it was proposed to restrict development near and on such sites.Saying “Delhi’s history and cultural ethos is closely linked with the Yamuna”, the draft plan lists special initiatives for the rejuvenation of the river and its floodplains. These measures include 300-metre green buffer along the entire edge of the river, developing cycling and walking trails along the embankments, restricting all permanent construction on the floodplain and identifying specific spots for cultural and agricultural activities.Emphasising that curbing air and water pollution in the city will require efforts by several states, the draft plan says that all member NCR states and respective pollution control boards need to follow the regulations and standards laid down by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).In order to control dust, which is the main contributor of particulate matter pollutants in the city’s air, the draft plan proposes that all development projects must follow dust mitigation measures in handling construction material and construction and demolition waste. “A dust management plan will be submitted as per CPCB or any other guidelines. Construction sites shall be monitored regularly by the local bodies to ascertain the implementation,” the draft plan read.Government data quoted in by the DDA stated that local PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) pollution is 26% during summers and 36% during winter.It also underlined the importance of checking pollution of surface water bodies and ground water to be addressed on priority. The draft plan calls for comprehensive strategies for preserving and enhancing streams, drains, lakes and wetlands, ponds and baolis.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), said the DDA has ensured that there is a multi-sectoral understanding of the environmental crisis that Delhi is facing. However, she said, the master plan could be pushed further by setting tighter deadlines for managing polluting sectors to ensure early and efficient results.“What needs to be appreciated is that environment is not seen as a stand-alone category, each segment of the document, such as transport, industries, water management, links to the overall environmental issue. Finally, we are also recognising separately the various factors that contribute to pollution, and this will help us tackle this problem better,” Roychowdhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/draft-master-plan-lists-measures-to-save-green-and-blue-assets-combat-pollution-101623263709223.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Drop in private vehicle use, better last-mile transit in vision document||Agencies in the national capital will have to ensure a 1% drop in private vehicular trips every year and increase the use of public and shared transport by the same quantum each year, said the draft Master Plan of Delhi (MPD) 2041, which was made public for comments on Wednesday.The draft, which will serve as a vision document for the city’s development over the next 20 years, aims to improve the city’s mobility network by making public transport available to residents within walking distance, building strategic road links to decongest the city, disincentivising travel in private vehicles through congestion pricing and dynamic parking charges, and reimagining the Ring Rail.Experts who reviewed the draft MPD 2041 said the document correctly addresses the city’s changing transport requirements, even as it leaves some of the basics intact. For instance, shared mobility in the form of app-based taxi and the concept of carpooling have been included in the city planning document for the first time. At the same time, the document also reiterates a long-standing demand for a Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMPTA).The document also requires that agencies draft a Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) to integrate all levels and modes of urban transport and move towards low-carbon transit systems.The Delhi Economic Survey (2019-20) said though the annual growth rate of vehicle sales almost halved to 4.4% for the 2019-20 fiscal,the number of vehicles in the city has more than doubled to 643 per thousand people, from 317 in 2005-06. This increase has also consequently led to a surge in parking demand.Delhi has more than 10 million registered vehicles, of which 7.3 million are two-wheelers, shows state government data.State transport minister Kailash Gahlot said MPD 2041 calls for greater coordination and cooperation of all agencies in the city, including the Delhi government, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), the Delhi Police and the civic bodies.“It is good to see that the MPD 2041 mentions Delhi’s parking policy, which is one-of-its kind in India, at length and has reiterated that the municipal corporations must expedite formulating their respective area parking management plans. The draft MPD is mostly a wrap of the Delhi government’s flagship transport projects, including the electric vehicle policy, premium bus scheme, real-time public information system for buses and the plan to convert bus depots into multi-level facilities to increase parking space,” he said.Gahlot added Delhi has more than 6,700 state-run buses, which will increase to around 11,000 buses in the coming years.“We are also redeveloping all bus terminals, setting up new ones and making transit-oriented development (TOD) nodes at Kashmere Gate, Anand Vihar and Sarai Kale Khan. The RRTS [Regional Rapid Transit System] and the expansion of the Delhi Metro are going to help create some of the biggest multi-modal transport hubs of the country in Delhi,” he said.The document also recommends corridors that will act as “road links”, or extensions of existing or proposed arterial corridors to improve inter-city connectivity, including the Urban Extension Road 2.The document notes that buses are the preferred and most accessible public transport system.“A detailed analysis of Public Transport Accessibility Levels (PTAL) shall be adopted for the city. This shall be operationalised through an expert agency to be updated and notified from time to time. PTAL mapping will help evaluate the public transport outreach and spatially distinguish high-accessibility areas from low. The analysis shall include all shared modes with fixed routes and fixed fares, including contract IPT modes such as Gramin Seva, autorickshaws, maxi cabs, RTVs, etc., apart from buses, metro rail and their feeder services. Based on such an analysis, the entire city can be divided into different grades,” it stated.The MPD also said the emergence of shared mobility options, complemented by the expansion of the metro network, is gradually changing mobility choices made by commuters from private ownership to shared or public transport-oriented options. It also suggests running special Metro and bus services at night, apart from operating express transport routes.“Ring Rail, a part of Delhi’s legacy infrastructure, is being used for transporting freight and is presently running at only 50% of its potential passenger ridership. While the Ring Rail plays a significant role in freight transport and keeps almost 20,000 trucks off Delhi’s roads, its role in transporting people needs to be re-imagined,” the document said.To promote the use of cleaner transport systems, the MPD mandates all new fuel stations to have space for charging infrastructure. “Fuel stations, Metro station parking, railway parking areas, authorised on-street parking or other government-owned parking shall be retrofitted with EV [electric vehicle] charging infrastructure,” it said.To address the marginal rise in cycling use and make the city more pedestrian-friendly, the document proposes that ‘active travel areas’ be identified around high activity hubs and that “walk plans” be prepared for these areas to improve pedestrian and cycling infrastructure, including cycling highways.The vision document also lays out a hierarchy of roads to be followed in the city. These include national highways (60-90 metres wide), arterial roads (30-60m), collector roads (12-30m) and local streets (less than 12m). Of the four categories, only local streets have been prescribed to have slow moving traffic (through traffic calming measures), along with pedestrian lanes.Madhav Pai, executive director of the WRI India Ross Center, said the draft MPD 2041 is contradictory in some aspects.“The ambition to improve walking and cycling is great, but this vision is against the fast roads proposed in the draft MPD. Fast roads (wider than 45 metres) should be designed for speeds less than 60kmph and for roads narrower than 30m. The design speed should be less than 30kmph,” he said.Pai hoped that UMTA, a demand that has not implemented in two decades, will be constituted now.“The MPD sets out a good vision for transport. Implementation will require strong co-ordination, negotiation between the central, state and local governments. So, operationalising the UMTA as early as possible will be important,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-draft-master-plan-2041-drop-in-pvt-vehicle-use-better-last-mile-transit-in-vision-document-101623263649793.html
10-06-2021||Pune||PMC fails to meet deadline on pre-monsoon works||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has failed to complete its pre-monsoon works by the June 10 deadline it set for itself. With roads dug up across the city, people are facing a severe inconvenience.Cleaning of nullahs has also not been completed, activists allege. Pre-monsoon work starts in April and is completed by the end of May. This year, tenders were floated late and it delayed the pre-monsoon work, despite the streets being empty of traffic because of the lockdown. As per report submitted by various departments, PMC officials claim that 90 per cent of the pre-monsoon works have been completed. The on-ground situation contradicts this claim. Data shared by the PMC’s sewage, maintenance and repair departments states that of the 526km of nullahs in the city, PMC has cleaned 500 km. Of the 338 culverts, 310 have been cleaned. There are 105 critical nullah spots in the city. Of that, PMC has been able to clean 90 so far. Road restoration work is also still not complete. VG Kulkarni, chief superintendent engineer of the road department, said, “We have stopped all major road work. Laying of roads will take at least two more days to complete. Bajirao road has major development work pending.” Shivraj Sanas, a resident of Mandai, said, “We cannot walk. There is a traffic jam in the peth areas due to incomplete road work. Roads become slippery and we cannot drive our vehicles. Monsoons have started and I don’t know when it will be completed.”“I don’t know why the PMC fails to complete pre-monsoon work before the monsoon starts,” said Suni Bhavsar, a resident of Narayan peth. Areas that normally witness water logging include Kothrud, Yerawada, J M road, Sahakarnagar, the peth areas, Anandnagar, Vitthalwadi, Sun City road and Pulachiwadi.Work pendingTotal length of storm drainage lines - 145,200 metresStill to be cleaned – 54,076m Total number of storm water chambers - 23,980 Still to be cleaned – 6,089 Total number of critical nullah spots - 105 Still to be cleaned – 15 Total number of culverts - 338 Still to be cleaned - 30||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-fails-to-meet-deadline-on-pre-monsoon-works-101623263649236.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||QS Ranking: IIT-Bombay still top Indian institute, global rank 177||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) continued to be the top ranking Indian university in the QS World Ranking 2022 released Wednesday, even as the institute dropped five places in its overall ranking.With an overall score of 46.4, IIT-B secured a world ranking of 177, down from last year’s 172. The institute was eight places above its sister campus in Delhi, which scored 45.9, and nine places above the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, which scored 45.7. These are the only three Indian institutes to make it to the top 200 universities in the list released by global ranking agency Quacquarelli Symonds, London, the United Kingdom.Apart from IIT-B, 21 other Indian universities, including IIT-Madras, Kanpur, Kharagpur, Guwahati, and Roorkee found a place in the top 1,000 universities of the world, ranked by QS.Every year, QS ranks universities around the world based on its evaluation metrics, each carrying different weightage. This year 1,300 universities were evaluated for six metrics: academic reputation (40% weightage), employer reputation (10%), faculty-student ratio (20%), citations per faculty (20%), international faculty ratio (5%) and international student ratio (5%).IIT-B, which was the 37th best university in Asia last year, dropped one place this year. Subhasis Chaudhari, director of IIT-B, said, “In the faculty-to-student ratio section, we lost out some marks as our number of students have increased at a much higher proportion. In all other verticals, we have earned more points. We need to hire more faculty members, but we need to have better infrastructure to absorb them. Infrastructure upgradation, however, is a slow process.”Among state universities, Savitribai Phule Pune University improved its ranking this year by moving up to 591-600 group from 651-700 last year. University of Mumbai (MU) maintained its rank in the range of 1,001 to 1,200. Of the 35 Indian universities that made it to the list, MU ranked third last in terms of its score.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/qs-ranking-iit-bombay-still-top-indian-institute-global-rank-177-101623263591042.html
10-06-2021||Pune||Pune witnesses first monsoon rainfall of this season||PUNE The Southwest Monsoon has further advanced in parts of Maharashtra, including Mumbai. On Wednesday, Pune witnessed its first monsoon rainfall of this season. Shivajinagar reported 3 millimetre (mm) and Lohegaon reported 2 mm of rain.The sky was cloudy on Wednesday followed by a light drizzle at various places across the city.Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department, said on Wednesday that the monsoon has covered as much as 80 per cent of the state.“For the last two days, there was no advancement of the southwest monsoon. However, on Wednesday it covered 80 per cent of Maharashtra. As a result we have declared the onset of monsoon over Mumbai as well. The northern limit of the monsoon passes through Valsad, Malegaon and Nagpur,” said Kashyapi.He further added that ghat areas around Pune may receive isolated heavy rainfall from June 11 to June 15.“There are chances of light to moderate rainfall in Pune city as well till June 15. The maximum temperature will be around 27 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature will be around 22 degrees Celsius,” said Kashyapi.Pune, Satara, Mahabaleshwar and many cities in Konkan and Goa also received rainfall on Wednesday. In Marathwada, no rainfall was reported. However, Vidarbha Akola, Nagpur and Amravati reported rainfall.IMD officials noted that parts of Maharashtra may receive heavy rainfall in the next few days.“Due to the strengthening of westerly winds along the west coast in association with the low pressure area, widespread rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to continue over coastal districts of Maharashtra till June 15,” said IMD officials.Kashyapi added that along with Konkan and Goa, other subdivisions will also receive good rainfall in the next few days.“Isolated parts of Madhya Maharashtra, Vidarbha and Marathwada may receive isolated heavy rainfall till June 13. In Vidarbha, chances of gusty winds, thunderstorms and lightning are also very likely,” said Kashyapi. Kashyapi added that the monsoon in 2021 is likely to cover the entire state of Maharashtra three days prior to the normal onset date of June 15.On Wednesday, the highest maximum temperature was 37 degrees Celsius at Washim in Maharashtra, and the lowest minimum temperature was 16.7 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-witnesses-first-monsoon-rainfall-of-this-season-101623263589237.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covid growth still high in 6 districts||Maharashtra on Wednesday added 10,989 Covid-19 cases, taking tally to 5,863,880. The state added 661 deaths, including 400 reconciled, pushing toll to 101,833. Mumbai, meanwhile, continued to record less than 1,000 cases for the ninth consecutive day with 785 new cases and 27 fatalities.Even as Maharashtra is witnessing a downward curve for the past few weeks, districts in Konkan and western Maharashtra still report a chunk of daily cases. Six districts — Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Pune — contribute over 50% of state’s daily cases. Experts and health department officials said the viral activity works in a differential manner and the areas showing higher number of cases will eventually come down.According to the data, rural and urban areas from the six districts contributed over 50% of the state’s total cases. Since June 6, these six districts added 23,138 cases, which was 51.81% of the state’s total cases during this period. On Wednesday, Ratnagiri (536), Sindhudurg (540), Pune (1,368), Satara (845), Kolhapur (1,467) and Sangli (984) districts added 5,740 of the 10,989 new cases, which is 52.23%.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services (Maharashtra) and advisor to the state government on Covid-19, said the pandemic does not behave in the same manner across geography. “Maharashtra is as big as any European country, so we expect the districts will show a differential and it is being demonstrated. In western Maharashtra, particularly Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, and Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg in the Konkan region, are not showing a distinct decline that we are seeing in other parts of the state. Such things occur wherever there is a delay in introduction of virus. When Mumbai and Pune were on the peak, these districts were at a better stage, comparatively. The urban areas are recovering faster than the rural areas as the infection gets introduced a bit later, therefore more cases are seen from rural areas,” he said.He added that when there was hectic viral activity in Amravati, Akola and Nagpur in February-end to March, Pune, Mumbai and other parts did not have many cases at that time. “Now those [Vidarbha] districts are on a downward trend. But Pune district is still high,” Dr Salunkhe added.Salunkhe added that the overall downward trend should not make the administration and the state government lax. He added that the state still needs to move “cautiously” in opening up activities. The state has fixed parameters including positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds to allow the level of unlocking in districts and municipal areas. A review will be taken on Thursday for districts that could see unlocking or imposition of restrictions for the next week.“I am not happy with the things happening in Maharashtra. Let us not be fooled by the declining curve. Pandemic are well known to fool the people through downward curve. It does not guarantee that it won’t turn upward. I am regularly warning the government about it… I am worried about the unlocking. I have spoken to the health minister; I will speak to the chief minister (CM) and deputy CM on Friday,” Salunkhe said.A senior health department official said the state has not allowed blanket lifting of restrictions. “One cannot shut all activities permanently. As the viral activity is fluid, the state has adopted a dynamic way to allow or disallow activities in a district or city area. If a particular district or city shows higher positivity rate or increase in oxygen bed occupancy, the restrictions will be made tighter,” the official said requesting anonymity. CM Uddhav Thackeray and his cabinet colleagues will be given a presentation on the weekly Covid situation in the state in the cabinet meeting scheduled to be held on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-growth-still-high-in-6-districts-101623263529254.html
10-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra administers 25 million doses; over 5 million citizens got both shots||Maharashtra on Wednesday achieved a milestone by surpassing the 25-million mark for vaccine doses administered so far. The state has fully vaccinated over 5 million beneficiaries in the state, since the drive began on January 16.The state, according to data on the CoWIN portal, has administered 25,038,076 doses till 9pm on Wednesday, of which 20,029,244 are first doses and 5,008,832 are second doses. Nearly five months into the vaccination programme, around 22% of the 91,435,000 eligible citizens across the state have received the first dose, while 5.47% got both doses. State immunisation officer DN Patil said the pace of vaccination has been consistent for the past few days as the state has been inoculating around 250,000-275,000 beneficiaries daily. “The pace is good and our efforts are to get around 30-35% of the population covered with at least one dose, at the earliest,” said Patil.On Wednesday, Maharashtra administered 295,674 vaccine doses till 9pm, according to CoWIN portal. Of the doses administered, 224,735 were first doses while 70,939 beneficiaries took their second shot. Due to heavy rainfall, Mumbai’s daily vaccination figures saw a drastic decline. From over 96,000 doses administered on Tuesday, city registered only 50,807 inoculations on Wednesday. One vaccination centre in Madanpura was shut in south Mumbai owing to water logging in its premises. Meanwhile, on Thursday vaccination for all age groups will be conducted via appointment basis only.Other districts that showed high turnout for inoculation are Pune (43,349), and Thane (21,860) districts, followed by Nashik (15,516), Ahmednagar (14,151) and Jalgaon (12,884), as per the portal’s data.(Inputs from Mehul R Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-administers-25-million-doses-over-5-million-citizens-got-both-shots-101623263470374.html
10-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Physically challenged travel miles to reach special vaccination camp||Ghaziabad: Sixty-year-old Bhagwat Swaroop, a resident of Loni who is physically challenged, was one of the 100 beneficiaries who toiled hard to reach the district headquarters in Ghaziabad on Wednesday to get a Covid-19 vaccine shot at the special camp organised for such people. He said that despite his condition, he reached the vaccination site for which he had to travel about 22km. The camp was organised at Vikas Bhawan by the district administration. The officials said that by the end of the day, with the help of some NGOs, they achieved 100% coverage and administered the vaccine to 100 beneficiaries who were in age groups 18-45 and above 45 years. “Last week I got a call from Vikas Bhawan to attend the camp. I started around 8.30am and returned home by 2pm. I had to change three autos to reach the site. It was a tough task to go so far. It would have been better if the camp was organised in Loni. I also took my son-in-law along to help me out,” Swaroop said. “When I reached the camp, I waited till 11.30 as the vaccine had not arrived. We were told that the camp will start at 10am,” he added. Like Swaroop, many others reached the camp from far off places despite their physical condition, while some were brought in by NGOs through their transport.Monu Kumar, another physically challenged man, also reached the camp from Jalalabad village in Muradnagar which is about 18km away from the district headquarters. “I took a local transport to the main bus stand and then took a bus to reach the camp site. After waiting for 40-45 minutes, I got my first dose. It was a long journey for me considering my physical condition. A vaccination camp in Muradnagar would have been a better option for people like us,” he said. Social activists said that the administration should avoid holding such camps at central locations. “Instead, there should have been camps near to the residences of such people either at block level or at local body level. The administration should, in fact, reach out to such persons rather than calling them to their doorsteps. Travelling to and from the site would have been very painful for such beneficiaries amid high temperature. So, such camps should be completely avoided,” said Rajeev Sharma, a city-based human rights’ activist. When approached about the issue, district’s chief development officer Asmita Lal said that the beneficiaries were willing to take up vaccination and arrived to attend the camp. “We roped in NGOs which arranged buses to ferry many beneficiaries and also made proper arrangement at the camp. The camp also helped such persons in getting registrations, and henceforth they will get vaccinated in their respective areas at block level or their nearest community health centre. Our aim was to encourage vaccination among people of such groups as many were hesitant to come forward for vaccination,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-physically-challenged-travel-miles-to-reach-special-vaccination-camp-101623263469760.html
10-06-2021||Noida||Four injured after a lift fall at service centre in Sahibabad||Ghaziabad: As many as four persons suffered multiple injuries when a lift used for carrying vehicles crashed at a car service centre in the Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area Wednesday afternoon.According to the police, they were informed of the incident in the afternoon. When they reached the spot, however, the four victims had been rushed to the Yashoda Hospital, Kaushambi.“We did not receive any information from the service centre and came to know through other sources. The lift was ferrying a car from the third floor to the ground floor with four persons, including one in the car. Then it reached the ground floor and later came crashing to the basement area,” said Ran Singh, station house officer of the Link Road police station. “It probably took place due to some technical snag. Four persons, including three staff members and a customer, suffered injuries and are under treatment. We have not received any complaint so far into the incident,” he added. The police identified the four as Gaurav Kumar, 26, Mohammad Naved, 28, Brij Bhushan, 37 and Sunil Kumar, 28. “Three of them are in the ICU. They suffered fractures, cuts, abrasions and other injuries. Their condition is, however, stable,” said a spokesperson from the Yashoda Hospital, Kaushambi. The officials of the service centre meanwhile claimed that everything was “normal”. “The things are normal,” said Ish Kumar, general manager of the service centre said, without choosing to elaborate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-injured-after-a-lift-fall-at-service-centre-in-sahibabad-101623263469209.html
10-06-2021||Noida||Covid vaccination: GB Nagar covers 45% of eligible population||NOIDA: With 7,78,823 doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered till Tuesday, Gautam Budh Nagar has recorded the highest vaccine coverage among the six districts in the Meerut division. The district administration officials said that by the end of July, every eligible person in the district will get at least one dose of the vaccine.The officials said that GB Nagar has so far covered nearly 45% of those eligible to take the shot. Nearly 1.4 million people in the district are eligible to take the Covid-19 vaccine, they said. According to the Co-WIN data, while neighbouring Ghaziabad district stands second (in Meerut division) on the list with 6,86,814 doses, Meerut district is on the third position with 6,78,555 shots. The data also shows that GB Nagar stands on second position in terms of total doses administered so far across 75 districts in Uttar Pradesh, after Lucknow – the state’s capital – where 10,75,902 vaccine doses have been administered till Tuesday. The GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, said that the enthusiasm shown by the people taking the jabs – especially from the age group of 18 to 45 years – is commendable. “GB Nagar is always exposed to Delhi, where the infection rate was always high, more than other districts of western UP. That’s why, since the first phase, we have always set a high target for vaccination and never failed to achieve it. We have so far covered over 45% of the population, which is eligible for vaccination right now. If the ratio of vaccination with population is taken, GB Nagar will stand much ahead among all the districts in the state,” he said. The DM also said that to ensure maximum number of people get vaccinated, the district administration is going to start a vaccination drive in urban slums from Thursday. “To ensure a smooth operation of this drive, some NGOs have expressed their eagerness in taking part in it. Very soon, we’ll launch similar drives for the rickshaw, auto and cab drivers, besides the delivery boys of different companies,” he said. Echoing similar views, district chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that vaccination is important to prevent the probable third wave. “Our officials have made necessary arrangements for providing required vaccine stock so that more and more people are immunised. People are showing a great response to vaccination as it helps prevent hospitalisation in majority of the cases,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-vaccination-gb-nagar-covers-45-of-eligible-population-101623263409926.html
10-06-2021||Noida||Private hospitals in Noida stare at loss as vaccine prices capped||The Centre’s move to cap prices of administering vaccine has come as a blow to private hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar that would have to incur a heavy loss. Despite this, many said they would continue with the vaccination drive.On Tuesday, the Centre said it would procure 75% of the vaccine manufacturer’s stock and distribute it free to all states from June 21. Private hospitals, meanwhile, could access only the remaining stock from the manufactures, and had to cap the price of Covishield at ₹780, Covaxin at ₹1,410 and Sputnik V at ₹1,145 per dose immediately. Private hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar, which have been conducting vaccinations on their premises and even off-site, say that the landing cost of the vaccine (from procurement from vaccine makers to vaccination) was around ₹750-800 for Covishield and around ₹1,450 for Covaxin, while Sputnik V is yet to be deployed in the city. Felix Hospital in Sector 137 had been administering Covishield for ₹900. It has also been holding a 24/7 vaccination drive. Dr DK Gupta, chairman and managing director of Felix Hospital in Sector 137, said, “There are miscellaneous charges attached to the cost of the vaccine, including transportation, cold chain storage, deploying staff, ensuring disposables like gloves, syringes, and emergency care equipment that has to be kept on standby in case of adverse effects.(The new rate will mean) we will have to incur 10% loss.” “From June 21, we will have to apply on a central government portal that will be regulated by the state government. We will apply for vaccines as per our earlier plans but not sure how much we will be able to get from the manufacturers, as per the new policy,” said Dr Gupta. According to the central government order, the portal will help smaller and remoter private hospitals to obtain timely supply of vaccines.Two big private hospitals of the district, Max and Fortis, refused to comment on the issue.Sharda Hospital has been conducting 24/7 vaccination camps too and charged ₹850 for a dose of Covishield. At off-site vaccination sites, the charges were the same. Dr Ajeet Kumar, public relations officer from Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida, said, Private hospitals have also tied up with corporate offices and residential societies in the city. In such camps, we send our staff and equipment, and all that will cost more.” On whether the hospital will break their tie-ups with residential societies, he said, “We will continue to honour our commitments.” Dr Sunil Balyan, chief medical superintendent at Bisrakh’s Yatharth Hospital, said they will update their prices. The hospital was administering Covaxin for ₹1,460 earlier. “The hospital was procuring Covaxin from manufacturer at ₹1260. Including logistic and human resource cost, each dose had cost us ₹1,450. So, we were already working on a ‘no-profit-no loss’ model. Now we will have to incur a ₹50 loss. We have tie-ups with some residential societies in the area and we will update the cost of vaccination as per government guidelines.” Dr NK Sharma, president of the Indian Medical Association (Noida) said, “We need to think of the larger good. Capping price is in favour of those who were unable to access to free government vaccination centres.” GB Nagar Chief Medical Officer Dr Deepak Ohri said, “The district health department will monitor the prices charged by private hospitals as per guidelines from the government.” Going forward, Sharda Hospital, Felix Hospital and Yatharth Hospital said that they will continue to procure vaccines as per their earlier plan. “However, starting June 21, we will have to apply on a government portal that will aggregate demand of vaccines from all private hospitals and specify quota for each one keeping in mind equitable distribution. We will apply for vaccines as per our earlier plans but not sure how much we will be able to get from the manufacturers, as per the new policy,” said Dr Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/private-hospitals-in-noida-stare-at-loss-as-vaccine-prices-capped-101623263409208.html
10-06-2021||Other||Centre’s revised guidelines likely to boost Covid-19 vaccination drive in Uttar Pradesh||The central government’s revised guidelines for implementation of the national Covid vaccination programme are likely to give a thrust to the vaccination drive in Uttar Pradesh. The new guidelines will be effective from June 21.Health and family welfare minister Jai Pratap Singh said the central government had announced that vaccine doses would be allocated to states on criteria such as population, disease burden and progress of vaccination.“The central government has also stated that wastage of vaccine will affect the allocation of the doses negatively,” he said.“Uttar Pradesh has already cut the vaccine wastage from 20% to 2%. We are working to bring the wastage down to zero. Some districts are already reporting zero wastage of Covid vaccines. The health department is giving regular training to vaccinators to check wastage,” he said.“Uttar Pradesh with a population of over 24 crore has already given 2.07 crore doses, the highest in the country. The state government is working to increase the daily administration of doses,” Singh said.The central government will provide information about the doses to be supplied to Uttar Pradesh by June 21.The Uttar Pradesh government had floated a global tender on May 5 to procure 40 million doses of Covid vaccines from national and international vaccine manufacturers. The state government had extended the last date for the submission of the bids, first to May 31 and then to June 10.Now with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s announcement that the central government will supply the required vaccine doses to the states, the state government need not procure the vaccines from private companies.“I hope no company will submit the bid in view of PM’s announcement on Monday,” Singh said.Uttar Pradesh has already procured 10 lakh doses of Covid vaccines for beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group from the Hyderabad-based Bharat- Biotech and the Pune-based Serum Institute of India.The state government has made advance payment to both the companies to ramp up its vaccine stock.“Once both the companies complete the supply of the doses, we will get the remaining stock from the central government,” he said.Under the revised guidelines, the central government has made it clear that all the citizens, irrespective of their income status, are entitled to free vaccination. Those who have the ability to pay are encouraged to use vaccination centres at private hospitals.The central government has also told the state government that CoWIN portal provides every citizen the facility of convenient and safe pre-booking of appointment for vaccination.“All government and private vaccination centres will also provide onsite registration facility, available both for individuals as well as group of individuals. The state government will finalise the procedure soon. The state government has already provided the booking facility at common service centres,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centres-revised-guidelines-likely-to-boost-vaccination-in-up-101623263169187.html
10-06-2021||Other||Net-based video surveillance systems at rly stations soon||Soon a network of high-tech internet-based video surveillance system would be in place at railway stations across the country to ensure better security of train passengers, especially women.As part of a pan-India exercise, these internet-based video surveillance systems (VSS) have been installed at 269 railway stations across the country, including 16 railway stations of North Central Railways (NCR). Besides the central control monitoring rooms too have been activated in 10 railway zones of the country, including NCR, said railway officials. The project includes integration of existing standalone CCTV network of the railways into the VSS system for centralised monitoring, they added.This is part of the major initiative of the Railway Board wherein 6,049 railway stations of the country are being equipped with this state -of-the-art surveillance system.The work has been assigned to RailTel and the system is being installed from the funds allocated under the Nirbhaya Fund of the central government. CMD of RailTel Puneet Chawla said “We will be completing the work at 756 stations by March next year. We are installing four types of IP cameras to ensure maximum coverage inside the Railway premises. This will give an extra edge to the RPF officials to improve security.”Senior manager of RailTel, Sucharita Pradhan said, “The feed from the network of cameras being installed under this system will be centrally monitored and the footage would be stored for 30 days. To enhance security at railway stations, the CCTV cameras-based systems are being put in place to cover main entrance/exits, platforms, foot over bridges, waiting halls, parking areas etc based on site and security requirements and threat perceptions.”These CCTVs would remain attached to the network with the help of optical fibre cables (OFC) and the video feed of the CCTV cameras will not just be displayed at local RPF outposts but also at a centralised CCTV control room being set up at divisional and zonal levels, she explained. Pradhan said that of the 269 stations, where the system has already been installed, 16 each are from NCR and North Eastern Railways (NER), 47 from Northern Railways (NR) among others. In the days to come the system would work on the basis of video analytics and facial recognition which means that while monitoring the feed, if any suspicious looking person is picked up, the facial recognition system would identify the same on the basis of the existing database of the system, said officials. For the purpose, high-tech cameras are being installed which include bullet, fixed-dome, Pan Tilt Zoom (PTZ) and 4K ultra high-definition cameras.“Network Management System (NMS) is also being provided for monitoring the footage of the cameras which are stored in a server and backed by UPS. The feed could be viewed using web browser and a range of Net-enabled devices including laptop, mobile phone etc, by authorised personnel,” said Pradhan.The official shared that work at 31 more stations was in progress at the moment and would be completed soon. RailTel has also floated tenders for this work at 456 additional stations of the country. “In terms of NCR, the control room has been recently activated at the zonal headquarters at Subedarganj wherein live feed is being watched on two 55-inch display screens,” said CPRO, NCR, Shivam Sharma. Of the 16 stations of NCR, the system has already been installed at Babina (20 cameras), Datia (21 cameras), Aligarh (40 cameras), Gwalior (15 cameras), Mahoba (27 cameras), Phaphund (27 cameras), Tundla (40 cameras), Orai (38 cameras), Etawah (40 cameras), Raja ki Mandi (38 cameras), Agra Fort (40 cameras), Lalitpur (40 cameras), Sikohabad (40 cameras), Firozabad (15), Banda (40 cameras) and Murena (40 cameras).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/netbased-video-surveillance-systems-at-rly-stations-soon-101623255489358.html
10-06-2021||Patna||BJP trying to destabilise Bihar govt, says HAM(S)||Barely six months after the formation of the NDA government in Bihar, the internal strife in the ruling alliance is getting more pronounced.On Wednesday, the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) or the HAM(S), headed by former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, alleged that some BJP leaders were trying to destabilize the government and demanded the formation of a coordination committee of the alliance partners to sort out the things before it is too late.“Some leaders of the BJP are trying to destabilize the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the state. They are issuing statements against the government and thereby giving an opportunity to the opposition to attack the government. It is high time that a coordination committee of NDA constituents is formed before it is too late,” said HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan.The statement drew a prompt response from the BJP.“The NDA in Bihar is working on a common agenda of sustainable development free of crime and corruption. Nitish Kumar as a CM is excellently leading the state, coordinating well with all the alliance partners. NDA is rock solid and unaffected by Individual statements,” said Nikhil Anand, Bihar BJP’s spokesperson.Another party spokesperson and former MLA Prem Ranjan Patel reminded HAM-S that despite BJP being the largest party, it offered chief ministership of the state to the second largest party. “We made chief minister of JD (U). The NDA government is working in perfect co-ordination. Some people are creating confusion and controversy for petty gains. They will be exposed,” he said.JD (U) leaders refused to join the issue.The latest round of confrontation started on Tuesday when Manjhi tweeted that nobody could break Muslim-Dalit unity, referring to an incident in Purnia last month when a former village head, a Dalit, was killed in an attack by a mob, which also torched about a dozen houses.BJP minister Janak Ram had alleged forced conversion of Dalits. BJP’s state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, in a Facebook post, had criticised the government over attacks on Dalits.Earlier, Manjhi had questioned the use Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Covid vaccination certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-trying-to-destabilise-bihar-govt-says-hams-101623254709588.html
10-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police bust nationwide fraud syndicate operated by Chinese nationals||More than half a million Indians have been cheated of over ₹150 crore in two months by a nationwide fraud syndicate operated by Chinese nationals in connivance with Indian fraudsters, who were offering lucrative returns on an online multi-level marketing (MLM) campaign through their two “malicious mobile applications” Power Bank and EZPlan , the Delhi Police said on Wednesday.Eleven people, including a Tibetan woman and two chartered accountants (CAs) based in Delhi and Gurugram, were arrested following multiple raids in Delhi-NCR and West Bengal since June 2. The footprints of the syndicate were confirmed in West Bengal, Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru, Odisha, Assam, and Surat, the police said.Nearly ₹11 crore of cheated money was blocked in various bank accounts and online payment gateways that were being operated by the members of the syndicate based in India as well as China. Around ₹97 lakh was recovered from one of the arrested CAs, Avik Kedia, who formed over 110 “shell companies” for Chinese fraudsters to route the money through multiple bank accounts, deputy commissioner of police (cyber crime cell, CyPAD) Anyesh Roy said.Also Read | Delhi Police trains youngsters to bolster healthcare servicesDCP Roy said CyPAD officials recently came across several social media posts made by people across the country regarding two mobile apps – “Power Bank and ExPlan” – that offered to double the invested amount in 24-35 days. The apps also offered returns on an hourly and daily basis and had investment options starting from ₹300 to several lakhs.The Power Bank app was available on Google Play Store and trending at No 4. The EZPlan app was available on the website www.ezplan.in. DCP Roy said that since the messages were inducing the recipient to download an app through a short (encrypted) URL, the activity was identified as suspicious and the malware forensic lab of CyPAD-NCFL was asked to examine both the apps.“When analysed, CyPAD officials found that to deceive people, the Power Bank app projected itself as a product of a Bengaluru-based technology start-up. However, the server on which the app was hosted was found to be based in China. The app is associated with several dangerous permissions such as access to camera, read and write to external storage and to read contact details of the cellphone,” said DCP Roy.Investigators analysed the modus operandi of the two apps and found that to entice investors, initially the fraudsters gave a small payout amounting to 5-10% of the invested money. People, believing the scheme to be genuine, started investing more money as well as circulating and sharing the apps with their friends and relatives. Once someone had invested a large amount, their account was blocked by the app, thus causing severe financial loss, said the police.To identify and nab the people behind the scam, a CyPAd officer became a decoy customer, invested a token amount using the app and followed the money trail. The linked payment gateways, UPI IDs, transaction IDs, bank accounts that were used for routing the money were identified and analysed. A web of nearly 25 shell companies for routing the fraud money was traced across the country and it pointed to the involvement of professional accountants. Several mobile phone numbers connected with the bank accounts and involved in the scam were found to have Chinese origins, said DCP Roy.“Further analysis of mobile numbers active in India led to the arrest of Sheikh Robin in West Bengal’s Uluberia on June 2. The same day, nine other suspects were arrested, while a Tibetan woman, Pema Wangmo, was arrested later from Delhi’s IGI Airport, following inputs from the Bengaluru Police that is also probing a similar cheating module. She was acting on behest of the Chinese and creating shell companies with Indian directors,” added Roy.The other arrested persons were identified as Avik Kedia and Ronak Bansal, both CAs, Umakant Akash Joys, Ved Chandra, Hari Om, Abhishek Mansaramani, Arvind , Shashi Bansal and Mithlesh Sharma. At the time of his arrest, Robin had 29 bank accounts and 30 active cellphones. His disclosure revealed a startlingly well-planned conspiracy of cheating and fraud being organized by Chinese nationals through a labyrinth of shell companies, bank accounts, and dummy mobile numbers, the DCP said.“The Chinese fraudsters contacted Robin and others through encrypted mobile apps such as Telegram, Dingtalk and WeChat. The Chinese fraudsters and their local operatives also used sophisticated software and financial tools for automated fund transfer to manage the enormous scale of the fraud. Names of several Chinese nationals have been revealed so far. Investigation in respect of their whereabouts, specific roles and their large fraud network is underway,” added DCP Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-bust-nationwide-fraud-syndicate-operated-by-chinese-nationals-101623237188774.html
10-06-2021||NA||Mumbai Rains Highlights: Light to moderate spells of rainfall in next 3-4 hrs||Mumbai rains today: Southwest monsoon arrived in Mumbai two days earlier than expected, with heavy rainfall lashing the city and other suburban areas of Maharashtra, including Thane, since as early as 4am on Wednesday. As per data shared by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Navi Mumbai received more than 120mm of rain in the preceding 24 hours, while most localities in Mumbai reported between 40 to 70mm of rainfall.The outset of the monsoon in Mumbai has disrupted local train services on the central line while waterlogging was reported in the tracks between railway stations such as Sion and Kurla. On the mainline too, train services are suspended between CSMT and Thane railway stations due to Mumbai rains.Traffic snarls were reported from different parts of Mumbai due to heavy rainfall. Bus services have also been diverted in as many as 30 locations in the city.Follow all the updates here:Local train services resume as rains slowMaharashtra | Train services between CSMT-Kalyan/Karjat/ Kasara, CSMT-Bandra/Goregaon have been resumed: Central RailwaysSeveral routes which were earlier stopped due to severe waterlogging reopened later.NDRF teams on high alert in coastal Maharashtra5 NDRF teams are gearing up to respond in wake of heavy rainfall alert issued by IMD in coastal districts of Maharashtra. 15 teams are being pre-positioned in coastal districts of the state: NDRFAs heavy rains batter coastal Maharashtra, 5 NDRF teams stationed in coastal districts are ready to respond.IMD predicts light to moderate spells of rainfallMumbai city and suburbs very likely to experience light to moderate spell of rainfall with possibility of occasional intense spells during next 3-4 hours: India Meteorological DepartmentThe IMD predicted that Mumbai and its suburbs will receive light to moderate spells of rainfall in the next 3-4 hours.Commuters' woes increase due to heavy rainsMumbai | Commuters face trouble as local train services are affected due to monsoon rains"The railway tracks are waterlogged, I have been waiting at Matunga Station for the past one hour," says a commuter pic.twitter.com/hHyqQEigynSeveral commuters complained that they had to wait for long hours as local train services were affected due to the monsoon rains.IMD issues orange alert for Mumbai, Palghar and Thane for next four daysIMD issues red alert in Mumbai, Palghar & Thane districts for today and orange alert for the next four days pic.twitter.com/wG8uz5XdNTIMD issues orange alert for Mumbai, Palghar and Thane for next four days. The IMD has issued red alert for Mumbai, Palghar and Thane for today.Uddhav visits civic body war roomMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray visits the Disaster Management Cell of Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai, amid heavy rains in the state capital pic.twitter.com/HgcQcrjO08Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray visited the disaster management cell of Greater Mumbai civic body to check preparedness as heavy rains batter India's financial hub.Traffic currently affected at only 3 spots -- Dahisar subway, Sion, and Chunnabhatti: BMC chiefSpeaking to reporters on waterlogging in Mumbai, BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said, "In the morning between 9am-10am, 55-60 mm rainfall was recorded in areas like Sion and Chunnabhatti. Owing to this, rainwater came upon the railway tracks.""Currently, road and railway traffic is affected only at three spots -- namely, Dahisar subway, Sion, and Chunnabhatti," he added.Speaking on the matter of Andheri subway closing down due to waterlogging, Chahal said, "At Andheri subway, the construction of Mogra pumping station is the only solution, and in the coming years, the problems for Andheri subway will get resolved. Further, at Hindmata and Gandhi Market our work is ongoing, and starting next month we will see change. But this time we installed ramps at Hindmata due to which there was no disruption of traffic."No support from Railways for clearing tracks, says mayorWe are not getting support from the Railways as expected on the issue of clearing railway tracks following rainfall here: Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar Earlier visuals from the area between Mumbai's Sion railway station & GTB Nagar railway station pic.twitter.com/gxPlc3sXZuNo one can claim there will be zero waterlogging in Mumbai: Mayor Kishori PednekarSpeaking to reporters on waterlogging in Mumbai, mayor Kishori Pednekar said, "No one has claimed that there will be zero waterlogging in Mumbai due to heavy rainfall, nor can anyone even make such a claim. Only if the water does not recede within four hours, you can say that pre-monsoon work has not been done properly."Mumbai Heavy Rains: Monsoon surge to reach peak intensity between June 13 and 15, says SkymetMonsoon surge in Mumbai will pick up from June 11 and keep accentuating through next week, reaching peak intensity between June 13 and 15: SkymetWeatherSevere waterlogging was reported near Vandana Cinema in ThaneSevere waterlogging was reported near Vandana Cinema in Thane, as the southwest monsoons arrived two days early and lashed several parts of suburban Maharashtra.Flood gates closed due to high tide, says BMCThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that waterlogging was reported at several spots in the city as flood gates were closed due to a high tide of 4.14 meters at 11:43am.The next high tide of 3.62 meters is expected at 11:23pm.Andheri subway closed due to severe waterlogging#WATCH | Maharashtra: Andheri Subway in Mumbai, closed due to severe waterlogging. Several parts of the city are witnessing waterlogging today due to heavy rainfall. #Monsoon pic.twitter.com/heb4iFJRxdMumbai Rain Updates: Waterlogging reported on Santacruz-Chembur Link RoadWaterlogging reported on Santacruz-Chembur Link Road near the Tilak Nagar station in Mumbai.Rains in Mumbai: Weather warning issued for next five days in MaharashtraRegional Meteorological Centre, Mumbai issues weather warning for the next 5 days, for Maharashtra. #Monsoon reached Mumbai today. pic.twitter.com/WUMvigbLqIThe regional meteorological centre in Mumbai has issued a weather warning for the next five days in Maharashtra.Mumbai Rains Today: Waterlogging reported in Hindmata, Gandhi Market, Dadar TTWaterlogging was reported in several areas, including Hindmata, Gandhi Market in King Circle, Dadar TT.According to Mumbai Police, waterlogging is reported in Dharavi, Govandi, Hindmata, Sion junction, and Behrambaug junction. Several took to Twitter reporting waterlogging at Gandhi Market despite moderate rainfall there.Mumbai Rains: Local train services on central line disruptedMumbai’s suburban train services on the central line were disrupted on Wednesday morning. Local train services were suspended between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) at 9.50am on Wednesday after waterlogging was reported between Sion and Kurla railway stations.The local train services between CSMT and Vashi on the harbour line are also suspended since 10.20am due to water-logging near Chunabhatti railway station. Read MoreMumbai Rain Updates: Navi Mumbai receives more than 120mm of rainfall in 24 hoursAccording to the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station in Santacruz, 59.6mm of rainfall was recorded in the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Wednesday, while Colaba reported 77mm of rainfall during that period. Most localities reported rainfall between 40 to 70mm, while Navi Mumbai reportedly received more than 120mm of rain.The city has so far received 185mm of cumulative rainfall in June.Monsoon arrives in Mumbai two days earlyThe southwest monsoon arrived in Mumbai on Wednesday morning, two days earlier than expected onset, with most parts of the city receiving intense showers as early as 4am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-today-live-updates-forecast-weather-monsoon-maharashtra-wednesday-june-9-101623216545179.html
