11-06-2021||Other||ED issues notice to cryptocurrency exchange WazirX over ₹2,790-cr transactions||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued a show-cause notice to leading Indian cryptocurrency exchange Zanmai Labs Pvt Ltd (WazirX) and its directors Nischal Shetty and Sameer Hanuman Mhatre under the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), 1999, for transactions involving cryptocurrencies worth ₹2790.74 crore.Shetty, who is the CEO and founder of WazirX, said they are yet to receive a notice from ED.“WazirX is in compliance with all applicable laws. We go beyond our legal obligations by following Know Your Customer (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) processes and have always provided information to law enforcement authorities whenever required. We are able to trace all users on our platform with official identity information. Should we receive a formal communication or notice from ED, we’ll fully cooperate in the investigation,” Shetty stated.On Friday, an ED statement read that the agency has initiated a FEMA investigation on the basis of the ongoing money laundering investigation into illegal Chinese betting applications.During the course of the investigation, it was seen that the accused Chinese nationals had laundered proceeds of crime worth around ₹57 crore by converting the deposited Indian currencies into cryptocurrency tether (USDT) and then transferring it to Binance Wallets (an exchange registered in Cayman Islands) based on instructions received from abroad, said ED.WazirX allows a wide range of transactions, including exchange of cryptocurrencies with Indian rupee (INR) and vice-versa and cryptocurrencies to P2P (person-to-person) exchange as well as transfer of cryptocurrency held in its pool accounts to wallets of other exchanges which could be received at foreign locations.“WazirX does not collect the requisite documents, which is in clear violation of the basic mandatory AML and combating of financing of terrorism (CFT) precaution norms and FEMA guidelines,” ED stated.In the period under investigation, the users of WazirX via its pool account have received incoming cryptocurrency worth ₹880 crore and transferred cryptocurrency worth ₹1,400 crore to Binance accounts. None of these transactions are available on blockchain for any audit/investigation, read the ED statement. The anti-money laundering agency added that it was found that WazirX’s clients could transfer valuable cryptocurrencies to any person irrespective of location and nationality without any proper documentation, making it a safe haven for users looking for money laundering and other illegitimate activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-issues-notice-to-cryptocurrency-exchange-wazirx-over-2-790-cr-transactions-101623436107495.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body urges citizens to stay away from beach, coastal areas||Owing to the extremely heavy rainfall warning issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) for Mumbai on Sunday and Monday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has appealed citizens to stay away from the sea and coastal areas. Five teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been put on high alert in the city and the civic body is making arrangements to shift hundreds of families residing on the banks of Mithi river, in case water level crosses the danger mark due to heavy rainfall. According to BMC officials, IMD has issued a red alert for Sunday. BMC in a statement said additional dewatering pumps followed by fixing of drainage systems, checking of manholes is being done by the staff to ensure there is no untoward event.Further, municipal schools in all 24 wards of the city are to be turned into temporary shelters in case of excessive rainfall that requires evacuation. BMC said it is putting the flood rescue team of the Mumbai Fire Brigade on standby and that it will coordinate with the Indian Navy and Coast Guard for help in case of extreme situation.Ward officers in areas around Mithi river, such as Worli, Bandra, Andheri, and Malad, have been asked to stay on alert considering these areas are either affected being coastal areas or have rivers that overflow due to excessive rainfall.A BMC official said, “At any given time, in case the Mithi river water level goes above danger level, we will have to shift at least 1,200 residents to safe locations. We have kept the staff on standby and residents will be shifted only if we feel that the water level is increasing dangerously on Sunday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-urges-citizens-to-stay-away-from-beach-coastal-areas-101623436046780.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Haffkine approaches Sputnik and J&J for manufacturing Covid vaccine||To expand its manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccine, state-owned Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited has now approached Sputnik and Johnson and Johnson (J&J) expressing their interest (EoI) for the same.The Maharashtra government has allowed the Haffkine Corporation to hold talks with other firms for manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine.With the help of Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, it is expected to start manufacturing Covaxin, the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine in the next eight months, and has also signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with them recently.“We have written to Johnson & Johnson and Sputnik expressing our interest in manufacturing their vaccine sometime back. Our follow up with them is on. They will study our report and will let us know,” Dr Sandeep Rathod, managing director, Haffkine Institute, confirmed the development.Haffkine is already working to produce 228 million doses of Covaxin vaccine in a year. For this, it is setting up a Biosafety level 3 (BSL-3) laboratory at its premises at Parel in central Mumbai, which is likely to take a few months.In January, the institute had sought permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), for the transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech. The ICMR and Bharat Biotech had co-developed the Covaxin, which was granted emergency use authorisation “in clinical trial mode” by India’s drugs regulator on January 3. Haffkine received approval from the department of biotechnology of the ministry of science and technology on April 15. Following this, the state government too approved the project on April 28. While doing so, it has also been allowed to hold talks with other firms manufacturing the Covid-19 vaccine for expanding its production, the officials said.The state granted ₹94 crore for the project while the Centre too approved a grant of ₹65 crore under Covid Suraksha Yojana.Haffkine Corporation is a subsidiary of Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing, owned by the state government.Haffkine Institute is one of the oldest biomedical research institutes in the country. It was established in 1899 by Dr Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine, an originally Russian microbiologist, who was deputed to then-Bombay to help authorities tackle the Bubonic plague outbreak in 1896. Haffkine started the Plague Research Laboratory and developed a vaccine that he first tested on himself and his assistant. The vaccine was then rolled out to inmates of a Byculla prison – all of whom survived the epidemic and did not contract the plague.The vaccine was then rolled out among the Parsis, one of the first communities that agreed to be vaccinated en masse. The microbiologist is also credited for having developed an anti-cholera vaccine. The laboratory, which was opened in the Governor’s official residence in Parel – a site it has occupied since then – was renamed Haffkine Institute in 1925.The multi-disciplinary institute is engaged in training, research and testing of various aspects of infectious diseases. It is credited with developing several prophylactics in the recent past too, including the anti-rabies serum, anti-venom serum, and the oral polio vaccine.To expand the production activities and to meet the growing demands for medicines and lifesaving drugs, the Maharashtra government bifurcated the Haffkine Institute in 1975. Production of vaccines was entrusted to Haffkine Bio Pharmaceuticals Corporation Limited, a state-owned firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-haffkine-approaches-sputnik-and-j-j-for-manufacturing-covid-vaccine-101623435987364.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||IMD issues red category weather alert for Mumbai on Sunday||With very heavy to extremely heavy rains anticipated this weekend, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded a red category weather warning for Mumbai on Sunday, while Saturday and Monday are under orange category. Citizens have been cautioned to stay at home unless essential.The city received 137mm of rain in the 24 hours ending at 5.30pm on Friday, more than the 107mm rain received the day before, according to IMD’s Santacruz weather station. Mumbai is expected to get at least another 200mm-250mm of rainfall by Monday, along with a thunderstorm. In June so far, the city’s total rainfall including pre-monsoon showers between June 1 and June 8 comes to 670mm, which is 32% more than 505mm — the long-period average for the month. The city exceeded this average on Friday, with the heaviest showers concentrated in the northern suburbs.Most monitoring locations in south Mumbai received less than 5mm of rain between 3pm and 6pm on Friday, while areas closer to Sanjay Gandhi National Park in the north saw around 40mm rain in three hours.“With the formation of a low-pressure zone in the north of Bay of Bengal, there will be an inward movement and intensification of the monsoon trough over Arabian Sea, and this may lead to heavy, very heavy and even extremely heavy rainfall over the Maharashtra coast especially Mumbai, Palghar, Thane and Raigad over the next four to five days,” said KS Hosalikar, head of the IMD’s surface instrument division in Pune.IMD classifies 15.6-64.4mm rain as moderate, 64.5-115.5mm as heavy, 115.6-204.4mm as very heavy, over 204.5mm as extremely heavy rain, and over 300mm as exceptionally heavy rain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/imd-issues-red-category-weather-alert-for-mumbai-on-sunday-101623435986688.html
11-06-2021||Other||Youth Cong leader, 2 from saffron fold join AAP||Moga A Youth Congress leader, a BJP member and an Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) functionary joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), along with hundreds of their grassroots supporters, on Friday. From the Youth Congress, Davinderjeet Singh Laddi Dhos, who was considered close to state finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, joined the party. Laddi and his father remained steadfast Manpreet supporters for long and had joined the Congress, along with him. This was after Manpreet’s idea of forming a People’s Party of Punjab (PPP) did not succeed. Laddi has joined the AAP just a few days after his father’s death. AAP state president and MP Bhagwant Mann formally inducted Laddi, BJP leader Kewal Singh Brar and ABVP leader Harmandeep Mita into the party. “Davinderjeet Singh Laddi is a well-known personality of the area. He, along with Kewal Singh Brar, co-convener of BJP education cell from Moga and Harmandeep Mita, district general secretary of BJP’s student wing ABVP, have joined the AAP to serve Punjab,” said Mann, adding that Laddi’s father Kuldeep Singh Dhos had been a member of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and had contested 2012 assembly polls from the PPP.  “People of Punjab want a change of government in the state. In 2022 elections, they will definitely give a chance to the AAP to serve the state,” Mann added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/youth-cong-leader-2-from-saffron-fold-join-aap-101623435930506.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s SGNP to reopen on Friday||Having been shut since mid-April due to the resurgence of Covid-19 cases and the ensuing lockdown, the Sanjay Gandhi National Park is slated to reopen from June 15, officials confirmed on Friday. The park will be open from 5am to 7.30am for morning walkers, and from 7.30am to 9am for cyclists and other visitors.“However, for the safety of captive animals, the roads going to Safari and Rescue centre are closed,” said G Mallikarjuna, chief conservator of forests, SGNP. The move to reopen, he said, is possible since Mumbai falls under level three of unlock guidelines under the state’s Mission Break the Chain. “We are expecting a sizeable footfall. Earlier this year, we had good crowds right up to end February. They started tapering off only in March when cases began rising,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-sgnp-to-reopen-on-friday-101623435928704.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay looks for ways to subsidise Covid vaccine||Amid growing demand for free vaccines among students, the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B), is now looking for ways to subsidise the doses.Despite registering as a government vaccination centre for Covid-19 vaccines, the hospital on campus has not been able to procure vaccine doses. The institute is now planning to hold a vaccination drive with the help of private hospitals for its students on campus.“IIT will bear the administration expenses but the cost paid to the private agency is recoverable from students. However, if any student is unable to pay, provisions have been made to support them for now,” said IIT-B director Subhasis Chaudhuri.A workplace vaccination drive is being planned where beneficiaries have to pay ₹1,000 plus taxes, much to the disappointment of students.Dean, student affairs, Tapanendu Kundu said, “We are doing our best to reduce the financial burden on students for vaccination. The aim is to get more and more students to be inoculated during the drive. There are no government rules for institutes to pay for students’ vaccines.”One of the ways the institute is considering is adjusting the vaccination charges against fees paid by students towards hostel amenities. “We are also in touch with alumni groups to raise funds for the vaccination drive,” said Kundu.Students, on the other hand, remained upset with the charges for vaccination. “Many other central universities and institutes have been inoculating students for free. Why is IIT-B not able to do so?” said a student requesting anonymity.Currently, around 3,000 students reside on campus. The institute has made it mandatory for anybody getting a vaccine outside the campus to return and complete a 14-day quarantine. “This rule has discouraged many students from getting a free shot outside,” said the student.The institute, meanwhile, is worried that once the price capping of Covid-19 vaccines comes into force from June 21, private hospitals may not find it feasible to run a workplace drive. A senior official at the institute said that the institute is encouraging more students to get vaccinated in the inoculation drive planned for next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-looks-for-ways-to-subsidise-covid-vaccine-101623435926708.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Drop in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai puts focus back on other ailments||With the decline in cases of novel coronavirus infections in the city and the arrival of monsoon, civic-run hospitals are converting unused Covid-19 beds into general beds to treat non-Covid patients. Surgeries in hospitals have also got a boost with the opening of operation theatres (OT). Compared to May 1, the number of active Covid-19 patients who are currently on treatment has plunged by 73% as of June 10. As per officials, most Covid-19 beds in hospitals and jumbo centres are lying vacant. For instance, at BYL Nair hospital, Mumbai Central, only 145 of the 700 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients are presently occupied. Similarly, at Nesco jumbo centre, 187 of the 800 Covid-19 beds have Covid-19 patients. Given this scenario, civic-run hospitals have decided to reduce Covid-19 beds and focus on monsoon-related ailments. Dr Pratima Patil, medical superintendent of Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Municipal General Hospital Kandivli, said they will reduce the total Covid-19 bed strength from 200 to 50. At BYL Nair Hospital, around 250 of 700 beds will be reserved for monsoon-related ailments. Similarly, at Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar, 30 of the 150 Covid-19 beds will be temporarily converted into general beds. “Since almost 60-70% beds are lying vacant, we have decided to temporarily convert some unused Covid-19 beds into general beds for monsoon-related ailments,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).All converted beds have to be fumigated and sanitised to prevent any possible presence of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. On Thursday, BMC also issued a circular—Measures to be taken for monsoon 2021 - instructing all four medical colleges including peripheral hospitals to keep the intensive care units (ICU), OT and blood banks ready to handle mass casualty in the monsoon. “We have instructed all the hospitals to procure enough diagnostic test kits, assess laboratories, and all backup batteries that require electrical gadgets should be ready and charged. Blood bank officers have also been asked to store enough blood to handle mass casualties,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Nair Hospital. All medical colleges have been instructed to keep 100 beds ready for patients with monsoon-related ailments. Also, ICU, Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICU) which had remained closed amid the pandemic, have opened to handle any monsoon-related casualties.Amid the plunge in Covid cases, surgeries see a rise:Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many hospitals were converted into dedicated Covid-19 hospitals. But as cases have decreased to a daily average of around 700 from 8,000 in April, civic-run hospitals are opening their OTs for non-Covid patients. “We have already fumigated and sanitised our OT. Now, we will send samples to BMC for testing to rule out the presence of any pathogens. Once it is confirmed, we will start the OT for non-Covid patents,” said Dr Patil.As per rules, to avoid any possible transmission of Sars-Cov-2 in a hospital, most hospitals were only performing emergency surgeries. With the fall in daily Covid-19 cases, they have opened their OT to non-Covid-19 patients. “During pre-Covid days, we used to do over 150 daily surgeries which have now fallen to around 60-65 surgeries per day. However, we believe the number will rise gradually as many patients are avoiding hospitals due to the pandemic,” said Dr Bharmal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/drop-in-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-puts-focus-back-on-other-ailments-101623435807828.html
11-06-2021||Other||Delhi: 3 held for robbery, murder||The Delhi Police on Friday said they have arrested three men three days after they committed four serious crimes, including the murder of a truck driver during a robbery in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh, within an hour. A Santro car that the suspects used in the crimes was recovered in a burnt condition from Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh. Police said the suspects robbed the car from Jahangirpuri five days before they used the vehicle for committing the four back-to-back crimes. They later parked it and set it on fire at an isolated place in Baghpat, said police. Around 2.30 am on June 8, the officer said, the suspects first fired bullets and tried to steal an e-rickshaw in Shalimar Bagh. Fifteen minutes later, they shot dead a truck driver and robbed him of his mobile phone and ₹5,000 in the Punjabi Bagh area. Thereafter, two more incidents of robbery and attempt to robbery were reported from IP Estate and Defence Colony in central and south Delhi respectively. Separate cases were registered at the four concerned police stations. The northwest district’s special staff and the local police began their probe in the attempted robbery at Shalimar Bagh and the firing case and scanned CCTV cameras. They examined the routes through which the suspect had reached Shalimar Bagh to steal the e-rickshaw. Investigators reached a garbage dumping site in Badola village near Mahendra Park where the Santro car was last seen on the day the crimes were committed. The police scanned CCTVs of the nearby areas and found three suspects with the vehicle in the same area. The suspects were identified, their hideouts traced in Loni and they were arrested following raids. Their interrogation led to the place in Baghpat where they had abandoned the Santro car and set it on fire to destroy evidence and avoid police arrest, said police. The suspects have been identified as Rizwan, Shamshad and Nasir, all from Loni in Ghaziabad and in their twenties. They were caught by the special staff team of the northwest district on Friday. All of them are habitual offenders and were previously involved in theft and drug peddling cases, said senior police officers associated with the operation. “The arrested men are jobless, addicted to alcohol and have no source of income. They stole vehicles and used them for committing robberies and thefts. Thereafter, they either sold the stolen vehicles or abandoned them at isolated places,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi3-held-for-robbery-murder-101623435748624.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra preps to turn the next Covid-19 tide||Caught unawares during the second wave of Covid-19, leading to shortage of beds, oxygen and drugs, the state has started implementing a plan in anticipation of the third wave in August-September – augmentation of health infrastructure, reserving beds for children, launching Mission oxygen and vaccinating 60 million people in three months. As Covid cases started to rise in Amravati in Vidarbha early February, the administration failed to see it as a sign of a second wave and take quick steps. It resulted in daily caseload shooting up to more than 60,000 in April, from less than 3,000 in January. The sudden surge resulted in shortage of beds, acute shortfall of oxygen as well as anti-viral drugs. Although the situation did not worsen much, the health infrastructure was stretched beyond limit. On April 22, the number of active patients was highest at 699,858 which resulted in patients outnumbering the available beds in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. The oxygen demand, too, went up rapidly, along with shortage of anti-viral drug Remdesivir, leading to panic. The state learnt its lessons and is now using them to prepare for a potential third wave, say officials. HEALTH INFRA The total number of beds in the state has now gone up to 495,190 as of June 10, against around 80,000 in March 2020. A majority of them are in make-shift jumbo Covid centres. “We were struggling to accommodate patients in areas outside Mumbai as the health facilities did not have enough beds. Taking a cue from jumbo Covid centres in Mumbai, we have asked local authorities to set up temporary hospitals in case of a surge,” said another health department official. The other problem, as pointed out by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at the beginning of the second wave, was shortage of trained medical staff to handle facilities. “We can increase beds overnight, but how can we get doctors in a short span of time,” Thackeray had remarked while stressing the need for a lockdown to control the spread. The administration now plans to recruit 16,000 medical staff, including doctors, paramedics and supporting staff. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said on Tuesday the recruitment process will be completed on an urgent basis. Orders were issued early this week to begin the process to recruit first batch of 2,226. Medical education minister Amit Deshmukh said the government has also approved six more medical colleges in different districts in addition to medical colleges in 18 districts to strengthen public infrastructure. State-owned medical colleges come with public hospitals. “We are also planning public-private policy,” he added. MISSION OXYGEN Although the state did not witness tragic incidents, it barely managed to tide over the demand for oxygen with help from the Centre and private sector. “Against the daily production of 1,250 metric tons (MT), the demand had gone up to more than 1,600 MT at one point in May. The administration was put on high alert. Mantralaya war room saw heightened activity, as officials struggled to meet the demand. A special task force was constituted to look after oxygen supply. We did not want to lose any life due to shortage of the oxygen. The situation was taken seriously by the political leadership and a plan was chalked out to increase the production and take it to 3000 MT daily under Mission Oxygen,” said a top official from state’s public health department. The government has now begun implementing Mission Oxygen drive to generate 3,000 metric tonnes of oxygen over the next two years, from the current generation of around 1,300 MT. Besides the targeted generation of 517.9 MT from the 487 PSA (Pressure Swing Absorption) oxygen generation plants at district levels, 56 have already been installed and the generation of 69.37MT has already started. The daily oxygen generation capacity of these plants varies from 0.5 to 5MT and cost ₹20 lakh and above. Similarly, the state is planning Air Separation Units (ASUs), which take some time for installation. It is also eyeing to utilise the existing capacity of 600MT of generation plants in gaseous form, by providing compression and bottling facilities to them. This would help the government to take the generation to 2,300 MT in six months, said an official. The state has announced sops for the private industries to materialise the Mission Oxygen Swavalamban which is expected to cost ₹1,100 crore. Private players investing in oxygen generation plants or the existing manufacturers going for expansion of the existing ones will get a waiver on duties and taxes including GST, stamp duty, electricity among others. PAEDIATRIC COVID MANAGEMENT Experts have expressed the fear that children may be the worst-hit during the third wave. Maharashtra was among the first few states to constitute a paediatric task force of expert doctors under Dr Suhas Prabhu. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has had a couple of meetings. The task force has submitted its draft action plan for the third wave. The state has directed all district hospitals to reserve 10% of the beds for kids. They have also been asked to identify hospitals equipped to treat multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children and ensure adequate number of beds at all dedicated Covid hospitals. “The task force has submitted a draft of the action plan. The districts have been asked to prepare bed infrastructure to take up the patients equal to the highest number of active cases in tehsil or district during the second wave. At least 25% of the beds in Covid Care Centers need to be equipped with oxygen supply, while every dedicated Covid health centre needs 10% of their beds equipped with ventilator. Training doctors and paramedics will be undertaken with special focus on paediatric management,” said an official from the health department. “The districts have been directed to conduct ‘My Kids, My Responsibility’ campaign for awareness among parents and teachers. Besides, training physicians and public health care staff in paediatric management, we have told the authorities to train teachers in schools to screen children for early warning signs,” another official said. “We have prepared for the new wave with focus on paediatric health services,” Tope said. Vaccination With more than 25 million doses administered, Maharashtra tops in the country in inoculation. State officials said they have set up 9,000 vaccination centres and ramped up the capacity to vaccinate 1 million a day. “If we get adequate supply of vaccine, we would be able to vaccinate 60 million people in three months which will effectively help us contain the spread of the epidemic,” said another official. The state has been complaining continuously about the short supply of doses. The state has received 22 million doses from the Centre, while it procured 2.5 million on its own. THE CHALLENGES “Plasma therapy worked in first wave, while Remdesivir was buzzword in the second wave, both appear to be outdated now. We never expected the emergence of black fungus which has proven very dangerous in the second wave. Nobody knows what is there in store during the next wave,” the official said. He said they have decided to continue with aggressive testing for at least three months, using newer methods such as portable testing kits. “The monitoring of suspected patients through initiatives like ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ will be relaunched. Also, initiatives like ‘Covid-19 Free Village’ will be encouraged,” he said. “Maharashtra has shown the way not only for the country but for the world. We are all ready to take up the challenge. The number of beds has been increased by 500% over the past 15 months,” Deshmukh said. Dr Avinash Bhondve, Maharashtra president of the Indian Medical Association, said, “The state has been talking about preparation for the wave, but everything is on paper. The PSA plants are not feasible in small and medium hospitals due to space constraint. The government has not been able to install large size oxygen plants or increase the number of beds in expected numbers,” he said. Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital, said, “Besides preparations, people and healthcare machinery should not lower their guard.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-preps-to-turn-the-next-covid-19-tide-101623435746712.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Decide on Mumbai civic body’s letter for door-to-door Covid vaccination: HC to Centre||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday asked the Central government to decide on the June 10 letter written by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal to the health secretary, ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), wherein he had stated that the civic body was willing to undertake door-to-door vaccination for bedridden persons who cannot move out of their homes.The letter has also sought the issuance of guidelines for initiating such vaccination drives. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, was informed that the state and BMC were to answer the queries raised by the bench on the issue of providing door-to-door vaccination for people over 75 years of age, specially-abled and bedridden people. In the previous hearing on June 9, the bench had framed four questions which were regarding initiating door-to-door vaccination in the absence of any door-to-door vaccination policy by the Centre, whether the BMC was willing to undertake the exercise without the Centre’s go ahead, whether the BMC had written to the centre seeking such permission and whether the state of Maharashtra was willing to follow the Kerela model wherein door-to-door vaccination initiative was already underway. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for the BMC while responding to the queries informed the bench that the BMC commissioner had written a letter to the centre and a response was awaited. He submitted that the civic body was willing to undertake the initiative provided the centre gave it the go-ahead. “You (BMC) have taken many initiatives that were innovative and became an example for other civic bodies to combat the coronavirus. Your commissioner had claimed to have initiated the chase the virus initiative. Are you saying that all of those initiatives had the approval of the Centre?” questioned the bench. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh submitted that the committee of experts formed to mull over the directions of the HC had unanimously recommended the near to home vaccination plan and though the recommendation was only advisory in nature it was expected that the states and civic authorities abide by them. “Where is the problem (in adopting door-to-door policy), we are not understanding it. States are doing it successfully, why don’t you (Centre) communicate with them and know how they are doing it?” the bench asked Singh. The bench stressed that they were not trying to interfere with the government’s decision but only wanted to ensure that lives were not lost. “You want a large number of people to come out for vaccination and those who cannot come out, cannot be vaccinated? This is the message which has been sent to the people,” said the bench.Taking exception to the state’s request seeking time to respond to the query of the court in the previous hearing on how senior politicians had managed to receive the vaccination dose at his residence in Mumbai in April the court said, “A week’s time? This is alarming. It reminds us of an old saying you show the man and I will show you the rule,” said the bench.The bench then directed the Centre’s to respond to BMC’s letter and posted further hearing to Monday, June 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/decide-on-mumbai-civic-body-s-letter-for-door-to-door-covid-vaccination-hc-to-centre-101623435626659.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Private hospitals will have to follow Centre’s directives on Covid vax charge, says BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday made it clear that private hospitals in the city will have to follow directives issued by the Central government for Covid vaccination charges and action will be taken against those who violate the same. It also urged citizens to file a complaint against private hospitals that are overcharging.The Central government on Tuesday instructed private vaccination centres to not charge more than ₹780 for Covishield, ₹1,410 for Covaxin and ₹1,145 for Sputnik V jabs. The Centre said that private hospitals can charge up to ₹150 on service charges and the state governments will monitor the prices being charged.The BMC on Friday directed that the above rates would have to be followed by private hospitals in the city. However, if any private hospital is found to be overcharging the BMC has appealed to citizens to register a complaint with the health department of the BMC via email. In a statement, the BMC said, “Citizens, housing complex officials, as well as heads of industrial establishments, should take note of the fixed rate of the covid vaccine. We are appealing to citizens to complain about the imposition of exorbitant rates on email address complaint.epimumbai@gmail.com.”In Mumbai, there are 84 private vaccination centres and almost half of the daily vaccination at over 360 vaccination centres is done at these centres. For example, on Friday 53,427 citizens were vaccinated in the city of which 41,114 were vaccinated at private vaccination centres. Overall, 3,947,422 citizens have been vaccinated in the city since January 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-private-hospitals-will-have-to-follow-centre-s-directives-on-covid-vax-charge-says-bmc-101623435506654.html
11-06-2021||Other||Sushil Kumar case: One more accused arrested||One more person has been arrested in connection with the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankad, who was allegedly beaten up by two-time Olympic medallist and wrestler Sushil Kumar and his associates with hockey sticks, baseball bats and other blunt weapons at Delhi’s Chhatrasal Stadium, police said on Friday. A senior crime branch officer said the suspect, identified as 22-year-old Anirudh (also a wrestler) was involved in the abduction and assault on Dhankad and his associates during the fight between two groups--one of them led by Kumar--at the stadium on May 4.“Anirudh was arrested from Delhi on Thursday . He is an associate of Kumar and was involved in Dhankad’s murder,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.Anirudh is the tenth person to have been arrested in the murder case. The other nine arrested earlier include Kumar, his close aide Ajay Sherawat, and four key members of Kala Asauda-Neeraj Bawana gang. Kumar and Sherawat were arrested from outer Delhi’s Mundka on May 23, after evading arrest for 19 days. While all the suspects are in jail, police are looking for at least three more suspects.“We are interrogating Anirudh to know where all did he stay for 35 days,” the officer added.The police are still trying to recover Kumar’s mobile phone, the clothes he wore at the time of the crime, and the digital video recorder (DVR) of the CCTV cameras installed at his home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sushil-kumar-case-one-more-accused-arrested-101623434968051.html
11-06-2021||Other||Wrestler Sushil Kumar’s judicial custody extended till June 25||A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Olympic medallist and wrestler Sushil Kumar till June 25 in connection to his alleged involvement in the murder of co-wrestler Sagar Dhankar at the Chhatrasal Stadium. Kumar was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Reetika Jain at the end of the nine-days’ judicial custody. The international wrestler is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide and kidnapping. He, along with his associates, allegedly assaulted Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar (23) succumbed to the injuries later. Police have alleged Kumar is the “main culprit and mastermind” of the murder and said that there is electronic evidence, wherein he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar. Kumar was nabbed on May 23, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat. He has already undergone custodial interrogation of 10 days. A total of 10 people, including Kumar, have been arrested so far in connection with the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wrestler-sushil-kumar-s-judicial-custody-extended-till-june-25-101623434907330.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||HC disposes of three pleas after Delhi govt tells court it has sufficient Covaxin doses||The Delhi government on Friday informed the Delhi high court that it has got an additional 20,000 doses of Covaxin for the 18-45 age group to administer to those awaiting the second shot.Delhi government additional standing counsel Anuj Aggarwal submitted that as part of the scheduled supply for June, 29,800 doses have also been received on June 10 and the total Covaxin stock received this month (till June 10) for 18-45 age group is 89,800 doses.The submission came on pleas filed by three persons, who claimed that they were unable to get the second dose of Covaxin within the stipulated time due to paucity of stock. They claimed that they were forced to travel to far-off places such as Meerut and Chandigarh to avail of the second vaccine dose. While the time interval between two doses of the Covishield vaccine has been extended from four-six weeks to four-eight weeks, the second dose of Covaxin can be taken four to six weeks after the first.Aggarwal also submitted that the number of slots available has already been increased from 150 to 200 per day per vaccination site in schools. Also between the period of June 7 and June 10, a total of 49,206 beneficiaries were given the second dose of Covaxin at government vaccination centres, according to the Co-WIN portal.He said 1.5 lakh (150,000) people in the 18-45 age group have been inoculated and earlier, there was a shortfall of 60,000 vaccines even after receiving vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s supply of 90,000 doses in June. On the last date of hearing, the Delhi government had said it had arranged an additional 40,000 doses of Covaxin to administer to those awaiting the second shot. It also informed the court that directions have been issued to all government centres, private hospitals and nursing homes that Covaxin was to be administered to people in the 18-45 age group, only if they were awaiting the second shot.Noting these submissions, Justice Rekha Palli disposed of the three pleas. The court observed that the grievances of people in the age group of 18-45 years, with respect to the unavailability of the second dose of Covaxin, has been addressed to a large extent.“This in my view will take care of the grievances of the petitioners… No further orders are called for and the petitions are disposed of.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-disposes-of-three-pleas-after-delhi-govt-tells-court-it-has-sufficient-covaxin-doses-101623434906717.html
11-06-2021||Other||First black/yellow fungus patient in Prayagraj operated upon, doing well||PRAYAGRAJ: The first black/yellow fungus patient was operated upon successfully at United Medicity Hospital here recently and was doing well, said doctors. Prayagraj has witnessed 20 cases of black fungus till date but this is the first confirmed case of black/yellow fungus here. The patient is a 73-year-old Ayushman scheme beneficiary. He fell prey to Covid and was treated in April-May in United Medicity. However, after a few days, he again came to the hospital due to heaviness on the left side of the face, informed doctors. He was examined by the doctors led by principal of United Medicity Prof Mangal Singh and ENT specialist Dr Prabhat Srivastava. Endoscopy and MRI on June 8 confirmed both black and yellow fungus in the nose. The patient was then successfully operated upon by the team on June 8 itself and is now doing well, as per Prof Mangal Singh. He said that the operation was successful only due to the state-of-the-art equipment available in the hospital. United Medicity director Dr Pramod Kumar informed that a team had been formed under the leadership of principal Prof Mangal Singh, to treat all such cases. He advised Covid patients to immediately visit an ENT specialist if they had symptoms like toothache, jaw pain, watery/bleeding nose, difficulty in breathing and blurred vision. Dr Kumar said that if the fungus was not detected or treated at the right time, it also affected the jaw and eyes, and could also reach the brain making the case complicated. Assistant professor in the department of ENT, United Medicity Dr Prabhat Srivastava said that mucormycosis, a black fungus, could be fatal for those suffering from uncontrolled diabetes and patients affected by Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-black-yellow-fungus-patient-in-prayagraj-operated-upon-doing-well-101623434846636.html
11-06-2021||Other||Over 30% of adults in Delhi have got at least one vaccine dose: Atishi||New Delhi More than 30% of Delhi’s adult population have got at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi on Friday.“The supply is also better now which is helping the Delhi government revive more vaccine centres for both 18-45 age group and the 45+ age group. However, due to shortage, Covaxin doses in stock are being used for only second dose,” said Atishi, reading the Delhi government’s vaccine bulletin in a live streamed video briefing.Currently, there are 595 Delhi government centres for the 45+ group and 263 for the 18-45 group. While all centres for the 18-45 groups were suspended for shortage of vaccines last month, more than 300 sites for the 45+ were temporarily closed too.“For the 45+ group, we have also invested in an intensive outreach programme with which we aim to cover vaccination of the entire group in four weeks. With the new policy of the central government, we hope the supply of vaccines get even better after June 21 and help increase vaccine coverage of Delhi from 30% to 60% in the next one month,” she further said.As per government records, Delhi’s total population is around 20.6 million, of which around 15 million are adults who are eligible for vaccination.Government records further showed that around 4.52 million people in Delhi have taken at least one dose of the vaccine (30% of 15 million) and 1.39 million have got their second doses too.The 4.52 million first doses include around 250,000 healthcare workers, 425,000 frontline workers, 2.58 million people aged over 45 years, and 1.23 million individuals in the 18-45 age group, government records showed.Of the 1.39 million second doses, around 180,000 were given to healthcare workers, 260,000 to frontline workers, 887,000 to people aged over 45 years and 67,400 to the 18-45 age group, government records showed.Delhi’s first drive-through site suspendedMeanwhile, Delhi’s first drive-through vaccine site, which was launched on May 27 by a private hospital at the premises of a shopping mall in Dwarka sector 14, has been suspended in the light of the recent price capping announced by the central government.“We have decided to stop Delhi’s first drive-through -- a highly safe and convenient way for public, which we ran non-stop for 15 days -- owing to the new vaccination pricing which has made running it non-viable now,” said Aakash Healthcare Superspeciality Hospital in a statement.The Union health ministry on Tuesday capped the prices of coronavirus vaccines being administered at private vaccination centres, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that private hospitals can procure 25% of the doses manufactured in the country and administer them at price set by the manufacturer, with a maximum of ₹150 as additional service charge.An office memorandum issued by the ministry fixed the maximum price per dose of Covishield at ₹780, for Covaxin at ₹1,410, and for Sputnik V at ₹1,145, which is as per the prices disclosed by the vaccine manufacturers at the moment.The drive through centre at Dwarka used to charge ₹1,400 per dose for Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-30-of-adults-in-delhi-have-got-at-least-one-vaccine-doseatishi-101623434786641.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||At 24, Delhi records the lowest Covid daily fatality in 65 days||Delhi on Friday reported 24 Covid-19 deaths, the lowest daily toll in 65 days, according to the data shared by Delhi government in its daily health bulletin. The city also reported 238 new cases on Friday -- the second time this week that daily cases have fallen below the 300-mark. The test positivity rate – proportion of samples that returns positive – is also on the decline in Delhi, with the city reporting a 0.31% positivity rate, which is the lowest after the April-May surge in cases. The seven day rolling average case fatality ratio (CFR) – proportion of deaths among those who test positive – has also started decreasing. It had shot up to 12.4% when the number of cases in the city dipped suddenly but deaths due to the viral infection continued to remain high. On Friday, the CFR stood at 11.8%, according to data. The cumulative CFR – based on the total number of cases and deaths so far – stands at 1.73%, higher compared to national average of 1.24%. So far, 24,772 people have succumbed to the infection since the first death was reported on March 13, 2020. In comparison, 60 persons had died in one of the worst dengue outbreaks in Delhi in 2015 that affected nearly 16,000 people. Covid-19 has affected 1.43 million people in the city so far. “The proportion of population which is vaccinated is still minute in India. While vaccine is the major weapon for fighting the pandemic, equally or more important is Covid-appropriate behaviour, which is in our control. We understand that complacency was one of the major reasons for the second wave. If we do not follow norms we would be doing nothing but inviting a third wave,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-24-delhi-records-the-lowest-covid-daily-fatality-in-65-days-101623434787206.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt reviews work on ramping up hospital infra as Covid cases decline||With cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) currently on the decline, the Delhi government is focussing on ramping up hospital infrastructure to manage more number of patients in the event of another spike in cases of the viral infection. Health minister Satyendar Jain on Friday visited one such facility-- the under-construction building at Acharya Shree Bhikshu hospital that is adding 400 more beds to its existing capacity of 100. “These 400 beds will be fully dedicated to Covid-19 treatment,” said Jain after his visit. He asked the hospital to add two oxygen ports to each bed in the hospital and use the beds meant for patient attendants for treating Covid-19 patients. The minister’s suggestion came in the backdrop of patients having to share beds at many hospitals during the peak of the second wave of Covid-10 in April-May surge, when over 20,000 new cases were being reported every day. At Lok Nayak hospital, where a 1,500-bed block is coming up, the minister asked the team to add a temporary building that can house around 120 beds for Covid-19 patients. The government is also working on the construction of two new hospitals -- in Madipur and Jwalapuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-reviews-work-on-ramping-up-hospital-infra-as-covid-cases-decline-101623434726643.html
11-06-2021||Other||Najafgarh accident: The oldest victim Covid survivor, youngest speech and hearing impaired||New Delhi: Ninety-three-year-old Rao Jawahar Singh, who was among the five killed in Friday morning’s road mishap in Najafgarh, had recovered from Covid-19 without even getting admitted to any hospital. Despite having Covid-19 symptoms such as high-fever, body ache and cough, Singh defeated the virus in home isolation. He had caught the infection in mid April when Delhi was under the fourth wave of the infection. Local residents as well as his family members remember Singh as a “health-conscious person” and said that his daily 5-7 kilometer walk and two-hour Yoga as a reason why He could defeat the virus at the age of 93 while on home isolation. Locals said same daily fitness routine that started with a morning walk resulted in him getting run over by a truck on Friday.“Everyone in our neighbourhood knew dadajee (Singh) because he was conscious about his health and fitness and motivated others for including Yoga and physical work in their daily life. While hundreds of young people lost their lives due to the virus, his Covid-19 survival story was an inspiration for many of us,” said Kapil Jhangra, a local resident.Singh’s grandson, Rakesh Yadav, said that he was sleeping when his grandfather left home at around 4.45 am for a morning walk. He had just walked about 50 metres on the road when an allegedly speeding tipper truck crushed him and four members of a family under its wheels at 4.51 am.“A neighbor told me about the mishap. My grandfather had died by the time I rushed to the nearby hospital, where he was admitted by some locals,” said Yadav, adding that Singh became Covid-19 positive within a week after he took the first dose of Covid vaccine on April 12. Yadav said that his grandfather was aware of all the Covid-19 guidelines and he isolated himself in a room and started medication, soon after he got fever and cough.“The symptoms were not severe. We consulted a doctor in Akash hospital and my grandfather followed his medical advices and medication. He continued his Yoga and other exercises in home isolation as well. My grandfather defeated the virus because of his will power and fitness,” said Yadav.Singh’s younger brother, Kripa Ram,82, also remembered him as a disciplined and self-motivated person. “I have been a wrestler all my life but could not maintain the fitness routine like my brother. He looked healthier than me, although I was more than 10 years younger to him,” said Ram, who is famous as “pehalwan dada” in the neighbourhood.Two-and-half-year-old Dev Rajoura, who was the youngest among the five killed in Friday morning’s road mishap outside his home in Najafgarh, was speech and hearing impaired since birth. But since his family’s financial condition was poor and his parents were not able to afford the costly medical treatment, they were hoping that a miracle from the “divine powers” would cure Dev. And it was because of that reason that they had planned a shrine visit to a few holy places, including Vaishno Devi temple in Jammu, said relatives of the four dead family members.Apart from Dev, his parents – Ashok Rajoura and Kiran Rajoura – and brother Istant Rajoura,5, were killed in the road mishap, just outside their Najafgarh home. They were walking towards Chhawla bus stand to board a bus to Gurugram, where they had to visit Sheetla Mata temple, first among the many holy places they had planned to visit hoping it would help Dev.They (Kiran and Ashok) had been planning the Gururgam temple’s visit for nearly two months, after someone in her (Kiran’s) parental neighbourhood told them that Dev could be cured if they visited Vishno Devi and other famous temples, said Pooja, wife of Ashok’s brother Manoj.“I had been advising them against it because of the Covid-19 pandemic. But today, they left without informing us. I would have stopped them, had I known about their trip. They would have alive,” said Pooja, sobbing on the floor with other relatives.As Ashok left behind a joint family that is facing financial crisis, his relatives sought the government’s help in providing some relief to the family either through some financial assistance or a job to the eligible one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/najafgarh-accident-the-oldest-victim-covid-survivor-youngest-speech-and-hearing-impaired-101623434666643.html
11-06-2021||Other||High School, Inter results: UP Board gets 4,000 suggestions from stakeholders||The UP Board has received around 4,000 suggestions on how to prepare the results of more than 56 lakh students registered for the high school and intermediate examinations of 2021. The Board had sought suggestions from all stakeholders including students, parents, teachers and principals with a deadline of 2pm on June 10, to determine the formula for declaring results of the cancelled examinations of both Class 10 and Class 12 students, officials said.Now that these suggestions are in, they will be presented to the government for consideration in the next meeting, they added. Following the meeting, the government will declare the formula for calculating the marks to be awarded to high school and intermediate students who had registered for the UP Board exams. Earlier on June 5, director of secondary education and chairman of the UP Board, Vinay Kumar Pandey, had sought suggestions from the principal of one reputed government, aided and unaided school in all 75 districts and an office-bearer of the teacher-parent association till June 7.At that time 580 suggestions were received. They were placed in a meeting chaired by the additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla on June 7. Following this, it was decided that suggestions should also be taken from all stakeholders.“Over 3,500 suggestions were given by a cross section of stakeholders including students, parents, teachers and principals and all of them suggested their own methods of calculating marks that could be awarded to students of class 10 and class 12,” said a senior official of UP Board aware of the development. He said that among the suggestions, many wanted that the average marks of class 10, class 11 and pre-board, or any other exams conducted in class 12, be the main base for awarding marks to a class 12 student. Likewise, for class 10, the marks obtained in preceding classes should be considered. UP Board had recently cancelled class 12 exams in view of the Coronavirus situation in the state. The education board, counted among the largest examination bodies of the world on account of the number of examinees, had earlier proposed to take a 90-minute exam of each subject for Class 12 students in the second week of July. The final decision of the UP Board was in line with the Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) decision, which too had cancelled the Class 12 exams. The decision of the board will affect over 26 lakh students who had registered for the UP Board Class 12 exams of 2021.Earlier, the state government had called off examinations for Class 10 too and had decided to promote over 29 lakh students registered for it to the next class without exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-school-inter-results-up-board-gets-4-000-suggestions-from-stakeholders-101623434609180.html
11-06-2021||Other||Ram temple trust starts collecting donations from overseas Indians||Lucknow: The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust has opened a fixed deposit account of ₹500 crore in State Bank of India’s main branch in Ayodhya, as well as an account in the bank’s Delhi branch to accept donations from Indians living abroad. The fixed deposit account has been opened with donations collected during the nationwide campaign from January 15 to February 27, to seek contribution for construction of Ram temple. Member of the Trust Dr Anil Mishra said the FD account was opened after advice from chartered accountants. The Trust is operating two current accounts from SBI’s main branch in Ayodhya. People transfer money online in these accounts for construction of Ram temple. Meanwhile, the Trust has also opened a current account in a branch of the SBI in Delhi to seek donations from Indians living abroad. During the fund collection campaign, Indians living abroad had also expressed willingness to contribute. However, at that time it was not possible as the Trust had not fulfilled legal formalities to seek donations from abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ram-temple-trust-starts-collecting-donations-from-overseas-indians-101623434607907.html
11-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt looking into allegations of caste bias in university appointments in Banda||A senior Uttar Pradesh government official on Friday said the authorities were looking into whether rules were flouted after the Banda University for Agriculture and Technology landed in the midst of a controversy due to the allegation that 11 of the 15 appointments made to posts in the unreserved category were candidates from the same caste.It was claimed that 11 of the 15 selected candidates in the unreserved category had the same surname, leading to allegations that the university favoured one caste in the matter.Seven other candidates were selected in the reserved category. Five posts on the list have not been filled.Uttar Pradesh’s additional chief secretary (agriculture) Devesh Chaturvedi said: “Though we have not received any written complaint, but taking note of media reports, we are probing if the reservation policy was followed or not and if any rules, regulations were flouted.”The university had advertised a total of 40 positions separately and filled 24 of them.As for the rest, the university said the applicants did not fulfil the criteria and that was why 16 seats remained vacant.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Tindwari (Banda) Brijesh Prajapati has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and governor Anandiben Patel, alleging irregularities in the appointments. He said only one caste had been preferred for appointments at the university.Last year, the university had advertised for 20 positions—18 in the general category and two from the economic weaker section (EWS). Of this, 15 candidates were selected. Eleven of them from one caste were chosen for the positions of professor, associate professor and assistant professor, the MLA alleged.Prajapati, in his letter, alleged the university did not follow the reservation roster. He further alleged the university issued two separate advertisements for a total of 40 positions to carry out irregularities in the reservation.The total reservation is 50% as per the rules—27% for OBCs, 21% for SC/STs and 2% for the EWS.“In order to skirt the roster system, the university issued two advertisements to fill all the 40 vacant seats, 29 positions were to be filled in one go and 11 later. If all the positions were filled at a time, then roster should have been applied,” he said, demanding recruitment advertisements be cancelled and reissued.The university, in an official statement, said it had advertised a total of 40 positions — eight professors, 14 associate professors and 18 assistant professors. Of them, 18 positions were for unreserved category candidates, 11 for OBCs, nine for SCs and two for EWS.During the recruitment process, 24 candidates were found eligible: 16 from the unreserved category, five from OBCs and three from SC, it said.As per the University Act, the chairman of the selection committee is the vice chancellor. Apart from him governor appoints two subject experts, one dean, one head of department, two people each from OBC and SC category as members of the committee.“The screening process is robust and the right candidates were selected on the basis of their academic profile, interview and teaching scale,” the university said.Those who secured maximum marks out of 100 were selected, it added.But the BJP leaders said the university split the reservation roster to favour a particular caste and had not shed any light on this allegation in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-govt-looking-into-allegations-of-caste-bias-in-university-appointments-in-banda-101623434607479.html
11-06-2021||Other||Consider pre-boards, practicals and final results of Class 10 and 11: Sisodia||New Delhi Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Friday wrote to the Union minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, making several suggestions for evaluating class 12 CBSE students following the cancellation of their exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. In his letter, Sisodia suggested that the students should be evaluated on the basis of their performances in class 12 pre-boards and practical exams, class 11 final exams, and class 10 board exams. The Delhi education minister said the Center should fix the range of moderation at +/- 5 marks for class 12 students.On June 1, the Centre cancelled CBSE class 12 exams to ward off the threat of coronavirus infections. The government said that CBSE will come up with a “well-defined objective criteria” in a time-bound manner to assess these students. The board constituted a 13-member team to fix criteria for the assessment of Class 12 students on June 4.Sisodia said that he has discussed the possible criteria for the evaluation of class 12 students with various stakeholders. “First of all, our principle for evaluation should be that whatever method we adopt, it should be in the interest of students. And for this, we have to make decisions rising above the traditional principles. The past year has been very challenging for our students and their parents. Not all students had fair and equal opportunities to study and learn. So, we should not object if the results of these students are much better due to the proposed new evaluation process. If we prepare results on the basis of different sources and examinations, then perhaps it will do justice to all the students,” he said in the letter.The Delhi deputy chief minister suggested that the board should give 30% weightage to class 12 pre-boards, 20 % to class 11 final exams, and 20 % to students’ performance in CBSE class 10 exams. Besides, the remaining 30% marks should be allotted on the basis of the practical exams conducted by the schools. “The 20% weightage of class 10 exams should be on the basis of the subject in which the students had secured the highest marks in class 10th. This is necessary because the subjects of class 10 are very different from the subjects students study in class 12,” he added.Sisodia further said that the Centre should allow schools to fix the range of moderation at +/- 5 marks, unlike class 10 where moderation of only +/- 2 marks is allowed. CBSE uses moderation to check on “inflation of marks” and to maintain consistency. According to the evaluation criteria CBSE has set for class 10 students, schools will have to award marks in consonance with their best performance in Class 10 in the last three academic years -- 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20. The selected year will be the reference year for the schools, and subject-wise marks allotted by the schools for 2021 will be within a range of +/- 2 marks obtained by the school in the subject in the reference year. “Delhi has started some new schools of excellence in which this was the first batch of class 12 students. There is no historical reference available in the case of these schools. The reference year of such schools should be taken from the nearest School of Excellence so that there is no undue harm to the children here,” Sisodia said in the letter.Sisodia also suggested chalking out plans for evaluating class 12 students next year, and informing the children about it at the earliest.A Union education ministry spokesperson did not respond to requests seeking comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/consider-pre-boards-practicals-and-final-results-of-class-10-and-11sisodia-101623434546611.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi HC notice to city govt over plea seeking ₹1 crore compensation for man’s death||The Delhi high court on Friday asked the city government as to why it did not disburse the promised ₹1 crore compensation to the family of Delhi Police constable Amit Kumar, who had succumbed to Covid-19 last year in the line of duty.In her plea, constable Kumar’s wife Pooja (single name only) said she was running from pillar to post to secure the compensation promised by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in a tweet on May 7, 2020, a day after the death of her husband. She also stated that her husband was the first person from the force to succumb to Covid-19. Justice Amit Bansal issued notice on the plea in which 28-year-old Pooja also stated that Kumar was the sole breadwinner of the family and in the wake of his death, she was in a dire financial crisis. Pooja, who was pregnant at the time of her husband’s death, now has two children -- one aged five years and the other five months. Advocate Rizwan, additional standing counsel, Delhi government, told the court that the compensation has been delayed due to administrative reasons and the CM’s tweet is not being disputed. He also said every day, it’s in the newspapers that the Delhi government is taking steps to disburse compensation to various people.He sought time from the court to file his response to the plea.Bansal, while granting four weeks to the Delhi government to file its response, posted the matter to July 23 saying he would not keep the matter pending for long.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-delhi-hc-notice-to-city-govt-over-plea-seeking-1-crore-compensation-for-man-s-death-101623434435091.html
11-06-2021||Other||Minors move court, demand compensation after Covid-infected father’s death in Delhi hospital||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Friday sought to know the stand of the Centre and Delhi government on a plea by two minor siblings, whose father died at Jaipur Golden Hospital in north Delhi’s Rohini on April 24 due to alleged lack of oxygen supply, seeking implementation of schemes for compensation to families and children who lost their sole bread earners due to disruption in oxygen supply during the second wave of Covid-19. The petitioners, students of Class 7 and Class 2, have approached the court through their mother.Justice Amit Bansal issued notices to the Centre, Delhi government, Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights and the Delhi Lieutenant Governor on the petition and asked them to file their replies within four weeks. The court listed the matter for further hearing on July 29.Advocate Bharat Malhotra, representing the minors, sought expeditious implementation of various schemes floated by authorities to provide compensation and monthly sustenance allowance to bereaved sole earning single parent and to provide free education to their children, and monthly stipend to other families, who lost their sole earning member due to lack of supply of medical oxygen.The plea cited a statement made by the hospital’s medical director that as many as 20 patients died and more than 200 lives were at stake due to lack of oxygen there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minors-move-court-demand-compensation-after-covid-infected-father-s-death-in-delhi-hospital-101623434366537.html
11-06-2021||Other||5 hit and run over by tipper truck in Delhi’s Najafgarh||New Delhi: A 93-year-old man and four members of another family were killed after they were run over by an allegedly speeding tipper truck in southwest Delhi’s Najafgarh early on Friday morning, said the police. The errant truck driver was arrested and the vehicle impounded. Police said a DTC bus driver blocked the road with the bus when the truck driver tried to flee the mishap spot. The arrested driver told the police that he dozed off while driving and lost control of the vehicle, senior officers said.Rao Jawahar Singh (93), who recovered from Covid-19 last month, was out for a walk while the other four victims – a couple and their two sons, aged 5 and two-and-a-half years, were on their way to a temple in Gurugram, when the mishap took place around 5am. The accident spot is around 150 metres away from the Najafgarh police station. The mishap was captured on several CCTV cameras installed at nearby shops. Footage from one of the cameras shows the couple walking on the road with their elder son while the younger one is in his father’s arms. The elderly man is not visible in the 50-second video clip, which made the rounds on social media on Friday.In the video clip, none of the five victims are in focus when the truck runs them over. However, the cameras captured the truck dragging the victims on the road and crashing into three parked cars. The entire carriageway on Thana Road, where the mishap took place, is divided into two parts with concrete barriers, but only one-way traffic is allowed on the road. Local residents and relatives of the victims said the truck was travelling at a high speed from the Najafgarh police station side.“The truck suddenly swayed left and hit Jawahar Singh from behind and then ran over the other four. The bodies of three of them were crushed in the accident, and they died on the spot. The elderly man and the youngest child were rushed to the nearby Vikas Hospital with grave injuries. The old man succumbed to his wounds while the child was referred to Safdarjung hospital where he died later in the day,” said Ram Rajoura, a relative of the dead family.The four other victims were later identified as Ashok Rajoura (30), his wife Kiran (27), and their two sons – Ishant Rajoura (5), and Dev Rajoura. Ashok worked as a security guard in Vikas Hospital while his wife was a homemaker. They lived with Ashok’s brother and two uncles.Ashok’s uncle, Satish Rajoura, said they were at home when they heard a loud crash and rushed out to see what happened. “We knew it was an accident, but could never imagine that the victims would be my four loved ones,” said Satish.Ram said the truck driver tried to escape after the accident, but a DTC bus blocked his way about 80 metres from the spot. Local residents caught the truck driver handed him over to the police.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said a case of rash and negligent driving causing deaths was registered and the truck driver, identified as Rajesh, was arrested. “Five vehicles were found damaged at the spot. The accident was caused by a dumper truck driven in a rash and negligent manner,” he added.Rakesh Yadav, Jawahar Singh’s grandson, said his grandfather walked at least five kilometres every morning and performed yoga to keep himself fit. “My grandfather was 93, but he was healthy. It was because of his fitness that he survived Covid-19, staying in home isolation with high fever, body ache and cough. I was sleeping when a neighbour woke me up and told me about the accident. By the time I reached the hospital, my grandfather was dead,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-hit-and-run-over-by-tipper-truck-in-delhi-s-najafgarh-101623434306625.html
11-06-2021||Other||Despite pandemic, UP grain output sets record||Uttar Pradesh farmers have produced record food grain yet again when most other sectors have been down for more than a year due to disruptions caused by the pandemic-spurred lockdowns and curfews.The third advance estimates for 2021-22 crop year have put the total food grain production in the state at a record 624.33 lakh MT which is claimed to be the highest ever. The food grain production was recorded to be 601 lakh MT last year. “There is bumper food grain production in UP this year too as per the third advance estimates that has estimated production of Rabi, Kharif and Zaid seasons at more than 624 lakh MT and the figures are likely to remain more or less same in the fourth and the final advance estimates,” additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi said. The third advance estimates available with the agriculture department here put the production of rice at 171.36 lakh MT and that of wheat at 378.92 lakh MT, the two major crops of Kharif and Rabi seasons, respectively.As per the report, the cereals were grown on an area of 178.34 lakh hectares resulting in a record production of 598.11 lakh MT during 2021-22 while coarse cereals were grown on 20.25 lakh hectares of area producing 47.03 lakh MT.The pulses were grown on 24.1 lakh hectares of land and their production was recorded to be 26.22 lakh MT. Of all the crops, wheat recorded the highest productivity at 38.50 quintal per hectare.UP, it is seen, has been breaking its own records of food grain production for the last few years due to good monsoon and increasing productivity. UP’s food grain production in 2016-17 was 558 lakh MT which rose to 574 lakh MT in 2017-18 and 604 lakh MT in 2018-19. It dropped only marginally to 601 lakh MT in 2020-21 and this year production is expected to break all previous records.According to Chaturvedi, food grain production in UP is growing despite the shrinking area under cultivation due to urbanisation. “But a number of other factors are contributing to record food grain production,” he said.“Good monsoons, enhanced productivity, use of scientific methods of agriculture by farmers and making fertilisers, seeds, irrigation facilities etc available to farmers by the government are among the prominent factors,” Chaturvedi added. He said food grain production was likely to further increase in 2022-23 considering the possibility of good monsoon again this year.The government data show that UP produces 20% of the country’s total food grain feeding the country’s 16.9% population. This is despite the fact that its share in country’s cultivatable land is only 11.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/despite-pandemic-up-grain-output-sets-record-101623434246602.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Iconic Hardayal library opens after revamp in Chandni Chowk||Union health and family welfare minister Harsh Vardhan and North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash on Friday inaugurated the newly renovated Hardayal Municipal Library in Chandni Chowk, which, according to municipal authorities, is a repository of several rare books and manuscripts. Owing to the pandemic, the library would open to readers only as per the directions of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, officials said.The restoration work on the library was announced in September 2019 and it started in June 2020. Mayor Prakash said the Hardayal Municipal Library has approximately 1.25 lakh books, which include 8,000 rare texts and 350 handwritten manuscripts. Listing some of the rare books that the library has, he said, “Some of the rare books at the library are: History of The World (1677), which contains maps of the entire world (as it was back then), a handwritten copy of the Bhagwat Mahapuran (1800 AD), Bhrigu Samhita, a copy of the Mahabharata in Persian, translated by Abul Fazl, and the Quran Majeed (1928), a Hindi translation of the Muslim holy text. All are rare and have been preserved and digitised.” At the inauguration, Harsh Vardhan said, “This historic library has played an important role in promoting the reading culture. After the renovation, the Hardayal Municipal Library has got a new look and it will attract readers more.”The mayor further said the building of Hardayal Municipal Library is a heritage building, whose restoration work has been done after about 104 years. He said the restoration, which was done at a cost of ₹2.83 crore, has been completed in a year’s time. “The digitisation and conservation work of rare books at the Hardayal Municipal Library has been done by Indira Gandhi National Centre for Arts. In this single storey building, a reading area, news reading area, computer room, staff seating area and book keeping space have been made on the ground floor while reading area, conference room and book keeping space occupy the mezzanine floor,” Prakash said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-iconic-hardayal-library-opens-after-revamp-in-chandni-chowk-101623434186619.html
11-06-2021||Other||Car challan lands Delhi gangster in police net||The record of a traffic violation in Rajasthan led police to a wanted Delhi gangster, who was hiding in Rajasthan. Police said they were on the lookout for Delhi’s “desperate gangster” Narendra alias Ravi Gangwal, who was booked by the police under the MCOCA for running an organised crime syndicate. Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Kushwah said Gangwal, who was evading arrest since 2018, was arrested from Vaishali Nagar from Rajasthan’s Jaipur on June 8.Narrating the sequence of events, Kushwah said in August 2019, the police had received a tip-off that Gangwal was residing in a residential society in Noida’s Sector 120 but by the time police reached the house, he had already shifted to another society.“On checking, we learnt that he, along with his wife, had already left the flat about 20 days earlier. However, during local enquiry in the society, we found that he was using a blue Baleno car with a registration number of Delhi. Further efforts were made to trace the Baleno car,” said the DCP. “It was found that the Baleno car was challaned by the Rajasthan traffic police near Jaipur. It was also learnt that his wife was also in the final stage of pregnancy,” said Kushwah adding that police teams then focused their search in Rajasthan.The officer said last month, in May, police received a tip-off that Gangwal’s wife had delivered a child in April. “Municipal records were checked in Jaipur, Faridabad and Delhi and we found that Gangwal’s wife delivered a child at a hospital in Jaipur’s Vaishali Nagar. The team made an extensive search in the area and finally traced the Baleno car in the area. A team from the special cell of the police laid a trap in the area . We arrested Gangwal on May 8, when he had come out to buy some household articles in the nearby market,” Kushwah added.Detailing Gangwal’s history of crimes, police said he is a listed “bad character” at the Ambedkar Nagar police station. In police lexicon, a “ bad character” is a person with many criminal cases, whose activities need to be monitored because he/she could be a threat to the law and order in the area. “He (Gangwal) was initially associated with a local criminal named Ramakant alias Raju in Ambedkar Nagar and was involved in running satta, cable operations and drug trafficking racket. In February 2014, he and his gang members fired multiple rounds at his rivals over a property dispute, in which a woman was killed. In May 2015, he and Ramakant had ordered the hit on prisoner Ajay alias Chottu inside Tihar jail. Ajay died in the attack. His gang was known as the Gangwal gang. His gang was involved in settling property disputes, grabbing properties, committing extortion, running satta and drug rackets, managing cable network in the area of South Delhi by using violence and threat. To check the criminal activities of Gangwal gang, he was booked under MCOCA in 2018 by Ambedkar Nagar Police Station,” added Kushwah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/car-challan-lands-delhi-gangster-in-police-net-101623434126565.html
11-06-2021||Other||Getting ready to tackle third Covid-19 wave - village heads to lead fight in rural areas of Lucknow||As part of its initiative to minimise the effect of likely third wave of the pandemic in rural areas, the district administration of Lucknow has chalked out a detailed plan in which newly elected gram pradhans (village heads) will have a crucial role to play. “We have confronted two Covid waves so far and the third one is anticipated. So now it’s time for us to stand united. Hence, we have roped in the newly elected village heads to take precautionary measures and strengthen safety in rural pockets,” said Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash. He also held a meeting with village heads via video link to discuss their role in fight against the pandemic in detail. “Other than development works, the village heads will also ensure that Covid protocols are strictly followed. In addition, they will also coordinate with health workers and nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) to keep a check on social gatherings,” Prakash said.The DM said the village heads would also ensure door-to-door surveys in their villages besides keeping a check on rumours. They would also ensure that each and every villager wear masks. Besides, they will play a crucial role in dispelling people’s doubts about the vaccinations and will raise awareness about its importance among the rural folk. “They will ensure complete vaccination in their villages and must also make sure sanitisation,” he added. The village heads, the DM added, would also see to it that their villages were free from Covid 19 infection. The village heads assured the district magistrate that they would leave no stone unturned in keeping a check on the virus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/getting-ready-to-tackle-third-covid-19-wave-village-heads-to-lead-fight-in-rural-areas-of-lucknow-101623434066607.html
11-06-2021||Other||Delhi: Ration distribution for those without cards picks up||New Delhi The distribution of food grains for people without ration cards in the city stabilised on Friday with the arrival of fresh stocks at the distribution centres set up in Delhi government schools. The beneficiaries had to face problems initially with the distribution centres running out of stock as officials reported heavy crowd. However, most of the beneficiaries got their free food grains on Friday at centres set up across the city. “I finally got ration today. It is a major relief in such times. Incomes have dropped badly and there is hardly any work to ensure stable wages,” said Kavita Devi, who did the rounds of two other schools in the last two days without any luck before receiving grains at a government school in Gautampuri on Friday. On Tuesday, Delhi food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain assured that there will be no shortage of stocks, adding that the government has placed orders with the Food Corporation of India. He said the start government will provide free food grains to all the estimated two million beneficiaries. According to government officials, public schools in Jhilmil Colony, Hari Nagar, Begumpur and Janakpuri were among the centres which catered to all beneficiaries on Friday. “The system will be further streamlined in the coming days as more food grain is scheduled to arrive,” said a senior government official.While the Delhi government had made provisions to allot food grains to 200,000 of the overall 2 million beneficiaries in the first phase, officials said more people turned up to collect the ration than expected.Officials said they have already placed orders for more ration to speed up distribution.As per beneficiaries HT spoke to, centres set up at schools in Hauz Rani, Munirka, Shahpur Jat, RK Puram, Ber Sarai continued to send people back citing shortage of stock.Also, a large number of people complained that the government had not amply advertised the drive, and they had a tough time finding the schools from which ration was being distributed.“I had to run from pillar to post looking for the school from which the distribution was taking place. I started with the ration shop but there was nothing on the notice board. Finally, I got help from the SDM office who pointed me to a school in Begumpur from where I got the ration,” said Kusum Devi, a resident of Seemapuri.The government said that people can call up the 1031 helpline, which was mainly set up for Covid-19 related queries, for help identifying the location of schools from which ration is being distributed.Delhi has 7.2 million ration beneficiaries who got 100% subsidised ration in May and June under a relief measure announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on May 4 in the light of the lockdown. On May 18, Kejriwal extended the relief to people without ration cards too, pegging the number of beneficiaries at 2 million over and above those covered under the public distribution system. The scheme was implemented on June 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-ration-distribution-for-those-without-cards-picks-up-101623433826544.html
11-06-2021||Other||Doorstep delivery on hold? Delhi govt announces distribution of ration in normal mode||New Delhi Amid an ongoing tussle with the Centre, the Delhi government has virtually put on hold its plan to implement a pilot run of the doorstep delivery of ration scheme in the city this month.In an order issued on Thursday, the Delhi food department directed fair price shops to start disbursing ration among beneficiaries for the month of June from Friday, including in Seemapuri where the government was planning to carry out the pilot run of the doorstep delivery scheme. The additional allocation made to each beneficiary under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) will also commence simultaneously, said the order, a copy of which HT has seen.While people are entitled to 4kg wheat, 1kg rice and 1kg sugar under regular ration in Delhi, they will get an additional 5kg food grains under PMGKAY till Diwali, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 7. While food grains under PMGKAY are 100% subsidised, the Delhi government had announced free regular ration for May and June. Delhi has 1.78 million ration card holders which translates to 7.2 million beneficiaries.Last Saturday, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has “rejected” the scheme citing lack of Centre’s approval and a pending case in the high court. The L-G office, however, said Baijal did not “reject” the scheme and only “advised for the constitutional scheme of things to be followed in letter and spirit”.This was the second time this year that the scheme was stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre. The scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumers affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections to the scheme — the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism in the NFSA requires an amendment that can be done only by Parliament.On Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to approve the scheme in the “national interest”. In his letter, Kejriwal assured the Prime Minister that the Delhi government was ready to make whatever changes the central government will suggest in the long-delayed scheme to deliver ration at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries. He said his government only aims to provide ration to the poor and did not want any credit.The scheme was first approved in March 2018 but could not be implemented because of administrative issues, largely over approved methods to distribute ration under the NFSA. It also led to a tussle between the elected government and lieutenant governor, leading to a demonstration outside the L-G’s office by the top leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doorstep-delivery-on-hold-delhi-govt-announces-distribution-of-ration-in-normal-mode-101623433766520.html
11-06-2021||Other||UPPSC issues revised exams’ calendar, PCS (pre) 2021 on Oct 24||The Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC) has released a revised calendar for recruitment exams set to be held in 2021-22. The calendar comprises a schedule of 14 recruitment exams to be held between July 2021 and April 2022.As per UPPSC officials, the schedule has been made available on the official website of the commission—uppsc.up.nic.in. “However, changes can be made to this revised exam schedule also in special circumstances,” said Arvind Kumar Mishra, the exam controller of UPPSC.The original exam calendar was released on January 15, 2021, but in view of the pandemic, the commission could not conduct five scheduled recruitment exams set to be held between April 2021 and June 2021 necessitating this latest revision of the exam calendar, the officials added.The five recruitment exams that the commission could not hold in the first part of 2021 between them has 2,777 posts on offer and had attracted 13 lakh applications.As per the revised exam calendar, combined state/upper subordinate services (prelims) eaxmination-2021, commonly known as PCS (prelims), which was postponed due to Covid-19 will now be conducted on October 24 followed by mains examination on January 28, 2022. Likewise, the assistant conservator of forest/range forest officer (ACF/RFO) prelims Exam-2021 will also be held on the same date (October 24) followed by mains examination on March 7, 2022.Unani medical officer (screening) exam-2018 will be held on July 25 followed by the combined state agricultural services (prelims) exam-2020 on August 1. The lecturer (male/female) government intermediate college recruitment (preliminary) exam-2020 will take place on September 19 while staff nurse (male/female) recruitment exam-2021 will be held on October 3.Similarly, regional inspector (technical) recruitment exam-2020 will be held on November 21 followed by combined state agricultural services (mains) exam-2020 which will be held from November 26. Review officer/assistant review officer (preliminary) examination-2021 is scheduled to take place on December 5 while lecturer (male/female) government intermediate college recruitment (mains) exam-2020 will take place on December 19.Likewise, principal grade-2/vice-principal and assistant director (screening) exam-2019 will be held on January 9, 2022, while lecturer in state degree colleges (screening) exam-2020 will be held on April 3, 2022. The last exam in the annual calendar is that of review officer/assistant review officer (mains) recruitment examination-2021 that will be held on April 10, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uppsc-issues-revised-exams-calendar-pcs-pre-2021-on-oct-24-101623433648340.html
11-06-2021||Other||J&K L-G may take call on Amarnath Yatra next week||Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) headed by Lt governor Manoj Sinha has yet to take a decision on the annual Amarnath Yatra, officials said on Friday.“The decision has to be taken by the L-G and whatever is communicated to us, we will abide by it,” said a SASB senior official.The pilgrimage, which was called off last year in view of Covid pandemic, is scheduled to take place from June 28 to August 22.Official sources, however, revealed that Sinha is likely to chair the SASB meeting next week to take a call on the pilgrimage.“We anticipate a decision in the meeting, but it depends on the Centre. The SASB will go by Centre’s decision on the Yatra. However, officials are not in its favour and do not want this pilgrimage to become another super-spreader event like the Kumbh Mela,” they said.On June 8, J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina had said a restricted pilgrimage should be facilitated if the prevailing Covid situation does not allow a full-fledged yatra.The 56-day pilgrimage to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir, housing the naturally formed ice Shivalinga, is scheduled to start from the twin routes of Pahalgam and Baltal on June 28 and culminate on August 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-l-g-may-take-call-on-amarnath-yatra-next-week-101623432749191.html
11-06-2021||Other||JPDCL failed to prevent power pangs, says Kavinder Gupta||Senior BJP leader and former deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta on Thursday expressed serious concern over the dismal power scenario across Jammu region amid rising temperatures.Gupta, in a statement issued here, maintained that in contrast to claims made on provision of adequate power supply for the summer months, the Jammu Power Distribution Corporation Limited (JPDCL) miserably failed in meeting the expectations and left people to suffer in the sweltering heat.“Sadly, no change has been made on ground as far as power availability during the peak summer months is concerned. Load shedding has become a norm and frequent fluctuations are damaging appliances. The local administration must take steps on war footing to address the problem,” demand Gupta.He alleged that the scenario this year was much worse than last year and blaming JPDCL’s incompetence for it.The senior BJP leader, however, asked the quarters concerned not to give in under the pressure and rather pace up efforts to resolve the issue through a comprehensive identification of weak links. He also advised the power department sleuths to take strict action against power thefts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jpdcl-failed-to-prevent-power-pangs-says-kavinder-gupta-101623432747836.html
11-06-2021||Other||Brief showers bring respite in Kashmir, hot weather ahead||A short spell of rain on Friday brought much-needed relief in some parts of Kashmir which was witnessing heat wave conditions for the past few days with temperatures soaring as high as 34°C.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had predicted a drop in temperature with the brief spell of showers in the Valley. “A brief spell of light to moderate thunderstorm with rain occurred at scattered places of south Kashmir — Gulmarg, Kulgam, Shopian, Poonch, Rajouri and Ramban-Banihal axis,” said J&K meteorological department director Sonam Lotus.He, however, said the heat wave conditions are likely to continue for the next few days.“There is no forecast of any major rainfall for the next few days. We expect slight relief from scorching heat wave in Jammu and Kashmir from today.”For Ladakh, he said the weather will remain partly to generally cloudy throughout the region.Kashmir witnessed its hottest day of the year on Tuesday when the mercury rose to 34.3°C in summer capital Srinagar.The second half of the month of May and early June witnessed some freaky weather with sunshine during the mornings and afternoons and thunderstorms and showers during the evenings.In April, some good wet spells had hit the region. After a relatively hot February, March had mostly remained cold and rainy with intermittent precipitation across J&K.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/brief-showers-bring-respite-in-kashmir-hot-weather-ahead-101623432747364.html
11-06-2021||Other||Himachal extends Covid curfew with more relaxations||The Covid curfew in Himachal Pradesh has been extended with several more relaxations till further orders, owing to the situation improving in the state.The decisions were taken during the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur here on Friday.From June 14 (Monday) onwards, the shops would open from 9am to 5pm. However, markets would remain closed on weekends. The curfew would remain in effect from 5pm to 5am.Offices with staff strength of 75 and above would function with 50% strength. Earlier, the offices were operating with 30% staff.All medical, ayurveda and dental colleges would open from June 23, and pharmacy and nursing institutes on June 28.Intrastate public transport would be allowed with 50% passengers. RT-PCR tests are no longer needed to enter the state.The cabinet decided to provide a relief of about ₹40 crore to the reeling transport sector, including interest subvention scheme on working capital for stage carriage operators. Under the scheme, a loan amount of ₹2 lakh per bus and maximum amount up to ₹20 lakh would be provided to the bus operators as working capital. The duration of the loan would be five years, which includes one year of moratorium period.Fifty percent wavier has been given on the special road tax and token tax from August 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021, to stage carriages, taxis, maxis, autorickshaws and institution buses.Besides this, 50% relief has also been given on special road tax and token tax during the period of three months from April to June 2021.The cabinet approved filling up of 2,322 posts of different categories under departmental para workers policy to manage 486 drinking water and 31 irrigation schemes in the state.The cabinet also decided to create and fill up 401 posts of different categories in trauma/ tertiary care centre in IGMCH, Shimla, and super specialty block Chamiana of the hospital, besides 328 posts of different categories on outsource basis.The honorarium of all categories of teachers appointed under SMC has been enhanced by ₹500 per month from April 1, 2021. Similarly, honorarium of cook-cum-helper under the mid-day meal scheme has been increased by ₹300 per month.Keeping in view the pandemic situation in the state, the cabinet has decided to conduct examinations of graduate and Shastri final year in 2021 as per SoPs issued by UGC. It also decided to hold exams of graduate first and second year after the final year examinations are over.The academic session 2021-22 in colleges would start from 1st week of August.The cabinet gave its nod to revised scheme for interest subvention on working capital Loan for hospitality industry. The revised scheme provides for interest subversion of 75% in the first year and payment period has also been increased to five years.It decided to include the families under National Food Security Act (priority households category) where death occurred due to Covid pandemic.It approved necessary amendments in Mukhya Mantri Swalamban Yojna to include service enterprises and related goods carriers as composite related activities.It has granted ex-post facto permission to set up makeshift hospitals at Pandoga in Una, Parour in Palampur, Khaliar in Mandi and Anji in Solan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-extends-covid-curfew-with-more-relaxations-101623432695808.html
11-06-2021||Pune||Maharashtra deputy CM chides contractor for quality of work during inauguration||A contractor had to face rebuke from Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar for the quality of renovation work at the Pune police headquarters on Friday. Pawar inaugurated a renovated building at the police headquarters in Shivajinagar. During the inspection, Pawar, flanked by Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta and other senior officials, expressed dissatisfaction about the work, and chided the contractor by pointing out mistakes and also questioned the quality of the material used. "I look minutely if I am called to inspect a work," Pawar was heard telling the police commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-deputy-cm-chides-contractor-for-quality-of-work-during-inauguration-101623430621213.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers go for multiple paddy varieties, sowing methods||Farmers in Punjab are adopting multiple varieties and different methods for paddy sowing on their farms simultaneously, a new trend noticed by the state agriculture department. “We have noticed that farmers are growing kharif crops, particularly paddy, in an intelligent manner. They are growing paddy by direct seeding on one portion of their farm, and on the other portion, they are adopting transplantation on puddle fields,” said Baldev Singh, a senior official in the Punjab agriculture directorate. The official said farmers are also mixing varieties, such as the long-duration and high-yielding Pusa-44, short-duration PR (parmal rice) varieties and aromatic basmati. This kharif season, coarse varieties of paddy are expected to be grown over 24.5 lakh hectares and basmati over 5.5 lakh hectares. Nek Singh, a progressive farmer from a village near Nabha in Patiala, said that every farmer should diversify in whatever small way possible. Growing different varieties will help farmers, because if basmati fails to fetch a good price, the coarse varieties covered under minimum support price (MSP) regimen can stabilise their income. According to an announcement made two days ago, the Centre has increased the MSP on paddy by ₹72 per quintal from the existing ₹1,888. Against the previous season, the area under DSR (direct seeding of rice) is expected to be doubled to 10 lakh hectares, almost 40% of the total area (24.5 lakh hectares) under coarse varieties and one-third of the total area under paddy cultivation, this kharif season. According to data gathered by the agriculture department, the transplantation of Pusa-44 in puddle fields has started from June 10, the date mandated by the state government for beginning paddy transplant, while paddy sowing by DSR method has already been reported over 2 lakh hectares. The sowing under DSR method started on May 25 and will go up to June 15, while the ideal time for the transplanting varieties is from June 10 to July 15. Paddy varieties and preferences in PunjabThe water-guzzling Pusa-44, developed by Delhi-based Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) that is commonly referred to as Pusa institute, is one of the oldest varieties grown in the state. The council has stopped producing it, but farmers are still producing its seeds on their own. The PR varieties belong to Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, which sells them to farmers. While farmers in Sangrur, Barnala and Mansa belt prefer Pusa-44 variety, those in the rest of the state grow mixed varieties. “We are recommending short-duration PR varieties. But farmers don’t want to stop growing Pusa-44 variety completely because of its high yield of 6-10 quintals per hectare over the PR varieties,” said Baldev Singh. He said PR varieties grown by the DSR method save at least 25% water. Pusa-44 takes 155-160 days for maturing, leaving very short window for wheat sowing in the upcoming rabi season, which is still grown over 22% of the total area. Hence, short-duration PR varieties that take 135-138 days are recommended. According to PAU vice-chancellor BS Dhillon, in changing times, farmers should act smartly and go for multiple varieties and even multiple crops. “I suggest them to also grow maize and cotton simultaneously with paddy if it suits their soil and climatic conditions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-farmers-go-for-multiple-paddy-varieties-sowing-methods-101623431247122.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Post-matric scholarship: Relief for SC students in Punjab||After the Punjab government agreed to release funds under the post-matric scholarship scheme, the Joint Association of Colleges (JAC) of private educational institutions on Friday decided to issue roll numbers to nearly two lakh scheduled caste (SC) students in the state. The decision to issue roll numbers was taken after the state government agreed to release 40% of the outstanding amount of SC post-matric scholarship scheme pertaining to financial years 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20. The two sides reached the agreement at a meeting held between a committee of ministers headed by finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and the association of private educational institutions. The high-powered committee also included technical education and industrial training minister Charanjit Singh Channi, higher education minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, social welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharmsot, chief principal secretary to CM Suresh Kumar and secretaries of various departments. The JAC was represented by chief patron Satnam Singh Sandhu, chairman Gurmeet Singh Dhaliwal, president Jagjit Singh and co-chairman Anshu Kataria among others. The private educational institutions have been protesting against non-disbursal of ₹1,549 crore by the state government under the scholarship scheme, and had decided to withhold roll numbers of students. In the meeting, the state government agreed to release 40% of the outstanding amount. Out of this, 50% amount will be released within this year and balance 50% will be released in the next financial year, according to Kataria.For the remaining 60% from the year 2017-18 to 2019-20, the state government and JAC will follow up with the central government. Kataria said the govt has also agreed to form a committee to rationalise the fee capping issue of BEd, ETT, ITI, MEd and other courses. The committee will submit its report within 30 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/postmatric-scholarship-relief-for-sc-students-in-punjab-101623431187212.html
11-06-2021||Dehradun||13 Uttarakhand Police personnel have died due to Covid-19 so far: DGP||Thirteen Uttarakhand Police personnel have lost their lives to Covid-19 since the pandemic began last year, officials said on Friday.The Uttarakhand Police paid a tribute to these personnel at a programme held at its headquarters here by observing a two-minute silence.Speaking at the programme, Director General of Police Ashok Kumar said eight jawans died of Covid-19 during the first wave and five during the second."Their service to the needy during a crisis can never be forgotten," he said.Kumar said as compared to the first wave, more police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 during the second wave but they were protected to a great extent because of the vaccine.He asked police personnel to get all their close relatives vaccinated at the earliest and remain prepared to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/13-uttarakhand-police-personnel-have-died-due-to-covid-19-so-far-dgp-101623430450925.html
11-06-2021||Lucknow||More Congress leaders in Uttar Pradesh may be weighing their options||A number of senior Congress leaders have left the party over the years and many more may do so ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, said people claiming to be privy to the developments.Jitin Prasada, Rita Bahuguna Joshi and Jagdambika Pal are some of the top Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh who have switched loyalties to the BJP in recent years. Others may be weighing their options or waiting for an opportune time to do so.Although Congress leaders remained aware of the developments and watched them closely, the party failed to take corrective measures well in time, people familiar with the issue said.“A few months before every assembly or parliamentary polls, the “aaya ram gaya ram” (political cross-over) phenomenon is witnessed in all the political parties, but the grand old party has remained in focus for this in recent years,” said a senior party leader when asked about reports that more leaders may be looking for options outside the party.Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu said Jitin Prasada had no political base among the people and this was the reason that he failed win even an assembly election in 2017 when the party aligned with the Samajwadi Party (SP). He said Prasada’s exit would not make any difference to the party. Lallu said he was not aware of any other leader making moves to leave the Congress.Others aware of the developments, however, admitted the party was going through a bad phase.“The Congress leadership should focus on strengthening the party organisation and ensure that the party is considered a contender for power,” said another leader.“If some leaders are leaving the Congress, some will join it, too. Jitin Prasada’s overtures to the BJP have been known to the party. So are the moves of the other leaders. Jitin Prasada could have left the party when the Congress considered fielding him as a candidate from Lucknow in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. What did not materialise in 2019 appears to have worked now. This is the time for leaders to look for options. There are reports about another former Union minister who may be considering moving out. There are similar reports about the son of a senior leader. This number may be higher,” he said.Congress MLAs from Rae Bareli Aditi Singh and Rakesh Singh from Harchandpur (also in Rae Bareli) are known for their proximity with the BJP. A Congress petition to disqualify them from membership of the assembly has not worked and they continue to be party MLAs. Both of them are likely to look for their future outside the party in 2022.“You know things work differently in the Congress. Major organisational changes are expected in the party at all-India level and this will have a fallout in Uttar Pradesh, too. We hope things will be worked out soon,” said the party leader.After the Congress received a drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the party had dissolved all district and city units. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had initiated a major programme to revamp the party. A new team of district and city unit leaders was picked up under the leadership of Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attended a training session for new office bearers at the Bhuemau guesthouse in Rae Bareli in January 2020. UPCC’s new team, however, evoked a mixed response and a dividing line persists between the old timers and the new team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/more-congress-leaders-in-uttar-pradesh-may-be-weighing-their-options-101623430047330.html
11-06-2021||Pune||Fire destroys a portion of British-era Mahatma Phule heritage market||Mahatma Phule Mandai, the 138-year-old heritage vegetable market in the old city of Pune caught fire around 12.30 am on Friday and the flames were brought under control within 20 minutes. According to the central fire brigade officials, fire broke out in the inner roof of the market during midnight, but the exact cause of the fire could not be ascertained. No casualties were reported in the incident and the total damage was being assessed. PMC fire chief Prashant Ranpise said that the British-era structure with a wooden interior caught fire around midnight. Accordingly, the fire brigade rushed to the spot but by then, some of the interiors had been burnt to ashes. The fire was brought under control with the help of three fire tenders and the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, he said. Mahatma Phule mandai (formerly known as Lord Reay’s market) is the biggest retail vegetable market in the city is housed in an iconic building from the British colonial era in the Shukrawar peth. The construction of the building had started in 1882 and it was completed in 1886. Fire officer Pradeep Bedekar said, “The old wooden structure on the eastern side of market caught fire. The flames spreading fast due to the wooden structure and more fire tenders, water tankers and a Devdoot vehicle were rushed to the spot to douse the flames. We brought the situation under control within 20 minutes. Some wooden compartments in the market were damaged due to fire which is suspected to have taken place due to a short circuit. However, we are still investigating the other reasons behind the fire,” he said. A massive fire broke out at the Chhatrapati Shivaji market on the night of March 15 which destroyed at least 25 shops in the fish and chicken section of the market. Fire tenders from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) were rushed to the spot and the fire was brought under control within an hour’s time. Chhatrapati Shivaji Market, a grade I heritage structure, has been a bustling marketplace since its construction in 1885 by British army officer Lt Gen John Ross as per the design by Gen Cecil D’Urban La Touche and WM Ducat. The heritage structure still awaits restoration owing to lack of funds from Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) which is facing a near bankruptcy of central government funds for the past three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fire-destroys-a-portion-of-british-era-mahatma-phule-heritage-market-101623427947697.html
11-06-2021||Other||Punjab govt school teachers resent order to promote education dept FB page||Moga In today’s digital world, an organisation’s presence on social media can make or break its image in public perception. Most big companies and organisations use professionals to manage their Facebook (FB) accounts. The Punjab school education department, however, has directed teachers to publicise and promote its social media posts on its FB page, titled ‘Activities School Education Punjab’. The department has launched a competition among districts to monitor their performance on the number of likes, comments and share on its FB page. To beat competition, some districts have started assigning targets of likes, share and comments to teachers, who are uneasy. Most teachers are resentful at the additional task, claiming that the education department is using them as its Information Technology (IT) cell.A block primary officer education officer of Malwa, pleading anonymity, said, “For long, general guidelines have been in place for promoting social media content. Now, district education departments have been assigned particular days to do such tasks.”Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar education department has given targets to its teachers and deputed nine officials to ensure that the work is done. The order from district education officer (secondary), SBS Nagar, reads, “The education department is organising a healthy competition among all districts related to the activity page of the education department is being organised. SBS Nagar’s turn is from 11pm of June 17 to 11pm of June 18. Officials will ensure ten likes, ten shares and ten comments from all subordinate teachers.”Moga deputy DEO, secondary, Rakesh Makkar, said, “Our turn has been fixed for June 27. This activity is about sharing the good work of the education department. This will help in increasing enrolment of students in government schools. No teacher is being forced to do the tasks.”Vikramdev Singh, state president, Democratic Teacher’s Front, said, “The education department is using teachers as the IT cell of the state government. It is an attack on an individual’s freedom on social media. Like other citizens, teachers also have the freedom to choose what to like and what to share.”SBS Nagar DEO (secondary) Jagjit Singh; DPI (secondary) Sukjeetpal Singh and state education secretary Krishan Kumar did not respond to repeated calls and messages on their cell phones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-govt-school-teachers-resent-order-to-promote-education-dept-fb-page-101623427847751.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records more than 10,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for two days in a row; death toll reaches 106,367||Maharashtra recorded 11,766 cases on Friday, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 5,887,853. The state also witnessed 406 Covid-related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative toll to 106,367. The total number of recoveries reached 5,616,857, after 8,104 people recovered from the infection. The capital city of Mumbai recorded 721 new cases and 24 deaths, according to the state health bulletin.Friday's tally marks a decrease from the12,207 cases recorded on Thursday, and an increase from the 10,989 Covid-19 cases recorded on Wednesday. The number of tests conducted also went up as 254,301 tests were conducted on Friday as compared to the 228,611 samples tested a day before. Till date the state has tested 37,611,005 samples, showed the health bulletin.The death toll in the western state also went up on Friday after 406 more deaths were recorded compared to 393 fatalities reported the day before.Click here for complete coverage on Coronavirus The Maharashtra government reconciled 2,213 deaths on Friday, while 1,522 coronavirus-related casualties were reconciled on Thursday, taking the death toll up to 103,748. State minister Rajesh Tope issued an ultimatum to all civil surgeons appointed in government hospitals on updating fatality numbers within two days, failing which they will be subjected to action.Maximum city Mumbai witnessed an increase in the daily count after 721 cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, compared to the 655 recorded a day before. The total number of cases in the capital now stands at 715,146. The daily toll too went up on Friday after 24 deaths were recorded, compared to the 22 fatalities recorded on Thursday.The doubling rate, time taken by the infection to double the number of cases, now stands at 598 days, and the recovery rate is at 95%, said the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).The civic body also said that 9,521 individuals have been contacted in the last 24 hours, out of whom 845 are considered to be "high risk contact". The city currently has 95 containment zones and 92 sealed buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-more-than-10-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-for-two-days-in-a-row-death-toll-reaches-106367-101623416899807.html
11-06-2021||Pune||PMC ask residents of Indira Gandhi Vasahat to vacate homes after cracks in walls||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has asked residents of Indira Gandhi Vasahat for developing cracks in their homes to shift to nearby schools for precautionary measurement whereas residents are not ready to move to nearby schools and are demanding action on contractor and compensation to repair their homes. Recently, Hindustan Times published a report on the issue of residents of Indira Gandhi Vashat near Ambil odha under the Neelayam theatre flyover under fear due to cracks in their homes. After that, PMC officials visited the area and inspected the homes and issued notices to vacate their homes for the precautionary measurement. However, local residents registered an opposition and refused to accept the notices and vacate their homes in the monsoon season. Dilip Waghmare, resident of Indira Gandhi Vasahat said, “Cracks are developed due to negligence of contractors. PMC should punish them and provide us compensation to repair our homes. Instead of that, PMC slapped notices to vacate our homes. At this stage, how can we leave our well-furnished homes and stay in nearby PMC schools. Why should we suffer due to the irresponsible work of contractor?” Vilas Phad, executive engineer of drainage and maintenance department said, “The retaining wall work is going on along Ambil odha near the Indira Gandhi Vasahat. We requested residents to shift temporarily till the retaining wall work is not completed. If we find contractor work is responsible for cracks, we will ask the contractor to repair cracks.” Meanwhile, there are more than 40 families living along the Ambil odha near Seva Dal office in Survey number 133. It is called 52 chawl. There is an old compound wall along the Odha. But, it is not in good condition. Therefore, the PMC drainage department has undertaken work to construct a parallel compound to strengthen the existing one to protect residents from the flood like situation. However, the PMC has taken up the work last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-ask-residents-of-indira-gandhi-vasahat-to-vacate-homes-after-cracks-in-walls-101623427706310.html
11-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh assembly polls: Big parties begin wooing smaller outfits||Uttar Pradesh’s smaller political parties are being wooed by the major political players in the run-up to next year’s assembly elections due to their influence in various pockets of the state.With about eight to nine months to go for the elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress are vying with one another to keep these smaller parties in good humour ahead of the 2022 elections.Union home minister Amit Shah’s meeting with Apna Dal (Sonelal) chief Anupriya Patel and Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (Nishad) party president Sanjay Nishad in Delhi has set the pitch in this context.Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP), an erstwhile ally of the BJP, is also being sought after for an alliance, people familiar with the development claimed.“The BJP has sent feelers to Rajbhar to join the alliance for the 2022 assembly elections,” said a SBSP leader who did not wish to be named. But SBSP chief Om Prakash Rajbhar on Friday denied meeting BJP leaders.The importance the BJP is giving to its allies Apna Dal (S) and Nishad party can be gauged from the fact that immediately after his interaction with UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday, the Union home minister met Patel and Nishad. The BJP shared the photos of both the leaders meeting Shah on various social media platforms.Apna Dal (S) enjoys influence over the Kurmi caste settled in the Mirzapur and Varanasi region of eastern Uttar Pradesh. It contested the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the 2017 assembly elections in alliance with the BJP.While Apna Dal MLAs are ministers in the UP government, Anupriya was minister in the central government from 2016-19.Recently, there was speculation about differences between the two parties over representation in the state and central governments. Purported efforts by the Samajwadi Party to woo Apna Dal (S) also set alarm bells ringing in the BJP camp.To send the message that the relationship between both the allies was resilient, Shah met Patel, those in the know of things claimed. Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav was quick to hit back, alleging that there was something “dubious” in the meeting of the BJP leaders with the presidents of smaller parties.The Nishad party that is said to be influential among the Kewat, Mallah, Nishad and Bind castes in central and east UP joined the alliance with the BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Sanjay Nishad’s son Praveen Kumar Nishad was elected to the Lok Sabha from Sant Kabir Nagar in eastern UP.In the 2018 Lok Sabha by-poll, the Nishad party had given a jolt to the BJP by winning the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat. The SP and BSP had supported the Nishad party in the by-election for the prestigious seat vacated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Of late, there had been murmurs about relations between the BJP and the Nishad party souring. Sanjay Nishad alleged that BJP had failed to fulfil its promises and the Nishad party’s request to include 14 backward castes in the scheduled castes’ list had also not been met.People privy to the development claimed Shah assured Sanjay Nishad that the BJP will fulfil the promises. Earlier, a senior SP leader had met Sanjay Nishad with the request to ally with the Samajwadi Party for the assembly election.Newly elected Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Jayant Chaudhary has made it clear that his party will contest the assembly election in alliance with the SP to send a message to its support base, the Jat community settled in western UP. RLD has also announced its support to SP candidates in the zila panchayat chairpersons’ election likely to be held in June-end or early July.The Mahan Dal that is said to be popular among Maurya, Kushwaha and Saini caste voters has announced its support for the SP in the assembly elections. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) led by Asaduddin Owaisi and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief Om Prakash Rajbhar have announced the launch of Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha (BSM) to form an alliance of smaller political parties for the 2022 assembly election. The Morcha had invited the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bhim Army to join the pre-poll alliance. The Jan Adhikar Party led by Babu Singh Kushwaha, Rashtriya Uday Party president Babu Rampal, Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party chief Premchanda Prajapati and Janata Kranti Party president Anil Singh Chauhan have given their consent to join the alliance, he said. These parties have some influence over backward and Dalit communities in various regions of state.The leaders of the SP, BSP and Congress are holding regular talks with BSM to sew up an alliance for the assembly elections. Rajbhar said the announcement of an alliance with other political parties would be made at the appropriate time.Political analyst SK Srivastava said the BJP won the 2017 assembly elections with the support of the non-Yadav backward castes, non-Jatav Dalits, as well as the upper caste Brahmins and Rajputs.The BJP leaders were now working to retain the support of these caste groups by wooing their leaders, he said.Professor SK Dwivedi, former head of the political science department at Lucknow University, said major political parties could not ignore the role of smaller parties in garnering votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-big-parties-begin-wooing-smaller-outfits-101623427547488.html
11-06-2021||Other||Lightening kills 4 at Fatuha||PATNAFour persons died after lightning struck them near Fatuha railway station in Patna on Friday. A video of the incident, which has since gone viral on social media, shows a group of men standing under a tree when lightning strikes them.According to the police, all victims were rushed to Patna Medical College and Hospital. Two of them died on the way while another two succumbed to injuries during treatment. Police said victims were residents of Purulia district in West Bengal and were gypsies. They had taken shelter under a tree as it was raining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lightening-kills-4-at-fatuha-101623427346827.html
11-06-2021||Other||Man injured as bomb he was making goes off||ARARIAA 65-year-old man was seriously injured after the crude bomb he was allegedly making went off at a village in Araria district late Thursday night.The man has been identified as Md Afroz of Budheshwari village and is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Purnia.Araria subdivisional police officer (SDPO) Pushkar Kumar, who visited the village on Friday, said, “Police have recovered two live bombs from the site.”Police sources said several miscreants in Araria, Kishanganj, Katihar and Purnia were engaged in making crude bombs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-injured-as-bomb-he-was-making-goes-off-101623427346167.html
11-06-2021||Other||Cop heading police association suspended||PATNABihar Police Association (BPA) president Mritunjay Kumar Singh, posted as an inspector with the crime investigation department (CID), has been suspended for his remarks against the state’s director general of police (DGP) S K Singhal regarding treatment of policemen during the second wave of Covid-19. A notification in this regard, which also says departmental proceedings have been initiated against Singh, was issued on Thursday night.On May 3, the police headquarters had issued a show cause to Singh and sought an explanation, which he furnished but was not found satisfactory.Singh said a delegation of police association would soon meet chief minister Nitish Kumar and seek his intervention for removal of his suspension and scrapping departmental proceedingsSingh said that on April 19, he made several calls to the DGP and sent a petition on his WhatsApp number demanding better facilities for the policemen during the second wave of coronavirus. “The DGP did not reply to me. Then it came out in media that he was annoyed with me. I was later served a show cause notice to which I replied,” he said.“This action has been taken to suppress the voice of victim policemen. The association has decided to meet chief minister Nitish Kumar to seek his intervention,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cop-heading-police-association-suspended-101623427288375.html
11-06-2021||Other||Are revised death figures complete, HC asks govt||PATNAThe Patna High Court on Friday asked advocate general (AG) Lalit Kishore if the affidavit filed by the chief secretary regarding revision of death figures was complete in all respects and information had been sought from every quarter. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management in the state, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar reiterated the need for updating the official website for registration of births and deaths and sought to know who was responsible for maintaining it at the state level and why there were multiple sites for the purpose. The court also directed amicus curiae Mrigank Mauli and Parul Prasad to do some research as to how many such portals were functional in the state.“There is a reason why there is a department of statistics. The proper compilation of data has effect on policy planning,” it said, citing the example of a boy with black fungus admitted in serious condition to the hospital with no Covid symptoms, but was later diagnosed Covid positive and developed problems in vital organs.The AG presented the affidavit of the chief secretary with details of the revision of death figures, which went up to 9,375 on June 9 from just 5,424 just a day earlier. The AG said that disciplinary action was being taken against the officials concerned for not reporting deaths in houses, isolation homes, private hospitals etc. earlier. “But is the figure complete in all respects now? We don’t see it being mentioned anywhere in the affidavit. After all, all the functionaries entrusted with the job of reporting deaths be at the level of panchayati raj institutions or the urban local bodies are duty bound to do it,” the bench said.Development commissioner Amit Subhani, who is also in-charge of the department of planning and statistics, also joined the proceedings and explained the mechanism of updating data regarding birth and death registration on the official portal. “”There is a unified system and unified software of the central government for the purpose under registrar general. There is director, statistics, at the state level as well designated registrars at the level of the panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies for uploading data, but the official portal is maintained by the Centre. There is just one such official platform. Whether it is for public viewing can be ascertained from the Centre only,” he said.On this, the court sought to know why there was a parallel portal under the urban development and housing department. “From the affidavits we see, there are at least three such platforms,” it said, to which the AG would present facts during the next hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/are-revised-death-figures-complete-hc-asks-govt-101623427287573.html
11-06-2021||Patna||RJD’s Tej Pratap Yadav meets Jitan Ram Manjhi, ex-CM dials Lalu Prasad in Delhi||Even as Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) members were busy celebrating the 74th birthday of their party chief Lalu Prasad on Friday, his elder son and MLA Tej Pratap Yadav drove to the residence of former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, whose party Hindustani Awami Morcha (Secular) is a constituent of the ruling NDA, stoking speculation of a realignment in Bihar.Tej Pratap Yadav and Manjhi were closeted for about an hour during which the former CM also called the RJD chief, who is currently in Delhi, to extend birthday wishes.Of late, Manjhi has been speaking out against NDA constituents, slamming BJP leaders “for the mindset of branding poor children studying in madrassas as terrorists and Dalit children striving to get ahead in life as Naxals”. He also voiced his objection to the picture of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Covid-19 vaccination certificates.For the record, the HAM(S) described Tej Pratap Yadav’s visit to Manjhi as “personal”. “It was a purely personal visit by Tej Pratap. Manjhi talked to the RJD chief to convey birthday wishes. There was no political talk during the meeting,” said HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan.However, before the visit, Tej Pratap Yadav told media persons at the party office that HAM(S) was always welcome in the opposition’s grand alliance. “If Manjhi is feeling restless, he is free to join us,” he said.Party’s senior leader and former speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary spoke of heightened political activity once RJD chief returns to Patna.HAM(S) spokesperson Rizwan, though, vehemently rejected the possibility of his party leaving the NDA.Manjhi’s party has four MLAs currently. His son Santosh Suman is a member of Nitish Kumar’s cabinet. Since the NDA enjoys only a slender majority in the Assembly, his party’s support is crucial for the ruling alliance.Sources say Manjhi was not happy over being apparently sidelined in selection of nominees for MLCs from Governor’s quota.Later, Manjhi said in a statement that he was very much part of the NDA and would remain with chief minister Nitish Kumar.BJP MP and former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi said there should not be any haste in deriving any political meaning if any public representative pays a courtesy visit to a leader. “Manjhi is a tall Dalit leader and not a leader of any caste. He has seen the misgovernance of RJD. If somebody is made to meet him forcibly, it makes no difference. NDA is intact and the state government will complete its full term,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tej-pratap-visits-manjhi-ex-cm-dials-lalu-101623427286850.html
11-06-2021||Other||Terror angle ruled out in Banka madrassa blast||PATNAThe Bihar Police on Friday ruled out terror angle in the blast that took place at a madrassa (seminary) in Banka district and said there was no need for a probe by the the National Investigation Agency (NIA).The blast on June 8 had killed an Imam (cleric) and blew up a portion of the madrassa building. “It was found during police investigation that a countrymade bomb caused the blast and that milk cans were used in making the crude bomb,” said a senior official of state’s home department, not willing to be named. The official said that the forensics team or anti-terrorism squad (ATS) sleuths had not found any trace RDX or improvised explosives from the site. “It seems crude bombs kept in a steel container exploded one by one.”The police had also recovered ₹1.65 lakh from almirah of the deceased Imam, Mohammad Abdul Momin Sattar, which has been handed over to his family members. The madrassa didn’t have any students present at the time of the blast since it was shut since Bihar enforced lockdown on May 5.Meanwhile, Banka district magistrate Suharsh Bhagat said madrassa was not a registered one. It was constructed between 2000 and 2001.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/terror-angle-ruled-out-in-banka-madrassa-blast-101623427286194.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||Baba returns to dhaba: Rise and fall of the social media sensation||A video of a teary-eyed old couple who ran a small eatery in Delhi’s Malviya Nagar and were forced into penury due to Covid-19, tugged at the heartstrings of many, last year. Featuring Kanta Prasad aka Baba — owner of Baba ka Dhaba, which was set up by him and his wife to make ends meet — the video became viral overnight and donations poured in, so much so that it enabled him to open a restaurant, last December. But, Prasad, 80, is now back to square one, for the restaurant had to be shut due to insufficient earnings.“I had to shut that new eatery on February 15 this year, since I was incurring heavy losses. Tushant (Adlakha; social worker) had said he’d help run it, but woh chala gaya (he left). There were expenses in running it, including the rent and workers’ salaries whereas the income was barely anything. So we closed it and sold off all the equipments and that fetched us somewhere around ₹36,000 out of the ₹5 lakh we had invested. Wahan parking bhi nahi thi, kaafi dikkat thi jagah mein (There was no parking available there, and other issues as well),” informs Prasad, adding that he wasn’t responsible for managing the funds that came to him as donations via social media. Many accustomed to Baba, however claim that he wasn’t experienced enough to handle the money that he amassed and that lead to the closure of the restaurant. One, for instance, is Adlakha, who not only differs from Baba’s claims but also presents another side to the resurged controversy. “Baba had received around ₹42 lakhs through donations. A majority of this sum they had put in a fixed deposit, making their younger son as the nominee, which caused a rift in his family. After the restaurant became functional, neither of his sons devoted time to manage the restaurant, and Baba had to sit at the counter himself. He would also drink regularly at night,” says Adlakha stating that Baba has been retracting from his statements quite often. “I’ve been reading reports of Baba saying that I advised him incorrectly on opening a new restaurant, or that I’d help him run it,” states Adlakha, clarifying, “The truth is that he already had a plan to open a new restaurant, which he had discussed with Gaurav (Wasan; food blogger), and I was put in touch with Baba via Gaurav. We tried to help him out with everything from looking at possible locations to purchasing the equipment and taking decisions on funds. Baba was involved at every step, and it was him and his sons who managed the money... Later, Baba called me to help him out, but I had personal commitments and college work as well, so I couldn’t. I had plans to call and check on him, but now I’m deeply hurt by what he is saying about me publicly!” It was reported by us last October that YouTuber Lakshay Chaudhary had accused food blogger Gaurav Wasan, of Swad Official — who had filmed the old couple’s heart-wrenching video, which went viral — of allegedly misappropriating an amount of more than ₹20 lakh that came as part of the donations for Baba; who even filed a cheating complaint against Wasan. Ask Baba if he still holds grudges against Wasan, and he says: “Koi gile shikwe nahi hain. Agar wo (Gaurav) aayenge toh hum unhe baithaenge sath (There is no ill feeling. If he comes, we will sit together).” Since Baba is back at his old eatery this month, he tells us that he’s doing just about okay and earns somewhere between ₹500-1,000 daily. “I’m now doing everything on my own. Humara kam sahi chal raha hai, aur kisi baat ki pareshani nahi hai (Our work is going well and there is no trouble of any sort). After me, my kids will run Baba ka Dhaba!” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/baba-returns-to-dhaba-rise-and-fall-of-the-social-media-sensation-101623427123487.html
11-06-2021||Other||PMC releases all teachers, non-teaching staff from Covid duty||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Friday, issued an order for staff involved in Covid-19 work to return to their concerned departments.PMC additional commissioner Rubal Agrawal issued the order, also releasing all teaching and non-teaching staff. The order read: “As the academic year is starting and Covid cases are coming down in the city, there is no requirement of more staff. Teachers should be released on priority.”During the peak of the pandemic, the PMC had assigned staff from various departments on Covid -19 duty.Staff was appointed to care centres, put on contact tracing, testing centres and at call centres.The PMC’s health department in particular had acquired staff from various other departments. The PMC order states that, if needed, the staff must be ready to join Covid-19 duties again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-releases-all-teachers-non-teaching-staff-from-covid-duty-101623426929706.html
11-06-2021||Other||Lt Gen Nain assures Dr Chavan of vaccination for PCDA (O) staff and families||PUNE A meeting was held between Lt Gen JS Nain, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C), Southern Command, and Dr Rajeev S Chavan, principal controller of Defence Accounts (officers) on Wednesday. Lt Gen Nain assured Dr Chavan that the 200 staff of the PCDA (O), and their familie,s would receive the Covid-19 vaccine. It was decided during the meeting that both the organisations will appoint a nodal officer of the rank of Colonel, for better coordination, prompt delivery and early redressal of grievances of Army officers. Issues pertaining to disbursement of pension related matters of veterans, widows and re-employed Army pensioners were also discussed. With reference to training of Army officers it was decided to hold regular webinars to make them aware of their entitlements and redress their problems relating to pay anomalies. The Army Commander also said that there is ample scope for simplification and rationalisation of various cumbersome procedures for correct, error-free and prompt payment of all claims. Dr Chavan said that digitisation of pay-related documents is already underway for ease of accessibility, accountability and transparency.Dr Chavan took over as principal controller of Defence Accounts (officers) on May 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lt-gen-nain-assures-dr-chavan-of-vaccination-for-pcda-o-staff-and-families-101623426928524.html
11-06-2021||Pune||Pirangut fire: Families receive bodies after DNA testing||Families who lost their kin in the Pirangut fire on June 8, finally received the bodies after DNA testing was completed on Friday. As per information provided by Sassoon hospital, all 17 bodies were handed over to the families. Most family members were travelling every day from nearby villages to receive the bodies. “The process was lengthy. That’s why it took four days to complete the procedure. We were in constant touch with police officials and relatives,” said an official from Sassoon hospital. Families of the victims had arrived from Osmanabad, Beed, and Solapur and Urawade village, where the company, SVS Aqua Tech, where the disaster took place, is located.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pirangut-fire-families-receive-bodies-after-dna-testing-101623426926316.html
11-06-2021||Pune||14 tempos vandalised by a security guard in Wakad||A security guard went on a rampage and vandalised 14 vehicles in Wakad on Thursday night. The accused who was drunk attacked the vehicles with a wooden stick and damaged them by smashing the windshield of mostly commercial tempos which were parked at the spot. The Wakad police have arrested the security guard and detained two others in the case. According to the police, the security guard identified as Kiran Gadge had objected to vegetable vendors and tempo drivers for parking their vehicles in front of the society main gate. He was also disturbed as the vendors and auto driver were dumping garbage and urinated in an open space in front the society main gate in Mhatobanagar in Wakad. The society residents too had objected to the development and asked the guard to enforce discipline. Accordingly, he reminded them a number of times, but his plea fell on deaf ears. Since then, he was angry which led to his violent behaviour on Thursday night, the police said. Wakad police station in charge Vivek Mugalikar said that a huge police force was rushed to the spot to prevent the violence. “The guard was upset and seems to have taken the decision to vandalise during an inebriated condition. It is a serious case, and an offence has been lodged against the security guard. We are also looking into details of the other accused and examining their role in the violence. Based on the investigation and evidence, action will be taken against them,” he said. Meanwhile, PCMC police chief Krishna Prakash has given strict orders to all the police stations to take strong action against those indulging in spreading fear in the society through vandalism. Wakad including Pimpri-Chinchwad has been witnessing many events of vehicle vandalism since 2017. These incidents usually involve youngsters, especially juveniles, who take law into their own hands. Their motive seems to be spreading terror among residents and establishing supremacy of their gangs. Though tough measures have been undertaken, it failed to deter the law breaker from taking the extreme step of destruction of public property. In Oct 2021, in a fear spreading incident, a mob of 100 unidentified persons vandalised 10 vehicles with machetes, swords, and cement blocks on the streets of Nehru Nagar in Pimpri. It was a petty dispute between two gangs which resulted in mob vandalism of vehicles. The clash and violence took place when groups of 100 youths from the second group went to kill the other group. As many as 21 vehicles were damaged. In Feb 2021, six vehicles were damaged by the vandals in Bhosari by the youths of warring factions. Amongst the steps taken, the PCMC have been issuing written warnings to known offenders, besides carrying out combing operations in slum pockets to flush out miscreants, as a part of an exercise to check the unprecedented rise in the number of cases of vehicle vandalism. The police have also booked offenders under more stringent legal provisions of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, offences of extortion, robbery and issuance of threats, as the case may be. As many as fifty cases of vehicle vandalism where over 500 vehicles have been damaged in PCMC have been registered since 2018 with over 100 persons arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/14-tempos-vandalised-by-a-security-guard-in-wakad-101623426746168.html
11-06-2021||Pune||PMC designates 25 trees as “heritage” based on historical, botanical and ecological significance||The state government has announced to declare trees in urban areas which are older than 50 years as heritage trees; however, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has already gone a step ahead and identified around 25 such trees which have heritage value based on criteria of historical, botanical and ecological significance. As per PMC, the heritage and garden committee had come up with a unique concept in 2015 which categorised old trees not only on the criteria of age but the value of heritage, rare, unique botanically and ecological significance. Pimple and chapha trees at Parvati temple complex, the date palm tree at Parsi Agyari (Nana peth), the banyan tree at Pune university, Medshinigi tree at Marimata temple inside Pune university campus, Gorakchinch tree at Abhinav chowk on Tilak road, Shirish tree in Vaikunth crematorium are some of the heritage trees mentioned in the PMC garden department report tabled in PMC heritage committee for approval. The PMC garden department identified almost 45 such trees which fitted in the category of heritage, old, historical significance and unique species in the city. In 2015, the PMC garden department had shortlisted 45 trees on the basis of historical, botanical and ecological significance, of that, the heritage committee approved 25 trees. Ashokh Ghorpade, chief garden department of the PMC said, “Before the state government, the PMC introduced a heritage trees concept in 2015. After giving approval by the heritage committee, we placed green board on the tress which includes local, botanical, vernacular and popular names of the tree, origin of the tree, historical information, medicinal use.” Dr Sachin Anil Punekar, botanist and founder president Biospheres and one of the members of state government heritage tree committee said, “I was also part of the PMC tree authority committee when the concept was introduced. We welcome the decision of the state government to preserve heritage trees in the state. But age should be one of the criteria instead of a major and important one to announce a heritage tree. The state government should have to include other criteria such as historical, botanical, ecological, social, spiritual and traditional significance and value which PMC considered while declaring heritage trees in Pune city. If we consider age as the only criteria, we will find more than 10,000 such trees in the PMC jurisdiction. We mentioned Pimple in the heritage structure which is located at Parvati temple complex because Nanasaheb Peshwa performed the thread ceremony of this tree in 1754. Lal Chapha or Dev chafa tree is also placed in the same complex which is one of the oldest trees (300 years old).” He further explained, “Gorakh Chinch tree is located at Abhinav chowk, at the junction of Tilak and Bajirao road. They are important as they are rare and have a unique shape. Walunj (Indian Willow) is an indigenous tree and located near Chavan bridge near Poona hospital.” ========================================= Box Some of the heritage trees declared by PMC Name of the tree Botanical Name Location Age Pimpal Ficus religious Parvati temple 250 Chapha Plumeria rubra Parvati temple 300 Date palm Phoenix dactylifera Parsi Agyari, 55 - 60 Nana peth Wad ficus benghalensis Pune university 125 -150 Gorakhchinch Adansonia digitata Abhinav chowk, 130 Tilak road||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-designates-25-trees-as-heritage-based-on-historical-botanical-and-ecological-significance-101623426686201.html
11-06-2021||Other||Probe into missing foodgrains: FIR against AGMs for blackmarketing||FIRs were lodged against assistant general managers (AGMs) in charge of Jharkhand State Food Corporation (JSFC) godowns in Sakchi and Burmamines in connection with an alleged “vanishing” of foodgrains and their blackmarketing in Jamshedpur, officials said on Friday“FIRs have been lodged at Sakchi and Burmamines police stations against the AGMs of Sakchi and Burmamines godowns of JSFC for mismatch of foodgrain stock and their alleged blackmarketing late Thursday night. We are sending proposal for their suspension and arresting to state food supply department,” Suraj Kumar, East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) deputy commissioner (DC), said. The action came in wake of a district level probe team finding over 6,000 quintals of rice missing, and large scale mismatch in stocks of wheat, sugar and salt at two JSFC godowns at Burmamines, one in Sakchi and another in Karandih recently June 2 and 5.The inspection team found 10,000 bags of rice missing and 452 bags of wheat in excess at the Sakchi godown and recommended action against AGM KP Singh in the probe report. Similarly, another probe team found 488 bags of rice missing, 974 bags of wheat in excess and 4,607 bags of salt missing from the Burmamines godown. The stock of 98 bags was, however, intact. Action was recommended against JSFC AGM in-charge Jagdish Hazra in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/probe-into-missing-foodgrains-fir-against-agms-for-blackmarketing-101623426626231.html
11-06-2021||Other||Nine drug peddlers arrested in Chatra, brown sugar worth ₹20 lakh seized||Police on Friday arrested nine drug peddlers and seized nearly 300g gram of banned brown sugar worth ₹20 lakh in Chatra district. Police also recovered ₹7.74 lakh from their possession.Chatra superintendent of police (SP) Rishav Kumar Jha on Friday said, “Nine drug peddlers were arrested from different locations following an operation that began on an intelligence input about a man selling brown sugar in Chatra.”Police said the seized contraband item was estimated to be worth ₹5 lakh in local market.Police also seized an SUV, mobile sets and a bike among other things from the possession of those arrested||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nine-drug-peddlers-arrested-in-chatra-brown-sugar-worth-20-lakh-seized-101623426567682.html
11-06-2021||Pune||MahaMetro acquires 300 slums near Kamgar Putala||The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha Metro) got the possession of 300 slums near Kamgar Putala and expects to get possession of 900 shanties by the end of June. MahaMetro’s director (works) Atul Gadgil said, “We got possession of 300 slums, rest shanties are expected to get by this month end. There is a positive response for it.” Maha metro is erecting the multimodal hub at Civil court. The main metro station will be constructed here, even all the metro lines are crossing each other at Civil court station. PCMC to Swargate, Vanaz to Ramwadi and PMRDA’s metro Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar will cross each other at Civil court station. Gadgil said, “By considering the importance of the Civil court station, we would require more land.” Recently, Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar held a meeting for the land acquisition for Metro. As per the Maha Metro and Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s survey they will require to shift 1,264 slum dwellers, of which 300 have shifted. Pawar appointed divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) to help Maha Metro for land acquisition. Even PMC appointed a special team during the Covid-19 and asked this team to only concentrate on land acquisition near Kamgar Putala slum. Earlier, there was opposition from slum dwellers to shift anywhere but after Pawar’s meeting they were ready to cooperate with Metro. Pawar also instructed the administration to give them good facilities even if possible, to provide jobs in the metro project. The Metro project might be the first project which has acquired land in record time. Maha Metro demanded a total of 44 hectares of land for the project and almost got all the land in the last three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahametro-acquires-300-slums-near-kamgar-putala-101623426566780.html
11-06-2021||Other||Bokaro police in dock for arresting seven in ‘uranium smuggling’ case||In a development forcing Bokaro police to retract its previous claim in a “uranium smuggling” case for which it arrested seven persons, it has come to fore that the suspected material it seized last week from seven alleged smugglers was neither mineral uranium nor radioactive. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) issued a written statement in this regard on Thursday. Confirming the development, Bokaro superintendent of police (SP) Chandan Kumar on Friday said that lab test of the seized material has proved it was not uranium. “Now, police will probe the case from a new angle after taking the seven accused in police remand,” he said. The officer, however, said while preliminary test denied that the seized material was uranium, its actual properties were yet to be established. The Bokaro police recently on June 2 claimed to have recovered 6.3kg uranium from different locations in the district and arrested seven persons in this connection. All the accused were sent to jail after being booked Sections 414, 120 B, 34 of IPC, besides other sections of Atomic Energy Act.According to the police, all the arrested persons at that time confessed that the seized material was “uranium sample”. “The sample packets of the seized material also had Uranium written on it. The sample was sent to Atomic Energy lab for test,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bokaro-police-in-dock-for-arresting-seven-in-uranium-smuggling-case-101623426566171.html
11-06-2021||Pune||Deputy CM reprimands contractor for shoddy work at Pune police headquarters||Deputy chief minister and guardian minister of Pune district Ajit Pawar who inaugurated the renovated building of Pune city police headquarters at Shivajinagar pulled up the building work contractor for shoddy work. Pawar said, “How has this happened? The work is very shoddy, how has this slipped through? When you call me to see this type of work, I should appreciate not point out the mistakes. If the contractor is delivering this work for cops, then what might he be doing for others?” The deputy chief minister gave instructions for doing professional work and minutely pointed out the mistakes giving examples of how he closely monitored the building construction works in Baramati. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta promised that the necessary changes would be done at the earliest. The British era heritage building also known as Pune police headquarters which has a sprawling ground was constructed in 1908 and is 112-years old. The entire structure has been kept intact during the renovation carried out recently while transformation measures were undertaken for internal and external beautification of the building as part of the modernisation plan. A number of laurels won by the city police during the past have been displayed for the public in one of the galleries of the heritage building which stands testimony to a rich and chequered past of the law enforcement history of the city police. Commissioner of police Amitabh Gupta, Joint CP Dr Ravindra Shiswe, additional commissioner of police Dr Jalindar Supekar, deputy commissioner of police Pankaj Deshmukh, Swapna Gore, Mitesh Ghatte, Priyanka Naranware, assistant commissioner of police Satish Govekar along with senior officers and other staff were present on the occasion. Deputy chief minister Pawar handed over the appointment letter to the three children of the policemen who died due to Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) while on duty. They include Samesh Santosh Mhetre, Abhijeet Anand Gaikwad and Prasad Dilip Wavre. Pawar also honoured the police officers and staff who performed well during the Covid-19 period. They included police inspector Vijay Puranik, PSI Gaurav Dev, API Suhas Tillekar, Police Naik Uttam Gade, Gaurav Kamble and constable Renuka Bhangare. Certificates were presented to the police officers and staff as well as the contractors for their work during the renovation at the police Headquarters Shivajinagar. Box 1 Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar also launched an app entitled ‘My Safe Pune,’ an initiative undertaken by Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta to make the city safe and curb criminal activities and crime in the city. The app provides instant details of the spot where beat marshals are carrying out their duties and registers all the spots where the patrol teams had visited during their duty timings. Box 2 On the occasion, the deputy CM also launched a software app named ‘Badli (transfer) which entails an online system for professional management of transfer of constables. The online method christened ‘general transfer police management system’ is the portal where policemen can upload their transfer requests online instead of submitting them on the printed forms. The app gives options of transfer, like choices of police stations or specialise units and others to the policemen and is touted to bring about greater professional accountability in the transfer process of the constabulary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/deputy-cm-reprimands-contractor-for-shoddy-work-at-pune-police-headquarters-101623426506118.html
11-06-2021||Pune||After crossing Mutha riverbed, Metro TBMs reach Kasba peth station||After completing underground tunnelling work beneath the Mutha riverbed, the Tunnel Boring machines (TBM) have now reached near the Kasba peth underground station. According to Maha Metro Director (works) Atul Gadgil, one of the TBM will reach Kasba peth underground station within a week. “The tunnelling works below the Mutha river had been completed. The tunnels are 13 meters below the riverbed. It is the lowest point of the underground metro. Now within a week, the TBM would reach at Kasba peth underground station,” he said. The station falls on the Swargate-Chinchwad line. This is the first underground tunnel below the riverbed in Pune city and third in the country. The Kolkata and Mumbai cities metro is crossing the riverbed. Pune is the third city with an underground metro crossing the riverbed. Gadgil said, “Within a week, the TBM would reach at Kasba peth underground station.” Meanwhile, work has been expedited at Mandai metro station. As the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) vacated all the land near Mandai and given the clear plot for Metro, it is helping to speed up the underground metro work near Mandai station. Gadgil said, “It is positive that metro got the clear land near Mandai station. It is a critical junction and located in a crowded area. As the encroachments got removed, it is helping to speed up the work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-crossing-mutha-riverbed-metro-tbms-reach-kasba-peth-station-101623426326247.html
11-06-2021||Ranchi||Spiralling fuel prices can lead to chaos in country: Congress||Congress workers led by state president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Friday demonstrated at petrol pumps across the state in protest against spiraling fuel prices. Taking part in a demonstration outside Bariyatu petrol pump in Ranchi, Oraon said if not checked, the spiraling prices could lead to chaos in the country. “Increase in prices of petrol and diesel has consequent effect on prices of other commodities, as it increases the transportation cost. If the prices are not checked, it would lead to chaos in the country,” he said. Comparing the current fuel prices with those during the Congress-led UPA government, the finance minister said price of petrol was below ₹70 when international crude price reached US$145, but the Modi government was now selling petrol for ₹100 per litre when crude price was only ₹73 per barrel. “This is the model of Modi goverment, wherein it is only interested in serving the interest of corporates and private companies,” Oraon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/spiralling-fuel-prices-can-lead-to-chaos-in-country-congress-101623425859349.html
11-06-2021||Ranchi||Centre holds up funds for Light House Project in Ranchi||Strap: Centre has expressed dissatisfaction over delay in starting the project, foundation of which was laid on January 1; state govt it claims could not start the project due to protest by locals The ambitious Light House Project (LHP) at Ranchi’s Dhurwa area, foundation of which was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 1, has faced another jolt after the central government held up funds for the scheme perturbed by the delay in the project, officials said on Friday. The Centre has asked the state urban development department to begin work on the project within a week. Till then, all funds to be received by the state urban development under PM Awas Yojana (urban) for the project are being held up, Union urban development department officials communicated the same to state officials during recent a virtual meeting on June 8 and 9. State urban development secretary Vinay Kumar Choubey said, “All these instructions were given during the meeting. But, we have not received any letter in this regard from the Government of India till now.” Under the LHP, as many as 1,008 affordable houses will be constructed for the poor and middle-class. The project will come up on 7.5 acres of land using innovating construction technologies named ‘NAVARITIH’ (new, affordable, validated, research innovation technologies for Indian housing) at an estimated cost of ₹133.99 crore. However, work on the project could not take off due to protest by local people, who are demanding shifting of the project from the current location, as they claim it to be the only playground in the area. On April 12 this year, the urban development department started soil sample collection work for the project, but it stopped after protest by locals, including women and children, under the banner of Basti Bachao Sangharsh Samiti (BBSS). As per sources in urban development department, the state was supposed to receive ₹5.5 lakh for each house under the project from the Centre. However, now the latter has made it clear not to release any fund until satisfactory progress is seen on the project, officials said. Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA) on Thursday wrote to Ranchi deputy commissioner to ensure adequate security, including women police force, for starting the project work scheduled on June 15. Soil sample collection will be done on the said date, officials said. DMA director JV Narayan Rao said, “If locals are creating trouble for a project being built on government land, it is the district administration’s responsibility to maintain law and order situation at the site. So, we have written to Ranchi administration to provide adequate security for soil sample collection work scheduled on June 15.” She said, “As per norms, we will not get state’s share in the project until Centre releases fund. We were expecting the Centre’s fund, but it has been held up for not starting the project on time. We have been told that they will not release fund until they see any progress in the project.” The LHP will include on-site infrastructure development such as internal roads, pathways, common green area, boundary walls, water supply, sewerage and drainage system, rain water harvesting, solar lighting, external electrification and others. The carpet area per flat will be around 315 square feet.Meanwhile, the agitating BBSS members said they will not allow the project to take off at the identified location. BBSS convener Mintu Paswan said, “We are not against the LHP, but we are protesting against the location where it is proposed to be built. It is the only playground in the area where local children play. After construction of LHP, children will have no place to play. Besides, the playground has also witnessed national level football match.” He said, “We have no objection if the place of the project is shifted somewhere else.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/centre-holds-up-funds-for-light-house-project-in-ranchi-101623425859914.html
11-06-2021||Other||Two held for killing minor girl in Palamu||Two persons were arrested late Thursday evening for killing and hanging a minor girl in Palamu, police said on Friday. The arrested accused were identified as Pradeep Singh and Suraj Soni, Palamu superintendent of police (SP) Sanjeev Kumar said. The minor girl, a class 10 student, was found hanging from a tree inside Lalimati forest at Bandubaar village under Panki police station of the district on June 9. She was missing since June 7.According to the SP, one of the arrested accused Pradeep, who is married, was involved in an affair with the minor girl. He murdered her along with Suraj after she insisted on marrying him, Kumar said.The family of the deceased alleged that she was also raped. Her father, a block-level BJP leader, also lodged an FIR against seven villagers with Panaki police in this connection. The SP said, “The arrested duo strangulated the girl to death and hung her body to cover up their crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-for-killing-minor-girl-in-palamu-101623425788522.html
11-06-2021||Ranchi||Interstate buses ply uninterrupted despite ban in lockdown||In a flagrant violation of lockdown norms, nearly 40-50 buses ferry passengers daily from state capital Ranchi to different cities in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Chattisgarh and other states.Despite a ban imposed by Jharkhand government on interstate movement of buses for ferrying passengers, these buses originate from different locations in Ranchi on daily basis in the evening and crossed state borders uninterrupted without check.Not only this, they also return to Jharkhand carrying passengers from different states. Interestingly, these passengers neither possess the mandatory e-pass required for entry in Jharkhand nor they maintain compulsory home isolation after arrival.“The to-and-fro interstate movement of these buses have begun since Unlock-1. These operations are not possible without the support of local administration,” said a bus owner on the condition of anonymity.“I arrived to Ranchi from Patna through bus on Friday morning. Due to some urgent work, I had gone to Patna two days back. The bus, by which I returned, dropped me at Booty More. During lockdown, the fare has increased threefold,” said a passenger Ramesh Singh, who didn’t divulge his residential location.He, however, said that he was maintaining home isolation.According to sources, many buses ply on the garb of transporting labourers for project work in different states. For this, they secured passes for one or two days. But, on the strength of the same expired passes, they continued operations for further period.The Ranchi district administration has impounded one such letter issued by a central authority from a bus owner, who was required to transport labourers for Central Vista project. The administration is verifying the genuinity of the said letter. “We have launched a crackdown on illegal movement of these buses. Some of them have been seized. Cases have also been lodged against them under Disaster Management Act,” Ranchi’s regional transport authority secretary Niranjan Kumar said. The bus owners carry out this illegal operation under a well set-up system. Their agents book tickets at bus terminals. Tickets can also be booked through phone. An hour before departure, these agents inform the passengers about the location from where they can board the bus. If they find difficulty, they are asked to arrive at a fixed location near the bus terminus. From here, they are taken to the right place through auto rickshaws.According to a bus owner, these buses generally originate from Ranchi’s Ring Road, some roadside highway eateries and some petrol pumps. During the day, the buses park near Jumaar bridge, Dhurwa and many petrol pumps between Booty More to Ormanjhi.He also said that generally buses take different routes other than their routine ones to reach the destination. Buses, that go to Bihar’s Buxar district or Uttar Pradesh, move via Daltonganj and not via Hazaribagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/interstate-buses-ply-uninterrupted-despite-ban-in-lockdown-101623425789241.html
11-06-2021||Other||UP zila panchayat president poll: RLD, SP accuse BJP of using “unethical tactics”||The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and Samajwadi Party (SP) have accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of adopting “unethical tactics” to rope in their zila panchayat members in Baghpat to ensure the victory of the ruling party candidate on the post of zila panchayat president in the forthcoming election. The elections are likely to be held in second week of July. The post of zila panchayat president in Baghpat is reserved for a dalit woman candidate. The BJP, which had won 4 of the total 20 seats in the recently held zila panchayat membership polls in the district, needs support of 11 members to get its candidate elected for the post of president. While RLD has 8 members, SP has 4 and the remaining 4 are independent candidates. RLD national secretary Kuldeep Ujjawal said only two women candidates Mamta Kishore of RLD (ward 13) and Babli Devi of SP (ward 18) had won as members in zila panchayat elections. BJP had no woman candidate to field for the post of president therefore they somehow lured Babli Devi and got her in their fold. “Now to ensure their victory in the forthcoming election, BJP leaders are misusing government machinery and implicating family members and elected members in false cases,” he alleged. Citing an example he said, Shahida (goes by one name) of RLD was elected as member from ward 17 and to mount pressure on her to vote in favour of BJP a notice of ₹96 lakh dues on her home was sent. Later, her 3 sons too were falsely implicated in a case of firing on a complaint filed by a villager. He also cited the case of Mehboob Alvi, who has been elected from ward 3. “Alvi was summoned to Binauli police station by the then inspector and asked to vote in favour of BJP candidate. In return he was assured of help in settling the dispute of his plot. Alvi too refused to succumb to the pressure and a delegation of RLD and SP leaders met the Baghpat district magistrate Rajkamal Yadav a few days ago and lodged their complaint,” he said. Ujjawal said the inspector was then transferred from the police station. He also blamed that another member from ward 12 Sunil was also harassed by the police. The RLD leader said these incidents have compelled both parties (SP and RLD) to convene an emergency meeting on Sunday to chalk out a strategy to counter the BJP. Ujjawal said a joint delegation of leaders of both parties would also meet additional director general of police Rajeev Sabharwal and IG Praveen Kumar in Meerut on Saturday to brief them about these incidents. He further said elected members of RLD and SP along with some independent members have been sent to their relative’s places so that they could be kept away from being accessed by leaders of ruling party. Samajwadi Party district president in Baghpat Manoj Choudhary also blamed BJP for adopting “unethical practices” to ensure the victory of their candidates. “People have rejected them in panchayat elections and they would be defeated in the forthcoming assembly elections too,” said Choudhary. However, BJP district president in Baghpat Sooraj Pal denied the allegations. “Being the ruling party, members from different wards have approached us to join the party. When the RLD and the SP leaders failed to stop their members from joining BJP they are leveling such baseless accusations. BJP has support of 12 members and our candidate will win the election for zila panchayat president,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-zila-panchayat-president-poll-rld-sp-accuse-bjp-of-using-unethical-tactics-101623425787992.html
11-06-2021||Other||Health minister’s driver sacked for raping woman||The state health department on Friday sacked driver of health minister Banna Gupta on charges of raping a woman and threatening her to make its video viral, according to an official notification.Moreover, a Jamshedpur court has ordered city police to lodge FIR in this connection and take action against the accused, identified as Pradyut Singh alias Munna, working on daily wage contract, the survivor’s lawyer said on Friday.“The additional district judge’s court ordered Kadma police station officer in-charge (OC) to lodge FIR against health minister’s official driver Pradyut Singh alias Munna for rape, cheating and threatening the woman under Sections 376, 313, 406 and 420 of IPC and also under SC/ST Act on June 3. The order was also given to the court police. FIR ought to be filed within 24 hours in such cases. We are going to file a reminder petition on Monday,” Shiv Shankar Prasad, the survivor’s lawyer said. However, police were yet to file an FIR action in this connection, as officials said they did not receive any such court order in this regard. “We have not received any court order or application from the victim as of now. We will act as per law once we get it,” said Kadma police station OC Manoj Thakur.As per the survivor’s complaint, copy of which is with the HT, 55-year-old Pradyut Singh has been raping the woman since October 20, 2012 by promising marriage and also threatening to make obscene videos and photos viral, killing her daughters and abducting and selling her. “I filed complaints with Kadma police, SSP, DC and the health minister in September last year, but no action was taken, forcing me to file a complaint case in the court here on June 1. Now, I have also filed a petition with the Governor, CM, DGP, NHRC, NCW, DC, SSP and Home Minister, seeking security for me and my two daughters,” the 34-year-old woman said. The woman has also alleged that Pradyut established physical relations with her at the health minister’s residence in Ranchi on multiple occasions and got CCTV cameras switched off each time. She also claimed to have loaned ₹8 lakh to Pradyut, that he is yet to pay back, according to her complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/health-minister-s-driver-sacked-for-raping-woman-101623425786136.html
11-06-2021||Other||SSC sports marks to be calculated based on Class 8, 9 performances||PUNE Due to Covid-19, students have not had any sports events in 2020-2021. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), on Friday, issued a notification stating that Class 10 Secondary School Certificate (SSC) students who participated in sports events in Class 8 and Class 9, should get marks for sports according to those performances. Similarly, Class 12 Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) students should be assessed based on their sports performance in Class 11.Ashok Bhosale, secretary of MSBSHSE, said that though no sport activity was carried out in 2020-2021 due to the pandemic, sports’ marks have to be evaluated.“This can be done for Class 10 students by assessing their sport performance in Class 9. Respective teachers should allocate marks accordingly. And for Class 12, the assessment should be done based on the Class 11 performance,” said Bhosale.He added that respective schools and junior colleges can send the marks of students to the respective district sports officer by June 21.“Thereafter the district sports officer can submit the list of students and their marks to the divisional board before June 25,” said Bhosale.The official notification stated that the given dates will not be extended.The state board, on Wednesday, issued a notification about the evaluation plan for Class 10 with instructions to principals and teachers on how to assess students. As per the evaluation for class 10, out of 100 marks, 50 marks will be evaluated based on the performances in Class 9.The board has directed principals to calculate marks for Class 9 out of 100, and to then convert these marks out of 50, to be included in the Class 10 evaluation. How the evaluation of Class 12 students will be done has not been notified yet. As per authorities, the process of assessment is being worked on.The board has also published a list of helpline numbers for teachers and principals. For Pune division, officers Priya Shinde and Sangeeta Shinde can be reached at 9689192899 / 8888339530 respectively, or teachers can email sscboardpune@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ssc-sports-marks-to-be-calculated-based-on-class-8-9-performances-101623425428864.html
11-06-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party says will fiercely contest district panchayat chief elections||In a change of stance, the Samajwadi Party (SP) has now decided to give ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) a tough fight in the zila panchayat president polls by fiercely contesting the elections and trying to win 50 of the 75 seats in the state.“We can easily win 25 Zila panchayat president posts as SP supported candidates won zila panchayat membership in a majority in these districts. But now, with a fast-changing political scenario in the state, uncertainty and speculations in the BJP, and possibilities of getting the support of non-BJP zila panchayat members, we are looking to win 50 seats,” said a senior SP leader.Earlier, the party had announced not to waste energy in countering BJP’s “horse-trading” to win zila panchayat headship elections and rather capitalise on putting up an even more impressive show in the UP assembly polls in 2022.The panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols, but rival parties issue support to their preferred candidates. The election for over 8.69 lakh posts, including the 3,050 Zila panchayat member seats, was held in April.The three-tier panchayat system elected public representatives from the village to the district level and was seen as a curtain-raiser to the 2022 state assembly polls.District panchayat headship elections may be announced soon.After the panchayat elections results came out in early May, the state election commission had decided to put the next level of the polls on the hold given the surge of Covid cases under the second wave of the pandemic.The district panchayat members, who were declared elected between May 2 and May 5, will vote in the indirect elections to choose respective district panchayat head in 75 districts.The declared candidates and aspirant for the district panchayat headship in Samajwadi Party and even other parties (largely BJP) have begun garnering support for victory.Samajwadi Party took the results of the poll as a boost for its preparations and aspirations for 2022.SP state president Naresh Uttam Patel said: “SP supported candidate won the maximum of zila panchayat member seats and we will contest the next level of the polls fiercely. Our fight in the elections is dual, with the ruling party as well as the administration machinery controlled by it.”SP president Akhilesh Yadav already alleged last month that the BJP was indulging in ‘horse-trading and intimidation’ to seize control of zila panchayats.To win the indirect elections, the SP is also betting on heavyweight candidates (in these cases, the candidates who are relatives of established politicians or political families).In Etawah, Akhilesh’s cousin Anshul Yadav is looking to win the post again. In Meerut, the SP has inducted a BSP supported zila panchayat member into the SP and is fielding her for the district panchayat headship. In Meerut, the SP is also sure of getting support from Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) and Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). In Moradabad, Amreen, the sister of an SP MLA is contesting the polls, in Amroha, SP is fielding Sakina Begum, the wife of an SP MLA; In Bijnore SP has given ticket to a Sikh woman; in Kushinagar the daughter of an expelled BSP leader is now the SP candidate; in Jaunpur the SP is fielding Ruchi Yadav from a political family; Vijay Yadav, the son of SP MLA Durga Prasad Yadav is Azamgarh candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/samajwadi-party-says-will-fiercely-contest-district-panchayat-chief-elections-101623425307628.html
11-06-2021||Lucknow||Around 10K textile units in Noida,Kanpur face financial crisis: SIDBI-CRIF report||With both the textile hubs of Kanpur and Noida reporting decline in credit (loan), the textile industry has been the worst hit in Uttar Pradesh, suggests the SIDBI-CRIF report on Indian Textiles and Apparels Industry.This is due to the suspension of manufacturing activities after the COVID-19 lockdown in March 2020 imposed to check the spread of pandemic. When the manufacturing activities were to pick up in December-January the deadly second wave dealt a severe blow to the sector. The textiles and apparels industry in India is one of the oldest and largest sectors of the economy. The CRIF is an RBI approved credit bureau in India which provides information about credit-worthiness or credit history of individuals and commercial establishments. The SIDBI’s report states that the number of active loans (volume), in the sector stood at 4.26 lakh as of December 2020. During this period, there has been a decline of 42 percent in the credit (loan) in Kanpur region which is one of the two hubs of textile industry in Uttar Pradesh. Till December 2020, the credit outstanding portfolio in Kanpur was ₹1,730 crore. The credit portfolio of textile industry in the entire Uttar Pradesh was ₹4,600 crore till December 2020. At present, there are over 10,000 textile and garment units across the state with most of them concentrated in Kanpur and Noida region. In Noida region of the state there are around 3,000 textile units. Each unit has a minimum workforce of around 100 employees. Almost all of them are facing financial crisis in the post-pandemic scenario. Foreign buyers are reluctant to place orders with Noida units as they are apprehensive whether they will be able to fulfil the order due to prevailing Covid-19 condition in India. “After the grim Covid-19 picture of India was portrayed in international media, foreign buyers are no more placing orders with us. Instead they are moving to Taiwan and Bangladesh,” said Rajiv Bansal, national secretary, IIA, and a garment exporter. Garment exporters also claim that the Centre has stopped Merchandise Exports from India Scheme (MEIS), an incentive based scheme for exporters from December 31 last. Against this, the government has launched new scheme Remission of Duties and Taxes on Export Products (RoDTEP) which is yet to be rolled out, said Rajiv Bansal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/around-10k-textile-units-in-noida-kanpur-face-financial-crisis-sidbi-crif-report-101623424766067.html
11-06-2021||Lucknow||ODOP push gives Kalanamak rice global fame||The one district one product (ODOP) cluster development programme of the state government has propelled Kalanamak, a rice variety, of Siddharth Nagar district to the global stage.After the government initiative, the cultivation area of Kalanamak has increased from 2805 hectares to 5000 hectares. In this financial year, the target is to cultivate Kalanamak in 10,000 hectares, said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, MSME department.The state government has also provided an online platform to farmers of Siddharth Nagar to sell their crop.Kalanamak is now available on both e-commerce platforms, Amazon and Flipkart. A local trader of Siddharth Nagar has got an order for 250 kg of Kalanamak at the rate of ₹175 per kg. The Yogi Adityanath government in February last had included 20 new agriculture products related to farming under its prestigious ‘One district one product’ scheme. The processing and branding of these products will not only help in doubling the farmers’ income but will also attract investment and promote employment opportunities at the local level. After discussion with the Uttar Pradesh government, the union ministry of food processing, under the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ campaign has identified about two dozen agricultural products for adding them in ODOP scheme. The state government had launched the ODOP scheme in January 2018. It has identified 75 products in as many districts that are indigenous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/odop-push-gives-kalanamak-rice-global-fame-101623424713313.html
11-06-2021||Other||Agra varsity to conduct exams on objective question pattern||All written exams of undergraduate and post graduate courses in Dr BR Ambedkar University, Agra will be objective type and held on OMR (optical mark recognition) sheets where students are required to answer 50 of the 100 questions within one and half hour, said a varsity official adding that practical exams would be conducted orally in the form of viva.The exams are proposed to begin from third week of July and end by August 15.The decisions regarding this was taken during a meeting of examination committee of the varsity on Thursday. The meet was presided by vice chancellor prof Ashok Mittal, said university public relation officer prof Pradeep Shridhar.“Where there is yearly system, the examination for second and third year would be conducted for graduation and for final year in post graduation. First year students of graduation would be promoted to second year and their marks for first year would be on the basis of marks obtained by them in second year for which they would appear in exams in 2022,” said Shridhar. Similarly, the first year PG students would be promoted to final year and their marks for first year would be calculated on the basis of marks obtained by them in second year for which they would appear in exams in 2022. The semester exams of last semester would be held for courses running on half-yearly system.“All efforts would be made to declare the results by August 31. The subjects having practical exams would have viva of which videography would be must and none would be given more than 75% marks. These oral exams would be between July 1 and 15,” he said.The examination committee also decided to give relaxation to those BA LLB students who failed by small margin in 2020. They would be allowed to appear in re-exam in any two papers. Vice chancellor Prof Ashok Mittal (extreme left) presiding over the Examination Committee of Dr BR Ambedkar University of Agra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agra-varsity-to-conduct-exams-on-objective-question-pattern-101623423746599.html
11-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal BJP to set-up ‘disciplinary action committee’ following Mukul Roy’s exit||The West Bengal unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will set up a disciplinary action committee to take necessary action against political leaders deemed to be “going against the party”. BJP General Secretary of Bengal, Sayantan Bose, told reporters.“West Bengal BJP has set up a disciplinary action committee to take action against leaders who are going against the party,” Bose told news agency ANI.He added that the final decision on the committee rests with party president Dilip Ghosh to take the final decision.Bose’s announcement comes against the backdrop of BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy leaving the party to join his former political outfit the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Roy had joined BJP in 2017 after 19 years of being with the ruling TMC.Bose commented on Roy’s departure stating that the latter had never refused a national position within the party or an electoral ticket.“Mukul Roy was made national vice president. He didn't refuse it. Even when he was offered to contest from Krishnanagar north on BJP ticket for this election, he didn't refuse. I don't know, maybe tomorrow he'll say that he's not feeling good in TMC,” Bose told ANI.Bose also told ANI that Roy’s departure will not impact the party’s organisation as no worker followed him back to TMC.“He has left the party, it's unfortunate. But you should remember that many big leaders, much bigger than Mukul Roy, had left BJP earlier. Today, not even one BJP worker went with him. So, he can leave the party but I don't think it'll have a great impact on our organisation,” he said.Roy’s departure has created as much noise as his entry into the national party. His son Subhranshu, a former legislator, also returned to the TMC fold. The father-son duo were welcomed back in by party supremo Mamata Banerjee who claimed that Roy was threatened by probe agencies but could not stay in the BJP since the party “does not allow dignity and peace”. Roy was accused in the 2016 Narada sting operation case, along with his party colleagues Firhad Hakim, Madan Mitra, Subrata Mukherjee, and former member Sovan Chatterjee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-bjp-to-set-up-disciplinary-action-committee-following-mukul-roy-s-exit-101623422341209.html
11-06-2021||Ranchi||Hemant Soren assures justice in Sahebganj women police station in-charge death case||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, who has already ordered a judicial probe into the alleged death by suicide case of Sahebganj women police station in-charge Rupa Tirkey last month, assured her family members Friday that the inquiry will be fair and impartial. A delegation comprising Tirkey's mother, Padmavati Oraon, father Devanand Tirkey and MLA Bandhu Tirkey among others called on the CM during the day showing dis-satisfaction in the probe so far and stating that they suspected 'murder' of Tirkey and not suicide. The chief minister said that the Jharkhand government has constituted a one-member inquiry commission to investigate the case of unnatural death and justice would be ensured at all cost. Those found guilty will not be spared, Soren said. The state government had on June 8 issued a notification with regard to forming a judicial probe team under section-3 of the Commission of Inquiry Act. The commission was formed at the instance of the chief minister. A police sub inspector of the 2018 batch, Tirkey had allegedly died by suicide in early May at her government accomodation in Sahebganj. Retired former Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court Vinod Kumar Gupta has been given the responsibility of the probe and has been asked to submit the report within six months. The commission will look into all the matters related to the alleged suicide by Tirkey. The opposition BJP in the state had been demanding a CBI probe into the matter. On Monday, Jharkhand Governor Draupadi Murmu had summoned Director General of Police, Jharkhand, Neeraj Sinha to take the details including probe undergoing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/hemant-soren-assures-justice-in-sahebganj-women-police-station-in-charge-death-case-101623421109794.html
11-06-2021||Noida||Free Covid-19 vaccination drive for street vendors in Noida from June 14||A special campaign for free anti-coronavirus vaccination for street-side vendors would begin in Noida from June 14, officials said on Friday.The drive comes following an announcement by the Uttar Pradesh government to administer vaccines to street vendors across the state.In Noida, officials said the inoculation would be done for registered vendors and will take place at the Indira Gandhi Kala Kendra.“Currently there are around 3,700 registered street vendors in Noida,” Noida Authority's officer on special duty Indu Prakash Singh told PTI.“The vaccination would be done free of cost during the special campaign between 10 am and 4 pm from June 14 at the Kala Kendra in Sector 6, Noida,” he said.Vendors can register themselves through the Cowin app but in case they are unable to do it, they may come directly to the venue with their Aadhaar card and mobile phone for on-spot registration, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/free-covid-19-vaccination-drive-for-street-vendors-in-noida-from-june-14-101623419355262.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: The Mark of Zoru||Fans of the superhero genre will be familiar with one of the earliest examples of a masked avenger, known as Zorro. Created in 1919, this swashbuckling vigilante, who rushes to the aid of those in trouble, went on to capture public imagination, when he was played by Douglas Fairbanks in the Hollywood blockbuster The Mark of Zorro. Forty subsequent films and 10 TV series later, he is believed to be the inspiration for a whole slew of comic book superheroes, Batman in particular. Zorro’s special appeal was that he took on enemies of the greater good, bringing them to book, with expert swordsmanship and fox-like cunning. No matter how strong his opponents, they would ultimately be vanquished by Zorro, as he galloped in, wearing his signature black cape and hat, on his trusty steed Tornado. And no sooner had he annihilated the villains, would he disappear, leaving only the letter Z behind, to mark his presence. *********************************************He may not wear a mask or cape and his name may only bear an echo of the original vigilante, but Mumbai’s environmental activist Zoru Bhathena makes up for it with the passion and commitment he brings to every battle he takes on. Whether it is waging a war against what he sees as the mindless destruction of Mumbai’s coastline, or the senseless plan to build a casting yard for cement girders on Juhu beach, or the felling of 3,000 square metres of precious mangroves to accommodate a bridge, Zoru battles it out in courts, in the media and on the streets, daily. His mission is to save Mumbai from the destruction of “devil-opment” — a word he is proud to have coined, to describe the wanton destruction of Mumbai’s fragile ecosystem and public spaces. Never in his wildest dreams, says this 46-year-old father of teenagers, would he have imagined that he would spend every waking hour fighting so passionately for a better city. Or that during a hearing before the Supreme Court, no less than Tushar Mehta, the Solicitor General of India, would point to him and declare: “He is stopping every single project in Mumbai.” “I have only one regret-of not hollering back “So why doesn’t your government plan and execute things properly in the first place, Mr Solicitor General?” he says. “Having the SG lash out at you in open court is an unnerving feeling, but a proud reminder that you have stood up for what IS right. Till five-six years ago, I too was a happy-go-lucky, unbothered Mumbaikar. But one day something just snapped.” It was a day like any other in 2015, he says, driving home from work on the Western Express Highway to Khar, he had noticed that the entire road was lined with dead trees; trees that had shed their bark and turned an eerie, grave-stone white. The sight had sent a shiver down his spine. Taking advice from his solicitor wife, he had sprung into action, joining forces with other like-minded environmentalists, most prominent among them Stalin, whose NGO Vanashakti, he says, has inspired many like himself. The group had enjoyed an early victory when the high court had stepped in and saved the trees. Since then, there had been no turning back. On the urging of his tree-loving friends, he had visited Aarey, enthralled by the lush, natural beauty of the forest at the edge of the city; on learning that its pristine environment was in danger of being axed to make way for a metro shed, he had been inspired to throw in his might to protect it. One thing had led to another. “Daily, I began to notice other things,” he says, “roads that were unnecessarily being repaired, pavements that were ripped up and re-laid with the exact same tiles, trees being senselessly hacked. Getting involved in activism opened my eyes and once opened, there was no way I could close them,” he quips, “In fact, it was just like that Myntra logo — once you see it, you just can’t unsee it!” *********************************************To be sure, Zoru may have assumed the mantle of a fiery activist, but what this otherwise cheerful scion of a famous car racing clan, whose day job is manufacturing of medical supplies, is petitioning for is the simple plea of a majority of Mumbai’s citizens, who love their city and cannot comprehend why its environment appears to be desecrated with such relish by authorities. “Surely our powers-that-be have travelled abroad. Surely they can see how London, Amsterdam, Madrid, Venice have preserved their heritage. How Singapore has been forested and developed. How Dubai has been converted from a desert into a green zone. How Bali has protected its coast and yet built a coastal road,” he says, adding, “But then, some people believe Mumbai’s roads are paved in gold. The more they dig them, the more they earn. This is the unfortunate fact, which we Mumbaikars must fight to change.” Nevertheless, though assaults on the city’s green spaces and destruction of its ecosystem are legion, like his fictional namesake, Zoru and his band of fellow activists have seen some successes too. From saving trees on the WEH, to getting the Supreme Court to issue a stay order on tree-cutting at Aarey, to protecting Juhu beach from becoming a cement-casting yard, there have been triumphs, but few know the costs at which they have come. “Activism and taking on powerful state machinery is an uphill battle,” he says, “And unfortunately there are far too few of us and many get worn down pretty quickly...” *********************************************Zoru believes that Mumbai’s fragile ecosystem is at its tipping point and no amount of activism is too urgent or too much to rescue it. Every day, with characteristic impish humour, his social media posts take on the ludicrous, absurd and destructive assaults on it, regardless of politics or party. “Mumbai’s environment is at near rock bottom. Every single protective step is important. Be it saving the coast or the Aarey forest, or our mangroves, they all seem to be planned with nil focus on the destruction they cause. If only our politicians would understand that it is so simple to plan a project while preserving the environment too. The rot that has befallen the city runs deep, deep, deep…” he says. But perhaps all is not lost. Having won gratitude and praise for successfully dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic, perhaps BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray will next be open to sitting across a table to try and understand the pleas of their citizenry. Meanwhile, the action hero stays ready to mount his steed…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-the-mark-of-zoru-101623419008153.html
11-06-2021||Lucknow||Shivangi Singh: Things are looking up for production designing in realistic cinema too||From being an intern in Sonali Bose’s film Margarita with a Straw to becoming an art director in Karan Johar’s next Jug Jugg Jeeyo, Lucknow-girl Shivangi Singh has carved a niche in the field of production designing. A self-confessed non-filmi person in school days, she got exposed to world of cinema during her under-grads in fine art from Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi. “Before that I was not into films or TV at all. Arts was all I was interested in and realised that visual art is what I want to do. Slowly I got interested in the world of cinema,” said Shivangi on her visit to her hometown for her mother’s vaccination. She started working at an art gallery and through Facebook got in touch with film maker Shonali Bose and who was about to was start Margarita… in Delhi. “I joined the crew as a story board artist. I made sketches for the film and learnt the international style of production designing. Then I got a period film Children of War as an assistant art designer followed by legendary Buddhadeb Dasgupta’s film Choti Moti Bateein directed by his wife. Then I shifted to Mumbai where I got Bajrangi Bhaijaan as chief assistant to production designer followed by ads films with Pradeep Sircar.” For a formal training Shivangi went to Los Angles, US. “After my master’s degree, I became a production design fellow in Hollywood Art Department Union and done did American show Making a Cut as a set designer, some films like Refuge, The Speech and a project for Universal Studio Theme Park.” With the Covid spread in the US, she came back to Mumbai. “Last year I started a project which was scheduled in Thailand, but it got shelved. Then I got this Varun Dhawan film (JJJ) as an art director. We have shot one schedule in Chandigarh with three schedules remaining to be shot. Since art department is dependent on props, rented furniture and stuff from whole-sale market so work has suffered a lot.” She feels focus in India on production departments is not as big as it is in Hollywood, but a few Indian directors focus on it too. “Makers like Sanjay Leela Bhansali, Ashutosh Gowarikar, Zoya Akhtar and Karan Johar focus a lot on spending on sets and production designing. Bhanu Athaiya got Oscars in ‘80s for costume designing (Gandhi)! Here we make more realistic films and focus on production design is less but Oye Lucky, Lucky Oye winning over Jodha Akbar was a real victory for this art. Gully Boy is another example, so a lot is happening in realistic films in terms of production designing. And things are looking up.” Few years down the line, direction is on the list for Shivangi, she shared while concluding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/shivangi-singh-things-are-looking-up-for-production-designing-in-realistic-cinema-too-101623418886292.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Golden Temple: Work begins to install solar power plant||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Friday initiated the work to install a solar power plant to supply electricity to the Golden Temple complex in Amritsar.“On the one hand, it will spread a message among the sangat (community) to use natural resources, and on the other, it will highly reduce electricity expenses,” said SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur. The 700 kilowatt plant is being installed on the roof of Mata Ganga Niwas inside the complex. The sewa (voluntarily service) is being performed by the US-based United Sikh Mission.The SGPC had earlier sought permission from the Punjab government to install a higher capacity solar plant at Gurdwara Satlani Sahib near Amritsar. “A meeting was also held with chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, but so far the permission has not been granted,” said the apex gurdwara body chief. “Once we get the permission, another plant of 2 megawatt power will be installed, and other gurdwaras could be used for this purpose as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/golden-temple-work-begins-to-install-solar-power-plant-101623417686411.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi records sharp decline, reports 238 new Covid-19 cases, 24 deaths||Delhi on Friday witnessed a sharp decline in the number of new infections as it reported 238 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 24 fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin. The new additions took the case tally to 1,430,671 and toll to 24,772, as per the bulletin.The daily cases in the national capital declined by 67 as 305 new infections were reported on Thursday, the state dashboard for the viral disease showed. Daily fatalities too fell in the past 24 hours as 44 people succumbed to the virus the previous day.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The reduction in the number of new cases and deaths in the Capital comes even after increased testing in the last 24 hours. Around 77,112 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Friday in comparison to over 75,000 tests done on Thursday, as per the state data.The Covid positivity rate, which was a great concern for Delhi, especially in the month of May, fell to 0.31 per cent on Friday. The positivity rate reduced by 0.10 percentage points, as it stood at 0.41 per cent on Thursday, the state health bulletin showed. The active caseload in Delhi has reached 3,922.According to the health dashboard of Delhi, the case fatality rate from Covid-19 did not change in the last 24 hours. On Thursday, it stood at 1.73 per cent and is same on Friday as well.Also read: Chennai doctors conduct liver transplant to save Covid-19 patientThe number of patients that recovered in the last one day amounts to 504, in contrast to 560 on Thursday. The total recoveries in Delhi so far stand at 1,401,977, as per the data.The total number of containment zones as of Friday is 8,032, while on Thursday it was 9,547, the data showed.As the coronavirus case trajectory in Delhi is following a downward trend, the number of vaccinated beneficiaries has reached 5,910,350. In the past 24 hours, Delhi vaccinated over 81,000 beneficiaries, according to the data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-238-new-covid-19-cases-24-deaths-101623416428598.html
11-06-2021||Patna||Misa Bharti celebrates Lalu Prasad Yadav’s birthday. Check photos here||Rajya Sabha MP Misa Bharti shared pictures of her family celebrating former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav’s birthday on Friday. In the pictures, Lalu Prasad Yadav, his wife Rabri Devi and Misa’s children could be seen celebrating with a birthday cake.पापा से ही जहाँ है,पापा जहाँ हैं वहीं जहाँ है!Happy Birthday Papa ji!! pic.twitter.com/p2bqn4LJ6q“The world exists because of papa. The world is where Papa is. Happy Birthday, Papa,” Bharti posted on Twitter. Misa also shared a tweet where her children were seen celebrating Lalu Prasad’s birthday with posters and candles."आपने मुझे गोद में खिलायाआपने ही मुझे जीने का मतलब सिखायाखुशनसीब हूँ मैंजो मैंने आप जैसे नाना को पाया!"आज मेरे बच्चों ने अपने प्यारे नाना को अपने हाथों से कार्ड बनाकर इस प्यारे से संदेश के साथ जन्मदिन की शुभकामनाएँ दी!@laluprasadrjd pic.twitter.com/0G6Uo2XDSO“You fed me in your arms, you taught me the meaning of living. I'm lucky that I found a grandfather like you. Today my kids wished their beloved maternal grandfather a very happy birthday with this lovely message by making a card with their own hands,” Misa said in another tweet with pictures of Lalu with her granddaughters.Rashtriya Janata Dal founder Lalu Prasad who is currently on bail in multiple fodder scam cases after spending more than three years behind bars. He also held a virtual interaction with party workers in Bihar on Sunday.Chief ministers Bhupesh Baghel and Hemant Soren also wished the former Bihar chief minister on his birthday. INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and TMC leader Dilip Mandal also wished him on his birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/misa-bharti-celebrates-lalu-prasad-yadav-s-birthday-check-photos-here-101623415158874.html
11-06-2021||Pune||More relaxations in Pune from Monday if infection rate remains low||Covid-19 related restrictions will be further eased in Pune from Monday if the city maintains the current positivity rate of under 5%, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said following a review meeting on Friday. Under the third round of unlock, malls, libraries, and coaching classes have been allowed to reopen. Restaurants can have dine-in till 10pm with 50% capacity and shops can operate till 7pm.“Covid has not gone away. It is really essential to follow the Covid appropriate norms. Some relaxations... (have been) given... because positivity rate has gone down. They will continue only if the positivity rate remains low. Experts have some concerns about opening up and we have to be cautious,” said Pawar.Also Read | Keeping Covid-19 vaccine wastage below 1% possible, health ministry explains howThere will be no relaxations in rural parts of the district as the positivity rate there is between 5% and 10%.Pawar said the malls can operate with 50% capacity while cinema halls will remain closed. The closing timings of all the shops will be extended to 7pm from current 4pm.Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said grounds, gardens will also remain open in the evening. He clarified that the Pune Municipal administration will issue a detailed order to put these relaxations in place.“In principle, we have agreed for these relaxations because the positivity rate... has dropped. But the positivity rate of Friday, Saturday, and Sunday will also be taken into account before implementing this decision. PMC will issue an order and further details would be specified in that,” said Rao.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/more-relaxations-in-pune-from-monday-if-infection-rate-remains-low-101623413366252.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Four of migrant worker’s family die under collapsed wall in Patiala||Four members of a migrant worker’s family, including their two children, lost their lives at Saidkheri village in Punjab’s Patiala district on Thursday after a brick wall adjoining the room of their residence collapsed due to heavy rain, reported news agency PTI.“There was heavy rainfall. The wall collapsed trapping the family under it,” superintendent of police Sandeep Kumar Garg told PTI over phone.Punjab and parts of Haryana, including Panchkula, Ambala, Yamunanagar and Kurukshetra witnessed heavy rainfall on Thursday.The national capital also witnessed a dust storm followed by downpour on Thursday night. The India Meteorological Department in its bulletin on Friday forecast thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds at isolated places over Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Punjab for the next three days. It also predicted heavy rainfall over Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi on June 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-of-migrant-worker-s-family-die-under-collapsed-wall-in-patiala-101623412742109.html
11-06-2021||Pune||Social distancing goes for a toss as Punekars go on shopping spree||PUNE The markets at Raviwar peth, Appa Balwant Chowk and Bohri Ali witnessed huge crowds as people stepped out for shopping on Thursday. People were seen flouting Covid-19 safety precautions, many were seen without face masks and flouting social distancing norms.The area near the markets also witnessed heavy traffic chaos throughout the day.“For last two months everything was closed and I wanted to buy some plastic sheets to cover our balcony from rains and so today I went to Bohri Ali market. There was heavy rush there,” said Shweta Gandhi, a visitor at the market.Another citizen Pritesh Jogdand who had come along with his family, said, “Though the school classes are going to be online, still we have to buy books, stationery items and rain-related things for children. Accordingly, we came to purchase various household things and study material at Raviwar Peth and Appa Balwant Chowk market.”“I saw many of them not wearing masks properly. Stepping out in public without following proper safety measures is risky,” he said.Raviwar peth and Bohri Ali markets are famous for household things like plastic material, groceries, kitchen wear and electronic gadgets needed in the kitchen, gardening items, clothes and rainy wear among others.Jitendra Mhatre, a kitchen wear shop owner, said, “Since we have reopened the shops, slowly the crowd is increasing.”“As monsoon is around the corner, people are coming to buy household things. We are maintaining proper social distance and customers are allowed to enter the shops if they are wearing face mask,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-as-punekars-go-on-shopping-spree-101623411506341.html
11-06-2021||Other||Tripura decides to provisionally promote class 5,8,9 and 11 students due to pandemic||The government of Tripura has decided to provisionally promote students of class five, eight, nine and eleven to their next classes due to disruption of the academic session amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, state education minister Ratan Lal Nath said on Friday. “As the academic session in 2020-21 was disrupted due to the pandemic, we have decided to provisionally promote students studying in classes five, eight, nine and eleven to their next classes. But the school authorities will evaluate these classes after reopening of schools as mark sheets are required for the students to get different scholarships including the post-metric scholarship,” Nath said.The decision comes days after the state announced to promote students of classes one, two, three, four, six and seven to their respective next classes. There are 51,827 students in class five, 52,659 in class eight, 53,176 in class nine and 30,082 students in class eleven in the state. Tripura would decide about conducting class 10 and 12 board exams on June 14, though it was decided last month to conduct exams in selected papers due to the pandemic.Besides, the state has requested private schools to reduce a minimum of 60% transport fees and waive all fees except the tuition fees due amid the pandemic. All school examinations and offline classes were postponed since April this year due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-decides-to-provisionally-promote-class-5-8-9-and-11-students-due-to-pandemic-101623410667132.html
11-06-2021||Kolkata||Mukul Roy, son Subhranshu return to TMC in presence of Mamata Banerjee||Former BJP senior leader Mukul Roy and his son Subhranshu Roy returned to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Friday in presence of West Bengal chief minister and party supremo Mamata Banerjee. Ahead of his return, Roy and his son held a meeting with Mamata and other senior TMC leaders at the party headquarters in Kolkata.Roy said, "I will not work for the Bharatiya Janata Party again. You cannot work for the BJP." TMC MLA Abhishek Banerjee welcomed both Mukul Roy and his son Subhranshu Roy by greeting them with uttariyos (shawls).Warmly welcoming the National Vice-President of @BJP4India, Shri Mukul Roy, into the Trinamool family. We understand the multiple challenges he faced in BJP.We look forward to this new journey whereby we can work in unison, prioritizing the well-being of the people of India.Banerjee after Mukul Roy's return said that the BJP scared Mukul Roy into joining the party. She said, "Mukul has returned home. He was scared into joining the BJP. I also felt that his health condition was deteriorating and now he is at peace mentally after returning to the Trinamool Congress.""The BJP is not a party for common people. He could not remain in the BJP anymore. We were always a strong party. He returned because he wished to. More people will return," she further added.Mamata highlighted that turncoats who left the TMC to join the BJP for money will not be allowed to return. Mukul Roy was among the leaders who were instrumental in the rise of the TMC. He had left the party in 2017 after he was named as an accused in the Narada sting operation case and his fallout with Mamata Banerjee. He was also suspended from the party for six years. Soon after he joined the BJP was made its national vice-president. His son also followed in his footsteps and joined the party in 2020.Roy also spearheaded the Bharatiya Janata Party's electoral campaign in West Bengal earlier this year and led the charge against his former party, even winning Krishnanagar North assembly seat in Nadia district, thus securing a victory in his first attempt as a BJP leader. Speculations were rife regarding Roy's return after TMC MLA Abhishek Banerjee met with Mukul Roy's ailing wife at a hospital in Kolkata last week. "Those who have nothing to contribute to the growth of the BJP are free to leave," BJP Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh said on Roy's return to his previous party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mukul-roy-son-subhranshu-returns-to-tmc-in-presence-of-mamata-banerjee-101623403951613.html
11-06-2021||Other||Bathinda clash over rooster: Drug angle surfaces after victim’s death||The recent theft of a rooster that sparked off a group clash at Chauke village in Bathinda will be probed by a special investigation team after the death of a 26-year-old kabaddi player, Harvinder Singh on June 9.Harvinder’s family and their supporters have been protesting against the rival group by placing his body on national highway-7 (Bathinda-Zirakpur) in front of Rampura Sadar police station since Thursday evening, forcing the cops to divert traffic via link roads. They have now alleged that Harvinder was fatally attacked for objecting to the sale of narcotics at their village by the accused. They also claimed that the police were shielding the drug peddlers.Also read: Is Co-Win blocking users with over 1,000 vaccine slot searches a day?Senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said a three-member SIT led by SP (investigation) Balwinder Singh will probe the matter. “In his complaint, Harvinder had only cited the theft of the rooster as the reason behind the attack on him and his friends. But in view of the charges made by his family, an SIT will probe the charges that drug peddlers were behind the murder,” Virk said.The first information report (FIR) was registered at Rampura police station on May 27 on the complaint of Harvinder, who died during treatment at a private hospital in Ludhiana on June 9. In the FIR, there was no reference to any illegal sale or supply of narcotics. . Harvinder named five residents of Chauke for the attack on him and others at a farm on Pitho road on the evening of May 26. Later, the names of eight more persons were added to the complaint of others. According to the FIR, Harvinder said that Gagna Singh and his brother Babbu Singh had stolen the rooster from the house of Harvinder’s uncle Makhan Singh. “My uncle brought the matter to the notice of the accused’s family. After that Gagna and Babbu were annoyed with me for supporting my uncle over the incident. When I was at a farm with friends, Gagna and Babbu attacked me and my friends with sharp-edged weapons, baseball bats and a pistol,” Harvinder said in the FIR. The SSP said eight people have been arrested and efforts are on to catch the rest. “Our teams are talking to Harvinder’s family to ensure justice. Initial investigation says no one sustained a bullet injury and we are trying to secure videos of the clash,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bathinda-clash-over-rooster-turns-out-to-be-fight-for-drugs-101623409525870.html
11-06-2021||Pune||Global Village Idiot: Why education innovation is humming the tech-know beat||Once upon a time, around the early 2010s, there used to be these professionals in India called graphic designers (GD). Then one day, they all disappeared and suddenly, overnight, appeared a new set of professionals called user interface (UI) designers, who then evolved into upgraded, improved user experience (UX) designers. Graphic designers rebranded themselves, since that was the role-set newer technology companies had started looking for. Slowly but surely, other ancillary tech-enabled sub-industries picked up the trend without understanding what UI and UX really meant and before anyone realised, many companies had hired for a completely new role (the GD role coexisted), with no relevant skills to go with it. Something similar is happening in the education ecosystem which is being changed by non-education innovators (edtech and tech companies), and I am not sure if it’s all going to work out in the end for the existing industry.Traditionally when one used to hire GDs, the educational qualifications one looked for was a visual arts background, and the typical skills’ repertoire included visualisation, illustration, layout, design, communication, and typography, among others. Proficiency with standard software was important, but not a replacement for the core skills. At this point, it is essential to acknowledge that education is a governance instrument, with a clear stated objective: to (eventually) move young ones into the global labour market at a minimum acceptable level of productivity.How does the GD quest connect to school education? Art subjects. Students who had the inclination honed their skill across school years, went to art college and later decided to go into commercial art or fine arts, and then into work. In recent decades, art and design have been added specifically to school curriculums as part of educational policy. The methods of teaching have evolved somewhat. The teaching talent base has expanded, but the big question is: does the educational approach and educator’s profile map to the evolving learning requirements and student profile?Student profiles relate to two types: generational profile and technology generation profile. So, what are the generations in school now? Generations Z and Alpha. And what is the Technology Generation that they correspond to? Digital Natives - born to deep digital reality (smartphone, always connected, social networking).Who’s teaching them? Generation Xers, early Gen Y, corresponding to the digital computer and early internet technology generations.Who’s making educational policy? Generation Baby Boomers and Gen X corresponding to analog electronic and digital computer technology generations. Why is this important? Because it is all about computational speed from policy to end result. For the first time in human history, new knowledge is being added at a daily pace which is eroding the relevance of existing knowledge bases at the practice level. Getting back to the GD, UI, and UX example. Today, erstwhile GD is a redundant skill repertoire in most of its previous primary bastions because software tools on the phone have evolved to the point where a school kid can easily make required choices on visual matters. A school teacher, meanwhile, will have to read about the tool, use it, and in a week or two understand the changes on a particular tool. Most upper primary kids would look at the one tool, and get how to use it in a day if they sit with the tool. Classic example, ICT teacher introduces Scratch as a coding platform to Grade I student. Grade I student sees your Scratch, raises the stake with Code dot org and dares you to play on with Thunkable and PictoBlox. Essentially, the challenge for generic educators is that they have invested in processes and methodologies which are now redundant because these have been automated by technology. More importantly, a child today can access most source material that teachers use and will go through 10 different levels of such material, find their favourite online YouTubers and practice while they are munching a snack and listening to music - before the next class. UX is a design field, related to structures and logic, functionality and experience, and problems and solutions. It’s not a visual design field. Typical skillsets include research, information architecture, wireframing and prototyping, analytics and reasoning, coding, among others depending on the field of application. Design is taught in some schools today, but not taught by designers.A secondary school student interested in the field, can pick up professional knowledge online quite easily, quickly.Educators are going to find it increasingly difficult because they are approaching the whole matter driven by their own convictions, based on the value-systems that they hold dear. The doctorates and degrees and studies and methodologies were meant for a human race that observed, argued, participated, thought, did, understood, mastered, implemented, et al, at the expeditious pace of centuries, decades, in extra-ordinary instances maybe years.Generation Z and Generation Alpha are. They just arrive and become. They are intuitive at a level that is incomprehensible to an intelligence that needs to observe, study, argue, make a case, understand, do, find patterns, seek consensus, explain, et al, to even produce a first draft of anything. The Alpha generation just knows and they can connect, see patterns, think, and do in hours, minutes and seconds. Intuitive. How can a generation that is prescriptive and deductive direct generations that are collaborative and intuitive? Our generations had values and we divided the world, because people have different values. The coming generations will unite the world because they connect by intuition. What exactly are we to teach them? And what role should schools and educators play?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-why-education-innovation-is-humming-the-tech-know-beat-101623408746214.html
11-06-2021||Other||Four women killed, 11 others injured in Chhattisgarh accident||Four women were killed, and 11 others injured when the vehicle they were travelling in on Thursday night rammed into a roadside tree in Chhattisgarh’s Rajnandgaon district, police said on Friday. Police said the workers of a private company were returning home after work when the vehicle met with the accident.Also Read | Chhattisgarh woman jumps infront of train with 5 kidsThe driver lost control over the vehicle and hit a tree between Arjuni and Raitapali villages. Some passers-by called up an ambulance, alerted the police and shifted the injured to a local community health centre.The four were identified as Sumitra Bai, Saroj Bai, 50, Shivkumari Sahu, 45, and Jainatri Bai, 40.The 11 injured have been shifted to a hospital in Rajnandgaon. Police said the driver, who is among the injured, is suspected to have been in an inebriated condition, and was speeding when the accident took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-women-killed-11-others-injured-in-chhattisgarh-accident-101623407905795.html
11-06-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu receives more Covid-19 vaccines to continue drive||After running dry once again with only 1,060 vaccines left in Chennai on Thursday, Tamil Nadu later in the day received 85,000 vaccines of Covishield, state health minister M Subramanian said.“We distributed it immediately to districts and we will finish this in a day or two,” Subramanian said, adding, “We are told we will receive about three-lakh Covishield vaccines on Friday. If it arrives, we can continue vaccination for another two days, otherwise, we will have to halt.”About 3.6-lakh Covishield vaccines are expected to arrive by 5.30 pm on Friday and will be used for the 18-45 age category. Only 2,327 people were vaccinated in Tamil Nadu on Thursday after fresh stocks of the vaccine came in. On the previous day, 12,609 people were inoculated.On Thursday morning, 36 of Tamil Nadu’s 37 districts had no vaccines left except for Chennai. This is the second time when the state has had a close shave with suspending the vaccination drive but fresh stocks came in from the Union government, allowing the inoculation to continue.Earlier on June 1, the state exhausted its vaccine supply and announced that it was suspending the inoculation drive between June 2 and 5. The Centre then sent about 5-lakh vaccines on the evening of June 1 and the vaccination drive continued.As of June 10, the state has vaccinated 97,65,284 people. State health minister M Subramanian had said at a press conference on Thursday that though the Union government has instructed states not to reveal data of vaccine stocks, they were being transparent so that people are aware of the true situation and do not unnecessarily wait in queues to be vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-receives-more-covid-19-vaccines-to-continue-drive-101623406646428.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Patiala storm: Four of migrant family among 7 killed||Seven people, including four members of a migrant family from Uttar Pradesh, were killed at Rajpura and Sanaur towns in Patiala district following a thunderstorm accompanied by high velocity winds on Thursday night. The wall of the shanty of the migrant labourers collapsed in Rajpura, killing the four members of the family on the spot. The dead were identified as Girish, Ramshiri, Madhu and Radhika. They worked as labourers in the Rajpura grain market and belonged to Budaun district of Uttar Pradesh. Also read: Heavy rain wreaks havoc in Himachal, lightning kills 300 sheep in Kangra“They had taken this place on rent. During the storm, the wall gave way, killing all four on the spot,” said Vijay Kumar, a relative of the victims. Police said that the four had made shanties on a piece of land rented by a commission agent. A wall of an adjoining house collapsed, and they died when the debris fell on them. Two motorcycle-borne men died in Rajpura when a tree fell on them. The tree was uprooted by the high-velocity wind. In another incident, a labourer died in the Sanaur area of Patiala. The thunderstorm caused damage to property with nearly two dozen factories and residences reporting storm-related damage. The power department is working overtime to repair all broken lines and poles to restore electricity at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patiala-storm-four-of-migrant-family-among-7-killed-101623404665674.html
11-06-2021||Bangalore||'Will remain Karnataka CM for next two years': Yediyurappa thanks BJP leadership for reposing faith||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday asserted that he will be continuing as the chief minister of the state for the remaining two years of his term, working for the development of the people. His statement came one day after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Arun Singh ruled out replacing Yediyurappa as the chief minister of Karnataka and asserted that the 78-year-old Lingayat strongman will continue in the top spot.There had recently been much speculation regarding a change of leadership in the Karnataka BJP, with many projecting that a section of the ruling BJP was trying to unseat Yediyurappa from the post of the chief minister. It was even said that some BJP legislators were pushing for a legislature party meeting where they intended to raise the state government's alleged mishandling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and instances of corruption.Citing the trust that the BJP high command decided to place in him, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that the statement from the party's national general secretary had given him "more strength". "Arun Singh who is Karnataka in-charge has said that there is no question (of leadership change).. it doesn't arise and that Yediyurappa will remain (CM) for the next two years and complete the term-- where does that question arise," news agency PTI quoted Yediyurappa as saying in response to a question.Yediyurappa vowed to "put more effort and honestly work for the next two years", adding that his responsibility has increased now that the BJP's Karnataka in-charge has recognised the good work happening under his rule. He said he will also try to live up to the trust shown in him by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-remain-karnataka-cm-for-next-two-years-yediyurappa-thanks-bjp-leadership-for-reposing-faith-101623403087001.html
11-06-2021||Other||Two held for killing girl in Jharkhand||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) has arrested two people for allegedly killing the daughter of a political leader in Jharkhand’s Palamu. The body of the girl, a Class 10 student, was found hanging from a tree in a forest. Her family has alleged she was raped and murdered. The girl’s father has lodged a First Information Report against seven people.Also Read | Jharkhand reports 293 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths in last 24 hoursPalamu police superintendent Sanjeev Kumar said one of the accused, a married man, was allegedly in a relationship with the girl. He added when she insisted on marrying him, he and his friend strangulated the girl and hanged the dead body to cover up their crime on Monday, the day she went missing. The body was traced on Wednesday. Police denied reports that one of her eyes was gouged out. “In fact, she suffered injuries to her right eye probably during the scuffle before she died. Her eye was swollen and had maggots in it,” said Kumar.Sub divisional police officer Alok Kumar Tuti said the SIT cracked the case in less than 48 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-for-killing-girl-in-jharkhand-101623404005744.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Prashant Kishor calls on NCP chief Sharad Pawar in Mumbai||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar at his Mumbai residence on Friday. The meeting lasted for almost three hours in which the duo chatted on various issues, NCP leaders said.The visit assumes significance as it is believed the NCP chief wants a united forum of Opposition parties to take on the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party in the next Lok Sabha polls to be held 2024.Kishor reached Silver Oak, Pawar’s residence in south Mumbai, around 11am and left around 2pm. Also Read | Sena trustworthy ally: NCP chief dismisses doubtsNCP leader Jayant Patil also joined the meeting.Senior NCP minister Chhagan Bhujbal said that Pawar will consider Kishor’s suggestions. “He (Prashant Kishor) is a successful election strategist and has helped various parties win the polls. I don’t know the exact reason behind the meeting but if he comes with a suggestion, the NCP chief will certainly consider it,” Bhujbal said.Kishor recently helped the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress win the West Bengal assembly elections and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam chief M Stalin win the Tamil Nadu polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/prashant-kishor-calls-on-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-in-mumbai-101623403945428.html
11-06-2021||Other||Sand mafia attacked my team, police failed to act promptly: MP forest officer||Over 100 masked men attacked a team of forest department led by a woman officer with sticks and stones after it seized a tractor-trolley carrying illegally mined sand in Madhya Pradesh’s Morena district on Wednesday night. The officer, Shradha Pandre, said the police did not come to their rescue immediately even as the local police station is located just a km away from the attack scene.Pandre, the sub-divisional forest officer (Chambal Sanctuary), who has been attacked earlier as well, accused police officers of supporting the illegal mining mafia. She added they are not letting her curb the illegal sand mining menace.Pandre said she called the police at least twice. “I informed the police after the seizure of tractor but police inspector of Devgarh police station refused to come. We decided to seize the tractor by ourselves just 1 km away from the police station near Lohikapura village. Over 100 people attacked us and stopped our vehicle by putting stones and thorny bushes on the road. I called the police once again, but they reached after 15 minutes,” she said.Also Read | MP police put notices with skull mark around necks of unvaccinated peopleShe added special armed force guard Mukesh Sen sustained injuries in the attack. “We locked ourselves in the vehicle and rushed towards the police station.”Pandre said despite videos and clear evidence against the attackers, police registered a case under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 147 (rioting), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others), and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty). “They are not willing to register a case under Section 307 (attempt to murder) as they do not want to take tough action against the mafia,” she added.Pandre said the mafia has earlier eight times fired with country-made pistols, tried to mow down her, and attacked her with stones. She added the police just registered a case of assault.“The police said instead of spot action after receiving information related to illegal mining, I should have informed authorities and made plans accordingly. By doing this, I would only have given time to the mafia to get information on possible action and to run away from the spot. Villagers are sharing information with us as they have started trusting us. I do not want to do table work. I am a field officer, and it is my duty to stop illegal sand mining in the sanctuary area.”Activists supported Pandre and accused local administration and police of allegedly patronising the mafia.“Pandre is doing a good job. The mining mafia could be controlled with prompt raids not with action by making a plan. I am sure that someone from the police department would have informed the villagers of the movement of the forest team on Wednesday night,” said Satendra Singh, a local social activist.“On the roads of Chambal division, anyone can see the movement of at least 20-25 tractor trolleys laden with illegally mined sand daily but hardly any officer or police stop them to take action. The illegal sand mining business is flourishing in the region with the support of politicians, police, and other officers,” said Vinayak Tomar, an environmentalist.Divisional forest officer Amit Nikam said he has informed their head office about the attack.Morena police superintendent Lalit Shakyawar called Pandre allegations serious, and said they are inquiring about the matter.Additional police superintendent Raisingh Narwariya said it is more a case of miscommunication. “If the police station in charge did not respond to her call properly, she should have called me or the superintendent of police. But we did not receive any call.”Narwayiya said Pandre is doing a great job but should follow the system. “In a task force meeting, the divisional commissioner Ashish Saxena clearly said that forest and police officials have to inform sub-divisional magistrate before any action against mafia so that required force could be provided to them, but Pandre is conducting raids randomly and risking her life and that of other officials too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sand-mafia-attacked-my-team-police-failed-to-act-promptly-mp-forest-officer-101623403225558.html
11-06-2021||Kolkata||Mukul Roy prepares to return to TMC, Bengal BJP shows indifference||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national vice-president Mukul Roy left his home for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) headquarters here on Friday afternoon amid speculation that he might return to the ruling party in West Bengal. No TMC leader commented on record, but some of them said chief minister Mamata Banerjee might consider welcoming turncoats who left before the recent assembly polls but did not take any radical stand against her. Roy kept mum on his next move, but left his Salt Lake residence at 2pm and headed for the TMC headquarters at the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass, where an important meeting was scheduled to be held at 3pm. Roy was escorted by a Kolkata Police convoy. The chief minister also left her residence at Kalighat in south Kolkata at 2pm and headed for the party headquarters. Roy and his son Subhranshu Roy reached the TMC headquarters at 2.29pm in separate cars. The chief minister’s convoy reached a few minutes earlier.Banerjee is scheduled to make an announcement at a press conference around 3.30pm.The development came as an embarrassment for the BJP, although Mukul Roy’s recent actions made it clear that his relationship with the saffron camp was souring. Also Read | Contain ‘volatile situation’, Dhankar to Mamata on tension in Kolkata’s Tiljala“I cannot speculate on rumours,” Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said at a press conference in Delhi. “Those who have nothing to contribute to the growth of the BJP are free to leave,” said Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh, without referring to Roy or any of the TMC turncoats. Several former TMC leaders who joined the BJP have publicly appealed to Mamata Banerjee to forgive them. They include the chief minister’s former aide Sonali Guha. Others, such as former forest minister Rajib Banerjee, have written critical posts against the BJP. On June 3, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called up Mukul Roy to inquire about the latter’s wife who is being treated for Covid-19 at a private hospital in east Kolkata. Though Mukul Roy did not comment on the conversation that, according to BJP leaders, lasted around two-three minutes, the phone call made news as Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee had visited the hospital the night before. His visit triggered speculations about Mukul Roy’s next political move. Also Read | PM Modi speaks to Mukul Roy, day after Abhishek Banerjee’s 10-min courtesy callThe young Lok Sabha MP spent about 10 minutes at the hospital and met Mukul Roy’s son to enquire about his mother’s health. Around two hours after Banerjee’s visit, Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh also went to the hospital to talk to Subhranshu Roy. The next day, Mukul Roy denied having any knowledge about Ghosh’s visit. “I don’t know who he came to see,” he said.On May 29, Subhranshu Roy wrote on his social media page that self-criticism was more necessary than criticising a government elected by people. Though he did not name any party or state, social media users took it as an obvious reference to the situation in Bengal. While Mukul Roy won the Krishnanagar North seat in Nadia district in the recent assembly polls, his son was defeated from the Bijpur seat that he held in North 24 Parganas district. Mukul Roy, who was the TMC’s founder member and a close aide of Mamata Banerjee, joined the BJP in 2017. His son switched sides two years later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mukul-roy-prepares-to-return-to-tmc-bengal-bjp-shows-indifference-101623402746874.html
11-06-2021||Other||Social media campaign for Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict’s release||The supporters of AG Perarivalan, 49, a convict in the late former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination case, have launched a social media campaign for his release 30 years after he was arrested and later convicted.Arputham Ammal, Perarivalan’s mother, has been fighting for the release of the seven convicts serving life imprisonment in the case. Perarivalan is currently out on parole. Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin approved Perarivalan’s parole for a month on medical grounds after Ammal petitioned for it, citing increasing Covid-19 cases in prisons and the comorbidities that put her son at a greater risk of contracting the disease.Perarivalan was 19 when he was arrested for procuring two nine-volt batteries used in the bomb detonated in kill Rajiv Gandhi in 1991 in Tamil Nadu’s Sriperumbudur.Perarivalan’s lawyer, K Sivakumar, said they do not want his client to return to prison after his parole is over and that is why they have launched the social media campaign.In a video message, Ammal said her son was taken away saying it is a minor investigation and he will be sent back the next morning and 30 years are over. “Several of you have supported his release but it has not happened, and we cannot get back his years spend in jail. But at least I want him to be with me during this old age.”V Thiagarajan, a former Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) official who was involved in the probe into the case, has claimed Perarivalan was not aware of the reason for which he was asked to get the batteries and that this was omitted from his statement.On May 20, Stalin wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking to remit the life sentence of seven convicts and to direct their immediate release.In 2018, the Tamil Nadu Cabinet passed a resolution for the release of the seven and sent it to governor Banwarilal Purohit for his assent. During a hearing in the Supreme Court on Perarivalan’s remission, an affidavit submitted noted that Purohit was awaiting a report of the CBI to make his decision. But in subsequent hearings, the CBI clarified that there is no connection between the remission of the sentence and investigation.The court also called the governor’s delay “extraordinary”. In February, Purohit refrained from taking a call on the matter and said the President was the competent authority to make a decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/social-media-campaign-for-rajiv-gandhi-assassination-case-convict-s-release-101623402745767.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Virbhadra Singh, former HP CM, tests Covid-positive again||Himachal Pradesh former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, 86, on Friday tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time in two months. Virbhadra Singh, a six-time chief minister, was suffering from post-Covid complications when he was admitted to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Shimla on April 23 shortly after being discharged from Mohali-based Max Hospital. He has been at IGMC since then. Also read: Ahead of third wave, Centre to create trained workforce to handle healthcareHe was first diagnosed with Covid-19 on April 13 and was taken to Max Hospital in Mohali. He was discharged on April 23 but on his arrival in Shimla, he developed breathing difficulty and was admitted to IGMC, where he was kept in a separate room in the cardiology department. He was under the treatment of the head of the cardiology department, Dr Parkash Negi. “Three days ago, a member of the nursing care staff had tested positive. Virbhadra Singh ji’s samples were taken on Thursday night and he was found positive,” IGMC medical superintendent Dr Janak Raj said. The former CM is being shifted to a makeshift hospital at IGMC. “So far his parameters are normal,” Dr Raj added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/virbhadra-singh-former-hp-cm-tests-covid-positive-again-101623401305321.html
11-06-2021||Other||Odisha announces assistance package for farmers, artisans affected by cyclone Yaas||Two days after the inter-ministerial central team visited Odisha for the assessment of losses to the state due to cyclone Yaas, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday announced a special package for farmers affected by the disaster, as per a state government release.“Our government is committed to the cause of farmers’ empowerment. So chief minister quickly announced the package for farmers, fishermen, weavers and artisans affected by Cyclone Yaas,” said state agriculture minister Arun Sahoo.The financial assistance will be provided to farmers as compensation in agriculture and animal resources development sectors affected by the Cyclone Yaas that hit Odisha on May 26.On May 26 noon, cyclone Yaas hit the Odisha coast between Balasore and Bhadrak districts with a sustained wind speed of 130–140 kmph, reaching 155kmph. The storm caused very heavy rainfall in Balasore, Bhadrak, Mayurbhanj, Jagatsinghpur, and Kendrapara districts affecting over 6 million people across 11,000 villages. Odisha government pegged the initial losses at ₹610 crore.As per the financial package announced, ₹6,800 input subsidy per hectare will be provided to small and nominal farmers with 33% or above damage in non-irrigated land. In irrigated areas, input subsidies of ₹13,500 per hectare and ₹18,000 per hectare for all types of daily crops will be provided. Mango, cashew, coconut, betel, kewda and other crops are included in the daily crop category. Farmers will get a minimum subsidy of ₹2,000 for daily crops and a minimum subsidy of ₹1,000 for other crops.Farmers in the affected districts will be provided with 1.5 lakh quintal of high quality certified paddy seeds along with a 25 per cent discount on the current rebate for the 2021 kharif season. The rebate will be paid directly to the farmer’s account through a direct benefit transfer. One lakh farmers will be included in the seed refining programme for 1 lakh acres of land for higher yields during the kharif season.During the kharif season, 25,000 acres of land in the affected areas will be covered for paddy, jute and pulses.Farmers adopting improved farming methods, such as row sowing and row harvesting will be given an incentive of ₹1,500 per hectare for 36,000 acres of land.Input subsidies will be credited to farmers’ accounts for crop loss due to insects on 60,000 hectares of land.Farmers in the affected districts will be given a ₹20 crore discount to buy high-quality agricultural machinery.Farmers in the cyclone-affected areas will be provided with 2,000 pump sets and 3,000 sprayers at a discount price. A maximum amount of ₹15,000 will be given for a 50 per cent discount for pump sets, a maximum of ₹3,800 for a 50 per cent discount for power sprayer and a maximum rebate of ₹750 will be given for a hand sprayer.As the seawater entered into agricultural lands in Bhadrak and Balasore districts due to the cyclone, the farmers in these two districts have been severely affected. Therefore, financial assistance of ₹750 per hectare will be provided for Nutrient Management & Soil Ameliorants. Assistance will be provided for a total of 10,000 hectares of land.An incentive of ₹15,000 per person will be provided to 125 farmers of betel leaf cultivation. A total of 10,000 affected farmers will be provided with high-quality saplings at a cost of ₹115 for growing vegetables at their gardens. ₹40,000 will be provided to 50 mushroom cultivation units affected by the cyclonic storm. With the assistance, the affected farmers can recover their cultivation units. This assistance will be provided directly to the farmer’s bank account. Farmers in the affected areas will be provided 10,000 vegetable mini kits worth ₹110 each free of cost. Short-term kharif loans to farmers with crop loss of more than 33% in the affected areas will be converted into medium-term loans.Assistance will be provided to farmers who have lost cattle, goats, sheep and poultry in the cyclone. While a sum of ₹30,000 has been announced for dairy cattle, ₹25,000 will be provided for non-dairy animal. Similarly, for a maximum of 6 calves, ₹16,000 per calf, ₹3,000 up to 30 goats/sheep and ₹50 per chicken, will be given to affected farmers. ₹2,100 will be provided for the reconstruction of cattle shelters. An assistance of ₹4,100 each will be paid to cyclone-affected fishermen for repairs to their partially damaged boats, ₹2,100 for partially damaged fishing nets, ₹9,600 for entire wrecked boats and ₹2,600 for completely damaged fishing nets.An input subsidy of ₹12,200 per hectare for the renovation of damaged fish/fish seed farms and ₹8,200 per hectare will be provided for damaged fish seed farms. Handicraft and handloom artisans affected by the cyclone will be provided ₹4,100 each for their equipment and ₹4,100 for destroyed raw materials and manufactured products.For sericulture farmers, an input subsidy of ₹4,800 per hectare will be given to farmers of Eri, Mulberry and Tussar. An assistance of ₹6,000 per hectare will be given for Muga silk farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-announces-assistance-package-for-farmers-artisans-affected-by-cyclone-yaas-101623400645359.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||Four, including a 5-year-old child, killed in road mishap in Delhi’s Najafgarh||Four persons, including three members of a family, were killed and at least one person was injured after an allegedly speeding truck ran over them in southwest Delhi’s Najafgarh early Friday morning, police said. The errant truck driver was arrested and the vehicle impounded, they said.The dead persons included a couple and their five-year-old child. The fourth deceased person was their neighbour. The couple’s two-and-a-half-year-old child was injured in the mishap. The injured child is undergoing treatment in a nearby hospital. The child’s condition is serious, a police officer said.Also Read | Delhi Traffic Police revise maximum speed limits for vehicles. All details hereAccording to the officer, the mishap took place around 5am. The family and their neighbour were walking towards the family’s car parked outside their home when the truck ran them over. “At 5.19am,a fatal accident call was received at PS Najafgarh ,at Thana Road near Vikas Hospital. At the spot, Ashok (30), Kiran (27), his wife, Ishant (5), their son were found dead. Two persons, Dev (2.5), their other son and Jawahar Singh (93), their neighbour were sent to Vikas Hospital. Later, Jawahar Singh died during treatment. Dev is currently under treatment at Safdurjung Hospital,” said DCP( Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena.“Five vehicles were found damaged at the spot. The accident was caused by a dumper truck driven in a rash and negligent manner. The truck driver Rajesh has been arrested,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-killed-in-road-mishap-in-delhi-s-najafgarh-101623399685527.html
11-06-2021||Kolkata||BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy set to make his return to Trinamool Congress||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national vice-president Mukul Roy will be returning to the Trinamool Congress (TMC), people familiar with the matter said. The final decision regarding Roy's joining will only be taken after his meeting today with the TMC top brass in Kolkata, the agency added. Incidentally, there had been throughout this week much speculation over Roy's potential return to Trinamool Congress, the party he had once helped form. Heavyweight BJP leaders Mukul Roy and Rajib Banerjee were not present at a recent meeting of the party's West Bengal unit, thus sparking a buzz in the state's political scene.The Bengal BJP, on the other hand, has shown indifference over Mukul Roy's possible defection to the Trinamool Congress, those familiar with the development said, adding that the BJP national vice-president left his home in Kolkata at 2pm along with his son Subhranshu and reached the TMC headquarters at 2:29pm.BJP National Vice President Mukul Roy is likely to join TMC. The decision regarding his joining will be taken after his meeting with the party's top brass in Kolkata today: Sources(file photo) pic.twitter.com/Q26UmmXX1hMukul Roy, once a veteran leader of Trinamool Congress and close aide of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, had a falling-out with the TMC supremo after being named an accused in the Narada sting operation case back in 2017. After being suspended for six years over "anti-party activities", Roy eventually left the TMC, giving up his Rajya Sabha seat in October that year, before joining the BJP in November. Subhranshu Roy, Mukul's son, also followed in his father's footsteps and joined the party in 2019. In September 2020, Mukul Roy was made the national vice-president of the BJP.Also Read: PM Modi speaks to Mukul Roy, day after Abhishek Banerjee's 10-min courtesy callHowever, Mukul Roy's position in the BJP was debated in select political circles following the recently conducted 2021 West Bengal legislative assembly elections, which saw the Trinamool Congress receiving an overwhelming public mandate to retain power in the state. Although many considered Roy a fearsome addition to the BJP's arsenal ahead of the state assembly elections -- armed with "insider" knowledge against the TMC, so to speak -- the final result was unpredictably grim for the BJP. While Mukul Roy won the Krishnanagar North seat in Nadia district, the only time he ever contested elections, his son was defeated from the Bijpur seat that he held in the North 24 Parganas district.Also Read: Bengal BJP leader Mukul Roy’s son calls for self-criticism after poll defeatMukul Roy's wife, Krishna, was admitted to a hospital in Kolkata last month for undergoing treatment for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Abhishek Banerjee, who was recently made the national general secretary of the Trinamool, was reported to have made a visit to the same hospital. He spent ten minutes, again sparking speculations that Mukul Roy might eventually return to the party he left in 2017. Prime Minister Narendra Modi later dialed Roy up, reportedly to enquire about his wife's health, but the recent political developments have left enough space for the speculations over Mukul Roy's ambitions to fester.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-national-vice-president-mukul-roy-likely-to-return-to-trinamool-report-101623398138357.html
11-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 293 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths in last 24 hours||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 3,42,774 on Friday as 293 more people tested positive for the infection, while five fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 5,081, a health bulletin said.East Singhbhum district reported the highest number of new cases at 67, followed by 30 in Ranchi and 22 each in Chatra and Hazaribag, it said.One fresh fatality each was reported in Ranchi, East and West Singhbum, Dhanbad, and Pakur.No fresh case was reported in Pakur, while 19 of the 24 districts in the tribal-dominated state did not register any fresh fatality, the bulletin said.The state now has 4,514 active cases, while 3,33,179 people have recovered from the infection thus far, including 557 in the last 24 hours, it said.The recovery rate among coronavirus patients in the state stands at 97.20%.However, the state's mortality rate of 1.48% remains higher than the national average of 1.20%.The state has so far tested over 89.23 lakh samples for Covid-19, including 44,591 in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said.In a bid to combat the surge in coronavirus cases, the state government has extended the lockdown till June 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-293-new-covid-19-cases-5-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101623397838397.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Consumer commission fines Indian Bank for refusing credit to woman entrepreneur||The Maharashtra State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (MSCDRC) has imposed a fine of ₹10 lakh on Indian Bank for not sanctioning a loan to a woman entrepreneur under a central credit guarantee scheme implemented through Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE), HT has learnt.After hearing the complaint, the state commission held, “the very purpose of the launching of the scheme by Government of India was not considered by the opposite party (Bank). Instead, by providing small loans against the application, the opposite party followed unfair trade practice.”“The employees of the opposite party, in the name of rules and regulations, debited certain amounts from the complainant’s account from time to time. The complainant who suffered from financial loss and irregularity passed through hardship. Thus, the schemes floated by the government, to help and promote entrepreneurship by providing adequate guarantee as well as support to new entrepreneurs, could fail due to non-application of the mind by the employees of the opposite party,” said the commission. The Pune-based company, run by a woman and her family, on July 15, 2015, approached the Indian Bank for a loan of ₹60 lakh under the CGTMSE scheme for funding their pharma enterprise.The complainant claimed that they came to know about the credit guarantee scheme through advertisements and after reading the advertisement about the scheme, they approached Indian Bank, one of the listed banks for implementing the scheme.The complainant stated that the company provided all the requisite documents to the bank. However, the bank refused to grant a loan of ₹60 lakhs under the CGTMSE scheme for various reasons.The bank quickly sanctioned a small loan on pledging gold ornaments that the complainant availed for preparing for the pharma business. The company claimed that the bank sanctioned a loan of ₹only ₹1 Lakh under a different heading, other than the one for which the loan was applied, as per the complainant.The whole process of establishing the new pharma business could not take off and she suffered from mental agony and harassment due to the attitude of bank officers, according to the complaint.Further, the business did not start despite all efforts, the complainant was also unable to pay back the loans availed from the bank hence the gold ornaments pledged by the company were confiscated.The complainant first filed a complaint with District Consumer Forum but the same was dismissed, terming it frivolous. The complainant then moved the state commission in appeal. The state commission issued a notice to the bank but the bank did not appear before the commission.The commission has also asked the bank to return ₹2 lakh collected by it under various heads from the company of the entrepreneur and also return with interest the amount of sale proceed of her ornaments, pledged with them by her company, Orasone Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd. The bank had auctioned the gold ornament as the complainant failed to repay the loan amount.The commission has also marked a copy of the order to the Prime Minister’s Office and Governor of the Reserve Bank of India for “bringing to their notice as to how the Government scheme failed due to negligence of adamant bank officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/consumer-commission-fines-indian-bank-for-refusing-credit-to-woman-entrepreneur-101623395725397.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Traffic Police revise maximum speed limits for vehicles. All details here||The Delhi traffic police on Friday fixed speed limits for motor vehicles, noting that unregulated plying of such vehicles on the roads of the national capital are endangering the lives of the motorists as well as other persons who happen to be on the road. In a notification signed by the deputy commissioner of Delhi police (traffic), the department informed citizens of the revised maximum speed limits for various types of vehicles on Delhi roads. The new speed limits will come into effect on an immediate basis, the Delhi police informed.Also Read: On Day One of Unlock Delhi, police fined 1,053 persons for not wearing masksThe Delhi police have fixed the maximum speed limit on most roads, highways, and flyovers at 50-70km/h for M1 category vehicles i.e. cars, jeep, taxis, and other app-based cabs. For these types of vehicles, the speed limit has been fixed at 30km/h on all minor roads inside residential areas, commercial markets, and service roads.For two-wheelers i.e. motorbikes, scooters, etc, the Delhi police have fixed the maximum speed limit on most roads, highways, and flyovers at 50-60km/h. For these types of vehicles, too, the speed limit remains fixed at 30km/h on all minor roads inside residential areas, commercial markets, and service roads.Also Read: Capital begins life after lockdownThe speed limit for M2 category vehicles and light motor vehicles (LMV) i.e. motorcars, delivery vans, etc. has been fixed at 50-60 km/h on most roads. The speed limit for all transport vehicles, including Gramin Sewa, TSRs, Phat-Phat Sewa, and quadricycles remains at a uniform mark of 40 km/hr.The Delhi police informed that if a vehicle user violates the aforementioned speed limit, but stays within 5% of the fixed rules, they shall be excused. However, if a vehicle exceeds 5% of the fixed maximum speed limit, the Delhi police shall take cognizance of the offense under section 183 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, the notification read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-traffic-police-revises-maximum-speed-limits-for-vehicles-all-details-here-101623393284822.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s total rainfall for June surpasses 505mm monthly average||Mumbai received 107mm of rainfall in the 24 hours ending at 8:30 am on Friday, according to the automatic weather station in Santacruz.“Significant rainfall recorded between 0830 hrs IST of yesterday to 0830 hrs IST of today (past 24 hrs):Narsinghpur(east m.P)- 75 mm, Mumbai/Santacruz-107.0 mm, Dahanu (Konkan & Goa)- 64mm, Silchar (Assam & Meghalaya)- 65 mm,” IMD tweeted on Friday.For June so far, the city’s total rainfall accumulation (counting pre-monsoon showers between June 1 and June 8) comes to 533.6mm, surpassing the 505mm monthly average.Mumbai is expected to receive at least another 200mm of rainfall by Monday with showers expected to intensify in the coming hours. The city’s Colaba observatory, meanwhile, recorded fewer showers, recording just 23.4mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am Friday.The formation of a low-pressure area over the Bay of Bengal is expected to be complete later this evening, and will draw heavier showers from the southwest monsoon over almost the entirely over the coast of Maharashtra, from late Friday to early Saturday, officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD) informed. The entire Konkan region has been placed under an orange category storm warning, indicating very likely chances of severe weather, till June 14.The city’s minimum temperature recorded on Friday morning was 23.4 degrees Celsius (same as Thursday) while the maximum temperature is expected to settle at 28 degrees Celsius (down from Thursday’s 297 degrees Celsius). Wind speed of between 40 to 45 kmph is expected later today, gusting at about 50kmph. Moderate rain at isolated places over the city is expected to continue till evening before showers pick up in intensity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-total-rainfall-for-june-surpasses-505mm-monthly-average-101623392244964.html
11-06-2021||Lucknow||‘Adopt health centres but also deploy more pharmacists in UP’: Pharmacy council||Appreciating the efforts by lawmakers to adopt community health centres in Uttar Pradesh, the state Pharmacists’ Federation has demanded that the state health department should ensure the deployment of an adequate number of pharmacists, besides bolstering infrastructure at these health centres, federation officials said in a statement. “We have written a letter to the chief minister’s office, stating that even if the equipment is brought, lack of manpower at health centres will be a roadblock in providing the required quality of treatment. A pharmacist is one medical staff who can handle emergency cases and administer medicine too,” said Sunil Yadav, president of the federation, and Ashok Kumar, general secretary. Adopting health centres would certainly bring about improvement but if manpower was also increased by appointing more pharmacists, a 24x7 facility could be ensured, the officials said. “This requires creating more posts of pharmacists,” said Sunil Yadav. “A pharmacist knows how to take care of emergency cases and can also ensure right monitoring of the admitted patients. If their number is increased, it will certainly bring about a positive change in healthcare at community and primary health centres,” he added. “A virtual meeting was also held with the Union cabinet secretary wherein the representatives of the Indian Public Service (IPS) employees federation demanded speedy financial assistance of ₹50 lakh to Covid warriors along with employment to their kin,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/adopt-health-centres-but-also-deploy-more-pharmacists-in-up-pharmacy-council-101623391644795.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||Youth Congress to immerse unclaimed ashes of 500 Covid victims in Haridwar||The Indian Youth Congress (IYC), the youth wing of the Congress, will today immerse the unclaimed ashes of 500 Covid-19 victims in Haridwar. The bodies were cremated at the Nigambodh Ghat in Delhi.“Indian Youth Congress takes the initiative to immerse the ashes of 500 dead bodies, who were left at Nigambodh Ghat and were not able to be immersed by the families due to Covid,” Youth Congress chief Srinivas BV tweeted on Thursday. He added that members will immerse the ashes in Haridwar on Friday.Also Read | Singularly focused on Covid relief activities: CongressSrinivas has been at the forefront of managing the Covid crisis amid the second wave of the virus in the country by arranging oxygen cylinders and drugs for Covid patients.He was also questioned by Delhi Police over the source of oxygen cylinders and other life-saving drugs with which he was helping Covid-19 patients.Later, the police gave the clean chit to Srinivas and 8 other people, saying that they were “actually helping people” and they “did not defraud” anyoneThe police’s visit to the IYC headquarters to question Srinivas led to a social media storm where people were seen accusing the police of harassing those who tried helping the people affected by Covid crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/youth-cong-to-immerse-unclaimed-ashes-of-500-covid-victims-in-haridwar-101623388704743.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||Sagar Dhankad murder case: Another wrestler arrested||One more suspect has been arrested in connection with the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankad who was beaten up with hockey sticks, baseball bats and other blunt weapons at Chhatrasal Stadium in Delhi, allegedly by two-time Olympic medallist and world champion wrestler Sushil Kumar, and his at least a dozen associates, police said Friday.A senior crime branch officer said 22-year-old wrestler called Anirudh was involved in the abduction and assault on Dhankad and his associates during the fight between two groups, one led by Kumar, at the stadium on May 4. Also Read | Court rejects Sushil’s plea for special food and supplements in jailThe officer, however, did not share further information regarding Anirudh’s arrest as to when and where he was caught. Anirudh, who is an aide of Kumar, is the tenth person to have been arrested in the murder case. The other nine arrested earlier include Kumar, his close aide Ajay Sherawat, and four key members of Kala Asauda-Neeraj Bawana gang. Kumar and Sherawat were arrested on May 23 from outer Delhi’s Mundka, after evading police for 19 days. While these suspects are in jail, police are looking for at least three more suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sagar-dhankad-murder-case-another-wrestler-arrested-101623388164634.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy rain wreaks havoc in Himachal, lightning kills 300 sheep in Kangra||Torrential rain and strong winds wreaked havoc in parts of Himachal Pradesh on Thursday night. Kangra town received the highest 103mm of rainfall followed by Palampur and Paonta Sahib that got 70mm each. Dharamshala received 58mm of rainfall, Malan and Arki 44mm each, Shahpur 38mm, Joginderngar 33.5mm, Sundernagar 17mm and Sarkaghat 16mm. State capital Shimla got 11mm of rainfall. Also read: May records 2nd highest rainfall since 1901: IMDThe meteorological department has forecast heavy to very heavy rains over the coming days. “Adverse weather will prevail till June 16 with heavy to very heavy rain likely in most parts of Himachal Pradesh,” said Shimla meteorological centre director Manmohan Singh. A yellow weather warning for thunderstorms and lightning has been issued till June 13. Livestock bear brunt in Baijnath Nearly 300 sheep and goats were killed by lightning in the Manai Dhar area of Baijnath subdivision. The livestock belonged to a shepherd, Thothi Ram, of Gwaltikkar. Ram was camping on a hill with his herd of 350 sheep when the thunderstorm struck. Baijnath sub-divisional magistrate Saleem Azam said a team of revenue officials will visit the spot to assess the loss. A cow was killed when lightning struck Tiara village in the sub division. Rain triggers flashflood in Chamba Heavy rain triggered a flashflood at Sindhua village of Dharwala in Chamba district. The floodwater entered houses, causing damage to property. Vehicles were damaged by hailstorm in Amb and Gagret areas of Una district. Sach Pass road to Pangi opened The state public works department has restored the Chamba-Pangi-via Sach Pass road after eight months. Sach Pass road is the shortest route to snowbound tribal Pangi valley and closes in November every year following heavy snowfall. Over 20,000 people in 16 panchayats of Pangi remain cut off from the rest of the state due to the closure of the road. Two other routes via Lahaul-Spiti-Manali and Gulabgarh-Kishtwar-Jammu remain open, but the journey is more than 600 km. The distance between Chamba and Pangi via the 4414m high Sach Pass is 127 km. PWD executive engineer Dev Raj Bhatia said that they planned to open the road by the first week of June, but the snow-clearing work was delayed due to machinery breakdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-himachal-lightning-kills-300-sheep-in-kangra-101623381864404.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Light rains today; AQI in moderate category||Delhi is likely to witness light rains with the sky to remain partly cloudy on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be at 29 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 39°C. The minimum temperature on Thursday was also 29°C, and the maximum temperature was 40°C. Delhi also witnessed light rains and thunderstorms late on Thursday night.Also Watch | Modi-Yogi meeting: Inside track on agenda and way out of UP messMeanwhile, the national Capital’s air quality fell in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 136. On Thursday evening, it was a poor 214, An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the poor category. The wind has shifted to easterly this is likely to influence air quality positively. A decrease in the long-range transport of dust from dry arid regions of Rajasthan is expected. The wind speed is forecasted to stay high for the next three days. AQI is likely to improve and stay in the poor to moderate category for tomorrow and moderate category on June 12 and 13.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-light-rains-today-aqi-in-moderate-category-101623380305101.html
11-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka CM, BJP high command in state 'weak', says Siddaramaiah||Amid speculations about the resignation of chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Congress leader and Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah on Thursday said that the BJP has taken no action against those party leaders who spoke against Yediyurappa.Siddaramaiah demanded a leadership change, terming the chief minister and the BJP high command in the state 'weak'."Both the chief minister and the BJP high command in Karnataka are weak. Arun Singh said don't talk about change then why is there no action against those who spoke against BS Yediyurappa and are demanding leadership change? Yeddyurappa is a weak chief minister. And instead of taking action, the party high command is trying to cover it. When Yediyurappa is weak, what else the high command will be?" Siddaramaiah questioned."We have not insisted to replace Yediyurappa. I was told that there is a discussion going on over CM change in Delhi. If the chief minister does not change, why the BJP High Command has not taken action against MLAs Basanagowda Patil Yatnal, Arvind Bellad, Vishwanath, Renukacharya and Minister Yogeshwar even after their statements against Yediyurappa?" he added.BJP state in-charge Arun Singh had said that there is no change in the chief minister's post. However, Siddaramaiah had said that there's no smoke without fire.Earlier, on Thursday, after some Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders speculated about the resignation of chief minister BS Yediyurappa, state revenue minster R Ashoka had said that the chair of the chief inister is "perfectly occupied."Yediyurappa had on Sunday stated that he will resign from the post the day the party high command asks him to quit.While speaking to the media persons, he had said, "I will resign the day party high command asks me to quit. I do not speak about the rumours and the speculation created by some of the ministers and legislator.""High command has given me the opportunity - I am trying to utilise it and I am trying to serve the people. I do not want to comment on the rumours of whoever speaks against me. If my high command wants me to resign, I will resign. I myself am involved in working for the development of the state," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-cm-bjp-high-command-in-state-weak-says-siddaramaiah-101623375816932.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kharge panel fine with Amarinder as captain, pushes Sidhu’s rehabilitation||The three-member Congress committee set up to resolve factionalism in Punjab Congress, which submitted its report to party president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday, is learnt to have suggested that chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh should remain in command and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu be accommodated ahead of next year’s assembly polls in the state. The panel comprising leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, AICC general in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal has also suggested a total revamp of the organisational set-up (read Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee) to give due representation to all social groups, particularly Dalit leaders, and take immediate steps to fill up vacancies in boards and corporations to accommodate party workers, a senior party leader familiar with the development said. The Congress president had dissolved the organisational set-up in Punjab in January 2020, but its reconstitution has been in limbo even though state chief Sunil Jakhar had sent the list of new office-bearers more than nine months ago. The committee’s report has summed up the views and grievances expressed by about 150 Punjab leaders, including present and former state presidents, ministers, MPs, MLAs and heads of frontal organisations during the interactions held in Delhi last week. The central panel was constituted by the Congress president to resolve the internecine war in the state unit. Tension had been simmering between Amarinder and Sidhu, who quit the state cabinet two years ago over differences with the former, for quite some time, but the cricketer-turned-politician and some other discontented ministers and MLAs upped the ante after a legal setback in the Kotkapura police firing case. Though several MLAs and other leaders griped before the central committee against the chief minister’s style of functioning, lack of accessibility and over dependence on bureaucracy, a few including Sidhu, Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh and Amargarh MLA Surjit Singh Dhiman demanded a change of leadership. A panel member said the committee was constituted to talk to state leaders and find a solution to the ongoing squabbling. “It (committee) did not have the mandate to look at change of guard. Unlike the time when (Rajinder Kaur) Bhattal staked her claim during Amarinder’s first term (2002-2007) or other states which have two-three strong groups, no claimant has put forth his case for the chief minister’s position here,” said the member who did not want to be identified. The detractors’ grievances have been included in the report along with the chief minister’s response. The party leadership, which has been trying to find a way to accommodate Sidhu without rocking the CM’s board, is learnt to be considering the appointment of two deputy chief ministers, including Sidhu and another from the Dalit community. Though Sidhu may also be offered the campaign committee in-charge’s position, he seems to be more interested in heading the state unit, to which the chief minister has voiced his opposition on various occasions. However, a senior state leader termed the committee’ suggestions as much ado about nothing. “Rawat was anyway trying to get Sidhu back into the state cabinet. Why did the party have to wash its dirty linen in public? In my view, (UP leader) Jitin Prasada’s sudden exit and the rumblings in Rajasthan Congress will have a bearing on the situation in Punjab and vice versa,” he said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rumblings-in-punjab-cong-kharge-panel-fine-with-amarinder-as-captain-pushes-sidhu-s-rehabilitation-101623356841275.html
11-06-2021||Other||Amritsar GMC to study immune status of 100 vaccinated healthworkers||The Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) of Government Medical College (GMC), Amritsar, will study the immune status of 100 healthcare workers vaccinated with Covishield, to check the formation of antibodies against Covid-19 in the beneficiaries.The 100 healthcare workers—including MBBS doctors, nurses, lab technicians, pharmacists, paramedical staff, and other hospital staff—had taken their first dose of Covishield in January this year and completed the vaccination cycle after the second dose in March.As per the team of doctors conducting the study, the initial findings revealed that 97% healthcare workers became ‘sero’ positive post their second vaccine dose which means that beneficiaries had sufficient amount of antibodies to fight the virus.Antibodies are a group of proteins in the human body which help fight infections such as viruses. It typically takes a few weeks after vaccination for the body to produce antibodies against the virus.“A study has been initiated by a team of expert doctors who aim to check the formation rate of antibodies in people after receiving the Covishield vaccine. For this, a serological test of 100 vaccinated healthcare workers will be done for a year and readings will be noted after which, we will be able to know how the antibodies will behave and how the bodies will react to the virus. The research will also guide us if there is any requirement of booster dose in future,” said Dr KD Singh, microbiologist, who is leading the team of doctors in the research.Elaborating about the research, he said, “We had checked the antibody levels of 100 healthcare workers before they received their first jab. After 14 days of receiving the first dose, we again checked their anti-body levels and then repeated the same process 14 days after the second dose.”Dr Singh, who is also the medical superintendent (MS) of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Amritsar, added, “Now, we will repeat the serological test of the healthcare workers, till March 2022. The purpose of repeated testing is to know the level of antibodies after vaccination. The initial findings revealed that in some cases, antibodies doubled after the second dose, revealing that enough antibodies were developed in the beneficiaries which will help in fighting the virus, effectively.”It was also found that antibodies had not developed in three out of the 100 vaccinated beneficiaries, which is a minimal number.“We are also probing into why antibodies did not develop in a few beneficiaries. However, in cases where antibodies level will be recorded ‘low’ in March 2022, the levels of memory cells will be tested. The human body has few special cells, called “memory cells,” that go into action quickly if the body encounters the same virus again. Hence, we will also conduct a ‘cell-mediated immune response’ research to check if the memory cells of the beneficiaries with low antibody levels will be enough to fight the virus. Booster dose will be required for people if memory cells are low,” Dr KD added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-gmc-to-study-immune-status-of-100-vaccinated-healthworkers-101623356481415.html
11-06-2021||Bangalore||In memory: Mother-son duo carry forward a legacy in acts of kindness||Bengaluru resident Mayank Agarwal was a loved son, brother and friend, who almost never thought twice when it came to helping those in need. Be it to provide monetary assistance or emotional support, he was always ready. So when he succumbed to Covid-19 in late April, at the age of 29, his family decided to pick up the mantle and take his legacy forward. “Mayank would help anyone and everyone who asked for it. He would go long distances to feed the homeless, take care of stray dogs among so many other things. When we went to immerse his ashes, the priest told us to remember him by all the things that he loved. So we started the Mayank Agarwal Memorial Fund in his memory,” says Varun Agarwal, Mayank’s elder brother, who runs the fund along with his mother Purnima. Together the two raise money to help low income families in the city, who have been affected by the pandemic. “We act as facilitators, and connect donors directly to the recipient’s bank account, so there is no delay from our end,” adds Varun.The fund raises money for three purposes and conducts a due diligence before starting a fundraiser. “Through various fundraising platforms, we aim to collect ₹2.5 lakh for each family, and have so far helped 25 families foot exorbitant hospital bills by raising ₹50 lakh. We also provide meals to the homeless around the city through Project Seva, run by Shreyas Reddy, and have served 12,000 meals till date. We promote all our campaigns on social media, and I never imagined that such a large hearted response would come our way,” says Purnima, adding, “Mayank always wanted a daughter. So in his memory we’ve partnered with an NGO Collective Consciousness to distribute sanitary pads to 1500 underprivileged girls for an entire year.” Bengaluru resident Shiva Kumar’s family is one of the 25 families that the memorial fund has helped. Kumar tested positive for Covid-19 and pneumonia. Rahul, Shiva’s son, says, “We got a test done, and initially my father turned out to be Covid negative. But soon after we learnt through a CT scan that one of his lungs was completely damaged and what we were thinking was just pneumonia was actually Covid-19. I’m an artist and musician, and the pandemic has dwindled our savings to nothing. When I took my father for his tests, I had a mere ₹3,500 in my account and had to ask friends for money to tide over the rising bills of the hospital. Then a friend put me in touch with Varun, who helped raise over ₹2 lakh for my father’s treatment. Dad is home today and doing better, and nothing I say will be enough to express my gratitude to this team of angels!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/in-memory-mother-son-duo-carry-forward-a-legacy-in-acts-of-kindness-101623356254456.html
11-06-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand orders probe against 9 testing labs||The Uttarakhand government on Thursday ordered a probe into the operations of the nine private Covid-19 testing laboratories that conducted tests of the visitors during the Haridwar Mahakumbh, after one of them was found to have allegedly issued fake test reports for least 50,000 samples, said a state minister.The claim is based on state’s chief controlling officer (CCO) of Covid-19 Dr Abhishek Tripathi’s preliminary inquiry into allegation of fake Covid-19 tests during Mahakumbh, which took place as India was entering its second wave, with many experts saying it served as a superspreader event. “We have ordered a probe on all the nine private testing laboratories with which the Mela administration had signed a contract to conduct the Covid test of those coming to attend the mega religious fair. It was ordered after the state’s Covid CCO in his report to state health secretary confirmed the irregularities in about one lakh Covid-19 tests conducted by the laboratory in question,” said state government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal, adding that the laboratory in question has been “blacklisted.”“State director general of health has issued a general order from the health department to initiate probe on the remaining eight other private testing laboratories involved in the Mahakumbh. The government won’t spare anyone found involved in the irregularities,” he added.A senior health department official said the irregularities came up after Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) asked the state health department to conduct a probe. “The complainant had claimed before the ICMR that when he went to attend the Mahakumbh, he had received an SMS that his samples have been collected for the test along with a proper valid id number. However, he gave no samples. The ICMR, citing the complaint, asked the health department to verify it after which Covid-19 CCO conducted the inquiry.”The official said the CCO said a private laboratory informed the health department that it conducted about one lakh rapid antigen tests. “Of that one lakh tests, at least 50,000 are fake. It collected the samples in the above-mentioned fraudulent way and issued fake test reports of which most were negative... It most likely did this to siphon off money from the government because for a single rapid antigen test, it was to receive ₹354 from the state government in Mahakumbh,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-orders-probe-against-9-testing-labs-101623355705281.html
11-06-2021||Other||PAU study shows dip in rain volume during kharif season||With the onset of paddy sowing season, concern regarding the depleting water table has also resurfaced. The School of Climate Change and Agricultural Meteorology of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) in its recently conducted study found that in the last 21 years, monsoon in Punjab remained mostly below normal. The average rainfall remained 19 to 59 % lower than normal in at least 10 of the total 21 year, while nine of these years saw the average rainfall remained 19% below normal. The state recorded normal or above normal rainfall for just two years in this period. Dr Prabhjyot Kaur Sidhu, head of the department of Climate Change and Agricultural Meteorology, said during the study, it was found that the dip in rainfall was due to cloud formation over the region. Cloud formation is usually witnessed during the kharif season (paddy season) when a huge amount of underground water is used for irrigation.” “The formation of cloud cover for an extended period has an adverse effect on the growth and photosynthesis process of the crop,” said Dr Sidhu. The study further stated that for the past four decades, the region had been receiving eight and a half hours of sun energy but now it has reduced to seven and a half hours. However, heat and humidity has increased. Variability in monsoon showers is one of the major concerns for the agriculture sector in particular and other sectors in general, said Dr Sidhu. The data shows that in Punjab, rainfall received during four months from June to September in northeastern parts such as Nawanshahr, central parts such as Ludhiana and southwestern parts such as Bathinda were highly erratic and variable. Over the past two decades (2000-2020), Ballowal Saunkhri centre of PAU in Nawanshahr which falls under sub mountain undulating zone, received a higher amount of rainfall for most of the years during the monsoon season as compared to Ludhiana and Bathinda. The normal duration of monsoon in Punjab is 77 days-- from June 1 to September 15. From 2002 to 2019, the duration was reduced only for three years, i.e., 2002 (13 days), 2017 (03 days) and 2018 (11 days). But the monsoon rainfall was reduced up to 19% during nine years (2000, 2003, 2005, 2006, 2010, 2011, 2013, 2019 and 2020) and 20% during nine years (2002, 2004, 2007, 2009, 2012, 2014 to 2017). While in 2004, 2012 and 2014, the state received 42, 46 and 50 % less rainfall respectively. “The monsoon rain plays important role in agriculture and this variability in rainfall can cause crop losses in some regions. Though the duration of monsoon winds in Punjab is invariably extended by seven or more days, rainfall is not well distributed. Also, a sudden heavy shower of rainfall received in a short span of time does not help the crops,” said Dr Sidhu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-study-shows-dip-in-rain-volume-during-kharif-season-101623355701192.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||3rd sero survey to kick off in Haryana from June 15||Haryana health minister Anil Vij will launch the third round of sero survey on June 15 to determine the prevalence of coronavirus antibodies in the community, especially among children aged between six to 17 years — a group which has been excluded from vaccination. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said the study will also help determine the effect and efficacy of vaccination. “It will help us plan and strengthen our paediatric services, including establishment and upscale of intensive care units. The study will flag susceptible populations and areas in the state and help us channelise and prioritise the vaccination drive in these areas.” He said the third round of the survey was being conducted is to identify the impact of the second wave of the virus on the community. “Children aged six years and above have also been included to assess seroprevalence among them,” he said. The state has already conducted two sero surveys. The seroprevalence in the first round, which was conducted in August, was found to be 8%. It had increased to 14.8% in October. 539 new virus cases, 32 deaths in state Continuing the downward trend in cases, Haryana reported 539 coronavirus infections, 1,221 recoveries and 32 deaths on Thursday. Active infections stand at 6,365. Health authorities tested 39,189 people for the virus. As per the medical bulletin, the state’s positivity rate has dropped to 1.42% while the recovery rate has increased to 98%. As many as 1,22,371 people received the jab on Thursday, taking the state’s vaccinated population to 63.15 lakh. With 618 active cases, Hisar is the worst-affected district, followed by Sirsa with 570 active cases, Gurugram (498), Karnal (480), Jind (380), Panipat and Panchkula (375 each), Faridabad (357), Bhiwani (345), Kurukshetra (339) and Ambala (299).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3rd-sero-survey-to-kick-off-in-haryana-from-june-15-101623355648582.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||A shot of hope: Aiding differently abled get vaccinated, battle Covid woes||The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic has only deepened the wounds of the differently abled; many of whom have lost their source of livelihood and have now become dependent on others for survival. And then there’s the larger challenge of getting access to Covid-19 vaccine since it isn’t an easy task for a differently abled person to reach the vaccination centre, due to factors including absence of convenient transport and accessibility inside the premises. Recently, the Delhi government ordered for dedicated vaccination centres for persons with disabilities — one in every zone — but not everyone feels that this is enough. Deepak, a resident of Delhi’s Paschim Vihar, who has a limbic disorder shares that going to such vaccination facilities is a challenge in itself. “When I reached the centre, I had to get a wheelchair arranged, and some volunteers helped us get our registration, and finally then could I get vaccinated. But it’s a larger concern with many, who are unable to leave their house or are confined to their bed,” he says opining that “Door to door vaccination could be the ideal solution” for the woes of the differently abled struggling to get vaccinated. To ease the hardships of the differently abled, in such times, some NGOs in Delhi-NCR have been working round the clock. For instance, to get a shot, a visitor at these centres need to present the necessary PwD document as a proof of disability. “We are working to help them get vaccinated at the earliest. Some people don’t have ration or PwD cards and we are trying to help them get these made in order to be eligible for vaccination,” says Pradeep Kumar, founding secretary of Nipun, an NGO that has identified dozens of differently abled individuals in Paschim Vihar’s JJ cluster, which is home to almost 12,000 people. Kumar adds: “There are people who are mentally challenged, hearing and speech impaired, and some are even bedridden with no caretakers at all! Through a door to door survey, we collect their details and provide them daily requirements such as dry ration, masks and sanitisers... We are hoping to also find some skill based employment for those who have lost their jobs because of the pandemic, in order to rehabilitate them.”Loss of a source of earning seems to be a bigger challenge to overcome for many differently abled at present. “Many of those who are differently abled have lost their sources of livelihood. Because of the pandemic, many SOS calls from the differently abled persons have been about funds for rent and utility,” informs George Abraham, from Score Foundation, which works for the visually impaired. The non-profit trust has been running a national helpline, and partnering with other organisations on ground as well. “We’ve been raising funds for those in need. Under our Eyeway Network initiative, we operate a national toll free number (1800 53 20469), where people call with questions and requests. Not just physical well being, but mental health of people also needs to be addressed. Being indoors for an extended period of time can have a negative impact, and our counsellors are also reaching out to the visually impaired to ensure that they are doing okay amid the pandemic,” adds Abraham. “Maximum requests are from people who do not have the funds to procure ration,” says Kapil Aggarwal from Viklang Sahara Samiti Delhi, an NGO that’s aiding the differently abled procure ration and other essentials. “We facilitate online payment at various shops where they can simply go and collect their essentials, by providing payment details. We’re also offering the option of home delivery of ration to those in need,” informs Aggarwal, adding, “People have been reaching out to us via word of mouth, and we have also circulated Google forms to collect information on the needs and requirement of the differently abled.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-shot-of-hope-aiding-differently-abled-get-vaccinated-battle-covid-woes-101623355591995.html
11-06-2021||Delhi||18 new excise rules to kick in from June 11||The Delhi Excise (Amendment) Rules, 2021, will come into effect from Friday, senior government officials said on Thursday. The state finance department issued a notification on Thursday night that said 18 of 21 amendments to the rules will come into effect from June 11.The rules that will come into effect from Friday include permission for restaurants and pubs to serve liquor in open spaces, such as terraces, balconies.Besides, microbreweries in the city will also be allowed to start takeaway service for draught beer, serve in events and sell directly to restaurants and pubs from Friday. Home delivery of liquor through mobile apps and websites has now formally been allowed from Friday, but the excise department will have to issue L-13 licences, which no retailer currently has.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/18-new-excise-rules-to-kick-in-from-june-11-101623355315176.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||2015 Fazilka drug smuggling case: HC breather to Khaira on ED raids||Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) on Thursday asked the adjudicating authority of Enforcement Directorate (ED) not to pass a final order in a case pertaining to raids on Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira’s properties on March 9.The HC bench of justice Ritu Bhari and justice Vivek Puri allowed the adjudicating authority to continue with the proceedings before it but restrained it from passing the final order, senior advocate Vikram Chaudhri said. A detailed order in this regard is awaited. On June 4, Khaira had approached the HC against the show-cause notice from the adjudicating authority in which it had asked him on April 12 as to why the agency should not be allowed to examine his electronic devices. Show-cause notice was issued after ED approached the authority for permission to open his electronic devices such as phones.In HC, Khaira said electronic devices can’t be allowed to be opened as it would amount to breach of privacy. The agency has initiated these proceedings even as entire probe is under the scrutiny before the high court, he argued in the HC. The matter had reached the court on March 19 when Khaira had sought quashing of ED’s raids, carried out on March 9, 2021, on his properties as well as of persons associated with him, in connection with a 2015 Fazilka drug smuggling case. Following the raids, ED had claimed that in 12 odd years, ₹4.86 crore were deposited in his bank accounts but his declared income to the income tax department stood at ₹99 lakh.ED initiated a probe against Khaira, who joined Congress last week, in a 2015 drug seizure case in which nine persons were convicted in October 2017. In the same order, the trial court had summoned him as “additional accused”, a decision subsequently stayed by the Supreme Court. Khaira claims ED’s action was a case of “witch hunt” as he has been vocal against three farm laws enacted by the Centre last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-fazilka-drug-smuggling-case-hc-breather-to-khaira-on-ed-raids-101623355461141.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Deepender Hooda demands white paper on health institutions||Rajya Sabha member Deepender Hooda on Thursday said a report by the public policy think tank, NITI Aayog, on the performance of states had exposed Haryana’s BJP-JJP government as the state had ranked among the top three in the country in terms of unemployment and crime. The think tank had tracked states’ performance on 17 parameters. “Haryana is also lagging behind in education, industrial and economic growth,” Hooda said.Quoting the NITI Aayog data, he said, “Till 2014, Haryana was at the top in development parameters such as per capita income, investment, agricultural productivity and sports. But the state has now slipped to the 14th position. Haryana now ranks 12th in poverty, and 23rd in water sanitation,” the Congress MP said.The report shows unemployment has increased in Haryana and states like Orissa have overtaken Haryana in health indicators, he said. Alleging that the BJP-led government had not paid attention to the health infrastructure in Haryana during the last seven years, the Congress leader asked the state government to put up the number of hospitals set up by them. “During Congress’ rule, 136 sub-health centres, 53 primary health centres, 37 community health centres, 25 general hospitals and at least 20 other hospitals were built or upgraded in Haryana,” he said. He demanded a white paper on why 10 of the 11 approved institutes had not been built on All India Institute of Medical Sciences-2 campuses. “As a Rohtak MP, I had got these institutions of national importance approved by the Union Cabinet. The institutions include a 710-bedded National Cancer Institute, 600-bedded national cardiovascular centre, 500-bedded General Purpose Hospital, 500-bedded national transplantation centre, 500-bedded national centre for child health, 500-bedded digestive disease centre, 200-bedded national institute for geriatrics, 120-bedded centre for blood disorders, a comprehensive rehabilitation centre, centre for laboratory medicine, and national centre for nursing education and research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deepender-hooda-demands-white-paper-on-health-institutions-101623355401321.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||India bets on Haryana girl Aruna for a medal in Paralympics 2021||Last month, India’s taekwondo para athlete Aruna Tanwar, had anxious moments for some days. She was not sure whether she and other para taekwondo athletes from India would be able to take part in the world and Asian qualifiers in Jordon or not in order to qualify for the Paralympics 2021 to be held in Tokyo. She was disappointed when the Indian athletes missed the qualifiers in Jordan due to a travel ban. With that her dream of representing India at Paralympics 2021 crashed. And when on June 9, Aruna came to know that she was among the many eight athletes from eight nations, who have been provided the bipartite quotas for Tokyo by IOC and World Taekwondo, the 21-year-old was thrilled.“I was so upsetting to lose out on a chance in Jordan. It is like a dream come true now with Taekwondo World giving a go ahead to me for Paralympics 2021,” said Aruna, 21, the 2019 World Para Taekwondo Championship bronze medal winner. The Tokyo Paralympics will be held from August 24 to September 5.Aruna, a scholar of BPEd at Chandigarh University, Mohali, is the current World No. 4 in the women’s U-49 category. A five time national champion, she has finished on the podium in the last four years at both Asian Para Taekwondo Championships and World Para Taekwondo Championships.Aruna grew up in Dinod village near Bhiwani in Haryana, taking keen interest in athletics and martial arts despite deformity in both hands. Daughter of a factory driver and part-time farmer Naresh Kumar, Tanwar, was awestruck when boxer Paramjeet Samota from her village received a rousing welcome after winning a gold in 2010 Commonwealth Games 11 years ago.“He has been an inspiration. The way he was welcomed that day made me work on turning into an athlete. We were not well-placed financially but my parents made sure I chased my dreams and made them proud. My father has slogged hard to give me this life,” said Tanwar, who will be the first paralympic participant from India to compete in Tokyo. She just has three fingers each in both her hands and the size of her arms is small. “It was heart-breaking to see such athletes’ dreams getting shattered due to the pandemic. So, we requested World Taekwondo body and were elated to see Aruna getting a wild card entry,” said Sukhdev Raj, coach and general secretary Para Taekwondo Association of India. In total, eight athletes from eight countries were offered bipartite invitations for the Tokyo event. WorldOverall 72 athletes from 37 nations will compete as Para Taekwondo makes its Paralympic debut this summer in Tokyo and India will have Aruna fighting hard for a medal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/india-bets-on-aruna-for-a-medal-in-paralympics-2021-101623355223772.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Amid farmers’ boycott call, Khattar goes for virtual inaugurations||Unable to hold public functions in person due to boycott threats of restive farmers, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had to inaugurate and lay foundation stones of developmental projects through a video conference on Thursday for the second time in three months.Projects focussing on health, ayurveda, education, road connectivity, water, power and sports were inaugurated across 16 districts. While projects cumulatively worth ₹200 crore were inaugurated, foundation stones of projects worth ₹900 crore were laid from Chandigarh. Also present during the video conference were cabinet ministers, members parliament, members of legislative assembly, public representatives and officials. In March, Khattar had launched developmental projects worth ₹1,400 crore through a video conference. Ever since farmers protesting the Centre’s three farm laws have given the call to boycott BJP-JJP leaders, Khattar has been forced to cancel his scheduled visits. Whenever he has attempted to inaugurate projects in person, protesters have resorted to physical violence. The latest face off was seen in Hisar last month when the farmers clashed with the police as they attempted to disrupt the inauguration of a Covid hospital by the CM.Speaking on the occasion, Khattar thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for increasing the MSP of Kharif crops, which he said will increase farmers’ profit margin.Karnal allotted projects worth ₹500 crore While Karnal was allotted projects worth ₹500 crore, Panchkula received ₹160 crore projects. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the CM had given the go ahead to renovation of the Avardhan Canal, which will cost ₹489 crore. The project, which will bring relief to villages along the canal, will take two years to complete.Khattar approved a 33 kilovolt sub-station at Jatton Gate in Karnal city and two mini-sewer cleaning machines for maintaining the sewerage system, he said.The CM inaugurated developmental projects worth ₹50 crore for Kurukshetra. The projects include reconstruction of the old Saraswati arch-type bridge, the new administrative block of the mini secretariat, and two new 33KV sub-stations at Pehowa-II and Malikpur. Khattar laid the foundation stone of a project for four-lanning and strengthening the Karnal- Ramba-Indri-Ladwa road.He allotted projects worth ₹15 crore for Kaithal, including a 33 KV sub-station each in Titran and Padla and a 50-bedded hospital in Kalayat. The CM also dedicated a 33KV power sub-station and a media centre in Panipat worth ₹5 crore each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-farmers-boycott-call-khattar-goes-for-virtual-inaugurations-101623355222250.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Interview with Panjab University V-C: ‘Vice-chancellor should be given free hand’||Panjab University vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar, who has been at the helm of varsity leadership since July 23, 2018, was given a tenure extension for a period of three years from July 23 by the vice-president of India and chancellor, M Venkaiah Naidu. The move comes at a time when the varsity is functioning without its governing bodies. HT reporter Dar Ovais talks to Kumar about the challenges and priorities for his next term as V-C.What is your assessment of your tenure as V-C?I am satisfied with the work initiated during my first term, and I will take it all to completion in the next three years.Anything you feel could have been done better? Do you have any regrets?I do not have any regrets with my first term, but the loss we have faced due to the pandemic since last year is a concern. This period has not been fruitful or to our expectations. On the other hand, our research became more pandemic-oriented.Do you feel you could have done better for the university if the senate and syndicate had better coordination with you?We know the governing structure of PU is entirely different and things are achieved with a joint effort. The members of the governing body should coordinate with the V-C to work for the betterment of the varsity. They should give a free hand to the V-C, there should be academic and innovative autonomy.What will be your priorities in the second term as V-C?Student welfare will be at the centre of our focus. I want to contribute by providing better facilities to them. We will promote research by renovating labs and bringing high-end equipment. We will fast-track the startup activities and our effort will be to increase industry-academia linkage.PU has been functioning without a governing body for more than seven months now. How do you plan to put the governing body in place?The matter is currently in the high court, but we are ready to conduct the polls when the situation allows. Both the bodies will be constituted.The varsity has been performing low in various rankings including NIRF and THE for some years now. What plans do you have to regain its glory?Being a premiere university, we can be ranked well if the data is collected properly and we are focusing on this. We have done well on various parameters, but our student-teacher ratio has not improved over the years because we have not been able to recruit faculty.PU could not implement NAAC recommendations of 2015. Why has the varsity failed to take corrective steps?We have already started working on the recommendations of NAAC and soon you will find a very tangible outcome. We are concerned about the next visit by NAAC.The varsity continues to reel under faculty crunch, and was not able to recruit teachers during your first term. What is your plan on this?I cannot do it on my own and I need the approval of the governing body for faculty recruitment. We also need a green signal from the government. I will put this thing before the governing body and hopefully they will take steps for the development and growth of the varsity.What in your view should be the governance structure of PU?I don’t want to comment on this at this juncture because the high-level committee is working on it. Let’s see what comes out of that.What are the major challenges for you in the next three years?According to me, the appointment of faculty will be a challenge, and the governing body needs to take serious note of it. I can work on improving rankings and other things, but I cannot do faculty recruitment on my own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/interview-with-panjab-university-v-c-vice-chancellor-should-be-given-free-hand-101623354861649.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sustainable development goals index: Chandigarh’s 100% score not in line with ground reality||The high score of nearly 100%, given to Chandigarh for its solid waste management by the recently announced Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) index 2021, has come under the scanner.The SDG index has called the city a “front runner” on the parameter, though, ground realities indicate otherwise. Chandigarh was accorded the “top performer” in the solid waste management parameter, covered under Goal 11—“inclusive and sustainable urbanisation”. Overall, the city has topped the index among union territories with 79% score on 16 goals.The SDG-2021 conclusions, prepared by the Niti Ayog, were based on data sourced from the Swachh Bharat Mission Urban November 2020.Door-to-door garbage collectionThe index states that there is 100% door-to-door garbage collection in all of city’s wards. This in spite of the MC officials themselves conceding that even now most of the rehabilitation colonies had not been covered.“It is yet another farce by the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled MC. What to talk about last November even now when the MC vehicles have been put into service, the collection remains totally erratic. They can give any marks they want to give to themselves but reality is far from it,” said Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councilor and leader of opposition in the MC.Source segregationFor the period of November 2020, the index states that in 96.15% wards, there was 100% source segregation between dry and wet solid waste.Questioning the claim, Chandigarh Resident Association Welfare Federation (CRAWFED) chairperson Hitesh Puri said, “There was no source segregation of waste at the time. In fact, after the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic in March last year, there was no effort by the MC at source segregation. It was only after January this year that MC started making some effort.”Solid waste processingThe index further states that in Chandigarh nearly 92% of the municipal solid waste generated is processed.Vinod Vashisht, convener of CFORWO (City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations) said, “We have gone through the Niti Aayog SDG report. The indicated scores provided for Chandigarh relating to solid waste management indicators, particularly processing of city’s municipal solid waste, is far from reality. It shows that in November 2020, the city was processing 91.91% of solid waste, when city’s sole waste processing plant has not been functioning to capacity for the last one year.”The waste processing plant was taken over by the MC last year, and since then has been working at around 30% of its capacity. Around 250 metric tonnes (MT) dry solid waste has to be processed in the plant, but, as of today, it is only processing around 70-80MT.MC commissioner KK Yadav said, “There is door-to-door garbage collection in all the wards of the city. Similarly, we are getting segregated garbage. Earlier, it was being done by cart-driven garbage collectors, but now it is being done by the MC vehicles.”On the processing of the waste, Yadav said, “All the wet waste is being processed. Even the dry waste is being processed as per the stipulated guidelines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sustainable-development-goals-index-chandigarh-s-100-score-not-in-line-with-ground-reality-101623354801153.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Vegetables prices climb in Chandigarh as fuel gets costlier||Vegetable prices, which had been stable for the past month, have started rising due to the recent spike in fuel prices. Available for around ₹20 per kg since the start of April, onions were selling for ₹30 per kg at the weekly apni mandis in Sector 56 and Ram Darbar on Thursday. “Normally during summer, the prices remain low till the advent of monsoon. However, this year due to the hike in fuel prices, the prices rose earlier than expected. Due to further spike in fuel prices and pre-monsoon showers in Maharashtra, onions may get costlier in the coming days,” said mandi supervisor Satbir Singh.Vegetables brought in from Himachal Pradesh, including peas and cucumber, have also become more expensive, while those grown locally, including bottle gourd, bitter gourd and pumpkin, are available at the same price.Mandis seeing more footfall With Covid-19 cases declining considerably in the past month, the apni mandis have started witnessing more footfall. “Mandis are usually operating at full swing in the evening hours once people are free from work,” said Singh. With the recent lockdown relaxations by the UT administration, apni mandis at Sectors 40, 43 and 49 will also resume on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vegetables-prices-climb-in-chandigarh-as-fuel-gets-costlier-101623354741773.html
11-06-2021||Other||Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case: Siddharth Pithani applies for bail||Siddharth Pithani, former roommate of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, arrested in connection with the Narcotics Control Bureau’s (NCB) ongoing probe into the drug angle in the late actor’s death, has applied for bail. The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court is likely to hear his bail plea on June 16.According to NCB, Pithani was arrested on May 28 from Hyderabad under section 27 (A) of NDPS Act, 1985, for allegedly procuring drugs and helping the late actor get narcotics.Pithani’s lawyer Taraq Sayyed has claimed that the charge is not applicable to his client as there was no evidence against him under that charge. Sayyed also said that Pithani is to get married on June 26. Pithani’s was introduced to Rajput in 2017 by a friend of the late actor. In 2019, he came to Mumbai and stayed with Rajput for some time and worked on the actor’s Dreams 150 project.Pithani was one of those who had reportedly found the actor’s body on June 14 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sushant-singh-rajput-s-death-case-siddharth-pithani-applies-for-bail-101623353842927.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Capt for introducing foreign languages in Punjab govt schools||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday emphasised the need to offer an opportunity to the students desirous of learning foreign languages as optional subjects in government schools. The chief minister, in his address to teachers after the state topped the national performance grading index for school education, asked the department to work out modalities to enable the students to learn foreign languages such as Chinese, Arabic and French as these could be instrumental in improving their chances of employability across the globe. “Though Punjabi is our mother tongue and English is already being taught in schools, the additional knowledge of foreign languages will help our students to excel in their career,” he said. Congratulating teachers and entire staff of the school education department for making Punjab number one state across the country in performance grading index for 2019-20, the CM urged the department, especially its secretary, to maintain this position for times to come. He also lauded initiatives like online teacher transfer policy, smart schools policy, pre-primary education, digital education and special cadre of teachers working in border areas. School education minister Vijay Inder Singla said the department would closely work with the digital platforms offering the facility of online courses in foreign languages to enable students to learn foreign languages of their choice. State Congress chief Sunil Jakhar also lauded the sea change in the standard of school education in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-for-introducing-foreign-languages-in-punjab-govt-schools-101623353842529.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid patients with black fungus refused surgery at PGIMS||Coronavirus patients who have contracted the deadly black fungus infection are being refused surgery until they test negative for the virus at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, family members of the said patients have alleged. Many patients have had to shift out of the hospital to seek surgical intervention to stop the spread of the fungal infection, which experts say is “deadlier” than the virus. One such patient, a 62-year-old retired government teacher, a resident of Bhiwani, was shifted to PGIMS from a private hospital in Hisar after he developed mucormycosis. However, after doctors refused to operate on him, he had to be moved to a private hospital in Rohtak on June 9, his wife said. The ear, nose, throat (ENT) specialist, who finally operated on the teacher, on condition of anonymity said, “The patient will be put on Amphotericin B for 10 days. If the infection spreads further, he will need another surgery. It is risky to operate on Covid positive patients.” The family of another patient, who is in his 40s and had contracted the dual infections, had to run from piller to post for his surgery. “Doctors of both private and government hospitals refused to operate on him. The doctors told us that they cannot put their lives at risk while treating a black fungus patient who has Covid. An ENT specialist has performed his surgery but his health remains poor,” a family members said. PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya, said surgery of black fungus patients, who have Covid complications is not being conducted as they are not fit to be administered anesthesia.“Operating on such patients is risky. In most cases the fungal infection spreads at a slow rate and we conduct the surgery, once the patient has recovered. We have conducted 133 surgeries till June 9, of which six deaths were reported due to mucormycosis and 20 deaths due to Covid complications in patients who were also suffering from black fungus. There is also shortage of Amphotericin B drug,” she added.Dr Aditya Bhargava, head of ENT department at PGIMS refused to comment saying that he was not authorised to speak on the matter.A senior doctor at PGIMS, requesting anonymity, said there is no rule that black fungus patients with covid complications will not be operated on. “If the infection spreads and the patient loses his vision or develops other problems, who will be responsible. The surgery cannot be delayed on the pretext of it being risky or chances of doctors contracting the infection,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-patients-with-black-fungus-refused-surgery-at-pgims-101623353840762.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Illegal liquor making unit busted in Patti, raw material seized||In a joint operation with the Tarn Taran police, a team of the excise department on Thursday busted an illicit liquor manufacturing racket at Shakri village of Patti sub-division.During the five-hour operation, the team recovered 27,000 kg of lahan (raw material used for producing illicit liquor), 45 drums, nine tarpaulins and equipment of stills.Officials said lahan was concealed in underground drums along a pond on outskirts of the village. They said the recovered lahan was destroyed on the spot.The joint team, however, failed to identify or arrest the accused involved in the racket. A case under various sections of the Excise Act has been registered against unidentified persons at the Sarhali police station.Tarn Taran excise officer Navjoot Bharti, who was leading the operation, said the raid was conducted in the village, notorious for liquor smuggling, following a tip-off. A Punjab Police official said the illegally manufactured liquor was being supplied in various villages of Patti sub-division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illegal-liquor-making-unit-busted-in-patti-raw-material-seized-101623353723254.html
11-06-2021||Other||Cart, auto-rickshaw drivers stage protest at New Sabzi Mandi in Ludhiana||Cart and auto-rickshaw drivers staged a protest against the parking contractor of the new vegetable market by closing the gate of the market on Thursday.The atmosphere remained tense for a long time as the protestors continued to raise slogans against the parking contractor as well as Mandi Board chairman Darshan Lal Baweja for over an hour. Moreover, members of the Lok Insaaf Party, including Ranjit Singh Sibia, also joined the protestors.The protestors blamed the contractor and his workers for issuing parking slips every time they entered the mandi gate during the day. “Earlier, we were allowed to enter the gate multiple times using a slip for 12 hours but now, the workers charge us for every single entry and if people refuse to pay, they beat them,” alleged the protestors.Sibia alleged that the Mandi Board and the contractor were harassing the poor vendors by charging them every time they enter the market during a day. “What will these vendors earn and how will their families make ends meet if they pay a fee every time they enter the market,” he said, adding that the board should permit multiple entries on a slip like it is being done in other mandis of the state.Later, the protestors met Baweja and demanded that they should be allowed multiple entries on a slip for a day. Baweja called up the contractor and asked him to come up with the solution for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cart-auto-rickshaw-drivers-stage-protest-at-new-sabzi-mandi-in-ludhiana-101623353722207.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Stamp duty evasion: Mohali DC cancels transfer of land after demerger of firms||The transfer of 120-acre land in two villages—Bairampur and Manak Majra—in Mohali district from Emaar MGF to MGF Developers, in pursuance of a demerger of companies, has been cancelled.Mohali deputy commissioner (DC) Girish Dayalan on Thursday cancelled the land mutation after a review following an inquiry that was ordered into the transfer taking place without paying of stamp duty, causing a loss of several crores to the state exchequer.The transfer of land is in pursuance of a demerger of companies as per the scheme of arrangement approved by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) in its 2018 judgment.Transfer was allowed creating parallel fileMGF had filed an application to the Mohali sub-divisional magistrate on March 16, which was sent to the tehsildar for further action. The then tehsildar had kept the case file pending awaiting legal opinion. The tehsildar had also raised objections over the non-payment of stamp duty by MGF Developers.During the pendency of the case, the then tehsildar was transferred and the land was transferred to MGF Developers by creating a new case file.Even former deputy speaker, Bir Devinder Singh, urged the chief minister to probe into the stamp duty evasion. He said, “The former tehsildar had objected, was transferred and present tehsildar Vikash Sharma was appointed, who made a parallel file and approved it.”Punjab yet to frame rules on levy of stamp dutyThe NCLT order had stated: “While approving the scheme, we further clarify that this order shall not be construed as an order in any way granting exemption from payment of stamp duty, income tax, GST or other charges, if any, and payment in accordance with law in respect of any permission/compliance with any other requirement, which may be specifically required under any law.”Further, the scheme of arrangement approved by the NCLT said: “All agreed costs (including without limitation transaction costs, taxes, stamp duties) of the reorganisation will be borne by the demerged company and resulting company as agreed.”It also mentioned: “All the property rights and powers of the demerged undertaking of the demerged company be transferred without any further act or deed to the resulting company.” Tamil Nadu and Haryana have already framed the rules for levy of stamp duty as per NCLT orders approving scheme of mergers/demergers and the consequent transfer of moveable/immovable assets. Punjab is yet to frame such rules.DC Dayalan said, “We have cancelled the mutation as it has resulted in loss to exchequer. We have also submitted a report to state government to form a scheme to charge fee for land mutation as per the orders of National Company Law Tribunal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stamp-duty-evasion-mohali-dc-cancels-transfer-of-land-after-demerger-of-firms-101623353720984.html
11-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana residents accuse police of harassment, stage protest||The residents of Ghoda Colony staged a protest outside the division number 3 police station against the cops for allegedly harassing them and for rounding up family members of an accused in a murder bid. The protest continued for at least two and a half hours. Later, the local leaders intervened following which the protestors left the place.Chaudhary Yashpal, councillor from ward number 8, said that on Wednesday, at least 150 police personnel conducted a raid at Ghoda Colony to arrest Ajju, who is wanted in an attempt to murder case.The councillor alleged that Ajju was not at home, but the police rounded up his father and other relatives and took them to the police station to pressurise them to share information about Ajju. He also alleged that the police had raided some other houses as well in the middle of the night. The police kicked at the doors of the houses and harassed locals. Kin of Ajju stated that they had already disowned him and the police personnel, despite being aware of the same, are harassing them.Ajju is a member of jailed gangster Puneet Bains. Following violent clashes between gangs of Puneet Bains and Shubham Mota, the division number 3 police had lodged an FIR against the Ajju and 50 others for attempting a murder bid.When contacted, sub-inspector Madhu Bala, SHO at division number 3 police station, refuted the allegations levelled by the locals. The SHO added that the police had conducted the raid to arrest Ajju, who was not present at home. The police came back and did not disturb any other person, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-residents-accuse-police-of-harassment-stage-protest-101623353662601.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cop booked for raping colleague on pretext of marriage||A Punjab Police constable posted in Gharuan was booked for raping his colleague on the pretext of marriage.The accused, constable Sandeep Singh, who hails from Fatehgarh Sahib, is yet to be arrested.In her complaint, the female constable posted at Mohali police lines said that she had got the job on compassionate grounds after the death of her husband, who was also working with Punjab Police.The complainant said that around two years back, the accused had befriended her, and used to take her to a hotel in Morinda, where he raped her. She alleged that the accused had borrowed money from her and had later refused to marry.She had lodged a complaint in Morinda, after which a zero FIR was registered and forwarded to Kharar (Sadar) police station. The case was registered after legal opinion under Section 376 (2) (N) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cop-booked-for-raping-colleague-on-pretext-of-marriage-101623353661454.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||55 Chandigarh Housing Board residential units up for sale||Chandigarh Housing Board has put up for sale its 55 built-up residential units on freehold basis through e-tender. The dwelling unit sizes vary from 385 square feet to 1,417 square feet and their reserve price ranges between ₹23.44 lakh for an EWS flat in Sector 63 to ₹86.24 lakh for a three-bedroom flat in Sector 63. Of the total 55 properties, 27 are located in Sector 51, 21 in Sector 63, four in Sector 38 and three in Sector 49. This is the fourth phase of the auction being carried out by CHB. In the first two phases, residential properties were auctioned and in the third, commercial properties were offered. During the first phase of the auction in the first week of May, CHB had received 105 bids for 36 of the 109 properties up for sale.A three-bedroom flat in Sector 63 had fetched the board ₹1.05 crore against a reserve price of ₹86 lakh. Two similar properties in the sector also went for more than ₹1 crore. In all, CHB had earned ₹29.41 crore from the auction. In the second phase held earlier in June, only 27 of the 79 built-up properties could find bidders. Two three-bedroom flats in Sector 63 got the highest bid of more than ₹1 crore against a reserve price of ₹86.24 lakh. E-bid requirementsThe e-tenders have been invited separately for each unit. E-bid submission can be made on www.etenders.chd.nic.in from 10am on June 15 till 6pm on July 5. Every prospective bidder is required to get registered on the portal.The e-bid must be above the reserve price and the bidders can revise their e-bids any number of times till the deadline. The properties will be allotted to the highest bidder.The dwelling units can be further sold, alienated, transferred, etc., after the execution of Conveyance Deed with CHB, as per law and the board’s transfer policies applicable to freehold properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/55-chandigarh-housing-board-residential-units-up-for-sale-101623353603497.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Pargat asks Capt to come clean on dossiers on MLAs||Congress MLA Pargat Singh on Thursday hit out at chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh asking him to come clean on reports suggesting that he had submitted dossiers on some legislators to the Kharge committee set by the party leadership to end factionalism in the state unit.Pargat, a known Amarinder critic, said that ever since the CM met the three-member committee in Delhi, a series of news reports have appeared in the media that he submitted dossiers on some MLAs and ministers. “I want to ask Amarinder if such dossiers have been given, then who are these corrupt people? If my name is included, then make it public,” he said at a press conference. The Jalandhar Cantonment MLA said if the CM gave such a thing in writing, it was a confessional statement that he was running a corrupt government.However, Amarinder rubbished the allegations of keeping dossiers on party colleagues. “I have never done such things in my political career. My mantra is trust and transparency,” he said. Amarinder, who has been under fire from some of his ministers and MLAs, had met the committee constituted by Congress president Sonia Gandhi under leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge in Delhi on Friday after it had one-on-one discussions with about 150 party leaders from the state. Asked about reports that some MLAs had told the committee that they did not want Amarinder to be the CM face for next year’s assembly elections, Pargat said he had also conveyed the same. “I said that if he is there (as CM face), things will be difficult,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pargat-asks-capt-to-come-clean-on-dossiers-on-mlas-101623353602157.html
11-06-2021||Other||Congress-SAD leaders behind rape complaints, alleges Ludhiana MLA||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) president and MLA from Atam Nagar constituency Simarjit Singh Bains refuted the allegation of rape levelled against him by a teacher and claimed that these were politically motivated. In a press conference on Thursday, Bains alleged that as the election was around the corner the rival parties – including Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal were conspiring against him. Bains also alleged that the Congress and SAD leaders who cannot defeat him in the elections have been forcing women to defame him.Bains also said that Kamaljit Singh Karwal, who had joined Congress and also contested elections against him, was using cheap tactics to defame him.He added that he will not sit silently now and will complain to the director-general of police (DGP) seeking action against the culprits.“As Karwal is my childhood friend, I refrained from dragging his name, but things are worsening now. Karwal and other Congress leaders are backing the women and creating false evidence against me,” said Bains.“The woman who had levelled allegations of rape against me had moved to the court seeking an FIR. The matter is still in court. The same persons who were supporting the woman are backing her now,” he added.Further, he added that the accused had faked some WhatsApp chats of him claiming that those were from Wednesday, but their chats are taking rounds of mobile phones since May 31.He added that the woman, who had levelled allegations against him, was an acquaintance. The woman’s daughter had celebrated her birthday in his office, he added. Bains also added that the things would be clear soon and the women, who had filed complaints against him, would make the revelation public.On Wednesday, a teacher had accused Bains of raping her and had filed a complaint against him with the commissioner of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congresssad-leaders-behind-rape-complaints-alleges-ludhiana-mla-101623353601035.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Personal grooming, specialised training in offing at Gadvasu’s canine research centre||From personal grooming of dogs to training them to detect a person suffering from Covid, the veterinary university of Ludhiana is all set to offer a range of disciplines at its canine research and development centre.Emphasis will be laid on developing dog food that could match the international standards, providing blood transfusion facility to dogs, and DNA profiling of dogs among others. Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu) will also be developing a vaccine for tumour among dogs and an indigenous vaccine to protect pets from pests. V-C Dr Inderjeet Singh said focus will be on developing ‘smell activity’ among pets for training purposes. For this, he said, three different breeds of dogs (16 dogs in each batch) will be trained. “Specially trained sniffer dogs are currently being used to detect Covid among soldiers being sent to Ladakh. Foreign students are also showing keen interest in the studies of population control measures like dog sterilisation. Gadvasu has been selected as the only centre for such research project in the country,” the V-C said. He said grooming facility will also be provided at the university hospital as many residents are expressing interests on pets’ personal care and haircuts. He said that besides conducting research, GADVASU is also carrying out collaborative projects with many other educational institutes. Gaushala for stray cows being set upThe premier animal sciences university is setting up its own gaushala where stray cows which are fit enough to reproduce would be lodged for producing high-yield varieties of the calf through IVF and embryo transfer procedures. Gadvasu V-C said the gaushala is being established for research, demonstration and training purposes. The embryo transfer project will help the university in bringing the best from the cows which are left abandoned. The census conducted last year had found that there were 1.4 lakh stray cattle in the state.A centre is also being established in Tarn Taran to promote the indigenous breed of buffalo, Neeli Ravi.Dog registered with MC to be considered as petThe animal sciences university is in talks with the municipal corporation to collaborate with the dog registration project.The V-C said only those dogs which are registered with the civic body will be termed pets, while others will be considered as stray dogs. The move has been taken after a Gadvasu veterinarian was booked for killing a dog ‘belonging’ to a high-ranking official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/personal-grooming-specialised-training-in-offing-at-gadvasu-s-canine-research-centre-101623353543127.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh house grab case: Man who posed as house owner for sale deed arrested||On the run for the past three months, Gurpreet Singh, accused of posing as Rahul Mehta, the victim in the Sector 37 property grab case, for the sale of his house, has been arrested.Gurpreet is the fifth person to be arrested in the case after journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, realtor Manish Gupta, suspended Chandigarh Police inspector Rajdeep Singh and Satpal Dagar, brother of a UT deputy superintendent of police. A police challan has already been filed into the case which was registered on March 2. Gurpreet, who was carrying a bounty of ₹50,000, surrendered before a court, following which he was arrested and sent to three-day police remand. According to police, he impersonated the owner of the property to execute its sale deed in March 2019. Around 10 men are accused of kidnapping and torturing Rahul Mehta, 48, the only surviving heir of his family, in April 2017 to secure the general power of attorney of his 338 square yards house and selling it to Manish’s brother Saurabh Gupta for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019. Among the other accused are liquor baron Arvind Singla and businessman Khalendra Singh Kadyan, to whom the property’s GPA was transferred, slain bouncer Surjit Singh, and Ashok Arora, Shekhar and Daljit Singh, who purportedly acted as witnesses in the sale of the house. After the transfer of the GPA, Rahul was abandoned at a stud farm in Gujarat in June 2017, before being shifted from one charitable home to another in Maharashtra, Delhi and Rajasthan, where he was finally traced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-house-grab-case-man-who-posed-as-house-owner-for-sale-deed-arrested-101623353541956.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims five lives, infects 113 more in Ludhiana||Covid claimed the lives of five more patients, while 113 fresh infections were detected in Ludhiana on Thursday, taking the total case count to 85,921. As many as 82,061 patients have recovered from the disease so far.Till now, the virus has consumed the lives of 2,054 patients. The count of active cases in the district is 1,806. Among the dead were four women and a 55-year-old man from Cheema village. The victims were a 68-year-old woman from Janta Nagar, who was the eldest among those who succumbed due to the virus, a 56-year-old woman from Gill Road, a 55-year-old woman from Katari village and a 38-year-old woman from Jagraon. Among those who got infected included a healthcare worker and two undertrials. There are currently 26 patients on ventilator support, out of whom 16 are from Ludhiana and 10 from other districts. Ban on assembly of five or more people extendedLudhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal on Thursday extended the ban on assembly of five or more people. According to the orders issued under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), protests, rallies and marches have also been banned. He said that PUDA ground at Sector 39-A on Chandigarh Road has been designated as the place for holding protests, rallies and marches. He also added that the people have to take prior permission from the police to hold such protests, rallies or marches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-five-lives-infects-113-more-in-ludhiana-101623353540980.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to give interest-free loans upto ₹3L||Expanding the scope of the existing crop loan scheme that offers loans at 2-3% interest, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Thursday decided to make available interest-free loans upto ₹3 lakh to seven million farmers in the state. The state cabinet cleared the proposal on Thursday. Of around 12 million farmers that cultivate land for farming in the state, around seven million avail crop loans up to ₹3 lakh at an interest rate of 6%. Of the 6%, the Centre bears the interest of 3% upto the amount of ₹3 lakh, while the state pays 1% interest for up to ₹1 lakh. The farmers had to bear the remaining 2% interest for the loan ranging between ₹1 lakh and ₹3 lakh. Farmers take the crop loans from nationalised, private as well cooperative banks and cooperative credit societies. With seven million eligible farmers, the state is expected to bear a financial burden of ₹96 crore on account of the waived interest. “We expect at least 4.4 million farmers to avail the extended benefits by paying the annual loan in time. We have been spending ₹870 crore towards the 1% waiver applicable till now. With the expansion of the scheme, we expect an additional burden of ₹96 crore more on the exchequer. Farmers paying their crop loan till June 30 of the next year can avail the benefit. We have directed nationalised, commercial and cooperative banks to make loans available on time as the monsoon has already set in,” said Arvind Kumar, additional chief secretary, cooperation department. Deputy chief and finance minister Ajit Pawar had announced the scheme in the budget presented in March this year. “The scheme will help farmers purchase seeds, fertilisers and bear the input cost during the sowing in the ongoing kharif season,” the statement issued by the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-give-interest-free-loans-upto-3l-101623353422431.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||E-rickshaw driver, son held with 1.3kg heroin in Ludhiana||The special task force’s (STF’s) Ludhiana unit has arrested an e-rickshaw driver and his son for drug peddling and recovered 1.33kg heroin and ₹1.52 lakh drug money from their possession.According to STF officials, the recovered heroin could cost ₹6.65 crore in the international market. The accused have been identified as Balwinder Singh, 64, of Dashmesh Colony on Noorwala Road, Jodhewal, and his son Joga Singh, 27.Ludhiana STF incharge inspector Harbans Singh said they arrested the accused from the vicinity of their house following a tip-off on Wednesday. They were going to deliver the consignment, he added. The STF incharge said that Joga was unemployed and a drug addict. “He indulged in drug business to finance his addiction. Balwinder Singh used to help him in peddling,” he added. The accused are engaged in the drug trade for the past three years. The father-son duo also confessed that they used to procure the contraband from a man in Delhi.A case under sections 21, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against the accused at the STF’s Mohali station. The accused were produced in a court on Thursday, from where they were taken into two-day STF custody for questioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/erickshaw-driver-son-held-with-1-3kg-heroin-in-ludhiana-101623353421900.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 71 deaths, 1,333 new Covid cases||ChandigarhPunjab on Thursday reported 71 more Covid-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 15,367, while 1,333 fresh cases pushed the state’s infection tally to 5,84,785, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government.Bathinda reported nine deaths, the highest in the state, followed by six each from Amritsar and Muktsar and five each from Patiala, Ludhiana and Ferozepur. Jalandhar reported 152 cases, Fazilka 116, Amritsar 115 and Ludhiana 113, the bulletin said. The number of active cases dropped to 16,244 from 17,344 on Wednesday. The state’s positivity rate stood at 2.36%. With 2,337 recoveries, the number of cured persons reached 5,53,174, as per the bulletin.There are 212 critical patients who are on ventilator while 2,797 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 98,80,737 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-71-deaths-1-333-new-covid-cases-101623353420906.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kharar ESI branch manager held for accepting ₹10,000 bribe||The Vigilance Bureau on Thursday arrested the branch manager of Employees’ State Insurance (ESI), Kharar, for accepting a bribe of ₹10,000 from a local resident. The accused, Chander Mohini, was arrested red-handed on the complaint of Sukhwinder Kaur of Singhpura village, Kharar. Sukhwinder had told the bureau that her husband, Mahinder Singh, who worked as a wielder in a factory at Channalo Focal Point, Kurali, was under treatment at PGIMER, Chandigarh, for some injuries. As he was registered with ESI Kharar, he was entitled to get salary at the government-approved rate till he rejoined work. However, his salary for April and May was not released. When she met Chander, she demanded ₹10,000 to release the dues. Following this, Sukhwinder approached the bureau.A trap was laid and Chander was arrested while accepting the illegal gratification at her office on Thursday. She was booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kharar-esi-branch-manager-held-for-accepting-10-000-bribe-101623353362008.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai airport to be named after Bal Thackeray||The state has decided to name the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport after Shiv Sena founder late Bal Thackeray. Urban development minister Eknath Shinde said the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO), the nodal agency implementing the project, has taken the decision. Project-affected people and some residents of Navi Mumbai have been demanding the airport be named after late Peasant and Workers Party (PWP) leader and former MP DB Patil. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) formed a human chain on Thursday in Alibag to press for the demand. Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi leader Prakash Ambedkar too had demanded to honour DB Patil by giving his name to the project. “We respect DB Patil. The government will consider naming any other key project from Navi Mumbai after the PWP leader,” Shinde said on Thursday. The state government has already named Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi Expressway after Thackeray. Mumbai airport is named after Maratha warrior king Shivaji Maharaj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-airport-to-be-named-after-bal-thackeray-101623353360906.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to amend Act to protect trees, prevent excess felling||To improve the forest cover and conserve old trees, the state government has decided to make an amendment in Maharashtra (Urban Areas) Protection and Preservation of Trees Act, 1975. The amendment has proposed to classify 50-year-old trees as heritage, tighten the rules for felling of trees for development works and increase the number of trees to be planted in lieu for the cut tree. The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday approved the proposal for the ordinance for the amendment in the Act, which was moved by Environment and Climate Change Department led by Aaditya Thackeray. The amendment has proposed to make it mandatory to plant trees equivalent to the age of the tree in case felling of trees is allowed for development project. The planted trees need to be 6-8 feet in height and the survival of such trees should be ensured by geo-tagging. The permission of the felling of more than 200 trees should come from the Maharashtra State Tree Authority. “The authority will be over the ones that are with various urban local bodies and will look into the conservation of heritage trees and proposals to cut more that 200 trees,” said Thackeray. The amendment has also proposed the census of trees every five years with the use of new technology such as GIS-based app. “Maharashtra Tree Authority, once formed, will issue guidelines for utilization of tree cess... Fines and penalties shall be notified from time to time, with maximum limit upto ₹1 lakh per tree,” the proposal has stated. Thackeray tweeted after the cabinet, “…Through this amendment, we will be able to safeguard green covers across urban landscapes and also provide a robust mechanism to protect heritage trees...” Meanwhile, the cabinet also approved the proposal for conservation of mangrove corals in coastal parts of the state under Green Climate Fund. The project will be implemented in 11 tehsils in four coastal districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-amend-act-to-protect-trees-prevent-excess-felling-101623353360299.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Jaipal was planning to flee to Thailand via Nepal||Dreaded gangster Jaipal Bhullar and his aide Jaspreet Singh of Kharar, who were gunned down by the West Bengal Police’s special task force (STF) in Kolkata on Wednesday, were planning to flee to Thailand via Nepal after gunning down two ASIs at the Jagraon Grain Market on May 15. Jaipal had shared the plan with his two accomplices, Darshan Singh and Baljnder Singh, who were arrested by Punjab Police’s Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) from Gwalior. The duo told police that they were shifting weapons from truck to a car when a police team incepted them in Jagraon on May 15. After the cops identified them, Jaipal ordered to shoot them, they told the police. After gunning down ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh, they moved to Rajasthan as police were continuously tracing their location. One of Jaipal’s accomplices in Ludhiana, Bharat Kumar, who was driving the car in which the gangsters fled, was helping him in merging calls on his new mobile number, said police. Punjab Police arrested Bharat from near Shambhu border in Rajpura when he was returning after dropping the gangsters and recovered a .30-bore pistol from his possession. The black-coloured sedan was caught on a security camera in Gwalior, which revealed the exact location of Jaipal and Jassi. The car, bearing a West Bengal registration number, was reportedly sold six years ago by a Kolkata-based company, but the new owner did not register it in his name. Aide sent to 7-day police remandA Kharar court on Thursday sent Bharat to seven-day police custody for providing logistic support to Jaipal. Police said Bharat helped Jaipal and Jassi escape after gunning down two ASIs. Police said that Bharat also used to provide weapons Jaipal. Haryana man rented flat for gangsters in Kolkata The apartment that Jaipal and Jassi were using as hideout in Kolkata was rented by Sumit Kumar, a resident of Haryana, on May 22, the CID wing of Bengal Police found during investigation. The gangsters moved into the apartment on May 23, police said. Sumit, who identified himself as an automobile parts dealer, contacted Saurav Kumar, a Kolkata-based property dealer, over phone last month. The latter asked Sumit to get in touch with Sushanta Saha, a broker who operates in the New Town area, said officials probing the case. Saha told police that Sumit Kumar rented the apartment at Sukhabristi, an upmarket residential complex. He told the broker that the apartment was required for a man who worked for a private company and was coming to Kolkata on transfer. Residents and security guards at Sukhabristi told the investigators that Jaipal and Jassi never left the apartment and ordered food from local outlets. One of the delivery boys told the media that the duo always ordered north Indian dishes. They rarely opened the windows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-jaipal-was-planning-to-flee-to-thailand-via-nepal-101623353300734.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||6.1mm rain cools down Chandigarh; heavy rain alert for weekend||The city recorded 6.1mm rain and gusty winds up to 85km per hour on Thursday evening that caused the temperature to drop.The rain and thunder also led to power outages in various parts of the tricity, with the situation not normalising for over two hours.As clouds started forming in the evening, winds up to 50km per hour were recorded. When the rain arrived around 8pm, hail was also reported in some areas. In the next three hours, the day temperature dropped from 34.2°C at 5.30pm to 28.8°C at 11.30pm.Overall, the maximum temperature went down from 41.9°C on Wednesday to 35.4°C on Thursday. The minimum temperature remained unchanged at 30.5°C. In the next three days, the day temperature will remain between 34°C and 37°C and the night temperature will be between 25°C and 28°C.Orange alert issuedMeanwhile, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) issued an orange alert for Chandigarh, forecasting moderate to heavy rain on Saturday and Sunday.“Rain between 30mm and 70mm is expected over northern Haryana, which will affect Chandigarh as well. During these two days, at least one spell of heavy rain is likely,” said Shivinder Singh, scientist at IMD, Chandigarh.IMD officials said light rain up to 20mm is likely on Friday as well.Speaking about how his system formed, Singh said, “The previous showers were due to western disturbances, but those expected over the weekend will be a result of interaction between Westerlies and Easterlies, and moisture coming in from the south. Chances of light to moderate rain are likely to continue on Monday as well.”After red alert, an orange alert is the second-highest warning issued by the IMD. It has recommended that people check their drainage networks and avoid standing under trees or weak structures during Saturday and Sunday. Farmers have been advised against applying pesticide and insecticide to crops and to protect harvested produce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/61mm-rain-cools-down-chandigarh-heavy-rain-alert-for-weekend-101623353243947.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Primary accused in protester’s rape case sent to 3-day police remand||A day after arrest, the primary accused in the protester’s rape case was produced before a court in Bahadurgarh and sent to three-day police remand.The incident took place when the 25-year-old woman was travelling in a train from West Bengal to reach the Tikri border to participate in the farm stir on April 28. The victim had later succumbed to Covid at a private hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on April 30.A reward of ₹25,000 each had been announced for the arrest of Anil Malik of New Delhi, and his associates Anup Chinaut of Hisar and Ankush Sangwan of Charkhi Dadri. Bahadurgarh DSP Pawan Sharma, who is heading the Special Investigation Team (SIT), said, “Anil was produced before the court on Thursday and sent to three-day remand. We will interrogate him about the entire incident. After interrogating 22 people, we learnt that Anil had raped the woman and Anup had supported him.”“The third accused, Ankush, did not appear before the SIT for interrogation and his interim bail plea has been rejected by the court. One Yogita Suhag had told the SIT that she had made a video of the victim, in which the latter had alleged that Anil had misbehaved with her when they were coming to Tikri,” the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/primary-accused-in-protester-s-rape-case-sent-to-3-day-police-remand-101623353242365.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Why has Capt not ordered CBI probe into ‘fateh kit’ scam: SAD||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to explain why he has not ordered a CBI inquiry into the “fateh kit” scam even after it has been established that the company, which had supplied the kits at inflated prices to the Punjab government, was found to be running from a cold store building. In a statement, Rajya Sabha member Balwinder Singh Bhunder said: “Disclosures about Grandway Incorporation, which supplied kits worth ₹26 crore to the Punjab government, indicate that the entire operation was fraudulent. This is the reason why the original tender, which had been awarded to a company with six-month validity at ₹837 per kit, was re-tendered twice and awarded to Grandway at inflated prices of ₹1,226 and ₹1,338 per kit.” “Only a free and fair inquiry can nail those responsible for this scam as it is apparent that Grandway is a proxy, which has been used to earn ill-gotten wealth at the cost of the exchequer,” added Bhunder, saying that the company does not have a valid licence to supply medical kits. He demanded dismissal of health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and action against all officials and staff who were responsible for the award of the contract to the company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/why-has-capt-not-ordered-cbi-probe-into-fateh-kit-scam-sad-101623353181852.html
11-06-2021||Other||After CM-PM meet, Shiv Sena softens stance, calls Modi India’s top leader||Two days after the one-on-one meeting between chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, Shiv Sena – known for its acerbic tone against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and PM Modi – has softened its stance. Sena parliamentarian Sanjay Raut refused to comment when questioned on media reports suggesting that the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) may not use Modi as a face in the upcoming Assembly polls as his popularity may be on a decline. He, however, said that Modi is still the top leader in BJP and in the country, and the party’s success in the past seven years, is due to the PM. “I will not comment on it. There is no official statement on it. BJP owes its success in the past seven years to Modi. At present, Modi is still the tallest leader of the country and BJP,” Raut, who is on a tour of north Maharashtra, said at Nashik. The comments reflect a change in the Sena leader’s tone. Last month, Raut had blamed Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for BJP’s defeat in West Bengal elections. However, the Sena leader also said that PM must not campaign for elections. He said that it puts additional pressure on the machinery. “The Shiv Sena’s stand has always been that the PM belongs to the country and not one party... Hence, PM shouldn’t get involved in campaigning,” he said.Meanwhile, Raut’s north Maharashtra tour is aimed at strengthening the organisation in the region. He said that though Sena is a part of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) alliance with NCP (Nationalist Congress Party) and the Congress, all parties have the right to grow their outfits. “The alliance partners of MVA have a right to expand their base and strengthen the parties. We [MVA allies] are also holding meetings to strengthen our coordination with each other,” the Sena leader added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-cm-pm-meet-shiv-sena-softens-stance-calls-modi-india-s-top-leader-101623353180255.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity logs 134 Covid-19 cases,lowest in 100 days; seven dead||The Covid-19 pandemic’s downward trajectory continued on Thursday as 134 people tested positive in the tricity, a first in over 100 days.Since March 2 when 132 cases were reported, the tricity saw the cases peaking to 2,612 on May 10, following which the graph started showing a consistent downturn. In a month since, tricity’s daily infections have plunged by 95% amid a slew of restrictions across Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula.On Thursday, Panchkula’s cases dropped to below 20 for the first time since March 2, when 17 people were found infected.Panchkula’s 19 cases were the lowest in tricity, down from 26 on Wednesday. Mohali also saw a dip from 86 to 49. It was only on March 2 last that Mohali had recorded less than 50 cases (48).Chandigarh’s cases also decreased from 84 to 66.In terms of deaths, seven more people died in the tricity. Mohali reported four deaths, followed by two in Chandigarh and one in Panchkula.After surging to the all-time of high of 38 on May 5, tricity’s daily deaths remained in double digits through the month. But since the beginning of June, the figure has stayed below 10 as many as seven times in 10 days.Also, from a record 24,201 active cases on May 12, now 2,073 patients are under treatment, lower than 2,232 on Wednesday.At 347, Panchkula has the least active cases currently, followed by 581 in Chandigarh and 1,145 in Mohali.Positivity rate improving consistentlyOn another positive note, all three jurisdictions have recorded a steady drop in the daily positivity rate through the past month. From over 20% on May 10, the figure is now below 5% across tricity, with the decline continuing through June.Panchkula has seen the biggest improvement, as from 8% on June 1, the figure was down to 1.8% on Thursday.Mohali is a close second with the proportion of samples testing positive dropping from 7% to 1.7% in the same period. In Chandigarh, the improvement is a little slower, with the figure settling at 2.5% from 4.7% 10 days ago.In the same duration, the recovery rate has also bettered across the tricity.On June 1, Chandigarh’s recovery rate was 95%, which has improved to 97% now. In Mohali, the rate of people getting cured rose from 94% to 96.8% and in Panchkula from 96% to 97%.In comparison, on May 10, the figure was 81% in Chandigarh, 78% in Mohali and 88% in Panchkula.24-year-old among two dead in UTThe two persons who died in Chandigarh were a 62-year-old man from Dadumajra and a 24-year-old man, from Mauli Jagran, who also had diabetes.Among the 66 people testing positive on Thusday, 29 were men and 37 women.This took the total cases to 60,928, of which 59,564 patients have been cured and 783 have died.In Mohali, the case tally has reached 67,616. As many as 65,461 patients have successfully beaten the virus and 1,010 have died, highest in the tricity. The latest fatality in Panchkula, a 45-year-old woman from Boonga village, pushed the toll to 362. The district has reported 30,413 coronavirus cases so far, of which 29,704 have been discharged.UT DC reviews implemention of Covid protocolsOn Thursday, Chandigarh deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar held a meeting with all three SDMs regarding the new relaxations in the city.The DC instructed the SDMs to maintain a strict vigil on the adherence to Covid protocols in their respective zones. He also ordered strict action against shop owners violating the standard operating procedure (SoP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-logs-135-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-100-days-seven-dead-101623353121313.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Sena trustworthy ally: NCP chief dismisses doubts||Days after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a one-on-one meeting with Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar said he does not doubt that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will complete its five-year term. Not only this, but the three-party coalition will also perform well in the upcoming Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. He also said that Shiv Sena is a trustworthy party and it has, in the past, kept its promise to former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by helping Congress.The NCP supremo was addressing party workers and leaders on the eve of the 22nd foundation day of the party, at NCP headquarters, on Thursday. This was his first appearance at a public function after he was hospitalised in April for gall bladder surgery and treatment for a mouth ulcer.NCP was launched on June 10, 1999, after a fallout with the then Congress president Sonia Gandhi.“There was a lot of buzz soon after the chief minister’s one-on-one meeting with the Prime Minister in Delhi. As I said we have never worked with Shiv Sena in the past but Maharashtra has been watching the party for the past many years… Shiv Sena is a party that can be trusted even if people are raising doubts following the (PM-CM) meeting, I have no doubt that the MVA government will not only complete its tenure of five years but will also perform well in the Lok Sabha and state assembly elections and represent the state and the country,” Pawar said in his 20 minutes speech.To prove his point, the veteran leader shared an incident when late Shiv Sena chief Bal Thackeray decided to support Congress and did not contest a single seat in the state Assembly elections.“After Morarji Desai led Janata Party came to power at Centre, Congress was facing defeat in all the states. At that time, only one party came ahead in support and that was Shiv Sena. Balasaheb Thackeray promised not to field a single candidate in the state Assembly elections in Maharashtra then and also fulfilled his promise. He didn’t even care about the impact of his decision on the organisation and kept his word (given to Indira Gandhi),” Pawar pointed out.Before that, he said that the people of Maharashtra had accepted the unusual coalition as no one would have thought about NCP joining hands with Shiv Sena. “We did that and fortunately people accepted the alternative. I remember senior journalists associated with newspapers and news channels guessing the number of days the MVA government was going to last since day one but all this has stopped now,” Pawar said indicating that the party leadership took the right decision of forming the MVA government along with Shiv Sena and Congress in 2019.The NCP chief said the MVA government will have to resolve the issue of reservations for the Maratha community as well as for the OBC community. He said that the NCP will have to ensure that the power will be shared with more people to prevent it from getting corrupted. “Power gets corrupted if it is concentrated and thus should be shared with more people. We will have to ensure that Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, Other Backward Classes and all the other communities are getting their share of power,” he said.This was the second consecutive year when the party decided not to celebrate the foundation day considering the Covid-19 pandemic. Selected leaders and workers were invited to attend a small gathering organized at NCP headquarters at Ballard Pier in south Mumbai. Pawar’s address was made live on social media platforms for the party workers and leaders across the state. State president Jayant Patil, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, senior leader Praful Patel and health minister Rajesh Tope too addressed the gathering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-trustworthy-ally-ncp-chief-dismisses-doubts-101623353060253.html
11-06-2021||Other||Developer accuses ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh of extortion||Khar-based developer Kartik Bhatt has moved an intervention application before the Bombay high court (HC), accusing former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh of extortion.Bhatt has sought the rejection of Singh’s petition, seeking quashing of the FIR against him under SC, ST Act filed on the basis of police officer BR Ghadge’s complaints. He alleged that the senior IPS (Indian Police Service) officer was running an extortion racket through his junior officers.The developer has alleged that last December, Singh through an officer, had tried to extort ₹200 crore from him for a slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) project, which he had undertaken in Chembur. Bhatt has also alleged that he had already paid an “extortion amount” to Singh in 2018 for the same project. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar was hearing the petitions filed by the state of Maharashtra, seeking directions to set aside two ‘unnumbered paragraphs’ from the FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on April 21 after completing the HC-ordered preliminary probe into the corruption allegations against former state home minister Anil Deshmukh and Singh’s petition. It was informed that there were two intervention applications against Singh’s petition. While making submissions to the state petition, solicitor general of India Tushar Mehta, representing CBI, said that Maharashtra government had no locus standi to file the plea and only the persons aggrieved by the FIR can file it. He stated that CBI had serious objections to the petition as it was filed only to pre-empt the investigation. Advocate Jaishri Patil, who had filed a complaint based on Singh’s March 20 letter to the chief minister alleging corruption charges against then home minister Anil Deshmukh, sought to intervene in the petition and said that the state’s petition was not maintainable. Senior counsels Rafique Dada and Darius Khambatta for the government maintained that the state did not intend to interfere in the CBI probe against Deshmukh and others but only sought removal of the two unnumbered paragraphs from the FIR as they were not mandated to be investigated by the April 5 order of HC.When Singh’s petition came up for hearing, advocate Ashok Dhanuka informed the bench that he wanted to intervene in the petition on behalf of Bhatt, his client. Dhanuka informed the court that Bhatt was a victim of extortion which was orchestrated by Singh through Mumbai Police officers. In light of this, the intervention application was filed to oppose the reliefs sought by Singh. Due to the multitude of the intervention applications, the bench stated that it would hear the petition along with Singh’s petition and other intervention applications on June 14. CBI continued its earlier statement that it would not press the state government for certain documents related to offences mentioned in the FIR till the next hearing, after which the state also assured the bench that it will not take coercive steps, including arresting Singh till June 15, in Ghadge’s case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/developer-accuses-ex-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-of-extortion-101623353000255.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Malad building collapse: Blame game begins||As 12 people, including eight children, died after a ground-plus-three structure collapsed on an adjoining building in Malwani area of Malad on Wednesday night, the blame game and tussle over jurisdiction began. The illegal structure that collapsed was built on the district collector’s land. The Bharatiya Janata Party, however, said the Shiv Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) cannot escape the blame. The search and rescue operations that began around midnight on Wednesday ended on Thursday, amid a steady trickle of political leaders and minister. Malwani, one of the city’s most densely populated localities, falls in the Assembly constituency of Congress minister Aslam Shaikh, who is also Mumbai city’s guardian minister. While Shaikh was the first to visit the spot in the night, BJP’s Pravin Darekar, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and minister Nawab Malik, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar and others reached in the morning. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray did not visit the spot, but they went to Shatabdi Hospital in Kandivali East to meet the injured. “The place where the incident has happened is the collector’s land. There was permission to construct up to ground floor, but three floors were built,” Pednekar said. Malik said, “These buildings did not have any structural design.” “North Mumbai Lok Sabha MP Gopal Shetty had written to the administration that such three-four floor structures have come up and warned they could collapse. The government and its administration did not take it seriously,” said Darekar, adding, “Was any permission given for construction? I demand that deputy collector, BMC officials should be booked for culpable homicide and suspended.” BJP legislator and party spokesperson Atul Bhatkhalkar said, “How can the BMC say it is not their responsibility?” The mayor said there should be collective responsibility. “This construction hasn’t come up in the past four years. These are 10-15-year-old buildings. The MP can’t merely write a letter and escape the responsibility. Everybody’s responsible, including us (BMC),” she said. Shetty had written to Aaditya Thackeray and Aslam Shaikh in August 2020 in the wake of collapse of a two-floor building in Malwani after a spell of heavy rain in July 2020. In the letter, a copy of which is with HT, Shetty said the state must give “immediate attention” to the people residing in such structures. “This is not the first time a house of 2-3 floors has collapsed in Malvanl Basti/Slums and innocent people lost their lives… The Maharashtra Government should get into action and take quick remedial steps and create and formulate a concrete development plan for entire Malvani Basti. There are several houses/slums in Malvanl Basti which are 2-3 floors and need immediate attention and people residing are at immense risk,” the letter said, a copy of which was also marked to Milind Borikar, collector, Mumbai suburban district. Shaikh, however, denied any knowledge of a letter from Shetty. “I don’t know about any letter written by the MP; he was an MP earlier as well and his [party’s] government was there in the previous five years. I am unaware of any correspondence from him,” he said. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government has announced ₹5 lakh ex-gratia for the family of deceased and ₹50,000 for those who were injured in the collapse. Thackeray, in a statement, also said that the cost of the treatment for the injured will be covered by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malad-building-collapse-blame-game-begins-101623352940238.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Malad building collapse:Structure got shaky after Cyclone Tauktae in May, say locals||The incident of ground plus three structure collapse in Malad’s Malvani area could well have been averted, if the building owner had paid heed to the structural damage, according to the locals in the neighbouring building. The locals claimed that the residents of the building and their neighbours had felt the building was shaking when gusty winds and heavy rainfall lashed the city in the third week of May when Cyclone Tauktae hit Mumbai.The locals said that the building had undergone some structural repair works post the heavy rainfall due to cyclone in the city but despite this, the ground plus four structures collapsed.Mohmaad Momin a local from the area said, “During the cyclone when there were gusty winds and heavy rains, we felt that that the building was shaking. Had the building owners paid heed at that time, this incident could have been averted.”Amirul Shaikh who resides near the building said, “We had already alerted the residents that we felt the building was shaking when there were strong winds and heavy rainfall. Some work was also done but I think it was not enough.”Joint police commissioner (law and order) Vishwas Nangare Patil who spoke to reporters at the collapse site on Thursday also said the incident could have been averted.Patil told reporters, “It is a very unfortunate incident, and the building was illegally constructed. The building had suffered structural defects during a cyclone a few days ago. If proper action was taken at that time, this incident could have been avoided. We are taking legal action and going to book the contractor and owner of the building who did the repair work.”According to civic officials, the building was one of the load-bearing kind of structures mostly found in slums in the city. These structures are not properly built, hence vulnerable to collapse. Often, the owners add more floors to make more without roping in architects or structural engineers to build the same. The district collector’s office had permitted the citizens in 1976 to construct ground storey houses under a scheme by the state government around four decades ago, according to BMC officials. However, almost all the houses have constructed additional two to four floors illegally.According to BMC records, the building is located on plot no: 72 on New Collector Compound on Abdul Hamid Road, Malvani.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that the BMC knew about illegal structures in the area but did not act on them. Vinod Mishra, a BJP corporator from Malad, said, “We had complained to the BMC about illegal structures in Malvani area in 2019, but no action was taken. If the BMC would have acted on our complaints, this incident would not have taken place.”BMC officials said they had written to the suburban collector’s office to take action against dangerous building in the area. Bharat Marathe, deputy municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We have written to the collector’s office several times asking them to take action considering it is under their jurisdiction.”Malad that falls under P North ward of the BMC is one of the most densely populated wards in the city. Despite this, the ward does not have a dedicated ward officer.Vinod Mishra the local BJP Corporator said, “Since February 2021, the ward does not have a ward officer. This ward is one of the most densely populated wards and the BMC has given additional charge of this ward to another officer. How can such instances be avoided in that case?”Meanwhile, according to BMC officials, the process to give a full-time ward officer is ongoing and the file was stuck in the administration due to the second Covid-19 wave that hit the city over two months ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malad-building-collapse-structure-got-shaky-after-cyclone-tauktae-in-may-say-locals-101623352881046.html
11-06-2021||Other||Two fall into manhole at Mumbai, BMC gets into action||A day after the city received heavy rainfall, the video of two women falling into an open manhole at Bhandup went viral on social media on Thursday. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has directed the storm water drains department to survey all the manholes in the city and replace the damaged ones at war-footing.A CCTV captured two women falling into the manhole at Village Road in Bhandup. However, they narrowly escaped from being washed away. Though the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) did not confirm if the video was of Wednesday when the city had received heavy rain, on Thursday it replaced the damaged manhole cover. Ahead of monsoon, each of the 24 ward offices is required to inspect all the manholes, as a part of the pre-monsoon works, and replace their lids, if needed. “However, after yesterday’s heavy rain, BMC is again inspecting all the roads and manholes. Necessary replacement of manholes is being done,” a BMC statement read. Last year, a 32-year-old woman, Sheetal Dama, had died after falling into an open manhole near Global Hospital in Ghatkopar (East). Two days after the incident, Dama’s body was recovered 22km away from Ghatkopar at Haji Ali in Worli. In July 2019 after heavy rainfall, 18-month-old Divyansh Singh had died after falling into an open drain. The same year, seven-year-old Sumit Jaiswar had died after falling into an open drain at Dharavi, while in Worli, Babu Kumar Paswan drowned after falling into an unprotected water-filled pit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-fall-into-manhole-at-mumbai-bmc-gets-into-action-101623352880189.html
11-06-2021||Other||Air India Express August crash: Pilot’s kin gets dues||The family of Captain Deepak Sathe, one of the two pilots who lost their lives in the Air India Express mishap at Kozhikode, Kerala, last August, finally received their compensation on Wednesday. The development comes after Captain Sathe’s son Dhananjay, who is based in Bengaluru, had taken to Twitter on May 20, complaining that his mother was being misguided and made to go around in circles to receive his father’s employee compensation. Dhananjay tweeted that 10 months after his father’s death, the “individuals in employee compensation commissioner office (Mumbai, BKC) are misguiding and setting up hoops for my mother in the middle of a pandemic (sic)”.This tweet went viral and the state’s ruling party Shiv Sena intervened to help Captain Sathe’s wife. A day after the crash on August 7, the Centre and Kerala government had announced ₹10-lakh compensation each to the families of the crash victims. However, the family faced issues in getting the money after the amount was transferred from Kerala. Advocate Amit Dutia, who handled the case, said, “After Capt. Sathe’s request, the Kerala compensation court had transferred the amount to Mumbai compensation court. However, some administrative issues were delaying the procedure. But after we took over, all the verification processes were completed on the same day and Mrs Sathe received the total amount on Wednesday. “ Shiv Sena leader Sachin Ahir, who helped the family to get the compensation, said, “Captain Sathe’s son Dhananjay tweeted about the issue, after which our minister [state minister] Aadityaji [Thackeray] asked me to help the family. We then learnt the issue in detail and roped in advocate Dutia to help the family.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ai-express-aug-crash-pilot-s-kin-gets-dues-101623352821607.html
11-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana farmers’ convoy leaves for New Delhi to join protest at Singhu border||Amid coronavirus restrictions, a large convoy of farmers left for New Delhi from Panipat’s toll plaza to join the ongoing agitation against the three contentious farm laws at New Delhi’s Singhu border on Thursday.Farmers from different districts gathered at the toll plaza under the leadership of Haryana Bhartiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Charuni. Though heavy police deployment was seen, cops seemed helpless as farmers flouted Covid norms. Many farmers were not wearing face masks. The cavalcade caused traffic jams on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway (national highway 44). Panipat DSP Sandeep Singh said police was deployed to ensure there were no traffic jams. “The convoy comprising sport utility vehicles (SUVs), cars and bikes passed peacefully,” the DSP said. This was the third such movement from the GT Road belt in three weeks as two such convoys of protesters had earlier left from Karnal and Ambala. The move is an attempt to keep the agitation alive, following a drop in the gatherings at the New Delhi borders amid wheat harvesting season and paddy transplantation season beginning next week. Charuni, who is also a member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), said though the farmers’ unions had held 11 rounds of discussions with the Centre, the government had failed to convince them of the benefits of the reforms. “These laws have been designed to benefit big corporate houses and will leave farmers at the mercy of traders,” he said. He also dismissed the hike in minimum support price of kharif crops as meagre. Farmers protest minister Kamlesh Dhanda’s visitFarmers protested against minister of state for women and child development Kamlesh Dhanda’s visit to Kaithal on Thursday. On the call of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU, Charuni) farmers, including women, gathered near the venue of Dhanda’s programme at the civil secretariat Kaithal and raised slogans against the minister and the government. However, police managed to stop farmers from venturing further. Hoshiyar Singh Gill, district president of BKU (Charuni), accused the minister of instigating farmers to hold protests as the chief minister had inaugurated the projects virtually and there was no reason to hold such a programme in Kaithal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-farmers-convoy-leaves-for-new-delhi-to-join-protest-at-singhu-border-101623352821171.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 26-year-old dies after 3 houses collapse in Dahisar||A 26-year-old died after three houses collapsed in Lokhandi Chawl area of Dahisar (East), on Thursday evening.According to BMC officials, the incident was reported at around 6.36pm and the victim was rushed to Shatabdi Hospital where he was declared dead at around 7.15pm.Sandhya Nandedkar, assistant municipal commissioner of the BMC said that the houses were located in a hilly area and owing to heavy rains they came down crashing.“Three persons were injured, of which one has died in the incident. We had already warned them about moving out from the location before the onset of monsoons, but they refused to go. The houses being in a hilly area were impacted due to the heavy rains. We have now made alternate accommodation for six people in the municipal school nearby till the time the heavy rain spell continues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-26-year-old-dies-after-3-houses-collapse-in-dahisar-101623352640200.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Malad building collapse: Families, survivors recount horror||Twelve people, including eight minors, died and seven people were injured after a ground-plus-three storey structure collapsed on an adjoining two-storeyed house in Malvani slums of Malad area in Mumbai’s western suburb on Wednesday night. Of the 12 dead, nine, including six children, were from the same family. Some relatives and survivors recount the horror:‘Didn’t know the building was dangerous to live in’Mohammed Siddiqui was returning home with a packet of milk on Wednesday night when he heard a loud rumbling sound. When he rushed to the spot, he couldn’t believe his eyes. The ground-plus-two storey building, where he was residing with his family, had collapsed.The Malad resident lost nine of his family members including his wife Rahisa Bano, who had asked him to get milk for the next day’s breakfast. He lost his 45-year-old brother Shafiq Md Saleem, sister-in-law—Ishrat Bano Shafiq and six of their children including a 1.5-year-old toddler. Tahes Safik, 12, who was the last to be lifted from the rubble had already succumbed to his head trauma.“Within just 15 minutes, the building collapsed, and I lost my family members. I tried to look for my brother and his family but couldn’t find anyone under the debris,” recalled Siddiqui, while waiting to collect the bodies of his deceased family members at the civic-run Bhagwati Hospital, Borivli on Thursday afternoon.The building collapsed at around 10.30pm on Wednesday. The civic-run Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Municipal General Hospital located in Kandivli (West) received an alert of mass casualty at around 12.30am. All the victims were brought dead to the hospital.Siddiqui survived with his 17-year-old son Zunaid Rafik whom he had adopted years ago when the teenager lost his parents.“He does a part-time job at a medical store, so he was at work when the building collapsed. Or else, I would have lost him too,” said Siddiqui.When asked if he noticed any cracks in the building when it rained heavily on Wednesday, he said they lived there for seven years, but never observed any cracks in the walls or tilting of the building.“We didn’t know if the building was dilapidated or dangerous to live in. Or else, I would have shifted somewhere else,” he said.Rapid antigen tests were conducted on all the bodies as per rules before performing autopsies.Siddiqui has not only lost his family but also his house and belongings. Now, he doesn’t know where to go with his son. All the documents have been lost in the disaster.“At present, I have kept my son at a neighbour’s house. After performing the last rites of my family members, I will have to look for a house to stay in. I don’t know where to begin,” he said.‘Mother is in denial, believes 9-year-old is still alive’Sahil Sarfaraz Sayyed was playing with his mother at home when their building suddenly collapsed and the nine-year-old lost his life. Rizwana, 33, now is in denial, who saw her youngest son die before her eyes.Rizwana, who works as domestic help, returned home at around 9.30pm and started cooking dinner for her family. As it was drizzling, Sayyed was playing indoors alongside his mother. An hour later, the floor caved in, and Sayyed along with Rizwana got trapped under the debris. Though she survived with minor injuries, she lost her youngest son.The father Sarfaraz who used to work as a tailor recently lost his job due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. On Wednesday around 8pm, he got a call regarding a job, so he got late returning home when the accident happened.Naseer Pathan, a relative, said when Rizwana woke up, she started shouting and howling when she was informed about her son. “She is in trauma and shock. When I met her once, she kept asking me about Sahil (Sayyed). She is still in denial and believes that we are lying. I didn’t know what to say, so I left the ward,” he said.Fortunately, their 17-year-old elder son, Faizan was playing outside with his friends when the building collapsed and escaped injuries.“They had been living in the building for 25 years but never had any problem other than some load shedding. We have also visited their house quite a few times but never realised that one day, it will take away Sahil’s life,” he said.As per family members, before Covid-19 hit the city, they were planning to shift to another place on rent. But after losing his job, the father decided to stay back.“In chawls, the rent of the upper floors are always less. So, the family decided to stay on rent upstairs,” said a family member who was waiting at civic-run Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Municipal General Hospital in Kandivli (West).The body of the child was taken to the civic-run Bhagwati Hospital, Borivli on Thursday afternoon for autopsy.On Thursday, when the chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray visited Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Municipal General Hospital, the family requested him to help them in getting justice and punishing the culprit.“No one knew that the building was dilapidated. Or else, we could have saved so many lives today,” said Naseer.‘Spoke about making paper boats in monsoon’It was 4am when the body of the eighth child reached the casualty ward of civic-run Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Municipal General Hospital, Kandivli. He was later identified as 13-year-old John Irranna. It took over four hours to recover his body from the debris.Irranna was at home with his mother Maria Kumari and grandmother Laxmi Pillai when the building collapsed. The adults survived with minor injuries, however, the child succumbed to his injuries.“Just a few minutes before the accident, the grandmother went downstairs to talk to a neighbour. Hence, when the building started cracking, she immediately jumped outside. Similarly, as the building started to collapse, the mother fell to the side while John who was sitting in the middle of the room caved in,” said Krishna, a relative at the hospital.Irranna’s aunt who is pregnant was also staying with the family in the same room. But on Wednesday evening, she had a doctor consultation, so she didn’t get injured.His father was outside for work when the accident happened. John studied Class 4 in a BMC-run school. Among his family members, he was known for being mischievous who also missed going to school.“It took over four hours to search for his body from the debris. We stayed awake the whole night hoping to see him alive. But when they pulled the body from the rubbles, we could see his lifeless body,” said Anitabai Kumari, aunt of the child.His body was also taken to Bhagwati Hospital, Borivli for post-mortem. Initially, the family wasn’t permitting the procedure but later agreed.“I just saw him last week where he was talking about making paper boats in the monsoon. Never did we know that he would never be able to sail those in the rain,” said Kumari with teary eyes.40-year-old pulled out by a relative, passer-by, savedSurymani Yadav, 40, got a new lease of life when one of his relatives pulled him out of the debris when the building collapsed. He has survived with minor injuries on his head. Though stable, he has been kept under observation.Yadav ran a dairy shop on the ground floor of the building. Like always, he was working in the shop when the building collapsed within seconds giving him no opportunity to rush out of the shop.Fortunately, a relative Jatashankar Yadav who was working nearby rushed to the spot when he heard the rumbling sound and pulled him out.“I could see his hair but didn’t recognise him as it was all covered with debris. I along with a passer-by pulled him out. He had almost stopped breathing in the trauma but later when we gave him water, he calmed down,” said Jatashankar.Currently, he is undergoing treatment at Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Municipal General Hospital in Kandivli. As per doctors, he is stable but still under trauma.The hospital will provide counselling to all survivors to help them deal with the trauma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malad-building-collapse-families-survivors-recount-horror-101623352580174.html
11-06-2021||Mumbai||Woman falls off auto fighting robbers in Thane, dies||A 27-year-old woman died on Wednesday night as she fell off an autorickshaw while trying to fight off two mobile phone robbers in Thane. The duo was arrested on Thursday. The deceased, Kanmilla Raisingh, who worked in a spa in a mall, was headed home along with her friend. As the auto reached Teen Hath Naka, two bike-borne robbers tried to snatch her mobile. She lost her balance and fell and hit her head on the road. “Raisingh and her friend, Laalgursangi Chechoma Fanghun, 30, both worked in the spa and left the mall around 7.50pm on Wednesday in an auto. As the vehicle reached the open gym at Teen Hath Naka around 8pm, two persons on a bike approached them from the side and tried to snatch Raisingh’s mobile. In the struggle that followed, Raisingh lost her balance and fell off the moving auto,” said an officer from Naupada police station. She was taken to Chhatrapati Shivaji Hospital in Kalwa, where she was declared dead on arrival. Anil Mangale, senior inspector of Naupada police station, said, “We checked the CCTV footage of the spot and followed the accused through CCTVs at different spots. We identified the two, Alkesh Parvez Momin Ansari, 20, and Sohail Ramzan Ansari, 18. The two are booked under Indian Penal Code section 304, culpable homicide not amounting to murder.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-falls-off-auto-fighting-robbers-in-thane-dies-101623352460203.html
