12-06-2021||Lucknow||Five members of UP Dalit family attacked by goons of land mafia||Five members of a Dalit family, including a woman, were attacked allegedly by a group of local goons outside their house in Hariharpur village under Sushant Golf City police station limits of the state capital on Saturday afternoon.The family claimed that the aides of local land mafia Durga Yadav fired several rounds of bullets and attacked them with rods and canes over an old property related enmity.Taking serious cognizance of the incident, Lucknow Commissioner of Police (CP) DK Thakur said the police have been asked to collect previous crime records of Durga Yadav and promised strict action against him if found guilty. He said the perpetrators would be booked under charges of attempt to murder and atrocities against SC/ST persons after receiving a complaint from the victims’ family.Another police official said the victim Bajrang Rawat has accused Durga Yadav and his aides Raju Yadav, Ajay Yadav, Vijay Yadav, Rajpal and others for the attack. He said Bajrang, his brother Vishal and his wife Sarita and two relatives Dilip and Rajesh were injured in the attack. Of them Rajesh suffered bullet wound on right side of the chest, Vishal suffered bullet injury in his palm while three others suffered severe injuries on head while being attacked with rods, he added.The official further said Bajrang claimed that Durga Yadav and his aides had murdered his father Bheekha Ram Rawat on October 7, 2015 in a bid to grab their 2-bigha land located alongside Shaheed Path opposite Medanta Hospital.“Yadav and his aides have been mounting pressure on Bajrang to turn hostile as he was a key witness in the murder case that is currently being investigated by the CB-CID and the accused are likely to be chargesheeted soon,” he said.Bajrang said the attack was the result of his denial to turn hostile in the case as Yadav and his aides had called him two days back for the same reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/five-members-of-up-dalit-family-attacked-by-goons-of-land-mafia-101623520172286.html
12-06-2021||Gurugram||Monsoon preparedness: MCG pulls up executive engineers over failure to submit reports||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram pulled up its executive engineers over their failure to submit reports about monsoon preparations in their respective jurisdictions, officials said on Saturday.MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja served the show-cause notices to all nine MCG executive engineers on Friday night over the pending reports on waterlogging points in their respective jurisdictions, along with possible solutions to resolve issues.“It is a matter of regret that you neither responded to the message nor come present in the meeting with any proposal/suggestion/comments. In the meeting, you failed to answer the queries put to you on the matter. This act and conduct on your part for not responding to the matter, and attending the meeting without any preparation is an act of indiscipline, disobedience of the orders of a higher authority, and negligence in the discharge of your official duties, honestly and diligently,” read the notice issued by Ahuja, a copy of which was accessed by HT.Ahuja set a seven-day deadline for the engineers to respond to the notices in writing, failing which disciplinary action will be initiated against them, he said.A senior official with the engineering wing, requesting anonymity, said, “The executive engineers have already acted upon the MCG commissioner’s direction. Each of them visited major waterlogging points across their respective jurisdictions, with a special focus on the underpasses where the functioning of all motor pumps were checked. For this year’s monsoon, the MCG has taken the onus of waterlogging and will act as a nodal body for all matters related to it.”The official cited above said that the engineers will put up details of their visits, along with the findings and solutions, in their reply to the notices.Ahuja had directed the executive engineers on Wednesday to submit a report on waterlogging points and possible solutions to resolve the issues within a day. However, they were unable to share any details on Thursday, following which notices were issued.“Under these orders, you (engineers) were required to put forward your opinion, observations, and experience with regard to the ways and means to mitigate the problem of waterlogging in Gurugram during the monsoon season,” the notice read.As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the monsoon will arrive in Delhi-NCR on Tuesday, 15 days earlier than usual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/monsoon-preparedness-mcg-pulls-up-executive-engineers-over-failure-to-submit-reports-101623519814422.html
12-06-2021||Gurugram||Black fungus treatment after Covid-19 costs patients ₹10-12 lakh||Even as the district health department directed private hospitals to set up day-care facilities to make treatments affordable for mucormycosis (black fungus) patients, many are spending about ₹10-12 lakh at private super-speciality hospitals in the absence of government facilities.Doctors concurred that the treatment cost is high as multiple vials of the main drug used in the treatment, Liposomal Amphotericin B — a 50mg vial of which costs ₹6,000 — have to be administered daily for at least two weeks.“A patient has to take four to six vials, every day, based on the body weight, for at least two weeks,” said Dr Dhirendra Singh Kushwah, consultant, ENT, Narayana super speciality hospital in Sector 24.Patients said that besides spending over ₹3 lakh solely on the drug, they have to shell out ₹5-7 lakh for other medicines and the hospital charges for two weeks.Currently, at least 180 cases are under treatment in the district, according to the district health department data.To reduce the treatment cost, on May 10, the district health department directed private hospitals to set up a day-care facility for administering the Amphotericin B drug, which requires nearly four hours for infusion along with constant monitoring of vitals. The price of the facility has been capped at ₹2,000 per day for National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and healthcare providers (NABH) and at ₹1,500 at non-NABH facilities.Dr Rahul Bhargava, principal director, Hematology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute in Gurugram, said, “Infusion of Amphotericin-B along with other fluids and potassium takes at least six hours, which used to cost roughly about ₹8,000. Following the line of treatment where a patient will need to visit the hospital for four weeks, the overall cost of the facility adds up to ₹2,40,000. Therefore, by capping the price, the cost drastically comes down to ₹60,000.”According to him, expenditure on the treatment of one black fungus case is equivalent to treating at least 10-15 Covid-19 patients. Hira Singh, 44, a resident of Rewari district, who took underwent nose surgery at a private hospital on May 18 after getting infected with black fungus has spent almost ₹12 lakh on treatment.His nephew Dr Hitesh Yadav, an intern at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences – Rohtak, said that the family has spent almost ₹7 lakh on the amphotericin drug alone and ₹5 lakh on the surgery.“For almost 25 days, my uncle is on Amphotericin-B drug, which has to be arranged from outside. For a single vial, we had to pay about ₹8,000 to ₹10,000. Surgery, which is important in line with the treatment, cost around ₹5 lakh. Other hospital expenditures added to the overall cost. Later, he was shifted to home where he has been under medical care and getting the Amphotericin-B drug. The treatment of black fungus is highly expensive,” said Yadav.Black fungus has been found mostly among people with uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised, or among people who are given excessive steroids or immunity-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. According to doctors, if left untreated, it could kill up to 80% of those infected. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement, the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.Dr Bhargava said, “Since it can directly impact kidneys, fluid has to be given to the patient. Also, the potassium level in the blood declines. In nearly 10% of cases, it leads to potassium abnormalities which can lead to heart problems. Considering all these factors, a day-care facility is required to help patients who do not require hospitalisation.”According to Kushwah, patients are generally admitted for three to four days after the surgery where dead tissues are removed from the infected region. “Patients who have been discharged have to regularly visit the hospital for administration of the Amphotericin-B drug. For this, a few beds are reserved in the emergency ward as an infusion of the drug takes over four hours, with constant monitoring of kidney functions and potassium level in the body,” said Kushwah.In the district, at least 292 cases of back fungus have been reported by private hospitals, of which 134 are from Gurugram and the remaining from other states and districts. Currently, 180 patients are under treatment, while 28 have succumbed to the illness. Data provided by the district health department shows that at least 197 cases are diabetic. According to doctors, until last month, at least three cases were admitted every day. With the decline in the cases, it has reduced to almost three patients a week.Dr Ravinder Gera, director and head of department, ENT and neck surgery, Max Hospital, said that the ideal situation would be to admit patients to the hospital for two weeks till the time Amphotericin-B drug is required to be administered. “It is critical to monitor the impact of the drug after infusion. Potassium levels generally reduce after eight to 10 hours of the drug administration, making constant monitoring of patients crucial,” said Gera.“If the drug is given for at least seven days, then the cost comes around ₹40,000 to ₹60,000. Only after considering the vitals, a patient is shifted to oral medicines. Even oral medicines cost about ₹3,000 a day, which is also expensive,” said Gera.According to Gera, 22 cases were reported at the hospital, of which seven are currently admitted, two have succumbed to the illness, while the remaining are undertaking daily visits.Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer for Covid-19, said, “In case a patient approaches a government hospital, they are referred to the medical college in Nuh or Rohtak, where the treatment is free.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/black-fungus-treatment-after-covid-19-costs-patients-10-12-lakh-101623519812698.html
12-06-2021||Gurugram||Thunderstorm likely over next three days in Gurugram: IMD||Gurugram is likely to receive rain over the next four days along with thunderstorm and lightning, according to forecast of India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD also issued an “orange alert” for the district, which is indicates a risk to people and property, and possible disruption in communication.The alert is normal for this time of the year and the department had issued one last month too.An official said rain could cause waterlogging at several locations in the city, especially low-lying regions.“We expect waterlogging in low-lying areas or disruption in electricity and water supply. Due to rain, roads might be slippery along with low visibility, so traffic authorities should be prepared,” said an official from MeT Chandigarh.The IMD said winds of speed 40-50 kmph are expected at isolated places.With this, the maximum temperature in the city is likely to drop by two to three degrees and would around 33-34 degrees Celsius (°C). However, the minimum temperature will remain around 26°C.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “The National Capital Region (NCR) will be receiving pre-monsoon showers over the next few days as conditions are favourable for light to moderate rain. We are receiving easterly winds that are carrying moisture and a trough has also formed over Punjab-Haryana along which the monsoon activity is moving along. Some parts of Haryana have already received rainfall which will advance toward Gurugram-Faridabad by Sunday.”In the past few days, the city’s maximum temperature was close to 40°C almost daily, which is normal for this time of the year. However, on Saturday, it dropped to 36.4°C. Minimum temperature was 28.2°C, which was two degrees above normal.Air QualityThe air quality in Delhi-NCR region is also likely to improve, as Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi in its weather bulletin on Saturday said that the air quality is likely to remain in moderate to satisfactory category over the next five days.On Saturday, Gurugram’s air quality was in moderate zone with an air quality index of 142 according to Central Pollution Control Board’s AQI bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/thunderstorm-likely-over-next-three-days-in-gurugram-imd-101623519813262.html
12-06-2021||Gurugram||Bandhwari WTE plant on MCG priority list, October deadline set for groundwork||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Saturday directed its waste management concessionaire, Ecogreen, to clear at least 10 acres at the Bandhwari landfill by October for setting up a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant.MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja directed the agency to clear a portion of legacy waste and move the existing compost and refuse-derived fuel (RDF) at the landfill to an alternative site to start work on the WTE plant while simultaneously continuing to clear legacy waste.“I held a meeting with representatives of Ecogreen on Thursday where I received information about the solid waste management methodology they are using to clear legacy waste. Following this, I have set them a deadline of October for clearing a portion of legacy waste, and shifting existing compost and RDF to a new site so that there is adequate space of at least 10 acres to set up the WTE project,” said Ahuja.The agreement for setting up a WTE plant was signed between the Haryana government and Ecogreen in August 2017. However, due to the 2.5 million tonnes of legacy waste enveloping the entire landfill area, there was no progress in the regard for four years. The project has now picked up momentum after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) earlier this year rapped the MCG for failing to clear legacy waste at the landfill site and directed the agency to take measures to remedy the situation at the earliest.Ahuja said he has directed Ecogreen officials to increase the capacity of trommel machines at the landfill for an increased processing rate and ensuring waste can be disposed of within the stipulated time period. Ecogreen has currently deployed eight trommel machines at the landfill that can cumulatively process around 2,400 tonnes of legacy waste daily.“We are complying with all directions as issued by the MCG commissioner. Work on clearing legacy waste from the landfill using trommel machines is in full swing. We are on course to complete the clearing of the required area for setting up the waste-to-energy plant as per the MCG’s set deadline,” said an official spokesperson for Ecogreen.An MCG official familiar with the matter said that Ecogreen representatives also apprised Ahuja about the door-to-door garbage collection, and its transportation process.“Ecogreen officials informed the MCG commissioner that in all 35 MCG wards, manual rickshaws and tripper machines have been placed for the door-to-door waste collection process. Further, they also told him that trommel machines and ballistic separators have also been installed at the Bandhwari landfill to clear and process legacy waste. For the leachate emerging from the collected waste, Ecogreen officials said that they have built storage tanks along with setting up a leachate treatment plant to collect and treat the same,” the senior MCG official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bandhwari-wte-plant-on-mcg-priority-list-october-deadline-set-for-groundwork-101623519812162.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Five shops in Lajpat Nagar market gutted in fire, none hurt||: A massive fire broke out at a handloom shop on Veer Savarkar Marg in south Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar market on Saturday morning, which spread to at least four more shops and damaged goods and articles worth ₹7-8 crore, said fire officials and traders in the market. No casualty was reported. Officials from the Delhi Fire Service said they received a call regarding the fire at a showroom on Veer Savarkar Marg in Lajpat Nagar market at 10.20am, following which fire tenders were immediately rushed to the spot. Atul Garg, chief of Delhi Fire Service, said, “When our teams reached the spot, the fire had spread to four adjacent shops. Initially, 16 fire tenders were pressed into service however, since the fire was massive, more fire tenders were rushed to the spot. It took 30 fire tenders and about 100 firemen close to four hours to douse the flames. The fire was somewhat extinguished by 2pm.” He added that since the incident occurred in the morning and the market was closed, there was no casualty. “The exact reason behind the fire is yet to be ascertained. It was a big fire and firemen had to break open the locks of shops to douse the flames. We stopped the fire from spreading to other shops. Nearby shops in the market were shut and the area was cordoned off to effectively carry out operations,” Garg said.Ashwani Marwah, general secretary of the Traders Association Lajpat Nagar (TALN), said the fire was so massive that smoke billowing out of the shops was visible hundreds of metres away. He suspected that the fire may have broken out due to a short circuit though the exact reason is yet to be ascertained. Traders of the market said the fire spread quickly since it broke out in a handloom shop that was located near another garments shop.  “The fire started at a handloom shop. Later, it engulfed a readymade garment shop, then a crockery shop and eventually spread to other shops. Total five stores in four buildings on Veer Savarkar Marg were gutted in the fire. We estimate a loss of around ₹7-8 crore in the fire. The market remained closed in the first half of the day. It was opened only in the afternoon after the blaze was completely doused,” said Marwah. He further said the entire Veer Savarkar Marg was blocked for vehicular movement to ensure smooth fire extinguishing operations. “One carriageway of the road is still shut. Cooling operations are still underway in that portion of the market,” Marwah added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/five-shops-in-lajpat-nagar-market-gutted-in-fire-none-hurt-101623518972015.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Two police officers say they were beaten by protesters at Singhu||Two assistant sub inspectors (ASIs) of the Delhi Police’s special branch alleged they were branded as “government agents” and assaulted by protesters at the Singhu border in outer Delhi, where farmers have been protesting against the three farm laws for the last six months, while they were reportedly taking pictures of the event. Police said they have filed an FIR.The special branch is the intelligence unit of the police and its officers do not wear the khaki uniform. At least 40 different unions under the banner of SKM are protesting at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- the three interstate borders in Delhi.According to the complainant ASI, on Thursday at around 3.30 pm, he and his colleague were on duty at the border and were taking photographs of the stage of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), when a woman protester and a group of men accused him of being “a government agent”.The ASI alleged that they were beaten even after he showed them his identity card. In his statement, he said that he and his colleague rushed towards a tent and was rescued by locals, after which they informed police officers at the spot.Police said both the officers were taken to a nearby hospital, where doctors said that the nature of their injuries suggested attack with blunt objects. Police have registered a case under sections of assault, stopping public servant from doing his/her duty and other sections of Indian Penal Code. Police are yet to make any arrests in the case.Bharatiya Kisan Union chief Rakesh Tikait hinted at a case of mistaken identity. “They (policemen) must have been in civil dress and farmers might have mistaken them for media people who portray their movement in a bad light. We don’t engage in violence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-police-officers-say-they-were-beaten-by-protesters-at-singhu-101623518911331.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Brawl leads to fears of communal tension in Bhajanpura||A brawl between two neighbours in northeast Delhi’s Bhajanpura led to fears of communal tension in the area on Friday night, with senior police officers holding meetings with aman committees (inter-religious peace forums) in the area to ensure the incident doesn’t escalate.While claims of communal violence were circulated on social media, senior police officers dismissed the claims and said it did not escalate.According to police, at around midnight on Friday, they received a distress call at the control room about an alleged altercation between a security guard of C7 Block in Yamuna Vihar, Bhajanpura, and Vipin Kumar, a resident of the area named, reportedly over opening the entry gate to the colony. During the altercation, another resident of Yamuna Vihar C7 block gate, Mohammed Yasin, intervened and allegedly assaulted Kumar. “Kumar got annoyed, called his relatives and got into a scuffle with Yasin and his family members, resulting in injuries to people from both sides. Legal action has been initiated against both the parties. There is no communal angle in the incident,” read the statement issued from the office of the DCP(Northeast).While police registered a case of assault, they also held peace committee meetings in the area.Bhajanpura had been one of the hot spots of violence during the riots in northeast Delhi last year which recorded 55 deaths. Aman committees, which are formed under every police station, comprises of elderly residents from different faiths. They help police in ensuring there is no communal tension in the area and counsel youngsters when there are fears of any incident or event taking a communal turn.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/brawl-leads-to-fears-of-communal-tension-in-bhajanpura-101623518851974.html
12-06-2021||Jaipur||Tensions resurface among Pilot camp, CM Gehlot in Rajasthan: Report||Tensions among Congress leaders in Rajasthan resurfaced on Saturday as MLAs belonging to the Sachin Pilot camp grew restless over allegedly not getting what they wanted in the government and closed ranks to press for their demands strongly, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.The panel appointed by the Congress to sort out the differences between Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot are yet to come up with the solution. “Vacant positions in the cabinet, boards and commissions would be filled soon and we are in talks with all,” Congress leader Ajay Maken said. He also said that if Sachin Pilot would be angry then he would not have been in close contact with him.Leaders in the Sachin Pilot camp have also said that they are feeling ‘pressured’ by Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot to switch sides. These leaders also said that they will fight for their dues ‘within the party framework.’People familiar with the developments also said that delay in the redressal of grievances which were earlier promised is making leaders in the Pilot camp restless. They also said that the chief minister is refusing to give them their due. The Congress government in Rajasthan faced a huge crisis after Sachin Pilot and 19 other MLAs revolted against Ashok Gehlot last year.Pilot earlier this week denied rumours of him leaving the party and also refuted speculations regarding a switch to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Rita Bahuguna Joshi said she spoke to Sachin. She might have spoken to Sachin Tendulkar (the cricketer). She doesn't have the courage to speak to me,” Pilot had said dismissing claims of him speaking to the BJP leader over a possible switch.Congress MLA Hemaram Choudhary who resigned on May 18 also met Sachin Pilot in Jaipur on Friday morning. Pilot loyalist PR Meena also demanded expansion of the Rajasthan cabinet and said that leaders were growing impatient. “The party high command should take a decision at the earliest because everyone is waiting,” he said. Meena also said that he was ready to die for Pilot.(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/tensions-resurface-among-pilot-camp-cm-gehlot-in-rajasthan-report-101623517369900.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||5 showrooms damaged in fire at Delhi's Lajpat Nagar market||Five showrooms were damaged in a fire that broke out in a market area here on Saturday morning, officials said, adding no injuries were reported.The incident took place in south Delhi's Lajpat Nagar central market area, they said.According to the police, the fire broke out in the I block of Lajpat Nagar-2.Three buildings - I-19, 20 and 21 - housing mainly showrooms of garments, watch and crockery caught fire, they said, adding that no one was inside the shops at the time of incident.The BSES were informed to cut the electricity supply, while the IGL was informed to cut the gas supply, police said.According to the fire department, a call about the blaze was received around 10.20 am following which 16 fire tenders were rushed to the spot."When fire tenders reached the spot, four showrooms were on fire and later (the blaze) spread to the fifth shop. It must have started early morning in one of the shops and then spread to the rest," Delhi Fire Service Director Atul Garg said, adding its origin and cause were unknown.He said the firemen were able to prevent the blaze from spreading further with a timely response to the call."Our firemen showed great presence of mind and saved the fire from spreading to the residential areas behind the showrooms, Garg said, adding that the operation to douse the blaze began from a lane between the rear gates of the showrooms to the residential quarters.A total of 30 fire tenders and over 100 firefighters were on the spot to bring the blaze under control, he said.A senior police officer said, "Three more fire tenders are still on the spot for inspection after the heat and smoke is completely extinguished. The crime team and forensic team have also been called who will also inspect the spot after that."Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southeast) RP Meena said, "We have registered a case under section 285 (for negligent act endangering human life) of the Indian Penal Code and investigation will be done accordingly."Police, however, suspect that short-circuit could be a reason behind the incident even as an investigation is underway to ascertain the exact cause of fire.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: "I am constantly monitoring the situation and in constant touch with the fire department officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/5-showrooms-damaged-in-fire-at-delhi-s-lajpat-nagar-market-101623517032106.html
12-06-2021||Other||2022 UP assembly polls: SBSP to hold meetings with block level workers in east UP||Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) leaders will hold meetings with its block level workers in eastern UP districts from Monday to chalk out strategy for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls, said a party leader.The party, which had won 4 seats in 2017 polls, claims to hold significant command in 35 assembly seats in east UP where Rajbhar community’s population is up to 18%. SBSP state unit vice president Shashipratap Singh said the party president Om Prakash Rajbhar has asked office bearers to strengthen and expand the party in view of mission 2022.“The first meeting will be organised in Rasda area of Balllia. The party has coined a new slogan: Vada nahi, kaam karenge, Janta ka samman karenge (Instead of making promise, we will work, we will respect the public). This slogan will be circulated among the workers who will take it to masses in every nook and corner in eastern UP districts,” Singh said. Party’s senior office bearers, including general secretary Arvind Rajbhar will attend the meetings. Party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar will also participate in at least one meeting in every district. “The meetings in every developmental block is likely to be completed in next 45 days,” Singh said and added that the SBSP chief has always worked for the cause of OBCs, scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2022-up-assembly-polls-sbsp-to-hold-meetings-with-block-level-workers-in-east-up-101623517231843.html
12-06-2021||Ranchi||12 Ranchi zoo big cats test negative for coronavirus||The samples of seven Royal Bengal tigers and five other big cats at the Bhagwan Birsa Biological Park here have tested negative for Covid-19, a senior zoo official said on Saturday.The samples of tiger Shiva, which had died on June 3 following prolonged illness, were among those that tested negative.The felines' samples were sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute at Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh amid reports of several big cats in captivity testing positive for the infection across the country."The Covid-19 test reports of 12 animals, including seven Royal Bengal tigers, returned negative," Zoo Director Y K Das told PTI.The animals whose samples were tested include tigers Java, Malik, Gauri, Laxmi, Saraswati and Kavery, Asiatic lions Viru and Jaya, hybrid lion Priyanka, black panther Mirza, leopard Radha, besides Shiva.Das said that while the zoo is closed, steps have been taken to prevent transmission of the infection among animals, including vaccination of the zoo staffers and their regular testing.Regular fogging and sanitation of the enclosures and other parts of the park have been undertaken.A high alert was sounded in Ranchi zoo after eight Asiatic lions tested positive for Covid-19 in Hyderabad in May, making it the first such case in the country.On June 4, lioness Neela succumbed to Covid-19 and nine other felines of the pride tested positive for the infection at Arignar Anna Zoological Park in Vandalur near Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/12-ranchi-zoo-big-cats-test-negative-for-coronavirus-101623515632834.html
12-06-2021||Other||SAD, BSP seal seat-sharing deal for 2022 Punjab polls||Blurb: Akali Dal spares 20 seats — eight in Doaba, seven in Malwa and five in Majha — for the Mayawati-led party Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) on Saturday announced the electoral tie-up for the 2022 Punjab assembly polls, striking a deal to contest 97 and 20 seats, respectively. The state has 117 assembly seats. The formal announcement of the alliance was made by SAD chief Sukhbir Badal in the presence of BSP’s national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra at a joint press conference held at the SAD headquarters here. Sukhbir said the BSP will contest eight seats in Doaba that is considered party’s stronghold because of its deep-rooted rapport with the Ravidasia community. The party will contest seven seats in Malwa and five in Majha regions, he said. Nearly 40% population in Punjab belongs to Dalits. The BSP will contest Kartarpur, Jalandhar West, Jalandhar North, Ludhiana North, Pathankot, Amritsar Central, Amritsar North and Mohali. The Mayawati-led party will also fight from Phagwara, Hoshiarpur City, Tanda, Dasuya, Chamkaur Sahib, Bassi Pathana, Mehal Kalan, Nawanshahr, Sujanpur, Bhoa, Anandpur Sahib and Payal seats. Reacting to the development, Mayawati, through a tweet, termed the alliance “a new political and social initiative that will usher in a new beginning in the prosperity of Punjab”. SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal described the alliance as the “beginning of a secular, federal-democratic revolution in the state and the country for a total socio-economic and political revamp of polity”. “The process of justice and equality for the poor, the downtrodden and the minorities will also get a boost with this development,” Senior Badal said in a statement. Of the 20 seats given to the BSP, eight are reserved for Scheduled Castes candidates and 11 are ones which SAD would leave for the BJP when the two parties were in an alliance. Eight seats are dominated by urban voters having sizeable chunk of Dalits. “Today is a historic day... A big turn in Punjab’s politics. This is not just an alliance for the 2022 assembly polls but for other coming elections as well as SAD has the history of not betraying its alliance partners,” Sukhbir said at the joint press conference. Sukhbir said both the SAD and the BSP has the same ideology and has always worked for the welfare of farmers, the poor and ‘khet mazdoor’. He said each and every facility extended to the weaker sections, be it aata-daal, old age pension or Shagun scheme, was started by Parkash Singh Badal. “The Congress party has not initiated a single welfare scheme for the weaker sections and is responsible for terminating schemes like the SC Scholarship scheme. It was because of these factors that there was a demand from the grassroots level of both the SAD and the BSP to come on a common front,” he said. Mishra said the BSP has chosen to align with the “strongest party” in Punjab and both parties had come together after 25 years since the 1996 Lok Sabha elections when the alliance had swept 11 out of the 13 seats. He said BSP president Mayawati wanted to come and announce the alliance herself but couldn’t make it due to Covid restrictions. Sukhbir said both parties will soon constitute a co-ordination committee to further chalk out a common strategy. After the announcement, top leaders from both factions met SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal at his MLA flat. Mishra made Mayawati speak to the senior Badal and according to a video of this conversation released by the SAD, senior Badal also suggested Mayawati to contest from Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sad-bsp-seal-seat-sharing-deal-for-2022-punjab-polls-101623516091203.html
12-06-2021||Other||‘Land acquisition delay may put projects worth ₹1522 crore in limbo’||Palamu Member of Parliament (MP) VD Ram on Saturday said that inaction by the state government might put two ambitious road projects worth ₹1,522 crore in Palamu region in limbo. According to the MP, the inordinate delay by land acquisition department in providing land for 33.75km-long four-lane National Highway-98 between Padwa More and Hariharganj worth ₹755 crore, and similar work on National Highway-75 between Shankha and Khajuri worth ₹748 crore has put both projects in jeopardy. Ram said, “These projects were sanctioned by the central government after much persuasion. However, as the deadline for providing land has already expired on May 17, the union government may transfer funds to another state.”“I have written to chief minister Hemant Soren and the chief secretary urging them to ensure execution of work of these two projects at the earliest, so that the people of Palamu region are not deprived of these much needed projects,” the MP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/land-acquisition-delay-may-put-projects-worth-1522-crore-in-limbo-101623515491168.html
12-06-2021||Other||No Covid-19 death in Jamshedpur after two months||No Covid-19 death was reported in Jamshedpur (East Singhbhum) district on Friday, according to a health department bulletin. Earlier, no such casualty was reported on April 8 in the district. Meanwhile, a health survey found that 1,576 persons died of various diseases in rural areas of the district during the past two months. As per Jamshedpur Covid-19 bulletin, a total of 654 Covid-19 patients died during the 63 days from April 9 to June 10 during the second wave of the pandemic. Five Covid-19 deaths were reported between April 1 and 7, while 242 Covid-19 patients died in April, 412 died in May and 18 died in June so far. The district reported 87 new Covid-19 patients while 94 were cured, leaving 762 active patients till Friday night. This pushed the recovery rate in Jamshedpur to 96.63%. Tata Steel medical advisor Dr Rajan Chaudhry said only 17 Covid-19 patients were undergoing treatment at Tata Main Hospital, and the positivity rate has gone down to 5.01% from 9.17% last week during which five Covid-19 deaths were reported.Meanwhile, a health screening and survey by the district administration and health department between May 25 and June 7 across the district revealed that 1,576 persons died of diseases such as tuberculosis (TB), heart ailments, blood pressure, cough and cold, fever and diabetes in rural areas during past two months. As per the survey, the highest 264 deaths were reported from Patamda block. Only 40 such deaths were found in urban areas of Jamshedpur district. “There can be many reasons for these deaths. No single disease led to these deaths and most of them could be suffering from co-morbid conditions,” Dr Nirmal Kumar, former HoD of Medicine at MGMMCH, said. The survey also found symptoms of TB in 1,515 persons in the district, of which 443 were in urban areas. The survey traced 189 Covid-19 positive cases in rural areas.The district till May this year identified 1,613 TB patients, of which 1,237 were being treated in government hospitals and 375 in private hospitals. The survey, targeting 14 lakh people, also detected 8,879 diabetes patients, of which 6,374 were in eight rural blocks and 2,505 were in urban blocks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-covid-19-death-in-jamshedpur-after-two-months-101623515431229.html
12-06-2021||Ranchi||Dead female cop’s father challenges judicial probe||Devanand Oraon, father of deceased woman police officer Rupa Tirkey, on Saturday filed another application with Jharkhand high court, seeking order to quash the state government’s recent notification through which a one-man enquiry commission was constituted to probe into his daughter’s death.Oraon’s move came within 24 hours of him meeting chief minister Hemant Soren. Oraon, along with Congress’ Mandar legislator Bandhu Tirkey, met the chief minister on Friday seeking CBI probe into his daughter’s death.Tirkey (26), who was a sub-inspector posted at Sahibganj women’s police station, was found hanging inside her official quarter at police line on May 3 night. According to police investigation made so far, Tirkey’s friend and sub-inspector Shiv Kumar Kanaujia allegedly harassed her, which led to her death by suicide. Kanaujia has been arrested in this case.However, Tirkey’s father has repeatedly raised serious suspicions over police’s “death by suicide” theory, alleging that her daughter was murdered. He has also gone as far as to claim that some people closely connected with those in corridors of power were involved in the “murder”. He doubted role of one Pankaj Mishra, a representative of local MLA.Making the same demanding of probe by the central agency into his daughter’s death, Oraon earlier filed a criminal writ petition in the high court. Jharkhand’s main opposition party BJP, and some social-tribal organisations have also supported Oraon’s demand. A BJP delegation also met Governor Draupadi Murmu early this week in this regard.Meanwhile, the state government on June 8 issued a notification appointing a one-man commission headed by Justice (retired) BK Gupta to inquire into all allegations and counter allegations and other issues related to Tirkey’s death.Filing an interlocutory application (IA) in his recent criminal writ petition, Oraon urged the court to set aside the government’s notification through which a one-man commission was appointed.He submitted that the commission, that was appointed under Commission of Enquiry Act, 1952, will not be able to investigate into a murder case, as the complete probe involves collection of evidences, verification of call records, raids and arrest of accused persons and many other aspects.Demanding a CBI probe, he stated that there was a huge difference between the commission and the CBI. “The commission can only work as per the terms of reference set by the government, but the CBI is independent,” Oraon said.He pointed out that the commission was given six months’ time to complete its inquiry, but non-institution of CBI probe for such a long period will lead to destruction of evidences. “If the government is really serious to bring out the truth, it should have referred the case to the CBI,” Oraon’s lawyer Rajiv Kumar said, while confirming filing of the above IA. He added, “As per legal provision, the commission’s recommendations are not binding to the government.”Oraon, in his criminal writ petition, has also stated that his daughter was killed and hanged by the accused. He alleged that his daughter was harassed by some of her colleagues at the instance of Mishra, and another person Dahu Yadav. Oraon alleged that going against Mishra’s wishes, her daughter refused to manage some of the cases pending before her. This led to her murder, he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/dead-female-cop-s-father-challenges-judicial-probe-101623515373508.html
12-06-2021||Other||Two held with Buddha’s statue stolen from Nepal||West Champaran police on Saturday arrested two persons with Lord Buddha’s statue, which was allegedly stolen from Nepal a few months ago. Acting on a tip-off, a police team intercepted two motorcyclists near Gaunaha railway station in the Narkatiaganj subdivision of West Champaran and seized the statue of Lord Budhha, weighing 11.66 kg.“During interrogation, we came to know the statue was brought from Kathmandu along with another statue of Lord Buddha, which was seized by us in April. Further investigation into the matter is on, “ Upendra Nath Verma, superintendent of police (SP).“We are looking forward to approaching the Archaeological Survey of India to ascertain the relevant facts related to the idol,” said SP. The arrested persons have been identified as Kedar Mahato and Ramcharan Diswa, both residents of Dhumani Parsa under Matirariya police station limits on the Indo-Nepal border area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-with-buddha-s-statue-stolen-from-nepal-101623515374131.html
12-06-2021||Patna||Woman, lover held with stolen cash, jewellery||A married woman and her lover, allegedly eloped after stealing cash and jewellery worth ₹14 lakh from her husband, were arrested from a compartment of Kumbh Express at Laksar railway junction on Saturday. SHO of GRP (Laksar) Subhash Chandra said that they were nabbed from the AC compartment of the train following an input provided by the Saharsa police on Friday, while they were en-route to Haridwar from Patna Junction. The accused, identified as Poornima and her lover Rupesh Ravidas, were booked by her husband at the Saharsa police station on charges of theft. Police recovered cash and jewellery worth ₹13 lakh from them.They were brought back to Bihar after the arrest. “Both are currently with Saharsa police. Police will question them to get details about the theft,” said Saharsa SP Lipi Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/woman-lover-held-with-stolen-cash-jewellery-101623515372331.html
12-06-2021||Other||Bihar to review system for death data complication||PATNADevelopment commissioner Amir Subhani, who is also in-charge of the department of planning and statistics, on Saturday told the Patna High Court that he would immediately review the existing system involving deputy registrar and chief registrar for collection and uploading of data and compliance to ensure publication as per the existing rules.On Friday, the high court, which has been hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) on Covid management in Bihar, had sought to know from the state government if the Covid death figures were revised by it recently were complete. The court had sought to know why there were multiple official websites for data on births and deaths offering different figures.“I am new to the department and the review has so far not been done at my level, but now I will do it on a priority basis to ensure how it could be done in a better way and to the satisfaction of the court,” he told the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Sanjay Kumar which is hearing the matter.Subhani also said that he had talked to the additional chief secretary of the panchayati raj department and the principal secretary of the urban development department and both the departments were not maintaining any portal regarding birth and death registration and that the only portal for it was the centralised Civil Registration System (CSR) of the Registrar General of India, which has limited viewing option. “It also publishes a statistical report on the registered births and deaths during the year at such intervals and in such form as may be prescribed,” he added.Advocate general Lalit Kishore said it was the duty of the family to inform the authorities concerned about any birth and death on the basis of which data compilation is done. “The compilation of revised figures was done through a special drive ordered by the chief secretary in the light of the court order,” he said.Citing the provisions under the birth & death registration act, Bihar municipal Act and the Bihar panchayati raj Act, the AG said the designated registrar was just responsible for documenting the information given by the family regarding birth and death. “There is no provision in the legislation that makes it mandatory for public functionaries to go and collect data moving from house to house or village to village. It is the applicant who has to file an application in prescribed format for registration. The hospitals and some other institutions have also been authorised to issue certificates,” he said.However, amicus curiae Mrigank Mauli and Parul Prasad asked how could the state arrive at death figures if many families could not even apply for registrations and if the state was under no obligation to compile the data.The bench said what was important was the spirit of the Act, which delegates authority for registration right up to the level of panchayat and make compulsory registration of every birth and death. “Many people may have applied for death certificates but not got it so far. If the deaths took place at home, who reported this? During the pandemic, it is the duty of the public representatives to report to the authorities concerned with regard to deaths, as they happen to be closest to the people of the area. The government should on its own display it in digital era,” it said.The bench also cited “duty of certain persons to notify births and deaths and to certify cause of death”, as laid down in the Act. “It is the need of the hour that transparency is maintained and information is disseminated. In the digital era, can Bihar not modify rules for the sake of the people? We are not to legislate, but we will say this is a 1969 Act and we are in 2021,” it said.The AG said while the government was doing its job, a perception was being built in the media that it was hiding figures. “The fact is that after Bihar, other states are also going in for verification of data. It was an eye opener for other states,” he said. However, the chief justice said the media was doing its job and reiterated the need for transparency in dissemination of information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-to-review-system-for-death-data-complication-101623515372871.html
12-06-2021||Patna||Monsoon hits Bihar, above-normal rain expected in June: MeT||Southwest monsoon made its foray into Bihar through Darbhanga on Saturday, said Patna Meteorological Centre (PMC) officials. With the arrival of the monsoon, several places over southern parts of the state received heavy rain while light to moderate rain lashed other parts of the state.According to the daily bulletin issued, Bhabhua recorded 120 mm rain, Adhwara 100mm, Darbhanga 60mm and Samastipur, Buxar and Khagaria 40mm each.Vivek Sinha, director of PMC, said, “Monsoon is likely to pick up the pace and cover the entire state in upcoming 24 hours as conditions are becoming favourable for further advancement of the monsoon trough.”“This year monsoon has arrived one day before the normal date of onset. In the last 15 years, the earliest monsoon onset over the state was in 2008, when the rainy season commenced on June 8. As per the seasonal forecast, Bihar is expected to receive above-normal rainfall in June”, added Sinha.Meteorologist Uday Shankar Sinha said, “Widespread rain accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning is likely over the state till June 14 as southwest monsoon is all set to cover the state. The normal onset date over the capital city Patna is 16 June. Temperature is likely to fall by 2°C after two days”As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bihar has received 50.6mm actual rain from June 1 to 12 which is a 22% surplus than normal rain of 41.3mm.Meanwhile, the timely arrival of monsoon has cheered tillers and farmers who are preparing for sowing Kharif crops.“We are heavily dependent on monsoon rain for Kharif crops, including paddy. A good amount of rain is required for timely seedling and transplantation of paddy crops”, said Rajesh Kumar, a Saran-based progressive farmer.Last year, the monsoon arrived in the state on June 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/monsoon-hits-bihar-above-normal-rain-expected-in-june-met-101623515371699.html
12-06-2021||Other||Man, out to hunt, shot dead by security forces in Latehar||A 23-year-old man, said to be on hunt for an animal, was killed on Saturday when security forces were carrying out anti-Maoist operation in forests of Kuku-Piri in Latehar district, police said.The deceased was identified as Brahmdev Singh, a resident of Piri village. As per available information, a group of six village residents were out for hunting with their countrymade firearms. As they tried to shoot an animal, security forces retaliated, Latehar superintendent of police (SP) Prashant Anand said. “Brahmdev was killed in this exchange of fire,” he said.Police have arrested five other members of the hunting group and seized their weapons and explosives.According to some village residents, all the six hunters were locals. “We are going to celebrate Sarhul festival on Sunday. The six youths from the village went to the forest for hunting wild boar or rabbit for the occasion when security forces gunned one of them down,” said a villager, requesting not to be named.“It is common in these areas to hunt wild animals before festivals. In this case, we are abiding by the prescribed protocol for a civilian being killed by security forces,” the SP said.Police said security forces were carrying anti-Maoist operations in the region following an intelligence input about movement of CPI (Maoist) regional commander Chhotu Kherwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-out-to-hunt-shot-dead-by-security-forces-in-latehar-101623515371168.html
12-06-2021||Other||38 MTWT home inmates shifted to Patamda, 2 more girls ‘missing’||Two girl inmates have been reported missing from a state-registered shelter home in Jharkhand’s East Singhbhum district, whose director and staff have been booked for alleged sexual assault and torture of underage girls, senior officials familiar with the matter said on Saturday. The incident came to light late Friday evening when the authorities were shifting 41 inmates from the home to Bal Kalyan Ashram in Patamda.“Thirty eight inmates have been shifted to Bal Kalyan Ashram in Patamda from the MTWT in Kharanghjar under Telco PS last evening (Friday). It came to notice that two inmates were missing. An investigation is underway in the matter,” said Parameshwar Bhagat, Jamshedpur deputy development commissioner (DDC).The two missing inmates hailed from Birsanagar and Ghatshila.Earlier, on June 5, two other girls were reported missing from the shelter home, which is run by Mother Teresa Welfare Trust (MTWT) NGO. The two tribal girls, aged 16 and 17, were later rescued by the police from Birsanagar on June 6 night, and a case was subsequently registered based on their allegations of sexual assault and torture at the home for the past four years.On June 7, a first information report (FIR) was lodged under Posco (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code against Harpal Singh Thapar, director of the home, his wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey, the chairperson of East Singhbhum district child welfare committee (CWC), warden Geeta Singh, her son Aditya Singh, and another staff member Tony Singh.According to the MTWT’s list of inmates, the shelter home has 43 children, including 23 girls and 20 boys, all of whom are under the age of 18.MTWT has no links with Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity.Meanwhile, more questions marked the investigation after BJP district spokesperson Ankit Anand posted an October 2020 interview of Tirkey, where she told a local newspaper that the home had 55 inmates.“Pushpa Rani Tirkey had said in her interview published on October 24 last year that there were 55 children kept and taken care of at the MTWT in Kharanghjar. But she said there are now 43 inmates in MTWT in her press conference before fleeing from the city in the wake of sexual abuse case. I have requested the DC to probe if this is data mismatch or where 12 inmates vanished,” he said in the tweet.Jamshedpur ASP Kumar Gaurav said: “Nothing could be said conclusively till we get the final list of inmates from the Jamshedpur district Child Welfare Committee (CWC).” Accused Aditya Singh, too, is mentioned in one of the lists of inmates, he added.In a similar case at a shelter home in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur, which came to the fore three years ago, 12 people, including main accused Brajesh Thakur, were sentenced to life imprisonment in February 2020 by a Delhi court, which heard the case following orders from the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/38-mtwt-home-inmates-shifted-to-patamda-2-more-girls-missing-101623515311751.html
12-06-2021||Patna||Bihar plans leather hub at Kishanganj||As part of its push towards industrialisation, Bihar is set to come up with its own leather and textile policy and plans to develop Kishanganj as a hub of leather industry.Leather from Panjipada in Kishanganj is supplied across the country and exported as well. Establishment of industries and employment generation were key promises made by parties during assembly elections held in 2020.After the NDA returned to power in the state in November last year, the State Investment Promotion Board (SIPB) has given stage 1 clearance to a total 200 units, involving a total investment of ₹6,197 crore, in the state. Of these, 98 units involving investment of ₹4616.42 crore (74% of the total) are from food processing sector. The state’s industry department has already come out of its own ethanol and oxygen production policy. Bihar’s industry minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain is sure the state will turn a corner sooner than later. “Another 200 units with an investment potential of over ₹3,000 crore will be taken up in the next meeting of SIPB,” he said. On the planned leather hub in KIshanganj, Hussain said, “From Kishanganj, the best leather goes to the country and abroad. Work is going on at a brisk pace towards setting up a hub for leather processing units, which will pose a challenge to leather goods from neighbouring Bangladesh,” he said.Barring four districts of Arwal, Lakhisarai, Sheikhpura and Sheohar, all the remaining 34 districts of the state have got investment proposals. Muzaffarpur, where a food park is coming up, has got investment proposals of ₹1,088 crore for 18 units. “The food park, which was sanctioned on 78 acres of land, has been extended by additional 48 acres by the government of Bihar,” said Hussain. “Haldiram Bhujiawala has submitted proposal to become anchor investor in the park which has already been given Stage-1 clearance by SIPB,” said the minister. Industry department sources said that besides Haldiram, several major national players have expressed interest to set up their units within the park. The capital city, Patna, has got stage 1 SIPB clearance for 49 units with a proposed investment of ₹818 crore, while the industrial town of Begusarai has got a proposal of ₹1,053 crore for nine units, of which two units are of ethanol worth ₹495 crore. A total of 16 units of ethanol, with a proposed investment of ₹3,110 crore, have been cleared in the first phase. “Chief minister Nitish Kumar had first made a request for making ethanol directly from maize and sugarcane in 2007. We are happy the Centre had eventually given its nod,” said the minister. Hussain said Bihar, which produces 12,000 crore litres of ethanol each year and is the fifth-largest ethanol-producing state in the country, was expected to produce 50,000 crore litres every year after proposals for 20 new ethanol units were realised. The minister said the state government will give 10 per cent subsidy for opening each unit. The state government is also eyeing to use the services of migrants who had expertise in textile sector and ceramic field.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-plans-leather-hub-at-kishanganj-101623515311188.html
12-06-2021||Other||1,996 slum households given proprietary rights||Chandigarh Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Saturday approved the grant of proprietary rights to 1,996 slum households in six districts under chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s flagship slum development programme, ‘Basera’. The approval was given at the third meeting of the steering committee for the Basera scheme that the chief secretary chairs. With this, Punjab has become the first state in the country to implement a scheme for granting proprietary rights to the slum dwellers occupying state government land in urban slums. The 1,996 households, who have been given the proprietary rights, are settled at 24 slum sites in Patiala, Ludhiana, Mansa, Ferozepur, Barnala and Kapurthala districts. Reviewing the progress of the Basera scheme, the chief secretary directed the local government department to complete household surveys, so that the process to grant proprietary rights to 11,000 more slum dwellers is completed at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1996-slum-households-given-proprietary-rights-101623515251900.html
12-06-2021||Patna||Central nod for 11.49 lakh rural houses set to boost construction in Bihar||Amid the slump in economic activity owing to Covid-induced lockdowns, the state government hopes for an impetus to the construction activity as the Centre has sanctioned several lakh new houses under Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana both in urban and rural areas this fiscal (2021-22).Sources said 11.49 lakh houses have been approved by the rural development ministry for sanction under PMAY (rural) in this fiscal, as per the revised list of beneficiaries prepared through a survey to include households left out in the socio-economic census in 2011. The beneficiaries under PMAY(rural), which is fully funded by the Centre, are selected under 13 parameters and are mainly those who have no pucca houses. A total of 32 lakh new households have been included in the list revised over the last few years.“We expect to sanction 10 lakh homes to selected beneficiaries by July and work would start on these units in next few months. This will boost rural economy in a big way,” said Arvind Choudhary, principal secretary, rural development department. He said allotment of new units would be in addition to around 7 lakh houses already under construction, which have been allotted to beneficiaries under permanent waiting list ( PWL).He said the department is hoping to release at least two instalments worth ₹80,000 to each of the household whose unit is sanctioned for this fiscal to start the constriction of affordable houses on ground. “We are hoping to sanction at least 10 lakh houses out of targeted 11.49 lakh this year,” said Choudhary. This means the government would be releasing ₹8,000 crore to kick-start construction work on 10 lakh units this fiscal.“This will give a big impetus to the construction sector and employment of labour to boost the rural economy,” said Rajesh Parimal, deputy secretary, rural development department.Similarly, the state’s urban development department has got approval for 6,739 new units under PMAY (Urban), a senior official said. Under this scheme, ₹2 lakh is released to beneficiaries for constructing pucca houses in municipal limits of 142 municipal bodies in the state.However, the record of construction of PMAY(U) units does not make for a good reading. Sources said a total 3.37 lakh units are still pending against the total sanctioned units over the past five years. Around 42,000 houses under the scheme are in different stages of completion. “The lockdown due to Covid and restrictions have had an adverse impact on construction activity for the last two years. But we are trying to speed up the construction work,” said, a senior official in the UDD who is engaged in implementing the scheme. Anand Kishore, principal secretary, urban development department, could not be reached for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/central-nod-for-11-49-lakh-rural-houses-set-to-boost-construction-in-bihar-101623515191227.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination: Seniors lead in Haryana’s Jhajjar, Charkhi Dadri districts||Southern Haryana’s Jhajjar and Charkhi Dadri districts are witnessing a high proportion of Covid-19 inoculation among senior citizens, while younger age groups are lagging behind.According to data received from the immunisation officer, the Jhajjar health authorities have vaccinated 2.26 lakh people, of whom 87,938 are above the age of 60 years. While around 78,000 people are in the 45-59 age group, 41,413 are aged between 18 and 44, who were the last to become eligible for vaccination. The remaining beneficiaries are health care and other frontline workers. Similarly, in Charkhi Dadri, senior citizens lead with 67,000 inoculations, followed by 53,000 in the 45-59 age group and 35,800 in the 18-44 age group. In all, 1.65 lakh beneficiaries have been covered so far.Jhajjar immunisation officer Dr Sanjeev Malik said they have achieved 65% vaccination target among senior citizens, while it stands at 40% in the 45-59 age segment and less than 15% in the youngest category.“Our main focus is to inoculate more people above 45 years of age, but people are not turning up to get vaccinated in rural areas. Illiteracy, hesitancy and lack of awareness about the virus are the reasons. Response among the youngest age group has been poor too,” said Malik, adding that special vaccination drives have been conducted at Bahadurgarh and Beri, in which more than 450 people were jabbed in three days.Charkhi Dadri immunisation officer Dr Ashish Mann said they have set a target to inoculate 1.33 lakh people above the age of 45, of which 1.20 lakh (90%) have already been jabbed.Younger group catching up fast in JindMeanwhile, in Jind, beneficiaries in the 45-59 age group have pipped the seniors, while the youngest category is also catching up fast.As compared to 64,692 senior citizens, around 49,000 people have got the jab in the 18-45 age group and 65,692 in the 45-59 age group. Immunisation officer Dr Navneet Singh said they are now focusing more on the younger age group, as it can motivate the elders to get vaccinated too.“The number of those jabbed in this age group might be the lowest, but it was achieved in the shortest period of time as compared to the other groups. The numbers will rise fast as we are planning to start on-the-spot registration and vaccination facility for this age group from Monday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-seniors-lead-in-haryana-s-jhajjar-charkhi-dadri-districts-101623515132489.html
12-06-2021||Other||JD(U) seeks ‘respectable’ share in union cabinet||PATNABihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal (United), the second largest constituent of the BJP-led NDA at the Centre, on Saturday said alliance partners ought to have a “respectable” share in the Union council of ministers.JD(U)’s national president R C P Singh, a protege that Kumar handpicked last year to head the party, said he was aware of a possible expansion of the union cabinet. “JD(U) is a constituent of the NDA and should get preference in representation in cabinet expansion. Allies should get due respect in a coalition,” he told reporters in Patna. At present, JD(U) has no representation in the union cabinet. In the 2019 parliamentary polls, JD(U) won 16 seats in Bihar while ally BJP had won 17 seats. Six seats were won by the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) of Ram Vilas Paswan while one went to the Congress.Kumar’s party, however, did not join the union cabinet, apparently unhappy over being offered just a “token representation”.Currently, there are five union ministers from Bihar, all from BJP. LJP patriarch Ram Vilas Paswan was also a minister till his death last year. JD(U) insiders said the party, which became the second largest constituent in the NDA at the Centre after the departure of 18-member strong Shiv Sena, could ask for three cabinet-rank berths and two ministers of state. Contenders include MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh and party’s Rajya Sabha member Ramnath Thakur. However, a section of leaders in JD(U) said the decision to join the union cabinet would depend much on whether an offer is also made to LJP. “if LJP gets representation in the union cabinet, JD(U) might not join,” a senior leader, not wishing to be identified, said.LJP, now led by Jamui MP Chirag Paswan, had fielded 100 candidates in the Bihar Assembly elections last year. JD(U) has blamed the party for damaging its prospects severely. While BJP won 74 seats, JD(U) ended up with just 43. This was the first time in the state that JDU)’s tally was less than ally BJP. Since then, JD(U) and LJP have been at loggerheads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jdu-seeks-respectable-share-in-union-cabinet-101623515131277.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to complete village mapping in 90 days||The Haryana government has set a 90-day target to ensure implementation of the Svamitva scheme in the entire state. Svamitva — an acronym for survey of villages and mapping with improvised technology in village areas — is a central sector scheme that aims to provide an integrated property validation solution for rural India. The demarcation of inhabited rural areas will be done using drone surveying technology, which would help provide the record of rights to village household owners and in turn enable them to use their property as a financial asset for taking loans and other financial benefits from banks. Will procure 10 dronesFinancial commissioner, revenue, Sanjeev Kaushal said 10 unmanned aerial vehicles or drones would be procured by the state government for the scheme. “After the completion of this scheme, the villages will be lal dora-free,’’ he said.Kaushal said this scheme was first implemented in Haryana, and after considering its effectiveness, the central government took it up across the country. Regarding the demarcation on the state’s border with Uttar Pradesh, Kaushal said the work of installing pillars at 20 places on the border in Karnal will be completed by July 15. A meeting of the deputy commissioners of Panipat, Sonepat, Palwal, Faridabad and Karnal will be held in Karnal on June 16, in which they will visit the demarcation area along the border. Kaushal also directed the officers of Survey of India to prepare a strip map of the area bordering Uttar Pradesh and Delhi so that disputes could be settled at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-complete-village-mapping-in-90-days-101623515073071.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 in Haryana: 426 new cases, 45 deaths||Haryana reported 426 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, while 944 patients were cured and discharged, further bringing down the active case load to 5,186 from Friday’s 5,749. Meanwhile, 45 patients succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 8,949. In terms of cases, the state saw a slight dip from Friday’s 436, while the daily death toll bumped up from the previous day’s 43.The health authorities also took samples of 34,784 people on Saturday. According to the medical bulletin, the day’s positivity rate stood at 1.23% while fatality rate was 1.17%. With 7,51,387 of the 7,65,522 infected people discharged so far, recovery rate stood at 98.15%. Hisar district continued to top the charts with both the highest number of active cases and death toll, at 513 and 949, respectively. Districts bordering Delhi — Gurugram and Faridabad — have recorded 866 and 712 deaths, respectively. In terms of active cases, Sirsa has 490, followed by Gurugram (414), Karnal (385), Jind (371), Faridabad (326), Panipat (324) and Kurukshetra (320). Meanwhile, 74,654 people were jabbed on Saturday, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered to 64.87 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-in-haryana-426-new-cases-45-deaths-101623515071837.html
12-06-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh records 337 new coronavirus cases, 24 deaths||Madhya Pradesh on Saturday recorded 337 new coronavirus infections which raised its caseload to 7,87,909, while the death toll reached 8,534 with 24 new fatalities, the Health Department said here. A total of 985 patients were discharged from hospitals since Friday evening, taking the count of recoveries to 7,74,600, the department said. With 96 new cases, Indore district's caseload went up to 1,52,437, while that of Bhopal district rose to 1,22,607 with addition of 93 infections. The Covid-19 death toll in Indore district rose to 1,368 with two more deaths. The death count in Bhopal went up to 964 with one new fatality. Indore district now has 742 active patients while Bhopal has 1,417. The total active caseload in the state is 4,775. As many as 13 out of 52 districts of the state recorded no case in the last 24 hours. With 77,838 new tests, the tally of samples tested for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh reached 1.08 crore. Coronavirus figures of MP are as follows: Total cases 7,87,909, New cases 337, Death toll 8,534, Recovered 7,74,600, Active cases 4,775, Number of tests conducted so far 1,08,29,438.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-records-337-new-coronavirus-cases-24-deaths-101623514341580.html
12-06-2021||Other||Fully support solar power plant for Golden Temple: Amarinder||Chandigarh Extending his government’s full support to a solar plant power project for the Darbar Sahib (the Golden Temple), Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder on Saturday said he had directed the power department to accord approval to the Shiromani Gurudwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) for installation, and to work proactively towards early completion. The CM was responding to SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur’s statement about not getting state government’s sanction for the solar plant that would supply power to the Golden Temple. A government spokesperson said that in a meeting held earlier this week, the power department had also pledged complete support to the project.“United Sikh Mission, a US-based organisation, had sought permission to set up a solar plant of 2 MW, about 10km from the Golden Temple. The government had no objection and the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) had given in-principle approval,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fully-support-solar-power-plant-for-golden-temple-amarinder-101623514411830.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Sho(r)t of help? Denizens step up to assist house helps to get the jab||From convincing their house helps to get Covid-19 vaccine, to booking a slot for them on the mobile app, and even driving them down to the vaccination centre — residents of Delhi-NCR are doing it all to aid their house helps and staff fight Covid-19 with the help of Covid shots. Ritesh Gandotra, an MNC professional residing in Vasant Kunj, says his driver’s younger child was born during the lockdown last year, and it was imperative to ensure that his driver’s entire family is safe especially after the second wave of Covid-19. “We got him and his wife vaccinated even before us as he is usually more exposed to the outside world. This was no charity as he is our man! Unfortunately, our house help moved to her village with family without waiting for vaccination. Trying to see if she can get it there. And our cook is completely against getting vaccination. No amount of convincing has been able to make her change her mind so far, but we’re trying our best,” he says. A Delhi-based home chef, Ragini Saxena recently got her house help vaccinated, and opines that the means to book a slot has many hurdles, and therefore one must step up to help their staff. She says, “It’s something that everyone of us should take of. An initiative is needed for at least our house helps, as they are not so well educated to understand the necessity to get vaccinated, and alongside also don’t have the required resources to book themselves for a vaccine slot online. If each one of us helps at least two such domestic helps around us, the burden to vaccinate everyone will lessen from the government’s shoulders, and we’ll all be much safer in the near future.”Some are providing monetary assistance to their domestic helps, to resolve their financial crunch that’s making many opt out of the run to get vaccinated. Take for instance, Anuja Rastogi, who works in the retail industry, and says, “The first jab for one of our houses helps and our driver was done in our condominium, for which we paid ₹250. And for the second dose, I willingly registered them, and even helped in finding an appointment that took some time. This required me to drive all the way to Chhattarpur, from Gurugram, and waiting there for three hours to get it done. For my other house help, I registered on the mobile app and paid ₹1,100 to get her the first dose, and I will support her for the second dosage as well. This is the need of the hour, and no questions asked! For all of us to be safe, our house helps must stay safe first, especially since they continue to risk so much for us. This is one way to pay it forward.”Gurugrammer Shilpi Singh, a leadership coach, adds that it’s also one’s “responsibility” to do so. “Every person needs to be vaccinated. Hence, it’s our responsibility to ensure that not just our family members, but also those employed with us as our domestic staff are vaccinated well in time. Some of them may not find the process easy, therefore we need to extend help to them and if needed shouldn’t shy away from bearing the cost for the same.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/short-of-help-denizens-step-up-to-assist-house-helps-to-get-the-jab-101623514232430.html
12-06-2021||Other||Exempt Covid-related items from tax, Manpreet tells GST Council||Chandigarh Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Saturday said the Group of Ministers (GoM) on the Goods and Services Tax (GST) should stop acting like a feudal lord (‘shenshahs of yore’) and let compassion speak through its decisions, as the Covid-19 crisis was once in a century calamity. Seeking that all Covid-related goods must not attract any tax during the pandemic, Manpreet, along with other finance ministers representing Congress, vehemently opposed the imposition of GST on Covid related items at this time of a national crisis, and recorded their note of dissent. The other alternative is to charge 0.1%, which is well within the powers of the GST Council, and this measure should be in place till the pandemic is over. Releasing his remarks and interventions made at the 44th meeting of the GST Council, Manpreet urged the ruling regime to include Congress representatives in the Group of Ministers (GOM). “It is preposterous that the principal opposition party of India in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha has been excluded from the GoM,” said Manpreet, adding that the vice-chairperson of the GST Council must be appointed. He regretted that the GoM is not acting with compassion, and it is parroting the Centre, perhaps out of the fear that they may not be included in a future GoM. Manpreet reminded the GoM that health care services, including all recognised systems of medicine (allopathy, Ayurveda, Unani, Homoeopathy, Yoga), are already exempt under the GST. The supply of medicine that is a part of the treatment package is also exempt since the entire transaction is considered a service. He criticised the discussion for restricting GST on government hospitals versus private hospitals stating that both treat the people of India. The idea that we need GST registration and billing and later file returns are farcical. What would a consumer feel seeing GST reflected on an invoice, the Punjab Finance Minister asked? He cautioned that the attempt to pick and choose exemptions on the grounds of inverted duty structure or cheaper imports would end up destroying the very foundation of the GST system. Finally, Manpreet said that Covid-19 related exemptions should not be over by August 31, 2021. Is Covid going to be over by then, he asked? “We need to have a more realistic and reasonable time frame and one which is based on compassion,” Manpreet said at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exempt-covid-related-items-from-tax-manpreet-tells-gst-council-101623512731682.html
12-06-2021||Other||Farm agitation, faith spur 20 Sangrur villages to shun drugs||Sangrur In a positive consequence, perhaps unintended, of the farm agitation against the three farm laws, at least 20 villages in the district have passed resolutions that declare these as drug-free. Sarpanches and farm union leaders claim that Punjabis had been defamed as drug addicts, however, they were fighting for their rights and the farm agitation had led to drastic changes in their lifestyle. Panchayats of Matran; Balad Kothi; Dittupura; Masani; Sheron; Sangatpura; Sajuma, Turi, Sakraudi, Harditpura, Changaliwala, Gaga, Arakwas and a few wards of Lehra town have passed these resolutions. They declare that were free of the ‘Udta Punjab’ stigma, with the key slogan being ‘Nobody sells drugs, no one consumes’. Jiwan Singh, 42, husband of Daljit Kaur, sarpanch Sakraudi near Bhawanigarh, said people of the state were fighting two wars. “People of the state are fighting against the ‘black laws’ as well as drugs. The farm protest has united the youth, with even drug addicts wanting to participate. No one is consuming any type of drugs in our village,” he added.Sangrur block chief of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) Gobinder Singh said their stir had motivated youth and women. “If 50 youngsters were taking drugs previously, now 25 have quit the habit and the others are trying. The youth is with us. The number of farmer suicides had deceased and women are massively participating in protests,” added Gobinder Singh.Jagjit Singh, 33, husband of Virpal Kaur sarpanch Sangatpura village, said, “Youngsters hailing from dalit community are into construction work and the boys of Jatt are Gursikh. These youths are not consuming drugs.”Model town number 1 sarpanch, Gurcharan Singh, said, “Residents of village had faith in the local dera and Sikhism, which protected them. There is no one who consumes Chitta in the village. Young used to spend their time in sports and religious practice,” he added. Sangrur SP (Punjab Bureau of Investigation) Gurpreet Singh said 20-odd villages had passed a resolution against the drug menace.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-agitation-faith-spur-20-sangrur-villages-to-shun-drugs-101623511651645.html
12-06-2021||Pune||Contractor arrested for causing labourer’s death||A labour contractor was arrested, and later released on bail, for causing the death of a 50-year-old worker on a construction site in Kondhwa. The arrested man was identified as Furkan Sakin Ahmad (30), a resident of Lakshmi Park vasti area of Wanowrie. He was later released on bail by a court. The deceased man was identified as Amit Noormohammad Subhedar (50), a resident of Sayyed Nagar. The incident happened around 1:30 on May 25. The man was working on installing tin sheets around the godown space used by a bakery in the locality. He was welding two sheets at the top of the sheet when he fell to his death. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Resma Subhedar (39), a resident of Sayyed nagar area of Wanowrie and wife of the deceased man. A case under Section 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station. Police sub inspector S Sonawane of Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/contractor-arrested-for-causing-labourer-s-death-101623511051028.html
12-06-2021||Pune||PMC appoints engineers to speed up 24*7 water project||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has assigned senior officers for each road to ensure that pipeline laying work for the 24*7 water project is sped up completed as soon as possible to lessen the inconvenience caused to citizens. As the work of a 24x7 water project is ongoing in the city, many city roads are dug for laying the water pipelines. Mainly the roads in the city’s central area Laxmi road, Bajirao road and internal roads have been dug up for the ambitious project. As Covid -19 cases came down, the district administration and the municipal administration unlocked the city and allowed shops to remain open. After unlocking, the traffic on city roads increased and citizens suffered a lot due to road works. Leader of the house in the PMC Ganesh Bidkar called a meeting with all officers and engineers and instructed that they should ensure that road works should speed up. Bidkar said, “It is true that the citizens are suffering due to road works but at the same time it is also important to execute the water pipeline project. Many pipelines are old. The water pipeline on Bajirao road and Kumtekar road were laid in the year 1975. Most of the work was carried out during the lockdown. Citizens should bear some trouble by considering the importance of the water project. PMC would ensure that the works are carried out quickly and the roads are resurfaced properly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-appoints-engineers-to-speed-up-24-7-water-project-101623510930987.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Baba ka Dhaba owner apologises to YouTuber Gaurav Wasan, says he never called Gaurav 'thief'||Kanta Prasad, the owner of Baba of Dhaba eatery in Malviya Nagar in Delhi, is once again amid the buzz of social media. In a video shared by blogger Karan Dua on Instagram, Prasad can be seen apologising for the misunderstanding created between him and YouTuber Gaurav Wasan.In the viral video shared by an Instagram handle named Dil Se Foodie, Prasad can be seen saying ‘chor nahi tha Gaurav Wasan’ (Gaurav Wasan was not a thief).Also read| Baba returns to dhaba: Rise and fall of the social media sensation"Woh ladka koi chor nahi tha, na usko humne kabhi chor kahan hai (Gaurav Wasan was not a thief neither did we call him that)," Prasad said while talking to Dua. The video was shot at his old roadside stall as his restaurant recently shut down due to lack of business.Kanta Prasad shot to fame last year after a YoutTube video by Gaurav Wasan highlighting the miseries of the octagenarian couple during Covid lockdown went viral. Because of the video, he was able to garner funds through donations that poured in for the couple from across the country.With the donations, he started his own restaurant last year in December, which had to be shut down due to huge financial costs and lack of customers."I had shut that new eatery on February 15. The heavy expense of around ₹1 lakh was involved in running it and we had to pay ₹36,000 per month to workers working there and the rent of that shop was ₹35,000 per month. Other expenses included electricity bill, water bill, etc. As compared to the investment, the returns were less so it was necessary to close it because we were incurring losses," ANI quoted Prasad as saying.Also read: Delhi Police books YouTuber accused of cheating ‘Baba Ka Dhaba’ ownerThe relationship between Prasad and Wasan, meanwhile, soured after the former accused the latter of fraud and said he was not giving them the entire amount of donation. Wasan had denied the allegations and has repeatedly shown documents regarding the payments, as also said by Dua in the video shared by him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/baba-ka-dhaba-owner-apologises-to-youtuber-gaurav-wasan-says-he-never-called-gaurav-thief-101623507701589.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Former sarpanch shot dead in Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri||A former sarpanch was shot dead over suspected old rivalry at Sahuwas village in Haryana’s Charkhi Dadri district on Saturday.Identified as Sandeep Kumar, the victim was in his early 30s. Police said he had gone to the village temple when two bike-borne assailants opened fire at him.“He received seven bullet wounds and died on the spot,” said Dadri deputy superintendent of police Bali Singh, adding that the case is suspected to be of an old rivalry. “The victim’s brother had also been killed in a group clash five years ago. We have registered a murder case and investigations are on,” said the DSP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-sarpanch-shot-dead-in-haryana-s-dadri-101623507993009.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Lord Krishna’s 50-foot statue to come up in Kurukshetra||The Haryana government will spend ₹10 crore on erecting 50-foot-tall statue of Lord Krishna in Kurukshetra district.The statue, which will be named as Virat Swaroop of Lord Krishna, will be built by the Haryana Tourism Department at Jyotisar village, 12 kilometre from Kurukshetra, which is considered as the place where the Bhagavad Gita sermon was delivered during the Mahabharata. The authorities claimed it will give a new identity to Kurukshetra and Jyotisar.Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary of the Kurukshetra Development Board (KDB), said the project was suggested by the board and approved by Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. He said it will be completed in three months. The government has roped in sculptor Ram Vanji Sutar, who has also designed the 182-metre Statue of Unity in Gujarat, for the project. The statue will be made of Ashtadhatu (an alloy of eight metals often used for casting idols in Hindu and temples) and will be 50-foot-tall, including 10-foot base.Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said the work on several other projects under the Krishna Circuit Kurukshetra is going on, and it would give a new identity to Jyotisar Dham. He said efforts are being made to bring Kurukshetra, especially Jyotisar, on the world tourism map, and several tourism spots are being developed over 1 lakh square foot area as it is expected that around 10,000 people will visit here daily after completion of all projects.According to the KDB, the projects include the facelift to Jyotisar, Brahma Sarovar, Sannhit Sarovar, Narkatari Baan Ganga, Abhimanyu Ka Tila and Mahabharata themed park.The Haryana government’s Saraswati Heritage Development Board has also decided to spend ₹100 crore to develop a 10 kilometre “boat-way” to boost religious tourism in Kurukshetra and nearby villages. According to the proposal, the boat service will begin at the ancient Saraswati Tirtha near Bir Pipli, located on the NH-44, and will end at Jyotisar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lord-krishna-s-50-foot-statue-to-come-up-in-kurukshetra-101623507991493.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Northern Railways permits sale of platform tickets at 8 stations in Delhi, hikes price||The Northern Railways has now allowed the sale of platform tickets, which was suspended in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, at eight major stations under the Delhi division. Northern Railways general manager Ashutosh Gangal announced the resumption of the sale of tickets, according to a PTI report.The sale of platform tickets was suspended with the aim to prevent overcrowding at railway stations amid the rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country.However, to continue to avoid overcrowding at stations, the platform ticket price has been increased to ₹30 per ticket, reported PTI.Platform ticket facility can now be availed by passengers travelling via these stations-New Delhi, Delhi Junction, Hazrat Nizamuddin, Anand Vihar Terminal, Meerut City, Ghaziabad, Delhi Sarai Rohilla and Delhi Cantt railway stations.On the resumption of sale of platform tickets on other railway stations, a Northern Railways spokesperson said that the decision will be taken according to the demand, the PTI report said."Now, zones are opening up in a graded manner, based on ground situations," PTI quoted the spokesperson as saying.The Railway Board has allowed the sale of platform tickets, authorising its divisions and zones to take decisions individually based on the Covid-19 situation of the respective areas.Also read: Mumbai local train services take a hit due to incessant rains. All details hereThe Covid-19 case trajectory in Delhi is witnessing a downward trend. On Saturday, the national capital reported 213 new cases of viral infection, in contrast to 238 cases reported the previous day, according to the state health dashboard. The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi has also declined sharply and currently stands at 0.30 per cent, the data showed.Meanwhile, the Railways is battling with the monsoon in Mumbai that recorded 459 per cent more rainfall from June 1 to June 12 this year. The Union minister for railways on Thursday said that both Mumbai and the Railways need to be prepared for the monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/northern-railways-permits-sale-of-platform-tickets-at-8-stations-in-delhi-hikes-price-101623497628959.html
12-06-2021||Bangalore||Siddaramaiah drops hints of contesting 2023 Karnataka assembly polls from Badami||Senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Saturday indicated that he may contest the 2023 assembly elections from Badami, which he currently represents as an MLA, even as a section in the party urged him to enter the poll fray from the city's Chamarajpet segment."Press people question me about my repeated visits to Chamarajpet, I come here as I'm repeatedly invited, that's all. They ask me whether I will leave Badami and contest from Chamarajpet during the next election," the leader of opposition in the legislature assembly said. Speaking at an event in Chamarajpet, he said it is Zameer Ahmed Khan's (Congress MLA) generosity that he is asking me to contest the election from the constituency he represents. "As of now I will contest the election from Badami itself... it is important that Zameer Ahmed Khan should win (the next election) and should be in the government," Siddarmaiah said, even as Khan and those present at the event demanded that he contest from Chamarajpet. As people present at the event on Khan's insistence shouted that the former chief minister should contest from Chamarajpet, Siddaramaiah said, "... let's see later," and heaped praise on the MLA for his service to the constituency and people in need. Making it clear that he will be contesting the 2023 assembly elections, the Congress legislature party leader had recently said no decision has been taken yet on the constituency. There has been speculation within the party circles for some time now that Siddaramaiah, who represents Badami in north Karnataka, may come back to his home turf of the old Mysuru region or somewhere in Bengaluru for the next election. His loyalist and party's Chamarajpet legislator B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan has even offered to vacate the constituency for him. The Chamarajpet segment in the city has a sizeable minority population. Siddaramaiah has already announced that he will not contest again from Chamundeshwari assembly constituency in Mysuru, where he had tasted defeat during the May 2018 assembly polls. Siddaramaiah, the then sitting Chief Minister, had lost in Chamundeshwari to JD(S) G T Deve Gowda by a margin of over 36,042 votes. He, however, won Badami, the other constituency from where he had contested. Making his debut in the Assembly in 1983, Siddaramaiah was elected from Chamundeshwari on a Lok Dal Party ticket. He has won five times from this constituency and tasted defeat thrice. After neighbouring Varuna became a constituency in 2008 following delimitation, Siddaramaiah represented it till he vacated the seat for his son Dr Yatindra in the 2018 assembly polls and went back to his old constituency of Chamundeshwari. Ahead of the May 2018 assembly polls, Siddaramaiah had said it would "most likely" be his last election. Earlier, during the 2013 assembly polls too, he had said that it was his last election and went on to become chief minister after the polls. It is no secret that Siddaramaiah is nursing his ambition to become chief minister for a second term if the party wins the next assembly polls in 2023, and his loyalists like Khan have already started to openly pitch for him as the next CM candidate. This could come in the way of State Congress president D K Shivakumar's ambitions, as he too is said to be eyeing to become the Chief Minister, with some of his supporters too already batting in favour of him for the coveted post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/siddaramaiah-drops-hints-on-contesting-2023-assembly-polls-from-badami-101623504976686.html
12-06-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Probe ordered into allegations of fake Covid results issued by private labs||The Haridwar district administration has ordered a probe into allegations that fake Covid reports were issued by private laboratories engaged by the Uttarakhand government to conduct tests during the Kumbh Mela. One of the world’s largest religious gatherings, the Kumbh was held in the state from April 1 to 30, and the notified Kumbh area covered various places in Haridwar, Dehradun and Tehri districts. A committee headed by Chief Development Officer Saurabh Gaharwar has been constituted to look into the allegations and submit a report within 15 days, Haridwar District Magistrate C Ravishankar said on Saturday. Payment to all labs which had been assigned the responsibility of conducting tests -- RT-PCR and rapid antigen -- during the Kumbh has been withheld for the time being due to the ongoing investigation, he said. A detailed probe was ordered by the Haridwar administration after preliminary investigations revealed that many private labs roped in by the district health department issued fake Covid test reports in the name of random people on the basis of their identity cards and phone numbers. Preliminary investigations into the alleged irregularities had been conducted by Chief Controlling Officer of Covid Cases Abhishek Tripathi, who recommended a detailed probe into the matter. It is suspected that more than one lakh such test results had been issued by the private labs, sources in the health department said. The labs apparently did so to meet the daily testing quota of 50,000 tests set by the Uttarakhand High Court during the Kumbh, the sources said. Twenty-two private labs had been hired for the purpose by the district health department to conduct testing during the festival. When contacted Haridwar's Chief Medical Officer, S K Jha, said, "Kumbh area extends up to Rishikesh. Until the probe ordered by the district administration is complete it is difficult to say at what level the alleged irregularities were committed."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-probe-ordered-into-allegations-of-fake-covid-results-issued-by-private-labs-101623503490473.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Third Covid wave chances real, Delhi govt preparing on war-footing: Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal Saturday cautioned that the chances of a third Covid wave were quite real, and asserted his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it.He said that the indications of a third wave are coming from the UK where coronavirus cases are rising again despite "45 per cent of its population" being vaccinated."So, we cannot afford to sit idle," he told an online event to inaugurate 22 new PSA oxygen plants at nine hospitals across Delhi.He said these plants have a total production capacity of 17.3 MT, and they will strengthen the preparations to fight Covid. As many as 17 more oxygen plants will be started by July, he said.The Delhi government is also procuring oxygen tankers to aid the fight against a third wave, he said, adding that the previous wave, which in on the wane, was "very dangerous".Expressing gratitude towards industries for their help in fighting the second wave, he also said the people of Delhi came together to combat it with struggle and discipline, and have "succeeded in controlling it".He prayed that a third wave of Covid doesn't arrive. However, he cautioned that the chances of a third wave are "quite real", and "if it happens, Delhi has to again fight together"."We cannot afford to sit idle and our government is preparing on a war-footing to combat it," he said.He also underlined the need for expanding the vaccination drive to fight the pandemic, saying, "Our vaccination program has been running successfully. The shortage of vaccines is still a problem, but our 'Jahan Vote, Wahan Vaccination' (vaccination at polling booths) is a success."What was the second wave for the country during April and May this year was the fourth for Delhi as the city had already battled three waves till November 2020, Kejriwal said.Doctors, nurses, paramedic staff, sanitation workers, and others played a huge role in the fight against the virus, he said, adding, "I know many doctors who did not go home for days. I want to thank them on behalf of the people of Delhi."The chief minister underlined that the number of peak cases in a day in the first wave was about 4,500 which escalated to over 28,000 in the fourth.He said Delhi witnessed a huge shortage of oxygen during the fourth wave as Delhi is not an industrial state and doesn't have its own source of production of oxygen.Delhi needs 150-200 MT of medical oxygen for non-Covid purposes, apart from some amount of industrial oxygen. This requirement rose to 700 MT during the fourth wave, he said.Delhi saw a massive crisis of medical oxygen supply during mid-April to early May period, when several hospitals issued SOS for oxygen.Many deaths were attributed to this scarcity, and the Delhi government has already formed a committee of experts to examine and ascertain if those fatalities were indeed caused by the scarcity of the life-saving gas."We didn't have the means of production or even tankers to procure oxygen from states like Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on the directions of the Central government. Now, we have to be fully prepared," Kejriwal said.He mentioned that on Thursday he had inaugurated three storage tanks of 57 MT each, along with oxygen tanks of 13.5 MT each.A total of 27 PSA oxygen plants, including the 22 inaugurated Saturday, have been made operational in Delhi. Apart from these, six plants have already been started by the Central government and seven are going to begin soon, the chief minister said.Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that of the total PSA plants opened Saturday, 17 have been given by HCL Technologies and four by Maruti Udyog. HCL will be supplying five more plants soon, he said.HCL Technologies Chairperson Roshni Nadar and the heads of various city government-run hospitals took part in the event.The hospitals where these plants have been installed include Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital, and Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital.All these hospitals have a capacity of 9,500 LPM (litres per minute). This means, 1,000 beds daily will be able to receive oxygen from within the hospital itself, Jain said."This will let us be independent." he said, adding many plants are the pipeline."We are working on a war-footing to equip ourselves for the third wave especially on the front of oxygen availability, which was a crisis that we faced in the second wave," Jain said.HCL Technologies’ Roshni Nadar said, "HCL is contributing 21 ready-to-install Oxygen plants, imported from France, and 17 of these have already been installed across seven hospitals in Delhi. The remaining four have also arrived and will be installed over the next few days".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/third-covid-wave-chances-real-delhi-govt-preparing-on-war-footing-kejriwal-101623503350847.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs 213 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload drops to 3,610||Delhi on Saturday witnessed a further drop in the daily count of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases as it registered 213 new infections in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin. The active caseload, which stood at 3,922 on Friday, dropped to 3,610 in the last 24 hours, the Covid-19 dashboard of the national capital showed.New Covid-19 infections in the Capital fell by 25 from Friday and with that, the test positivity rate also declined 0.01 percentage point to 0.30 per cent, according to the data. The positivity rate is lowest after February when it stood at 0.25 per cent.Also read | 'No, India not hiding Covid-19 toll,' Centre replies to criticism in 4 pointsAs many as 28 people lost their lives to the fatal virus in the last 24 hours, as per the Delhi Covid bulletin. The number of fatalities increased marginally as Delhi reported 24 deaths on Friday.The new infections and deaths pushed the coronavirus case tally to 1,430,884 and the toll reached 24,800, as per the data.This drop in the number of new cases on Saturday comes on the back of reduced tests done for tracing the virus in the population the previous day. 71,513 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, while 77,112 samples were tested for the disease on Friday, the bulletin showed.Of the 71,513 tests done during these last 24 hours, 50,766 were RTPCR,CBNAAT, TrueNat, while 20,747 were rapid antigen tests. More than 20.19 million tests have been conducted in Delhi so far since the pandemic hit the country in March last year.Also read: Delhi's 1st drive-through Covid-19 vaccination centre closes, says 'unviable'Around 497 patients recovered from the disease since Friday, the bulletin showed. The number of new recoveries fell on Saturday as 504 patients were discharged on Friday, according to the bulletin.The total number of active containment zones in Delhi as on Saturday stands at 7,062. More than 8,000 total containment zones were active on Friday, according to the data.The national capital opened up on Monday after strict curbs were imposed in April to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-213-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-drops-to-3610-101623500260090.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal ex-CM Virbhadra Singh stable after testing positive||The condition of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh, 86, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday for the second time in two months, is stable. “His (pulse oxygen) saturation is 96 and his condition is stable,” Dr Janak Raj, the medical superintendent of Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGMC), said in a statement on Saturday. Virbhadra Singh was hospitalised at IGMC when he complained of breathing difficulty on April 23, the day he arrived in Shimla after being discharged from a private hospital in Mohali, where he underwent Covid treatment. He had first tested positive on April 13. The veteran Congress leader, who was undergoing treatment in a separate room in the IGMC’s cardiology department till Friday, has now been shifted to a makeshift facility in the medical college. Virbhadra Singh’s wife Pratibha, 64, a former member of Parliament, has also tested positive. “By the blessings of goddess Bhima Kali, I’m healthy and in doctors’ care,” she tweeted from Virbhadra Singh’s handle. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur wished his predecessor a speedy recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-ex-cm-virbhadra-singh-stable-after-testing-positive-101623497550699.html
12-06-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Noccarc turns Covid crisis into opportunity in med-tech||PUNE Noccarc is not claiming it helped alleviate the ventilator crisis in Pune and Maharashtra. At least, not yet.However, the fact is , as Pune’s struggled with ensuring enough ventilators for Covid-19 patients, especially during the first wave of Covid-19 infections in 2020, IIT Kanpur alumni Nikhil Kurele and Harshit Rathore, founders of Noccarc stepped in.Says Kurele, “Opportunities need to be created. In a population of 1.3 billion there are lot of opportunities. In the first wave we manufactured the ventilators. In the second wave, we delivered the ventilators. When we say, delivered the ventilators, those are not normal numbers. We delivered close to 2,700 ventilators in just 50 days. There are certain Covid Care centres in Pune where all the ventilators are provided by Noccarc. These are the kind of changes we are able to create.”Ventilators were not Noccarc’s original product line. In a classic case of market demand forcing a startup to pivot, the firm’s original avatar was a clean-tech startup. In fact even the name, Noccarc evolved on the steep learning curve, the founders were ascending, in a hurry.Says Kurele, “We did not want a name that sounded Indian. Nocca Robotics was the name of our startup initially. We hadn’t registered then, but we also got a legal notice from a MNC company. So, we decided to change the name. The new name was Noccarc. The first waterless solar panel cleaning robot which we designed, was in a room inside our campus, but then we realised we could not take it out. So, we had to dismantle and reassemble it.”In the beginning…Nikhil Kurele is originally from Shahdol village in Madhya Pradesh while Rathore is from Kanpur. The duo used to stay in same hostel and participated in events of the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) club. “Harshit was interning at Tata Motors and I was with Tata Technologies. We had seen the industry from very close quarters. WWe listed some ideas which would come to India in five years’ time,” recalls Kurele.“We ran our startup for two years (2017 – 18) at the SIIC incubation centre of IIT Kanpur. We didn’t want to rush to market. We were confident that the solar panel-cleaning robot market would grow and be as good as the automobile market. There are several players who have entered the market since, but when we started, it was only us. In Pune itself, there are now six companies working on this concept. However, eye for detailing is the differentiating factor,” Nikhil said. Pune pivotKurele says, “In 2019, we shifted to Pune to scale the solar panel cleaning product. I had worked for Bajaj in Pune for eight months, so I knew the city very well. Apart from this, there are multiple other reasons for selecting Pune as our HQ. Firstly, Pune is not very costly and second, the attrition rate is very low. Three others joined our team. We had then raised funds from the Indian Angel Network, after which, our team size increased to 21.” Then, in March 2020, the Covid-19 outbreak hit. The solar panel cleaning project stopped. A pivot beckoned.“We had never seen a ventilator before making one. These things are science based and we had expertise with control motors. So, we could make our working model in 48 hours and when we got our factory permission, we made it in 12 hours,” Kurele adds.Team buildingKurele says, “When the second wave hit, we knew that the people working with us are from Pune. For two consecutive months we paid them a 2x salary for the same work. We have given a 3x bonus in addition to the salary to employees working on the ventilator project. Our manufacturing capacity was 30 per day, but our team took it to 100 per day. These are some small steps we used try to make an impact, not just outside, but also inside our organisation. “The culture which we have on our premises is something that creates positive vibes. Dr Saurabh Srivastava, a Padmashree awardee and co-founder and chair of institutions like Nasscom, Indian Venture Capital Association, TiE, New Delhi NCR and Indian Angel Network, mentored us to build this culture in the organisation.”Pandemic experienceIn the first wave period, Noccarc sold only 300 ventilators. Says Kurele, “We had confidence in our product and had established an assembly line. We moved into a Bhosari facility in October 2020. We knew that there is a market that will respect value. Now, we have started a 24x7 call centre for our ventilator products. We have displayed our number on the machine itself so, if any doctor or hospital has a complaint with the product s/he can call us directly. Our idea is not to just sell product, but to create value.” “The beauty of the machine lies in its compactness and how well it delivers the parameters (true and accurate). The kind of accuracy which we have achieved in this price range is also one of the differentiating factors. Another important achievement is that we have been able to give access to ventilators in tier 2 and tier 3 cities – where hospitals, doctors and patients were not able to get them,” he adds.Preparing for the third waveNarrating his experience during the second wave of pandemic in India, Kurele says, “Desperation was very high in the second wave infection period. People thought they were prepared for the second wave, but when it actually hit, it was really bad. It was more lethal. Our entire ventilator range, including paediatric, will be available soon. We will actually make healthcare affordable.”Future plansNoccarc is currently working on four products for the ICUs, slated to be ready the in next two quarters. Kurele says, “We will have 5,000 ventilators installed all over India. It will be five per cent of the total ventilators installed in India. It’s a big number that we have achieved in just one year in the critical care sector. We don’t want to disturb the market unnecessarily. We want to make a profit since we are in business, but we don’t want to do profiteering.”Apart from the ICU products, Noccarc will be getting into high-end ventilators and transportation care. “There is deep thought which goes into each and every product. We also want to have continuous development of our products. Besides, we are also entering the automobile industry. A new factory setup will be installed in Pune closer to Hinjewadi. On the other hand, we will resume the solar panel cleaning projects in Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat,” adds Kurele.Inside out“The ventilator project was the hard work and ingenuity of the two innovators, who had never even seen an ICU ventilator before this. I hope that their story will inspire entrepreneurs and innovators to transform the Indian manufacturing industry and put it on par with global standards.” says professor Amitabha Bandyopadhyay, incubation & innovation, IIT Kanpur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-noccarc-turns-covid-crisis-into-opportunity-in-medtech-101623497372512.html
12-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,400 new Covid cases, 50 deaths on Friday||The district reported 1,400 new Covid-19 cases and 50 deaths on Friday, according to the state health department.The progressive caseload stood at 1,033,063 out of which 998,161 have recovered, 14,603 have been reported dead and 20,299 are active cases undergoing treatment in the hospital or are in home isolation.Pune rural reported 866 new cases which took the progressive count to 297,762 and with 40 more deaths the death toll stood at 5,058.Pune city reported 301 new cases which took the progressive count to 488,680 and with nine more deaths the toll went up to 7,410.Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 233 new cases the progressive count went up to 246,621 and with one more death, the toll went stood at 2,034.The state reported that 8,104 patients have been discharged today and 5,616,857 patients have been discharged after full recovery until Friday. The recovery rate in the state is 95.4 per cent.Also, 11,766 new cases and 406 deaths were reported in the state on Friday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.81%.Out of 37,611,005 laboratory samples 5,887,853 have been tested positive (15.65 per cent) for Covid-19 until Friday. Currently, 1,004,770 people are in home quarantine and 6,024 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-400-new-covid-cases-50-deaths-on-friday-101623496710821.html
12-06-2021||Pune||Students heave a sigh of relief as libraries in Pune city can reopen with 50% capacity from June 14||Many students who are preparing for competitive exams have heaved a sigh of relief as study circles and libraries in the city can reopen with up to 50 per cent capacity from Monday (June 14).As Pune is an educational hub students from across the country come here for studies and the majority make use of libraries.“It is good news for all of us, as libraries would start with 50 per cent capacity and now more students would return to Pune for studies,” said Ruksana Patil Shaikh, a student.“Currently, there are no major examination schedules declared by the MPSC and students coming from the rural areas are staying back for pre-monsoon agriculture works. Still, study circles and libraries play a major role in students lives in Pune and we are happy to return,” said she said.There are around 2,500 small and big study circles and libraries in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad area.Students from across the state and even from other states, come to Pune for studying and doing preparation for various competitive exams. There are various facilities available at these libraries right from air condition, separate desk, Wi-Fi and many more. So students prefer to go and study in this silent and peaceful environment for studying.“The decision taken by the state government today is welcomed and it will give much-needed relief to several library and study circle owners in the city. Due to both the lockdowns hundreds of libraries shut down, there was no money left to pay the rents and even students were not coming to Pune due to fear of Covid-19. Now, we hope that the situation improves and students return to the city,” said Ajaiz Shaikh, president of the Abhyasika Owners Association Maharashtra Rajya, who also is the owner of ‘Readers club’ study circle in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-as-libraries-in-pune-city-can-reopen-with-50-capacity-from-june-14-101623496530769.html
12-06-2021||Pune||Paediatric health care revamped in Pune in anticipation of third Covid wave||In anticipation of the third Covid-19 wave which is likely to affect children more than the adults since they have not been vaccinated, the paediatric hospitals in the Pune district are being revamped.The state family welfare department has asked all district health offices to repair the paediatric units, increase beds and also ensure central oxygen supply to all the wards. The department has also asked to ensure that all the units are manned with sufficient experts.The state government has asked the district administration to ensure that all the special newborn care unit (SNCU), neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), High Dependency Unit for Children (HDU), mother newborn care unit (MNCU) and Paediatric Intensive Care Unit are structurally stable and that all the necessary repair works have been undertaken.The health department has also asked to increase more beds for paediatric care and to ensure that all the beds are connected to a central oxygen system.Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, a civil surgeon who is responsible for this said, “We have been asked to submit a google sheet report of all the paediatric hospitals which could be used if the third wave comes at all.”“We need to ensure that the hospitals have beds and treatment facilities for the newborns as well as that they can diagnose, treat and even provide telemedicine if needed. The hospital must be manned with experts and also nurses and health officials who can treat paediatric patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/paediatric-health-care-revamped-in-pune-in-anticipation-of-third-covid-wave-101623496350650.html
12-06-2021||Pune||‘Positive about international airport in Purandar, paperwork completed’: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has put the ball in the Center’s court regarding the progress of the proposed international airport to be built in Pune district, HT has learnt.“We have completed the paperwork in terms of Purandar airport and have sent it to the Center. The state government is positive about this project,” Pawar said in Pune on Friday. By saying this Pawar hinted that now it’s up to the Center to give a green signal to the pending project.In February 2021, Pawar had said that a report had been submitted to the Central government regarding the new site for Purandar airport. The originally proposed site for the Pune International Airport was changed because of the opposition from the villagers in Purandar Tehsil. Then a revised proposal, with the change in the location site, was submitted to the Center for approval.But the opposition emerged for the new site as well. Even if the Center gives a go-ahead, the land acquisition process will not be a cakewalk for the administration.Speaking on the resistance from the locals during the land acquisition process for the developmental infrastructure projects, Pawar said that the rates of compensation money have been increased now and dialogue with the locals is essential.“Infrastructure projects, such as the construction of airports, ring roads, dams, face opposition from some locals. This phenomenon is not recent. Dialogue is the key in such situations. Earlier, the land compensation was very less. Now, the compensation is four times that of ready reckoner. If you get four times compensation for your land, you can buy land elsewhere,” said Pawar.A stiff resistance has also been encountered by the officials in the land acquisition process for the western part of Ring Road to be constructed by Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC).Commenting on this Pawar said that the Ring Road is necessary considering the need of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad cities. “I personally believe that the Ring Road is necessary for PMC, PCMC, and the district’s population. If we consider the traffic in Pune city and suburbs, then the ring road is planned by thinking for the next 50 years. The benefits of this project have to be explained to the affected people. It will be discussed with them. If someone is losing the agricultural land, then more compensation can be given,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/positive-about-international-airport-in-purandar-paperwork-completed-ajit-pawar-101623496110765.html
12-06-2021||Pune||Pune dist administration to vaccinate pregnant women with flu shots||To avoid another endemic and seasonal illness amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government is now pushing the district administration to vaccinate pregnant women and those more vulnerable with the influenza (flu) vaccine. The influenza vaccine or the vaccine against Swine flu (H1N1) is proven to work effectively against respiratory illness including not just swine flu but also viruses like H3N2 and influenza B viruses.The state family welfare department has issued a notice to all district health offices to ensure that the vulnerable age groups, including pregnant women, those suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes and frontline workers attending to flu patients. Given this, the Pune administration has received over 9,000 influenza vaccines to vaccinate pregnant women.Dr Suhash Salunkhe, who is the technical advisor against Covid-19 to state, said, “Maharashtra is the only state in the country which has included influenza vaccine as part of the state routine immunization programme.”“Last year we did conduct a study to find if there is any link between Covid-19 vaccine and influenza vaccine, however, we could not find any correlation. It is important to get vaccinated against influenza since it is a seasonal illness,” he said.Dr DN Patil state immunisation officer, said, “This is a common practice and to avoid the outbreak of other ailments even as we fight against Covid-19. Pregnant women, those suffering from high blood pressure and diabetes and also those who are treating influenza patients need to be vaccinated and this is done every year.”“We want to ensure that along with Covid-19 vaccination, all routine immunization programmes and the other seasonal immunisation programmes are conducted smoothly,” he said.Dr Vaishali Jadhav, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) assistant health officer, said, “We have received about 2,500 doses from the state and we have been asked to vaccinate pregnant women at our centres.”The rural administration and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) have also received stocks of the H1N1 vaccine.In 2009 the city along with the state saw a major outbreak of the Swine flu epidemic during which too Pune was hit hard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-administration-to-vaccinate-pregnant-women-with-flu-shots-101623495990685.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai on red alert for two days, heavy rains likely for next 48 hours||Mumbai, as with the rest of the Konkan coast, has been placed under the ‘red’ category storm warning alert for the next two days by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The city is expected to experience heavy-to-very-heavy rainfall over the next 48 hours. With the formation of a low-pressure zone over the Bay of Bengal, and the resulting pressure gradient, westerly winds of increasing strength are likely to draw moisture over the Konkan coast.“Widespread rainfall activity with heavy to very heavy falls likely to continue over coastal & adjoining Ghats districts of Maharashtra and coastal Karnataka during 11th to 15th June, 2021,” the IMD stated in its press release on Friday. An offshore monsoon trough persists off the Konkan coast, along with a cyclonic circulation in the west-central Arabian Sea. There is another monsoon trough persisting from above the cyclonic circulation extending central parts of the Konkan region as well.Under the “push and pull” effect of the cyclonic circulation and the low-pressure zone in the Bay of Bengal, the monsoon troughs will dispense widespread rain and thundershowers over Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg.Mumbai received 107mm of rain in the 24 hours ending 8:30 am on Saturday, as per the AWS at Santacruz, of which 76.5mm was received after 5:30 pm on Friday.The total rainfall received by the city so far this June comes to 641mm, surpassing the season average of 505mm. This is also 459% more than the normal rainfall for the period between June 1 and June 12, which is 114.8mm, as per the IMD data.Over the next few hours, showers above the city are expected to intensify and remain heavy till at least Monday morning. With intermittent hours of relief, heavy rainfall also remains a strong possibility till at least Tuesday. Mumbai remains under an ‘orange’ category storm warning for June 14 and June 15||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-on-red-alert-for-two-days-heavy-rains-likely-for-next-48-hours-101623495750631.html
12-06-2021||Pune||Health experts in Pune warn against rampant reopening of public spaces||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Friday, announced ease in curbs from June 14. Under the new order, essential and non-essential shops will now remain open till 7 pm in the city, also malls will open up with 50 per cent capacity among other relaxations.The decision was taken by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in a review meeting held at Council Hall, Pune.While the traders, shopkeepers and shop owners in malls are happy, health experts opine that such rampant reopening of public spaces could invite a severe third wave of Covid-19 and caution needs to be taken while stepping out in public places.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “In today’s meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar I have clearly said that unconditional permissions cannot be given to open up shops and other entities. There should be some restrictions and easing should be done in a phase-wise manner.”“While they are trying to bring the economic activity back on track, the safety of people should be the top priority amid a pandemic,” he said.“The current decline in the number of Covid-19 cases should be monitored daily. If we see plateauing in the number of Covid-19 cases that means we are heading for a situation where there would be a recurrence. And if the graph goes up then we are likely to experience a potential third wave. Considering this point, if everything is reopened in Pune then there should be some restrictions and conditions to remain and PMC should monitor it daily,” he added.The traders on the other hand are happy with the administration’s decision to allow non-essential shops to operate till 7 pm.“It is a welcome decision that shop timings are now extended till 7 pm,” said Fatechand Ranka, president of the Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP).“Since the shops were allowed to operate till 4 pm there was hardly any business. Now due to this extended timings people returning home from work could do shopping on their way,” he said.“At the same time it is extremely important for all of us, to avoid crowding at marketplaces and follow all safety measures,” said Ranka.Mahesh M, chief executive officer of Creaticity Mall, said, “We are eager to open our gates on Monday. Home improvement is now a must-do and so we are all set in terms of choice of products, sanitized stores and spaces and of course a set of SOPS are in place.”“We are prepared to provide a safe and hygienic environment, well-prepared staff, warm and courteous as usual, tech aids to ensure contactless shopping, all of these are in place,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/health-experts-in-pune-warn-against-rampant-reopening-of-public-spaces-101623495691189.html
12-06-2021||Other||Central team finds irregularities in implementation of rural housing scheme in Odisha||A Union rural development ministry team, which visited Odisha in February, has found irregularities in the selection of beneficiaries and quality of construction under the Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G).The team led by Gaya Prasad, the ministry’s deputy director-general, was sent for an inquiry after the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged irregularities in the implementation of the scheme for concrete houses to every homeless poor in rural areas.The AwaasSoft portal showed the completion of the constructions of houses in some cases but that was not found to be the case on the ground. In other cases, houses were sanctioned to two members of a family. On several houses, PMAY-G logos were found to be missing.In a letter to Odisha chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra, Union rural development secretary Narendra Nath Sinha has suggested the money sanctioned to ineligible beneficiaries be recovered and cases against government officials for the lapses. “Action may be initiated against the BDOs (block development officers) and other supervisors who inspected and certified the works. Issue show cause to the district officials for not taking action on the matter,” Sinha wrote in his letter, a copy of which HT has seen.Mohapatra refused to comment on the letter. Ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) leaders said they were not aware of the letter and hence cannot comment. Sinha wrote the quality of construction noticed during the inspections was very poor. “The state is requested to take measures to improve the quality of the houses that have been inspected during the Inquiry and bring them to a liveable standard. The state must improve the system of both quality monitoring and administrative supervision for bringing significant improvements in the quality of houses under construction and of those inspected during the inspection. The state is advised to make an assessment of the quality of all the houses constructed so far and take steps for improvement.”The central team visited Odisha after a 67-year-old BJP leader in Cuttack was killed along with an associate allegedly by BJD workers in January for pointing to irregularities in the scheme. In April, the Centre objected to the use of the logo of the state’s Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana on the PMAY-G houses. BJP leader Lekhashree Samantsinghar said the central team has exposed the Odisha government’s “blatant corruption” in implementing PMAY. “From ghost beneficiaries to outright embezzlement, the list is long. Now BJD should not protect its leaders who are the conduits for such loot,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/central-team-finds-irregularities-in-implementation-of-rural-housing-scheme-in-odisha-101623495450638.html
12-06-2021||Pune||No procession in Pune dist this year; palkhis to reach Pandharpur by bus||There will be no process and the palkhis (palanquins) of Sant Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram maharaj, will reach Pandharpur by bus, due to the safety concerns of warkaris (pilgrims) amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The decision was taken by the state deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in a review meeting held at the Council Hall in the city on Friday.Also, only 100 devotees would be allowed for the “Palkhi Prasthan” ceremony at Dehu and Alandi.Every year in June, lakhs of pilgrims from Maharashtra participate in the palkhi procession. The procession embarks from the pilgrim centres of Alandi and Dehu in Pune district and the pilgrims march through the day and rest at night, reaching Pandharpur after a fortnight.“Just like last year this year too the procession will be simple. My humble request to the leaders is to not politicise the issue. The safety of people is the top priority,” said Pawar.“Only ten prestigious palkhis in the state will be allowed to go to Pandharpur on Ashadhi Ekadashi, via Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses,” he said.“Last year too due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, we had cancelled the procession,” he said.“This year also along with each procession only 40 warkaris will be allowed in the bus. Also, for the “Ringan” and “Rath” ceremony only ten warkaris will be allowed. For the Palkhi Prasthan ceremony from Dehu and Alandi 100 warkaris will be allowed inside the temple,” added Pawar.Vikas Dhage Patil, trustee of the Alandi temple committee, said, “Warkaris are always with the government and follow the orders, but it would have been good if we were allowed to carry out the procession this year. We hope that next year we can celebrate the wari with more enthusiasm.”Before the pandemic, annually more than three to four lakh warkaris join in several Dindis (group of warkaris) with the Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi which starts from Alandi and Dehu village respectively.There are around 250 registered Dindis (group of warkaris) who follow the palkhi on its way to Pandharpur and lakhs of warkaris walk in the processions. Dindis from across Maharashtra start coming to Alandi and Dehu a week before the starting day and then both the villages are crowded with warkaris.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-procession-in-pune-dist-this-year-palkhis-to-reach-pandharpur-by-bus-101623495272697.html
12-06-2021||Pune||Industries in Pune district want administration to restore supply of oxygen||As the Covid-19 cases are declining, industries in Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad and rural areas want the government to allow oxygen in a 50:50 ratio for medical and industrial use respectively.As per government directives, oxygen production units were permitted to divert up to 20 per cent of the generated stock to industries and reserve 80 per cent for medical use. The decision was taken after a review of the spread of Covid-19 infection, recovery rate and requirement of medical oxygen across the state during the last week of May.As per an order issued by the Ministry of Commerce and Industry Department for Promotion of Industry and Industrial Trade Explosive Section on June 8, oxygen manufacturers and suppliers are now allowed to supply more quantities of oxygen to the industries, after ensuring the supply of medical oxygen on priority to the states/union territories. The state government is yet to take a decision.“During the review meeting on Friday we discussed the issue with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. Since the medical intake of oxygen is declining, we will soon take a decision on how much amount now should be diverted to industries,” said Vijay Deshmukh, Pune additional collector.The small scale industries in Pimpri-Chinchwad, Bhosari and Chakan are facing a hard time as demand has increased after relaxation since June 1.“Unless the supply is increased, the suppliers will keep on selling oxygen cylinders at higher rates. It is the right time to divert the 50: 50 ratio of oxygen for medical and industrial use. The central government has passed the order accordingly. The government can get oxygen as per its need after oxygen is reserved for medical use. The state government is yet to make a decision,” said Sandip Belsare, president, Pimpri-Chinchwad small scale industries.Prashant Girbane, director-general, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), said, “The impact of the second wave of Covid-19 has significantly reduced. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) alone shows an almost 85-90% reduction in the number of patients on oxygen support. Similarly, overall Maharashtra has also witnessed a significant reduction in the number of patients on oxygen support. So the allocation also should be done accordingly.”“ Thousands of units are facing an existential threat due to this disruption. It also has an impact on the loss of jobs for those working in small companies,” he said.“Currently, the demand for oxygen is coming down every day. Right now we need 160 metric tonnes of oxygen daily. It will reduce more in the coming days,” said Suresh Patil, joint commissioner, Food and Drug Administration.Arun Bajaj, an oxygen supplier from Bhosari said, “We are not able to give oxygen cylinders to all our clients as we are not getting an adequate supply. Once the government takes a decision, it will benefit the suppliers.”Medicinal use of oxygenMonths; quantity per dayApril; 350 metric tonnesMay; 250 metric tonnesJune; 160 metric tonnesSource: Food and Drug administration Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/industries-in-pune-district-want-administration-to-restore-supply-of-oxygen-101623494970671.html
12-06-2021||Kolkata||Mukul Roy asks Centre to take back ‘Z’ category security cover a day after joining back TMC||Mukul Roy who left the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday to rejoin the Trinamool Congress has written to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) requesting to withdraw his ‘Z’ category Central security cover, sources told news agency ANI. MHA is yet to respond to Roy’s request.Roy, who served as the BJP national vice-president before his departure, was provided with ‘Z' category security cover just ahead of the assembly elections in Bengal. As many as 22 CRPF personnel were deployed to guard him. In addition to that, around 4-5 National Security Guard (NSG) commandos, who specialise in providing securities to high-profile individuals in India, were also deployed.Roy’s security detail has garnered just as much attention as his political career. In 2017, he returned the ‘Z’ category security provided to him by the TMC-led West Bengal state government. Roy, then a TMC parliamentarian, said that after he came to know that he had been removed from the post of party (TMC) vice-president, he asked the state to take back the high-profile security cover.After joining the BJP in November of 2017 he was provided with ‘Y’ category security. He was assigned two personal security officers (PSOs), a static guard at his residence, and a total of 11 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).The 67-year-old politician, one of the founders of TMC, had switched allegiance to the BJP after being with his erstwhile party for over 19 years. Roy was initially inducted as a member of the BJP national executive committee and is credited with engineering many high profile defections from the TMC. This Friday marked Roy’s homecoming as both he and his son in the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee returned to their old bastion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mukul-roy-asks-centre-to-take-back-z-category-security-cover-a-day-after-joining-back-tmc-101623492889377.html
12-06-2021||Other||One killed in gun battle between Maoists and security forces in Jharkhand||A suspected Maoist was killed in a gun battle with security forces at Garu in Jharkhand’s Latehar district on Saturday, police said The gun battle was triggered when a joint team of security forces raided a -Maoist hideout.The security forces have recovered an unidentified body from the scene of the exchange of fire.Deputy inspector general of police Raj Kumar Lakra said they were trying to establish the identity of the man killed. “Reinforcements have been dispatched to the area,” he said.Some weapons and other items have also been recovered. Police said a Maoist squad led by Chhotu Kherwar was involved in the exchange of fire. The Maoists fled from the area as they were unable to match the firepower of the security forces, police said.Lakra said a search operation was going on in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-killed-in-gun-battle-between-maoists-and-security-forces-in-jharkhand-101623490291300.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi's 1st drive-through Covid-19 vaccination centre closes, says 'unviable' after price cap||Delhi's first drive-through vaccination centre in Dwarka has decided to shut down its operations from Saturday as it became financially "unviable" after the Union government declared the price cap for the administration of vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in private hospitals.The vaccination centre established by the Delhi government in association with Aakash Healthcare Super Speciality Hospital at Vegas Mall, Sector-14, Dwarka was inaugurated on May 26.Also read: Delhi govt reviews work on ramping up hospital infra as Covid cases decline"From today, we are stopping Delhi's first drive-through vaccination program which we ran successfully for the last 15 days and we actually wanted to run this for a longer time," Dr Kousar A Shah, who is the chief operating officer (COO) at Aakash Healthcare, said, reported ANI."However, the cap on vaccination administration charges has made it unviable for us. So, we had to stop this facility," Shah added, according to an ANI report.Over 10,000 people received the vaccine doses at the centre so far, ANI quoted the officials of Aakash Healthcare as saying. The hospital was given the responsibility of the operations of the vaccination centre at Vegas Mall.The vaccination centre located in south-west Delhi was only administering the Covishield vaccine. The fee for inoculation at the facility inside the mall was ₹1,000 per dose of Covishield shot and ₹1,400 for those getting vaccinated while sitting in their own vehicles.Also read: HC disposes of three pleas after Delhi govt tells court it has sufficient Covaxin dosesThe Union ministry of health and family welfare has capped the maximum service price per dose levied by private hospitals at ₹150 per dose, in a letter to all states and Union territories on Tuesday.Delhi witnessed a sharp decline in the number of new Covid-19 cases on Friday as it registered 238 fresh infections and 24 fatalities, according to the state health bulletin. The total number of vaccinated beneficiaries reached 5,910,350 on Friday as more than 81,000 beneficiaries got inoculated in the past 24 hours, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-1st-drive-through-covid-19-vaccination-centre-closes-says-unviable-after-price-cap-101623487704793.html
12-06-2021||Other||Month old baby kidnapped from Goa Medical College campus, manhunt on||A month-old baby was kidnapped from the campus of the state’s premier Goa Medical College and Hospital prompting the Goa police to launch a statewide hunt for the kidnappers, officials said, adding that a woman was seen carrying the baby away on a scooter driven by a man.“We are reviewing the CCTV footage and border check posts have been alerted from Friday night. The police have also released the CCTV footage of the woman making good with the child and have called for people who may have any leads to come forward with the information,” a police spokesperson said.The baby was allegedly kidnapped outside the coffee shop in the courtyard of the hospital when the mother handed the child over to another woman while she went to buy some snacks from the coffee shop. On returning, she found that the woman and her baby were nowhere to be seen. In a state of panic, the mother raised an alarm.The kidnapper initially walked out of the hospital with the baby but was later seen straddling a scooter driven by a man in North Goa’s Mapusa town.A police spokesperson said they have launched a manhunt for the kidnappers.The police are also tracking the scooter that was allegedly used as part of the kidnapping.“Shocked to hear about Kidnapping of a one month old boy from Goa Medical College Hospital. Once again it is proved that even Hospitals are not safe in Goa. Law and Order situation is at an all time low under @BJP4Goa @GovtofGoa. I urge @DGP_Goa to nab the culprit immediately,” Goa’s leader of opposition, Digambar Kamat.State health minister Vishwajit Rane, however, countered saying that neither the baby nor her mother was a patient at the GMC and that the kidnapping didn’t take place from the ward.“The child was neither a patient at GMC nor has anything to do with a security lapse. It is a baseless allegation and the facts of the incident are totally different,” Rane said in response to Kamat’s tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/month-old-baby-kidnapped-from-goa-medical-college-campus-manhunt-on-101623489630409.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai traffic alert: Several areas waterlogged, heavy rains expected||Traffic in Mumbai was affected as many areas in the city were waterlogged after rains on Saturday, officials said. Traffic was diverted in Andheri Veera Desai Road (Sorata Pada), Malad Subway, Antop Hill Road No 07, Bandra National College, Hindmata, Kurla Kamani, Gandhi Market (King Circle), Sangam nagar(Wadala) and Sion Road No 24 areas due to water logging.Mumbai local train services were also hit on Saturday amid the incessant rainfall in the city over the past two days, as major sections of train tracks on the Central Railway's mainline remain waterlogged. They were later restarted.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that several locations in Mumbai and its suburbs received 40-60mm rainfall between 11am to 12pm resulting in waterlogging. According to BMC, a high tide of 4.34 metres is expected at 1.32pm and a low tide of 1.89 metres at 7.27pm on Saturday."Good Morning Mumbai. Heavy rainfall expected in the city today, tomorrow as well as day after. We request you to not venture out especially near the sea. Stay tucked in and safe at home," BMC tweeted in the morning.It later said moderate to heavy rainfall was expected in the city and its suburbs with very heavy rainfall at isolated places.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an orange alert for Mumbai for Saturday and a red alert for Sunday. IMD said earlier that Mumbai and Thane districts would "very likely receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at a few places" on Saturday.The BMC also issued a "high alert" to all the agencies considering "very heavy rainfall" in the next two days after IMD’s forecast. All civic control rooms as well as those operated by other agencies have been issued the "high alert" directive, including power utility firms like BEST and Adani. The Indian Coast Guard, the Indian Navy and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been asked to remain on standby.Mumbai witnessed heavy rains on Wednesday as the southwest monsoon arrived in the city, flooding roads and railway tracks, disrupting suburban train services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-traffic-alert-several-areas-waterlogged-heavy-rains-expected-101623486978850.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local train services take a hit due to incessant rains. All details here||Mumbai local train services took a hit on Saturday due to the incessant rainfall in the city over the past two days, as major sections of train tracks on the central railway's mainline remained waterlogged. Local train services were suspended between Kurla and Dadar railway stations on the central railway mainline for over an hour due to rising water levels on the tracks. Train services also remained suspended at Sion due to waterlogging. Meanwhile, local trains continued to operate unhindered by the rains between the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Dadar railway stations, the central railway informed.Click here for LIVE updates on Mumbai rains on Saturday, June 12, 2021.Central Railways in Mumbai provides hourly updates in view of the traffic situation due to the heavy rainfall in the city. In its 1:20pm update, the railways informed that trains are currently running on all lines. Fast-line services between Dadar and Kurla, which were suspended at 12:15pm due to more than 61.21 mm rainfall in the preceding one hour, have been restored at 12:50pm. Meanwhile, the slow-line services, too, were restored from 1:15pm. The local train services were earlier suspended owing to a high tide prediction of 4.34 metre and the closing of Mithi river floodgates to keep the rising water level on track between Kurla and Sion. The trains on all other sections are running smoothly, the railways added.Central Railway Monsoon Updates at 13.20hrs on 12.6.2021𝗧𝗿𝗮𝗶𝗻𝘀 𝗮𝗿𝗲 𝗿𝘂𝗻𝗻𝗶𝗻𝗴 𝗼𝗻 𝗮𝗹𝗹 𝗹𝗶𝗻𝗲𝘀. pic.twitter.com/lwZJmaHPasMumbai rains have also resulted in local train services running with restricted speed, the Central Railway informed in its hourly update. The decision was taken at 12:20pm in view of the extremely heavy rainfall and water level rising on train tracks near the Chunabhatti, in the harbour line running from CSMT to Panvel and Goregaon. Although the services are running unhindered on the harbour line, the train speed will still remain restricted for safety reasons.Also Read: Mumbai’s total rainfall for June surpasses 505mm monthly averageMeanwhile, local train services on the trans harbour line from Thane to Vashi and Panvel are running smoothly. The fourth corridor railway network on the Belapur/Nerul-Kharkopar line also continues unhindered, the railways informed. The Regional Meteorological Center in Mumbai said on Saturday that the city and its suburbs will likely experience 'moderate to heavy' rainfall with the possibility of 'very heavy rainfall' at a few places during the next 48 hours. A red alert for June 13 and June 14 has also been issued, while residents have been advised to stay at home and only move out if essential.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-services-take-a-hit-due-to-incessant-rains-all-details-here-101623482984030.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Prashant Kishor meets Pawar over lunch, NCP's Nawab Malik explains||A day after Prashant Kishor met Sharad Pawar setting off speculations about a national coalition against the BJP, the Nationalist Congress Party's (NCP's) senior leader Nawab Malik on Saturday explained the three-hour lunch meeting. "There is a need to form a wider alliance of political parties against the BJP ahead of the next general elections. NCP president Sharad Pawar had himself spoken about the need to have a national alliance of all parties to take on the BJP and had said he would try to bring together all such forces," Malik told news agency PTI."Political strategist Prashant Kishor is well-versed with the data and statistics... During their three-hour-long deliberations, this surely has come up for consideration," Malik said."There was no discussion on appointing him as a strategist of the NCP. Pawar Sahab wants to unite opposition parties. Efforts will be made towards this objective in coming days," Malik was also quoted as saying by ANI.While Prashant Kishor said it was “just a private courtesy meeting over lunch and nothing to do with politics”, a senior NCP leader aware of the matter said on Friday that Pawar has been working to bring all opposition parties together against the Bharatiya Janata Party. “It is natural, the issue would be discussed,” the NCP leader said.Prashant Kishor's lunch meeting with the NCP leader came a day after Sharad Pawar said the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) will not only complete a five-year term but will also perform well in the Lok Sabha and state assembly elections. Pawar talked about the buzz over Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s meeting with Prime Minister Modi in Delhi."We have never worked with Shiv Sena in the past, but Maharashtra has been watching the party for the past many years...” Pawar said. "The Shiv Sena is a party that can be trusted, so even if people are raising doubts over the meeting, I have no doubt that the MVA government will not only complete its tenure of five years but also perform well in the Lok Sabha and Assembly elections and represent the state and the country," he added.Also read | 'For being positive, we don't have to...': Prashant Kishor's fresh jibe at govtKishor was the BJP’s poll strategist in 2014 when the party defeated the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance and Modi became the Prime Minister. Later, he fell out with the party. Kishor also advised Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray before the 2019 assembly elections.This year, he helped Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress come back to power for the second time amid the challenge of an aggressive BJP. He was also the poll strategist for Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam's (DMK's) MK Stalin, who defeated the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) in Tamil Nadu.Also read | Prashant Kishor wants to quit poll strategising, says 'have had enough'Kishor has announced that he won’t be continuing with his job as a poll strategist but there have been speculations that he is working with Mamat Banerjee for a national coalition of opposition parties against the BJP in Lok Sabha elections. However, they have not been confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/prashant-kishor-meets-pawar-over-lunch-ncp-s-nawab-malik-explains-101623480576319.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to remain under level 3 of Covid-19 lockdown curbs due to heavy rainfall||Mumbai has been witnessing declining cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) over the past few weeks, and even though the second wave of the pandemic has ebbed, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has announced that the city will continue to remain under level three of the coronavirus-necessitated lockdown in view of the heavy rainfall, population density, and transport issues. The BMC issued fresh orders on Friday saying the Covid-19 restrictions will not be eased further, for the time being, reported news agency ANI.Also Read: Maharashtra preps to turn the next Covid-19 tideNotably, the number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has drastically reduced since last month, with the weekly positivity rate being 4.4% and oxygen bed occupancy 27.12%. Civic-run hospitals in the city are given converting unused Covid-19 beds to treat non-Covid patients, as doctors put their focus back on other ailments. Government and private laboratories in Mumbai are also seeing a sharp drop in demand for RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests in May compared to April, as health officials attribute the Covid-19 lockdown and the resultant restricted movements as one of the primary reasons behind the fall in cases.Announcing the orders to not lift Covid-19 restrictions in Mumbai, the BMC said that the decision was taken keeping in mind the city's geographical structures, the density of population, heavy rainfall prediction, and the number of people coming through local trains.Currently, Mumbai is under level 2 of Covid-19 classification, owing to the reduced number of cases, but BMC has decided that the city will continue to remain under level 3 of Unlock norms under 'Break the chain'. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government had earlier allowed all local authorities to take their call on easing coronavirus-related restrictions in their respective areas, after announcing the five-step unlock plan dividing the districts into levels based on weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-remain-under-level-3-of-covid-19-lockdown-curbs-due-to-heavy-rainfall-101623478264979.html
12-06-2021||Other||Nagaland forms lawmakers’ panel to facilitate talks with the Centre||The Nagaland government has notified a committee comprising all the 60 members of the assembly and the two Parliament members from the state to facilitate the peace talks between the Centre and Naga armed groups.Chief minister Neiphiu Rio will lead the panel as the convener. His deputy, Y Patton, and opposition leader TR Zeliang have been named as co-conveners. The Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) welcomed the formation of the committee “as long as there is no attempt to dilute the spirit and substance of the framework agreement” it has with the Centre.The NSCN (IM) said the August 2015 agreement was the result of a well-thought-out proposal from the Centre when the Naga peace talks faced a deadlock.It maintained the committee members should not overrate themselves or outdo their role at the cost of destroying the Naga political identity. It cautioned Naga leaders against projecting their history incorrectly.In February, the state assembly adopted a resolution urging the Centre and Naga groups to conclude the talks and bring about “one solution”.The biggest and oldest of the Naga rebel outfits, NSCN-IM been in peace talks with the Centre since 1997 and signed the agreement for a final deal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nagaland-forms-lawmakers-panel-to-facilitate-talks-with-the-centre-101623478470113.html
12-06-2021||Dehradun||Mobile app fraud: Uttarakhand Police identify two Chinese accused||The Uttarakhand Police’s Special Task Force (STF) has identified two Chinese citizens among the accused in the alleged mobile application fraud and crypto-currency-based money laundering racket.Additional director general (law & order) Abhinav Kumar on Friday said the two have been identified on the basis of “technical evidence”. The STF on Wednesday said it has busted the racket which allegedly duped people of ₹360 crore across India through the application, which fraudulently promised double returns on their money invested in 15 days. It has arrested an accused identified Pawan Kumar Pandey from Noida in the case.Kumar said the two Chinese accused are based in Hong Kong. He added that they have “clear traces” that the money duped was being transferred to bank accounts through online payment gateways from where it was converted into cryptocurrencies. Kumar said it was then encashed into local currencies in China by the key accused.He added they have also found five similar apps. “After this racket was busted, we have so far received 55 more similar complaints in which cases have been registered in four of them.”Kumar said the fraud is serious involving many foreign citizens. He added they are coordinating with the central agencies for their assistance.Kumar said a second accused identified as Rakesh Bairagi was arrested from Lakhimpur Khiri in Uttar Pradesh. “He was the director of two companies and was receiving the fraud money in the bank accounts... Financial transactions worth ₹57 crore have been found through his bank account,” said Kumar.Uttarakhand police chief Ashok Kumar on Wednesday said the racket was busted during the probe into a complaint submitted by two Haridwar residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/mobile-app-fraud-uttarakhand-police-identify-two-chinese-accused-101623477989745.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Major fire breaks out at Delhi's Lajpat Nagar market||A major fire broke out at Delhi's Lajpat Nagar on Saturday, officials said. The fire was reported from a showroom in the Central Market and at least 16 fire tenders have been rushed to the spot, Delhi Fire Services chief Atul Garg said.Visuals from the spot showed clouds of black smoke billowing from the showroom.A major fire has occurred in lajpat Nagar area, total 30 fire tenders rushed, no causality reported so far. Fire in showrooms pic.twitter.com/z5KQcXVsWOThis is a developing story. More details awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-delhi-s-lajpat-nagar-market-16-fire-tenders-rushed-to-spot-101623476569724.html
12-06-2021||Other||Nearly 200 killed, over 2k injured in man-animal conflict in J&K since 2011||While the department of wildlife protection has been trying to reduce the man-animal conflict to the bare minimum in the Himalayan region, nearly 200 people lost their lives and over 2,000 were injured in man-animal conflict across Jammu and Kashmir since 2011, as per the official data. Chief Wildlife Warden of Jammu and Kashmir, Suresh Kumar Gupta, said, “man-animal conflict will continue but it can be minimised. The overall data of the past 10 years show that the situation has improved. From 32 deaths and 365 injuries to 10 deaths and 141 injuries last year, we have certainly improved the situation. One-third of the deaths have also reduced”. Data accessed by the HT show that 196 people were killed and 2,325 were injured since 2011 in Jammu and Kashmir. Out of the total figures of deaths and injuries, Kashmir reported 118 deaths and 1877 injuries while the Jammu region reported 78 deaths and 448 injuries. Just earlier this month, the news of a 4-year-old girl mauled and killed by a leopard in Kashmir made headlines. Gupta said the government is now mulling planting 80 percent fruit and fodder trees in jungles to help herbivorous get their food within the jungles, which in turn will help carnivorous get their prey inside the jungle.According to data, in 2011-12, at least 32 people were killed and 365 were injured, the following year (2012-13) recorded 16 deaths and 305 injuries while in 2013-14, 32 deaths and 369 injuries were reported. Similarly, in 2014-15, 14 deaths and 240 injuries were reported; 24 deaths and 280 injuries in 2015-16; 22 deaths, 163 injuries in 2016-17; 14 deaths, 166 injuries in 2017-18. The year 2018-19 witnessed 13 deaths and 121 injuries while figures grew to 17 deaths and 156 injuries in 2019-20. As many as ten people were killed while 141 injuries were injured in the conflict in the year 2020-21 while in 2021-22 (up to June 6 recorded) 10 deaths and 141 injuries have been reported.Gupta said the downward trend in fatalities and injuries in recent years is due to a slew of measures. “There has been a degradation of wildlife habitat because of an increase in the human population. Now, we are focusing on the rehabilitation of wildlife and therefore 80 percent of the plantation will be of fruit and fodder trees in the forest areas to rehabilitate wildlife. It will help herbivorous animals to get food within the forests and in turn, help carnivorous get their prey within the forests,” Gupta said. He also informed that the wildlife protection department has set up 42 control rooms that work 24x7 to attend distress calls. “We are now mulling joint control room of wildlife, forest protection force and forest department because man-animal conflict mostly happens in human habitations near forests,” he added. Better equippedGupta said that the department was well equipped and has adequate cages, tranquillizer guns, trap poles, vehicles, mobikes. Net guns are a new addition to their kitty, he said. Compensation to victimsThe department provides ₹3,00,000 compensation in case of death or permanent incapacitation of a body part in such conflicts. ₹1,00,000 is provided as compensation in cases of serious injuries and ₹15,000 in case of minor injuries. “For the past seven to eight years, we are providing ₹1 crore to ₹1.50 crores every year as compensation to the affected people and their kin,” he said. Dos and don’ts to reduce conflicts The department has issued an advisory and circulated videos on social media categorically explaining the dos and don’ts. “People get killed or injured mostly by leopards and bears. Therefore, people living close to jungles, should not venture out alone. While attending nature’s call or cutting grass in their fields they shouldn’t be alone and someone should stand guard next to them because seeing an individual sitting alone in fields, animals consider them as their prey,” said Gupta. If there’s a beast on the prowl stay indoors and immediately call control rooms or dial 100, he added. The department’s field staff capture hardly 10 percent of the animals and mostly burst firecrackers to scare them away to their habitat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nearly-200-killed-over-2k-injured-in-man-animal-conflict-in-j-k-since-2011-101623476429837.html
12-06-2021||Kolkata||Nusrat Jahan flaunts baby bump in viral photo, confirms pregnancy rumours||Nusrat Jahan, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) lawmaker, has been in news over her relationship with her estranged husband Nikhil Jain and reports about her pregnancy. According to HT Bangla, HT's sister publication, a photo of Nusrat Jahan is now being widely shared on social media in which she can be seen with a baby bump. The photo also has Bengali actor Srabanti Chatterjee and others posing with her.A post shared by Hindustan Times Bangla (@htbangla)Nusrat Jahan on Wednesday issued a statement saying her marriage with Nikhil Jain was never valid as an interfaith marriage in India has to be registered under the Special Marriage Act, which never happened. "Our separation happened long back, but I did not speak about it as I intended to keep my private life to myself," she said.TMC MP Nusrat Jahan married Kolkata-based businessman Nikhil Jain in June 2019 in Turkey. The wedding ceremony conducted according to the Turkish Marriage Regulation.Nusrat in her statement also accused Nikhil Jain of mishandling her money and alleged that his family members have held back the jewellery given to her by her patents. "The one who claims to be “rich” and “been used by me” has been taking money from my account by accessing my bank accounts illegally and by illegitimate means at odd hours of the night, even post-separation. I have already taken this up with the concerned banking authority and a police complaint shall be filed shortly," she said in the statement.Also read | Nusrat Jahan case has no connection with politics, party busy to serve people, says TMC"In the past, details of all family accounts were handed over to him, upon his requests and none of me or my family members were aware of any instructions given to the bank via our accounts. He has also been mishandling my funds from various accounts without my knowledge and consent. I am still battling it out with the bank & if need be, would release proof of the same," she added.Nikhil Jain when asked to comment on Nusrat's statement said on Wednesday said the matter is subjudice. "I have never commented or will not comment anything on what she has said. The matter is subjudice in court. The civil suit in courts is in process. They are doing their job well," Jain said.Reports of the Nusrat dating actor-politician Yash Dasgupta started doing the rounds ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections. The rumours took a backseat after Yash Dasgupta lost the election from the Chanditala constituency. Reports also claimed that Nusrat and Yash are expecting a child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/nusrat-jahan-flaunts-baby-bump-in-viral-photo-confirms-pregnancy-rumours-101623471622966.html
12-06-2021||Dehradun||Mucormycosis cases in U'khand climb to 365; 21 new cases sees in Dehradun||Dehradun reported 21 new cases of black fungus and six deaths on June 10, informed the state Health Department on Friday.With this, the total number of black fungus patients in Dehradun district has gone up to 319, while the cumulative black fungus cases in Uttarakhand now stand at 356 with 56 deaths.At least 220 patients are undergoing treatment at AIIMS, Rishikesh. So far 31 patients have won the battle against black fungus.Meanwhile, the Nainital High Court has directed the Central Government to provide an uninterrupted supply of life-saving medicines to Uttarakhand.On June 10, the court also directed the state government to organise district-level vaccination for the weaker sections of the society, especially those who were deprived of vaccination due to a lack of ID cards.The state government has been instructed to create a task force for the same.The court had also directed the ministry to make the information regarding the availability of Black Fungus medicine public and ensure it reaches people.Mucormycosis or black fungus is a complication caused by a fungal infection. People catch mucormycosis by coming in contact with the fungal spores in the environment. It can also develop on the skin after the fungus enters the skin through a cut, scrape, burn, or other types of skin trauma, as per the Union Health Ministry.The disease is being detected among patients who are recovering or have recovered from Covid-19. Moreover, anyone who is diabetic and whose immune system is not functioning well needs to be on the guard against this.Looking at the rising cases of Mucormycosis or 'black fungus', the Union Health Ministry had last month said the availability of Amphotericin-B, the key drug to treat the deadly disease, is now being increased and the ministry is in touch with five additional manufacturers.Several states including Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, Karnataka, Odisha, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have declared it a 'notifiable' disease under the Epidemic Diseases Act, thereby making it mandatory to report every Mucormycosis case to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/mucormycosis-cases-in-u-khand-climb-to-365-21-new-cases-sees-in-dehradun-101623462041283.html
12-06-2021||Patna||Covid-19 lockdown in Bihar again? Here's what CM Nitish Kumar said||The Covid-19 lockdown imposed in Bihar has been lifted and the government has eased some restrictions for a week in some areas. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has announced that the night curfew will remain in place from 7pm till 5am and that private and government office will operate with 50 per cent capacity till 4pm.Nitish Kumar, who has been taking stock of the situation after Covid-19 lockdown ws lifted, said people in Bihar must follow all protocol. On Friday, Nitish Kumar reviewed the development of the Mithapur area and the redevelopment of the Patna Junction scheme under Smart City Patna."Some restrictions have been imposed... If people wear masks and follow the guidelines, it will be in their interest. Bihar has been unlocked for a week now. Further decision will be taken on the basis of feedback we get," the chief minister told reporters.Also read | Consistent HC pressure led to correction of Covid death figures in Bihar"We talk to people everywhere. Talks are held with the district magistrates of all the districts. Everyone gives their feedback. On that basis, it is decided what decision should be taken next. The lockdown has benefited a lot," he added.Kumar said he visited some areas in the state capital of Patna, including Danapur, and noticed that not many people were out on the streets but some of those seen outside were not wearing masks. The chief minister said that the government is working towards arresting the spread of the coronavirus disease as well as the development of the state. "People should get work opportunity. We request everyone to use a mask. If you use a mask, it will reduce the effect of corona infection," he said.The chief minister also tweeted about the importance of wearing masks on Thursday.आज पटना शहर में कुछ इलाकों का भ्रमण किया। देखा कि कई लोग अभी भी मास्क नहीं पहन रहे हैं। लोगों की इस चूक से कोरोना संक्रमण बढ़ सकता है। बिहारवासियों से अपील है कि मास्क अवश्य लगाएं और 2 गज की दूरी बनाए रखें।During a meeting to review the health department's functioning on Friday, Nitish Kumar stressed the need for cranking up the testing rate further. He said as the lockdown has been lifted and restrictions eased, people were venturing out of their homes and coming into close contact with each other.Also read | Interstate buses ply uninterrupted despite ban in lockdownThe situation required greater vigilance in the form of aggressive testing and tracing in order to prevent a fresh outbreak of the contagion, the chief minister said.Bihar on Friday recorded 566 fresh Covid-19 cases while the death toll rose by 14. According to the state's health department, Bihar's death toll due to the coronavirus disease has reached 9466 and the aggregate tally of confirmed cases has climbed to 716,296. However, 799,481 people have recovered after being infected with the coronavirus and there are 6343 active cases of Covid-19. The recovery rate is 97.79 per cent.About 110,000 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, said the health department. So far, about 31 million samples have been tested in the state with a population of nearly 130 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-lockdown-in-bihar-again-here-s-what-cm-nitish-kumar-said-101623457263218.html
12-06-2021||Kolkata||Thunderstorm with lightning, rainfall likely to continue over parts of Bengal||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that thunderstorm with lightning and light to moderate rains are likely to continue over some parts of West Bengal for next 2-3 hours.Kolkata, Howrah, East Medinipur, North 24 Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad and Birbhum districts have been witnessing downpour since Friday."Thunderstorm with lightning and light to moderate rainfall likely to continue over some parts of Kolkata, Howrah, East Medinipur, North 24 Parganas, Nadia, Murshidabad and Birbhum districts of West Bengal during next 2-3 hours of today," said IMD Kolkata.Meanwhile, several areas at Sion East in Mumbai got waterlogged as rains continue to lash the city.A low-pressure area has formed over Northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal coasts."Under the influence of the low pressure, most of East India and adjoining central India is likely to witness fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity with isolated to scattered heavy to very heavy fall from Friday," the weather department said.IMD further said that it is likely to become more marked during the next 24 hours and move west-northeastwards across Odisha.Meanwhile, conditions are favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into more parts of Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts Chhattisgarh and Odisha, entire West Bengal and Jharkhand and parts of Bihar and east Uttar Pradesh and remaining parts of North Bay of Bengal during next 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/thunderstorm-with-lightning-rainfall-likely-to-continue-over-parts-of-bengal-101623455824251.html
12-06-2021||Ranchi||Complete lockdown in Jharkhand for 38 hours. Details here||A complete lockdown in Jharkhand will be imposed between 4pm on Saturday and 6am on Monday but the state government has allowed essential services to operate. The information and public relations department of the Jharkhand government on June 9 also issued a circular to all the departments and district administration to ensure 'Swasthya Suraksha Saptah' from 6am on June 10 to 6am on June 17. This is the fifth time that the curbs, first imposed in the state on April 22 for a week, were extended. The ongoing measures were scheduled to end on June 10.“We have been successful in breaking the chain of the coronavirus. So, we will continue the effort. In this regard, we have decided for a complete lockdown from 4pm on Saturday till 6am on Monday,” Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta said. Gupta said shops' opening time has been extended by two hours in all districts, except Jamshedpur.Also read | Jharkhand Board exams for Class 10 and 12 cancelled due to Covid-19Here’s what allowed and what’s not during the 38-hour lockdown starting Saturday:1. All shops in the state, including those selling fruits, vegetables, grocery items, sweets and eatables, will remain closed from Saturday 4pm to Monday 6pm. 2. Pharmacies and medical shops will be allowed to operate.3. LPG services and petrol pumps can function.4. People travelling to hospitals, nursing homes, vaccination centres and for Covid-19 tests will be allowed to travel.5. In Jamshedpur, shops dealing in shoes, clothes, cosmetics and jewellery will remain shut during the period. Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally rose to 342,774 on Friday after 293 more people tested positive for the infection, while five new fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 5,081, a health bulletin said. East Singhbhum district reported the highest number of new cases at 67, followed by 30 in Ranchi and 22 each in Chatra and Hazaribag, it said. One death each was reported in Ranchi, East and West Singhbum, Dhanbad and Pakur. Jharkhand now has 4514 active cases of Covid-19 and 333,179 people have recovered from the coronavirus disease so far, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/complete-lockdown-in-jharkhand-for-38-hours-details-here-101623454092214.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Evaluate Class 12 students based on past tests: Sisodia||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Friday wrote to the Union minister of education Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’, making several suggestions for evaluating Class 12 CBSE students following the cancellation of their exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.In his letter, Sisodia suggested that the students should be evaluated on the basis of their performances in Class 12 pre-boards and practical exams, Class 11 final exams, and Class 10 board exams. The Delhi education minister said the Centre should fix the range of moderation at “plus or minus five marks” for Class 12 students.On June 1, the Centre cancelled the CBSE Class 12 exams to ward off the threat of coronavirus infections. The government said that CBSE will come up with a “well-defined objective criteria” in a time-bound manner to assess these students. The board constituted a 13-member team to fix criteria for the assessment of Class 12 students on June 4.Sisodia said that he has discussed the possible criteria for the evaluation of Class 12 students with various stakeholders. “First of all, our principle for evaluation should be that whatever method we adopt, it should be in the interest of students. And for this, we have to make decisions rising above the traditional principles. The past year has been very challenging for our students and their parents. Not all students had fair and equal opportunities to study and learn. So, we should not object if the results of these students are much better due to the proposed new evaluation process. If we prepare results on the basis of different sources and examinations, then perhaps it will do justice to all the students,” he said in the letter.The Delhi deputy chief minister suggested that the board should give 30% weightage to Class 12 pre-boards, 20 % to the Class 11 final exams, and 20 % to the performance in the CBSE Class 10 exams. The remaining 30% marks should be allotted on the basis of the practical exams conducted by the schools, he suggested.“The 20% weightage of class 10 exams should be on the basis of the subject in which the students had secured the highest marks in Class 10th. This is necessary because the subjects of Class 10 are very different from the subjects students study in Class 12,” he added.Sisodia further said that the Centre should allow schools to fix the range of moderation at +/- 5 marks, unlike Class 10 where moderation of only +/- 2 marks is allowed. CBSE uses moderation to check on “inflation of marks” and to maintain consistency.According to the evaluation criteria CBSE has set for Class 10 students, schools will have to award marks in consonance with their best performance in Class 10 in the last three academic years — 2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20.The selected year will be the reference year for schools, and subject-wise marks allotted by the schools for 2021 will be within a range of +/- 2 marks obtained by the school in the subject in the reference year.“Delhi has started some new schools of excellence in which this was the first batch of Class 12 students. There is no historical reference available in the case of these schools. The reference year of such schools should be taken from the nearest School of Excellence so that there is no undue harm to the children here,” Sisodia said in the letter.The Central government’s spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/evaluate-class-12-students-based-on-past-tests-sisodia-101623452962064.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Man runs over 5 with speeding truck; held||A 93-year-old man, and four members of a family were killed when they were run over, allegedly by a speeding tipper truck in southwest Delhi’s Najafgarh early on Friday morning, said the police. The errant truck driver was arrested, and the vehicle impounded.Police said a DTC bus driver blocked the road with his bus when the truck driver tried to flee the spot. The arrested driver told the police that he dozed off while driving and lost control of the vehicle, senior officers said.Rao Jawahar Singh (93), who recovered from Covid-19 last month, was out for a walk while the other four victims – a couple and their two sons, aged five and two-and-a-half, were on their way to a temple in Gurugram, when the incident took place around 5am. The accident spot is around 150 metres away from the Najafgarh police station.The incident was captured on several CCTV cameras installed at nearby shops. Footage from one of the cameras shows the couple walking on the road with their elder son, while the younger one is in his father’s arms.The elderly man is not visible in the 50-second video clip, which was posted on social media on Friday.In the video clip, none of the five victims are in focus when the truck runs them over. However, the cameras capture the truck dragging the victims on the road and crashing into three parked cars.The entire carriageway on Thana Road, where the incident took place, is divided into two parts with concrete barriers, but only one-way traffic is allowed on the road. Local residents and relatives of the victims said the truck was travelling at a high speed from the Najafgarh police station side.“The truck suddenly swayed left and hit Jawahar Singh from behind and then ran over the other four. The bodies of three of them were crushed, and they died on the spot. The elderly man and the youngest child were rushed to the nearby Vikas Hospital with grave injuries. The old man succumbed to his wounds, and the child was referred to Safdarjung hospital where he died later in the day,” said Ram Rajoura, a relative of the family.The four other victims were later identified as Ashok Rajoura (30), his wife Kiran (27), and their two sons – Ishant Rajoura and Dev Rajoura. Ashok worked as a security guard in Vikas Hospital, and his wife was a homemaker. They lived with Ashok’s brother and two uncles.Ashok’s uncle, Satish Rajoura, said they were at home when they heard a loud crash, and rushed out to see what happened. “We knew it was an accident, but could never imagine that the victims would be my four loved ones,” said Satish.Ram said the truck driver tried to escape after the accident, but a DTC bus blocked his way about 80 metres from the spot.Local residents caught the truck driver handed him over to the police.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said a case of rash and negligent driving causing deaths was registered and the truck driver, identified as Rajesh, was arrested.“Five vehicles were found damaged at the spot. The accident was caused by a dumper truck driven in a rash and negligent manner,” he added.Rakesh Yadav, Jawahar Singh’s grandson, said his grandfather walked at least five kilometres every morning and performed yoga to keep himself fit.“My grandfather was 93, but he was healthy. It was because of his fitness that he survived Covid-19, staying in home isolation with high fever, body ache and cough. I was sleeping when a neighbour woke me up and told me about the accident. By the time I reached the hospital, my grandfather was dead,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-runs-over-5-with-speeding-truck-held-101623452481659.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Checks on two-wheelers in new speed limits||The new speed limits announced by Delhi’s traffic police on Friday bring users of two-wheelers under tighter regulation, addressing a gap that previously allowed speeding violations by them to often collapse in courts since road signs typically do not indicate the restrictions on how fast they can travel.Experts and traffic officials said this is crucial since two-wheeler users account for a large proportion of road accident fatalities and the lack of explicit speed limits made enforcement of rules harder for agencies.“In many instances of court challans, violators would get away without paying because technically, the speed limits for two-wheelers were not notified. The signage in the city also do not specify separately on the speed limits for two-wheelers, so an easy escape for owners is to say that they were not aware,” said a senior traffic official, who asked not to be named.According to the notification, those using scooters and motorcycles will need to follow mostly the same set of limits as car drivers will have to, but they cannot go beyond 60kmph on expressways, where vehicles are allowed to touch 70kmph.In most roads across the city, they will need to stick to the 50kmph limit and within residential localities, they cannot exceed 30kmph.Delhi government data showed that out of a little over 10 million vehicles registered in the city, 7.3 million are two-wheelers.Delhi traffic police estimates also show that out of the total road accident fatalities, two-wheeler riders and pillions account for the highest share of deaths after pedestrians and cyclists.According to an assessment in 2020, nearly 30-40% of the victims of road accidents that were on two-wheelers were either killed or injured.Road safety experts said that the tendency to speed, combined with the low level of protection for two-wheeler riders, increases the chances of fatality in case of a crash.Also Read | Delhi Traffic Police revise maximum speed limits for vehicles. All details hereIn a recent case, two men riding a motorcycle died after they crashed into a wall and fell into a drain at east Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar. Police officials said the rider was speeding and that the impact of the crash flung them.Ritu Sarangi, a Delhi-based road safety expert who has been consulting with the Delhi traffic police, said that two-wheelers riders in the 19-27 years age group have the highest tendency to speed on roads and also make for the highest share of two-wheeler fatalities.“This was a much-needed move. Two-wheeler riders make for the largest share of road occupants and they also have the most tendencies to speed and not abide by the city’s limits, endangering their own lives and also the lives of others.“With the speed limits now notified under law, enforcement teams will now be better equipped to catch the violators,” Sarangi said.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, who is on the speed review committee that helped decide these revised speed limits in the city, said the Delhi traffic police, as well as the road-owning agencies in the national capital must now ensure that speed limit signage across the city is revised to add two-wheelers to the list.“Now if you see the signage boards, you will always only find the limits for private four-wheelers and commercial vehicles mentioned, but this signage will first need to be changed. This will ensure that commuters know that they will be prosecuted if they flout the said limit,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/checks-on-two-wheelers-in-new-speed-limits-101623450657054.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||HT Chandigarh debate: Schools need checks and balances||Transparency in dealingsSchools should upload their balance sheets online as it will lead to greater transparency and increases the confidence of parents in the school. All doubts regarding the fees structure and where it is used will be clear to them. Khushboo Singla, MohaliEducation for allTransparency in every field is the need of the hour. The very fact that schools are reluctant to upload their balance sheets proves that they have something to conceal. Going public with the financial statements will make the system more transparent and also make parents feel comfortable. Otherwise ‘free and compulsory education for all’ will be a distant dream.Arti Sood, ChandigarhCome clean if you have nothing to hideDue to the pandemic, school buildings, water, electricity and numerous other things are not being used, prompting the courts to direct the schools only to charge the tuition fee. If not comfortable with uploading financial statements online, schools should at least give it to local authorities for evaluation. Schools should show their balance sheets if they have an equitable system and have nothing to hide.Aashita Sood, via emailBalanced approachOn one hand, parents paying exorbitant private school fee have the right to be informed about the utilisation of funds while on the other, schools, too, have a right to maintain their privacy for administrative purposes. Therefore, a middle way path is the best one to take to take. Vaibhav Sharma, ChandigarhValue the teachers’ effortsIn the showdown between parents and school authorities, no one’s talking about the painstaking efforts of teachers, who have been juggling their domestic duties and online classes throughout this difficult time. Reaching out to children and keeping them engaged through the virtual mode is not a very convenient thing to do from home. Teachers spend hours preparing and planning learning strategies for each session. Parents must respect the dedication of teachers and introspect. Certainly, if any, the fee hike is not arbitrary if the schools are successfully creating learning opportunities for children. In this case, uploaded balance sheets is violation of privacy of schools.Shikha Sondhi, via emailQuality comes at a priceIt is ironic that while private schools are being grilled for the exorbitant fee structure, no one’s talking about the quality of education being imparted here. Setting up a private school takes a great deal of effort and planning. Why would anyone undertake such a venture if such is the attitude of people and authorities towards it? Anju Mohan, PanchkulaDonations, extra charge fair game for these schoolsSeveral private schools have laid off their staff and are also saving on electricity and water consumption charges as classes have been shifted online. The charade under which these schools have been operating is now being questioned by parents, who have the right to know where their money is going. Most of these schools force parents for ‘donations’ and fees under sundry odd heads. I believe private schools should be forced by law to share their balance sheets with public as this is the only way to expose them.Saihibb Kaura, via emailA welcome moveThe order of the high court mandating private unaided schools to upload their balance sheets is a welcome move. Many private schools are not transparent in their financial dealings as they charge exorbitant fees on various heads from the students. Many of these schools have also become conduit for converting black money into white money. The recent order will definitely rein in those schools which have a practice of hiking tuition and other fees every academic year. The uploading of the balance sheets will also provide information at a glance the money being spent by the schools for developing the infrastructure and technology of the schools. But one grey area is that these schools may find ways to window dress their financial dealings and we are not sure whether the balance sheet will be a true one or a fudged one.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhEducation is not a business Chandigarh administration has allotted plots only to charitable trusts for opening schools. Balance sheets have to be made public due to a clause in the Act which requires the utilisation of funds for betterment and development of the unaided educational institution. The fund or profit accrued cannot be used for any personal gain or business enterprise. It is no surprise that these schools are not keen on uploading their balance sheets. The administration should penalise such schools and further conduct an audit of their accounts. The excess fee charged by these schools in the past should be refunded to parents. Vijay Malia, ChandigarhShun the hoodwinkingPrivate schools in UT have been fleecing parents by charging many ‘add-ons’ on tuition fee even during the pandemic when classes have been shifted online. When their regular expenses are minimal, except the payment of staff salaries, private schools will do well to refund the excess payments unduly charged from parents to avoid being caught off guard. Their refusal to publish their balance sheets has further strengthened the parents case. SC Luthra, ChandigarhShould be open to scutinySchools should not function like business entities. Schools, which are considered to be the temples of education, are answerable not only to students and parents but also to the society as a whole. Schools also get tax exemptions and other benefits, so there is no excuse for fleecing the parents. Further more, transparency in financial matters ensures credibility and respect. Private schools should gracefully subject themselves to public scrutiny and accountability.Usha Verma, ChandigarhBring shutters down on school not obeying ordersEducation should be given on the basis of no profit, no loss. Private schools should upload their balance sheets and give parents clarity on the fee structure. In case of a hike, parents should be consulted beforehand. Private schools have no right terming it a violation of privacy. The government should bring the shutters down on schools violating the orders.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliTransparency will benefit all stakeholdersMost private schools this year have cut corners by laying off staff and giving salary cuts to the rest. With most teachers taking the classes from their home, there isn’t any ‘usual’ consumption of utilities, such as water and electricity at school premises. Despite this, schools are still asking for high fees. Schools refused to upload their balance sheets claiming that this would be a violation of their privacy. The right to privacy is available to artificial entities, but the field of education is a charitable initiative so releasing the balance sheets will only bring in transparency and satisfaction to all stakeholders involved. This will also allow the government to evaluate fee structure and make norms more rational. Samay Seth, via emailViolation of privacyThe high court order to schools to upload balance sheets online is a violation of privacy and privileges of schools. It presumes that private schools are business organisations like any other. Though there is no justification for arbitrary fee hike, and that too during the pandemic, putting the balance sheets in public domain is not fair. We have seen schools exploiting parents through exorbitant fees to expand operations. Without making the schools disclose their balance sheets, a case should be made for putting an end to unnecessary fee hike.DS Banati, MohaliRationalise fee during lockdownThe main duty of schools is to impart education. But it is sad to see that schools are now trying to mint money out of this noble cause. Every financial activity related to a student’s betterment should be conducted transparently. Schools should not object to upload the balance sheet. By uploading the balance sheet, school administration is not only be able to gain the trust of parents but also earn their respect of the rest of the society. This will only help them in the long run. Also, in wake of online classes, schools must set up a reasonable fee structure.Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurCruel to hike fee when economy is scarredThe entry of the corporate sector in the field of education has completely changed the educational system in the country. With the public education system already destroyed, almost all parents started sending their children to fancy schools even though many may not even be able to afford it. The educational institutes set up their own so-called charitable trust and cornered cheap lands under political patronage. With the economy in choppy waters, many parents may have lost their jobs or have lesser earnings than before. In such a scenario, increasing the annual fees is a cruel move. Suresh Verma, Chandigarh Schools are pillars of development, profiteering a strict noBe it government-aided or non-aided educational institutions’, the main aim is to provide education to all. But nowadays educational institutions are just looking at earning maximum profits. The high court has done the right thing by directing schools to upload the balance sheet online. Educational institutes are pillars of development. So they should sacrifice the profit motive and make the balance sheet transparent to gain future benefits and loyalty of parents.Subhash Nagpal, ZirakpurA step in the right direction The HC order to private schools to bring in public domain the balance sheet is a step in the right direction to bring transparency in the transactions of the school since most of the them are set up to earn profits. Parents have every right to know the end use of the hefty fees charged by schools in the name of development fund. Also, some schools get aids from government and keep it under the wraps to avoid scrutiny by tax authorities. Anil Vinayak, Amritsar Schools no exceptionThere is no harm in sharing balance sheet of income and expenditure of private schools. It is not fair to club this as violation of privacy. Further most of the public and private agencies put their annual balance sheet in public domain to have transparency in their working. Apart from this, annual audit of private schools must be done and made mandatory by government approved auditors to ensure transparency in their accounts so that no finger can be raised on their working by anybody.Col TBS Bedi, MohaliDon’t forget the students in this tug of warIf schools have any grouse, they are free to seek judicial redressal but any teacher-parent friction will prove detrimental to the growth of students. The fact that schools are business entities run with fees paid by parents who are deemed financiers, proves beyond doubt that these are funded by public that earns every right to scan the balance sheets. Land for schools is earmarked at concessional rates by authorities. Reluctance of school managements to put accounts in public domain gives rise to suspicions on ulterior motives. Private schools’ right to privacy may be moot but absolute secrecy is bad for public dealing. Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaWork out alternativesParents as well as the school faculty should be receptive enough to understand each other’s agony. Schools may upload balance sheets declaring their accountability. If some schools agree to reduce fees but do not agree to upload balance sheets due to privacy concerns, it shall not be dealt with strictness as the main purpose is served by reducing fees. Another way is that all the schools are asked to make their balance sheets, and share them only with the UT education department. The department could access them and take decisions on whether to reduce or not to reduce the fees for each school individually.Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhImmoral for school to operate with motive of profitSchools are temples of learning which nurture young minds. Unfortunately, privately-run educational establishments have been converted into corporations with a motive of profit. Many other charges are being obtained in addition to fees. The schools also earn huge annual profits by giving franchise to others. It is immoral and illegal. Certainly they should charge for maintenance which includes water, power, staff, buses etc but it should stand social logic and audit. All unaided private schools must make their balance sheets public. Army Welfare Education Society is running a large number of Army Public Schools without any government aid. It will be prudent to direct all private public schools to follow the fee structure of Army Public Schools. Col SK Aggarwal, Panchkula Ease the burden on parentsPublic auditing of private schools is not justified when other organisations too are not subject to the same. A committee should be made to check the authenticity of the hefty fee taken by the private schools, and its expenditure. Government should intervene as education is the basic right of each child. Government should also provide some grant to all private schools to ease the burden on parents. Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliRelief for parentsArticle 21(A) of the Indian Constitution gives the right to education to every child between 6-14 years. However, there are cases where private schools charge hefty fees in the name of extra-curriculum activities. The recent decision by the high court to get private schools to upload their balance sheet comes as a great relief to parents. The decision will bring transparency in the functioning of private schools and parents can also raise questions if there is any discrepancy related to fee matters. Sandeep Rawat, ChandigarhSchools oppressing parentsPrivate schools’ opposition to make public their balance sheet proves the financial oppressiveness of parents at hands of schools. It is no secret how much the authorities care for public’s problems. So, not just in Delhi, private schools across India should be subject to maintenance and audit of balance sheets online.MPS Chadha, Mohali Corroded temples of educationSchools ought to be the epitome of discipline, uniformity, equality and honesty. However, over the past few years, many of these temples of learning have corroded into money minting entities. Yasmin D Khosla, PanchkulaShould not interfere in schools’ internal mattersAsking private schools to upload their balance sheets is a threat to their privacy. The private schools are independent and have their own systems of fees and other internal matters. The government should not interfere in this task of the private schools.Saikrit Gulati, ChandigarhPrivate schools are money-minting machines When the private education system was introduced in India, there was a missionary zeal but unfortunately now it is a buyer’s market. To open private schools, the administration provides land, loans, exemption in various taxes and against this their charging reasonable money is a rightful endeavour. But the aim of the owners of these schools is to mint money by exorbitantly charging admission fees, building funds and making it compulsory to buy books/exercise books either from their schools or specifically mentioned shops. They even pay less salary to their staff. In spite of all these infirmities, they do not want to upload their balance sheet to disclose their income and expenditure statement. SK Khosla, ChandigarhExpertsIn public domain Private schools run on money collected by students and their activities happen in the public domain. If parents ask, then should be shown the balance sheets. This will also help keep a check on embezzlement.BL Sharma, former education secretary Transparency must Transparency between school and parents is important. Parents need to make sure that the fees being paid by them is utilised properly. Schools should comply with these rules soon and action must be taken against those who don’t comply.Gurpreet Katwal, PTA president, Mount Carmel School Need clarity We have found a few discrepancies in the judgement and will approach the Supreme Court for more clarity on this. Uploading balance sheets online will make school governance harder and affect the studies of students.HS Mamik, president, Independent Schools AssociationInformation misuse Schools don’t have a problem with submitting their balance sheets to the UT education department and CBSE. However, uploading these online may encourage criminal elements to misuse this information.Girish Sachdeva, Independent Schools Association Executive memberWelfare Schools have been established as charitable trusts or under Societies Registration Act. Parents are to be treated as equal partners. Schools aren’t supposed to make profit so uploading balance sheets will show if there are excess funds and make a case against annual fee hike. Pardeep Rapria, RTI activist and lawyer Reader of the weekAccountability has never done any harm Education in our society has been rewarded with respect and honour. Unfortunately, the ulterior motive of ‘profiteering’ by the private schools even in these tumultuous times has pushed the stakeholders to rebel. If educational institutions can spend a mighty amount on advertisements and publicity, it is obvious to assess their intentions. Parents are being mercilessly pressed by schools to make the payments with overheads included. Such endeavours may result in massive unschooling thereby altering the edifice of educational governance in the country. Uploading financial statements on their websites may help the schools earn their lost respect that they should have retained and deserved otherwise.Shammi Bhatia, Dhakoli||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ht-chandigarh-debate-schools-need-checks-and-balances-101623446008912.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University announces BBA mentorship with Canada varsity||Indian students’ aspiring to study and work in Canada have an opportunity to realise their dream through Chitkara University, which has signed an ‘academic mentorship’ agreement with Trent University, near Toronto, in the faculty of bachelor of business administration.Under this model, students will study an applied Canadian curriculum in the first two years at Chitkara University, which will be co-taught by Trent faculty. The students will have an option to transfer with 100 percent credits to Trent in Canada and graduate with a Trent University BBA degree. Students will save at least 70% expenditure on international tuition fee as Chitkara University will provide a similar international curriculum and infrastructure on their campus. Students will also be prepared for IELTS and other requirements mandatory for securing a study permit from IRCC, Canada. This is the future of international education, which is also mentioned and encouraged in the New Education Policy (NEP). Transferring students will be eligible to apply for and secure a three-year post study work permit in Canada after their graduation. The agreement was signed virtually by the president of Trent University Dr Leo Georke and Chitkara University chancellor Dr Ashok Chitkara on June 10. The event was attended by the senior leadership of both universities, including representation from the Ontario Trade and Investment Office.“ It’s a step forward in our mission to bring the best global opportunities for our students. Chitkara University is pleased to announce this historic partnership with Trent University Canada. Our aim is to provide students, who wish to pursue their careers abroad, a hassle free platform to live their dreams. The students will be taught under a professional environment by experienced faculty so as to prepare them for brilliant careers across the globe,” said Dr Madhu Chitkara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-announces-bba-mentorship-with-canada-varsity-101623445288023.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Tikri rape case: Main accused admits to raping protester||The main accused in the rape of a 25-year-old woman, who was agitating against the contentious farm laws at the Tikri border, has admitted to sexually assaulting her twice — once on the train to New Delhi and then at the protest site, officials of the special investigation team said on Friday. The main accused, Anil Malik, had been sent to a three-day police remand. DSP Pawan Kumar Sharma, who is heading the SIT, said, “After raping the victim in the train, he assaulted her in a tent at the border and recorded the incident to blackmail her. Mallik said his accomplice, Anoop Chanaut, had also raped her while the third accused in the case, Ankush Sangwan, had molested her.” “A co-accused Jagdish Barar knew about the incident but remained quiet. Two women protesters had flagged the issue,” the DSP said.  The West Bengal woman, who had been first assaulted on April 28, had succumbed to the coronavirus at a private hospital in Jhajjar’s Bahadurgarh on April 30.Chanaut and Sangwan are at large and a reward of ₹25,000 each has been announced for facilitating their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tikri-rape-case-main-accused-admits-to-raping-protester-101623443907674.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Army jawan, nephew killed as mini-truck hits bike in Mohali||An army jawan and his nephew, who were on their way to Meerut, were killed after their motorcycle was hit by an overtaking mini-truck on Saneta-Banur highway, police said on Friday. The deceased are Sunil Kumar, a native of Bihar, and his nephew Gollu. The injured were rushed to civil hospital in Mohali’s Phase 6, where Sunil was declared brought dead and Gollu was referred to GMCH-32, Chandigarh, where he died during treatment. The police said that Sunil had been transferred from Pathankot to Meerut, and the duo was on their way to Meerut when the accident took place in Mohali. Sunil was accompanying the truck carrying his furniture and other belongings.Sunil’s son Abhishek was riding in the truck carrying his luggage.The police have registered an FIR against mini-truck driver Vijay Kumar of Nawanshahr under Sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Sohana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/army-jawan-nephew-killed-as-mini-truck-hits-bike-in-mohali-101623443787823.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Fuel prices raised 43 times in 5 months: Selja||Protesting against the rising fuel prices, Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja on Friday alleged that the rates of petrol and diesel had been revised at least 43 times in the last five months. She was leading a sit-in near the old sessions court in Ambala. At least five such protests were staged at different petrol pumps in every sub-division of the district. “With the nation already grappling with the pandemic, the government should understand that the rise in fuel prices will increase inflation. Our party will continue to fight against such arbitrary rulings of the Modi government,” the Congress leader said. On the farmers’ agitation, Selja hit out at Haryana home minister Anil Vij for saying that there was a hidden agenda behind the protest. “The farmers only want a better price for their crop.” She, however, refused to comment on the ongoing political tussle in the Punjab Congress. Aam Aadmi Party’s Ambala unit also staged a protest against rising inflation at the deputy commissioner’s office. Reacting to the protests, Vij said, “The Opposition’s work is to raise such issues and the government’s is to find a solution. The Union government is doing whatever it can to control the spread of the coronavirus. For this, packages worth crores have been announced.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fuel-prices-raised-43-times-in-5-months-selja-101623443727785.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||IGP’s complaint against DGP: HC asks Haryana to submit inquiry report||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday sought results of the probe into a complaint filed by Haryana IPS officer Y Puran Kumar against director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava seeking an FIR under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The high court bench of justice Manoj Bajaj while posting the matter for July 2 has asked the state to provide the report, confirmed additional advocate general, Deepak Sabharwal, who had appeared for the state. A detailed order is awaited. On May 18, the high court had asked the additional chief secretary (home) to consider and decide the complaints made by the IGP in accordance with the law expeditiously, preferably within a period of three months. Kumar had again approached high court earlier this week alleging that though the law mandated registration of an FIR on his complaint, the government had not done so. Sabharwal had told the court that the complaint against the DGP had been looked into and the inquiry had been concluded and submitted to the high court through an e mail. In his complaint, the IGP had said that on August 3, 2020, which was a public holiday, he had visited a temple. “The then SP Ambala, Abhishek Jorwal, had visited the temple the same day. This was reported in a newspaper on August 4, 2020. Based on the news item, the DGP wrote a demi-official letter to me on August 17, 2020 and asked me to inform him whether any prior sanction of government had been obtained before setting up a place of worship in Shahzadpur police station. The Ambala SP was not asked the same,” he had said, adding that he was targeted because he belonged to the SC community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/igps-complaint-against-dgp-hc-asks-haryana-to-submit-inquiry-report-101623443607607.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers threaten to block Jind-Chd highway unless admn traces missing protester||Jind farmers on Friday threatened to block the Jind-Chandigarh highway if the administration failed to trace a protester who had gone missing during the January 26 tractor parade in New Delhi. Scores of farmers, including women and children, of Kandela village, carried out a protest march to the mini secretariat and submitted their memorandum to Jind deputy commissioner Aditya Dahiya, asking him to find Bijender Singh ,25. Farmer leader Monu Kandela said three months had passed but the administration had failed to find Bijender. “We have asked the DC to tell us that whether the farmer was jailed or killed in the violence, he said. Santosh Devi, mother of the missing farmer said her son was the sole-breadwinner of the family. Farmers stage protest against Karnal MP 
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol climbs to ₹92 per litre in Chandigarh in new high||Petrol became costlier in Chandigarh on Friday, with its price going up to ₹92.19 per litre, the highest ever.It inched closer to the ₹100 per litre mark in Mohali, where it was priced at ₹97.98 per litre on Friday. The fuel isn’t as expensive in Panchkula, but still costlier than Chandigarh at ₹93.44 per litre.The diesel prices also shot up to the all-time high. It is most expensive in Mohali at ₹89.67 per litre, followed by ₹87.14 per litre in Panchkula and ₹86.40 per litre in Chandigarh.Due to another hike in fuel prices, the rates of other commodities, including onions, which are brought to the city from as far as Maharashtra and Rajasthan are also set to rise further.Congress holds protestsThe Chandigarh Congress organised a protest against the fuel price hike in front of two petrol pumps in Sector 21. Chief spokesperson HS Lucky said petrol prices had risen by ₹27 and diesel prices by ₹25 in the past 13 months.Addressing the protesters, local Congress president Subhash Chawla said the central government had failed on all fronts and the common man was suffering because of their policies.The party’s Mohali unit also held similar protests near different petrol pumps. “When the common man is facing many hardships owing to Covid-19, the Modi government is burdening them with scaling fuel prices,” said Udaybir Singh Dhillon, Congress leader and president of the Zirakpur municipal council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-climbs-to-92-per-litre-in-chandigarh-in-new-high-101623443189655.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Nod to Haryana’s Mukhyamantri Bal Sewa Yojana||The Haryana government’s Mukhyamantri Bal Sewa Yojana, under which aid will be provided to minor children who have lost both their parents, surviving parent, legal guardian, or adoptive parents because of the pandemic, has got the nod from the legal remembrancer and finance department. The deputy commissioner (DC) will ensure that the scheme reaches eligible children,an official spokesperson said. The standing committee of the finance department had also approved the scheme on June 10, the benefits of which will be provided to beneficiaries identified by the districts. What does the scheme include? The benefits include ₹2,500 monthly financial assistance till the child turns 18 years while in non-institutional care and living with extended family or guardians. “Of this amount ₹2,000 per month will be given through an existing centrally sponsored scheme,” the spokesperson said. An additional financial assistance of ₹12,000 per annum will be provided to the extended family or guardian for the education of the child. This assistance will be deposited in the joint bank account of the child and the guardian till the child turns 18. The scheme also covers children who may not have an extended family, grandparents and guardians and are housed in child care institutions across the state. There are 59 child care institutions in Haryana. A financial assistance of ₹1,500 per month will be deposited in beneficiaries bank accounts till they attain the age of 18. The proceeds can be withdrawn upon turning 21. Adolescent girls orphaned due to Covid will be preferably enrolled at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalas (KGBVs ), which provide free residential education. Twenty-five KGBVs have classes from Class 6 to 8, eight till Class 10 and three till Class 12. Under the Mukhyamantri Vivaah Shagun Yojana, ₹51,000 will be given to orphaned girls, which can be redeemed along with the accumulated interest at the time of their marriage.  Children studying in any class between 8 to 12 or in a vocational course will be provided a computer tablet to aid their education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nod-to-haryana-s-mukhyamantri-bal-sewa-yojana-101623443127906.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s sero survey to include kids above 6 years||Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Friday said children above the age of six will also be included in the sero survey starting June 15 to determine the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in the community. The health minister said the survey will also ascertain whether the antibodies were present due to vaccination or because of contracting the infection. “The study will provide data about susceptible populations, which will allow us to channelise and prioritise the vaccination drive,” he said. “The survey will also help prepare a plan to deal with the third wave of Covid ,” he said, adding that the lockdown in the state had broken the chain of infections. “People cooperated and adhered to the lockdown guidelines, which has brought down the graph of infections. However, people must remain careful and alert despite the declining figures,” he said. Haryana reports 436 new cases, 43 deathsHaryana logged 436 coronavirus infections and 1,036 recoveries on Friday, bringing down the number of active cases to 5,749. As many as 43 people succumbed to the virus. As per a medical bulletin, the positivity rate dropped to 1.24% and the recovery rate touched 98.08%. As many as 97,363 more people were inoculated, taking the vaccinated population to 64.13 lakh. With 565 active infections, Hisar was the worst-affected district, followed by Sirsa (522) Gurugram (455), Karnal (431), Jind (364), Panipat (357 ), Faridabad (354) and Kurukshetra (321).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-sero-survey-to-include-kids-above-6-years-101623442947928.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh house grab case: Liquor baron surrenders in court||Wanted by the police for the past three months in the Sector 37 house grab case, liquor baron Arvind Singla surrendered before a court on Friday.Following his surrender, Singla, who was carrying a cash reward of ₹50,000, was arrested and sent to four-day police custody. Punjab and Haryana high court had recently dismissed his anticipatory plea. This is the sixth arrest in the March 2 case after journalist Sanjeev Mahajan, realtor Manish Gupta, suspended Chandigarh Police inspector Rajdeep Singh, Satpal Dagar, brother of a UT deputy superintendent of police, and Gurpreet Singh, who impersonated the owner of the property, Rahul Mehta, to execute its sale deed in March 2019.A police challan has already been filed into the case.Around 10 men are accused of kidnapping and torturing Mehta, 48, the only surviving heir of his family, in April 2017 to secure the general power of attorney of his 338 square yards house and selling it to Manish’s brother Saurabh Gupta for ₹2.9 crore in March 2019.Singla is the mastermind: Police Senior police officials, privy to investigation, said Singla masterminded the house grab and was instrumental in preparing forged documents for the property’s transfer for which he received ₹1.28 crore, as disclosed by co-accused Manish.“He manipulated the records of the estate office in connivance with other accused. The original record is also missing,” said the police. Also booked for cheating partnerSingla is facing another case of cheating his business partner, lodged on June 9.Singla, and other accused Tejinder Singh, Raman Puri and Vikas Kumar, were booked on the complaint of Shweta Singla, wife of Arvind’s partner Deepak Singla.Shweta told the police that Arvind and Deepak had set up a mobile phone firm in 2016 at 60:40 partnership, respectively.The same year when her husband was admitted to a hospital after suffering a gunshot, Arvind visited them and obtained her signature on blank papers for handling the business. Later, she came to know that her husband was sued by a Gurugram firm in a ₹3-crore cheque bounce case, which she alleged was the result of Arvind misusing her signature.A case in this regard has been registered under Sections 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 26 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-house-grab-case-liquor-baron-surrenders-in-court-101623442828055.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD, BSP may declare electoral alliance today||In a significant political development, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) have forged an electoral alliance for the next assembly polls the details of which will be announced on Saturday, it is learnt. Both the parties are joining hands after 27 years since the 1996 Lok Sabha polls when the alliance had bagged 11 of the 13 Lok Sabha seats in Punjab. That time, BSP had won all the three seats it had contested and SAD bagged eight out of 10. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal is said to be behind the revival of the alliance. According to a senior SAD functionary, all formalities regarding the alliance were complete after many rounds of talks between Sukhbir and BSP supremo Mayawati. The BSP is likely to be given 20 seats, he said, requesting anonymity. And if voted to power, the SAD was not averse to have the deputy chief minister from the BSP since Sukhbir has already committed deputy chief minister’s post to a Dalit if his party is voted to power. For the fresh alliance, BSP general secretary and Rajya Sabha member Satish Mishra is in Chandigarh and the formal announcement will be made at a joint press conference to be addressed by the Sukhbir and Mishra on Saturday. A BSP functionary said the party pushed for 35 seats out of 117, but the SAD managed to convince the BSP leadership to accept 20 seats, of which eight are in the Dalit-dominated Doaba region. Most of the other seats the BSP may contest will be those which the SAD would leave for the BJP when the saffron party was in an alliance with the Akali Dal. “Discussions on the seats to be contested are almost final but may be announced later. This is a natural alliance in Punjab and is a shot in the arm for us. BSP though lately has reduced its votes share but that was primarly because its cadre had not tasted the power at all,” said a senior SAD functionary. According to the information, the SAD was keen on the alliance after parting ways with the BJP. The BSP has always had a significant vote share in Punjab being the birthplace of party founder Kanshi Ram, who belongs to Rupnagar district. It is learnt that the SAD is pressing BSP for not staking claim on Phillaur, Adampur and Banga seats since they are being represented by Dalit Akali MLAs and the BSP, it is learnt, was ready with the proposal. Notably, the BSP has strong presence among Dalits in all 23 seats falling under the Doaba region where the Scheduled Caste votes, mainly Ravidasias, can sway the poll results. Dalits make for almost 40% of the population in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-bsp-may-declare-electoral-alliance-today-101623442767693.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A Green Park landmark||He is back. As the lockdown eases, shoe repairman Udhmi Ram has returned to his pavement stall in Green Park Market.“I’m opening after one whole month,” he says, sitting amid the numerous major and minor elements that make up his establishment. There are polishes of many shades, a metallic shoe stand, a bunch of laces hanging from a nail hammered on the pavement wall, a rusty trunk filled with old shoes and sandals, and a great deal of other tools. There’s a pink plastic rose, too.The stall might seem ordinary to a hurried passerby but that would be a mistake. Green Park Market has filled up in the recent years with retail chain showrooms and cafes, a number of old landmarks have been pushed out. The market’s neighbourhood charm has eroded. In comparison, the shoe stall is a monument. It was set up 50 years ago “on this very spot by my father, Bihari Lal, who had arrived in Delhi from Kotputli in Rajasthan.” Some of the tools date to the founder’s time, says Mr Ram, himself in his early 50s. The posters stuck on the wall are newer, put up by him. Most of these are calendar portraits of various gods, including a newspaper article on a Buddha statue in Rajgir, and a clipping that details the story of Shabri from the Ramayana.“I worship them,” Mr Singh says.This noon, sitting idle, he reveals that his customers dwindled long before the pandemic. “People these days buy new shoes rather than get the old ones mended.” A father of four, his eldest son works “as a cleaner in an office.” His children often tell him to stop working, and that they will look after him. “But coming here is a good pastime for me.” He arrives daily at 10 from his home in Mandi Gaon in bus no. 519. A single-way commute takes about an hour.Mr Singh also wants to keep working because during the lockdown neither he nor his employed son were able to earn. “We owe ₹8,000 to our grocer.”He plans to continue to come as long as “my body allows it.” His children aren’t interested to inherit his profession “and this stall will be gone after I’m done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-green-park-landmark-101623442456089.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bike-borne men rob petrol pump employee of ₹86,000 in Ludhiana||Three motorcycle-borne men injured a petrol pump employee and robbed him of ₹86,000 on 200ft road near Phullanwal, police said on Friday. The accused have been captured in CCTVs installed at the petrol pump.The Dugri police initiated an investigation after reaching the spot.Dugri station house officer (SHO) Surinder Chopra said that three motorcycle-borne miscreants posing as customers struck at the petrol pump around 5.15pm and asked the petrol pump employee Sunil Kumar to fill the tank. “When Sunil asked them for money, the accused flashed a gun and a sharp-edged weapon. The accused threatened him to handover the cash he had to them. When he resisted, the accused thrashed Sunil and fled with the cash,” he added. The SHO said the accused have been captured in the CCTVs installed at the petrol pump. The accused had covered their faces with masks.A case has been registered against the accused and the police have been trying to trace them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bikeborne-men-rob-petrol-pump-employee-of-86-000-in-ludhiana-101623442469865.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Khanna police lodge 24 FIRs against proclaimed offenders in two days||Under a special drive, Khanna police have lodged FIRs against 24 proclaimed offenders (POs) in the last two days. The fugitives are wanted in cases like murder, attempt to murder, rape, drug peddling, robbery and snatching.Superintendent of police (SP, detective) Manpreet Singh said that most of them had skipped court hearings after availing bail. As the courts had declared them POs, police lodged an FIR against them under Section 174-A (non-attendance in obedience to an order from public servant) of Indian Penal Code. The accused will also face trial for the crime for which they are wanted. He added that special teams have been formed to arrest them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khanna-police-lodge-24-firs-against-proclaimed-offenders-in-two-days-101623442468939.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana photographer held for posting child porn on Instagram||Police on Friday arrested a local photographer for sharing child sexual abuse imagery on his Instagram (photo and video sharing social networking site) account. The accused claimed that he had received the video as a forwarded post, which he shared on his handle. The police have confiscated his mobile phone and initiated investigation to ascertain if he is connected with those operating online child exploitation and pornography network.The accused has been identified as Ranjit Tiwari of Millar Ganj’s Gurpal Nagar. Division Number 6 SHO Amandeep Singh Brar said after investigation, the cyber cell had forwarded the case to them for further probe and make the arrest. The police have registered an FIR under Section 67-B (publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act, etc. in electronic form) of the Information and Technology Act against the accused.US-based National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), which keeps a check on such content on the internet, had found the video and contacted Punjab Police to investigate. AIG (cyber cell) had further marked a probe to the Ludhiana cyber cell. The police traced the accused through the IP address of his phone and summoned him to join the investigation. Tiwari stated that he had received the video as a forwarded post, which he had shared on his Instagram account. He claimed of having no other information about the video. NCMEC uses information from people, internet service providing companies and software to track child porn content online.The ministry of home affair (MHA) had signed an agreement with NCMEC in 2019 following which, the latter had started sending their tipline reports on child porn videos being posted on social networking sites. NCMEC had logged 25,000 such reports in five months and submitted them to MHA in January 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-photographer-held-for-posting-child-porn-on-instagram-101623442412814.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Fallen electricity poles lead to power disruptions across Ludhiana||Heavy rains accompanied by gusty winds, late on Thursday evening, uprooted electricity poles and trees in many areas of the city causing major power disruptions.The affected areas are Shastri Nagar, Ghumar Mandi, Guru Arjun Dev Nagar, Focal Point and Sector-32, Chandigarh Road. Electricity poles at Focal Point and Sunder Nagar were broken and scores of power conductors were snapped. Many KV feeders were down due to the falling of trees.Electricity department teams worked the entire night in areas like Sundar Nagar, Focal Point, Chander Nagar and near Guru Nanak Stadium to restore the electricity. Many wires and transformers were damaged and workers, executive engineers and SDOs were engaged in the restoration process for over six hours.Residents of Guru Arjun Dev Nagar and Sector 32, Chandigarh Road, had to spend the entire night without electricity and the power came back at 6am in the morning. Many of them complained that when they called the PSPCL helpline number, noone responded.Lovel Jalota, a resident of Guru Arjun Dev Nagar said, “The power went off at 7pm. We called the helpline number, 1912, at 11.30pm, but it was not functional. There are six members in the family, and we stayed without power all night. I thought it would be restored in an hour or two, but it came back at 6 am.”Another resident, Sushil Kumar of Chandigarh Road, said, “My son online classes from 8pm to 11pm, but the power went off at 7pm. Due to fluctuation, his laptop charger was damaged and the wifi also stopped working, due to which he was not able to attend any class last night. I contacted the PSPCL helpline number and after trying for one hour, was able to register a complaint. The power was restored at 5.30 am in our area.”As per sources, there are 1,862 feeders in the district, out of which at 343 are still being repaired while the electricity has been restored at the others. At Focal Point, there are 165 non-AP feeders, out of which 29 stopped working. In Sunder Nagar, 24 out of 70 feeders were damaged and took six hours to repair.PSPCL chief engineer, distribution (central), Bhupinder Singh Khosla, said, “Electricity poles at Focal Point and Sunder Nagar have been repaired and electricity has been restored in these areas. The agriculture (AP) Feeders with fault will take two days for repair as the workers have first restored the power of non-AC feeders today.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fallen-electricity-poles-lead-to-power-disruptions-across-ludhiana-101623442411828.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana NGOs protest interlocking tiles around trees||Slamming the civic body for ‘defying’ the orders of National Green Tribunal (NGT) wherein the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) was directed against pouring concrete and installing interlocking tiles around one metre radius of trees, members of different NGOs under the banner of Council of Engineers staged a protest outside the civic body’s Zone-D office on Friday. Standing at the entry of MC office with placards in hands, the protesters said that the civic body has even failed to remove the cemented portion around the trees outside its Zone-D office in Sarabha Nagar and the department is continuing with the same illegal practice while taking up development projects in Ghumar Mandi, Malhar Road, Haibowal Kalan and other areas.Kapil Arora from Council of Engineers, Harpreet Soin from Wake Up Ludhiana, Jaskirat Singh and Kuldeep Khaira from Naroa Punjab Manch also joined the protest. They said that trees are unable to absorb water and other nutrients after concrete is spilled around them. According to them, even the roots of trees are damaged, which makes them weak and they fall in the event of thunderstorm and strong winds. “We had moved NGT against the illegal practice and in March, personally handed over the orders of the green tribunal to MC officials, wherein the court had directed the authorities to leave one metre radius around the trees. But they are still disobeying the orders,” Arora said. Khaira said they will also be staging a protest outside the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) office on June 14 as they are indulging in the same illegal practice as well. “If the authorities fail to respond, then we will be left with no other option than to file a contempt petition in the tribunal,” he added. MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Directions have already been issued to the officials of bridges and roads (B&R) department to comply with the orders of the tribunal and leave a certain portion of area around a tree. I will direct the officials of the horticulture and B&R wings of the MC to look into these complaints.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-ngos-protest-interlocking-tiles-around-trees-101623442347922.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Barewal residents oppose garbage dump on cremation ground premises||Residents of Barewal village staged a protest against the municipal corporation and Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) on Friday over the establishment of a garbage dump on the premises of the cremation ground in the village. The residents said that the dump should not be established at the site where people perform last rites of their loved ones. Further, the site is situated at the entry point of the village, due to which foul smell will be spread in the entire area, they added.They also filed a petition against the same at a local court and a stay was ordered on installation of static compactors. The residents demanded that the garbage dump should be shifted to its previous location, which was around 100 metres away from the proposed site. However, the authorities stated that the stay order has been vacated.Tarlochan Singh said, “The next hearing of the case is on June 17, but the authorities are still continuing the construction. We will not allow the authorities to establish a dump site inside the cremation ground at any cost and continue the agitation.”A villager, Gurdyal Singh, said that a temple is also situated inside the cremation ground. If the garbage dump is established, MC will start dumping waste from around 25 surrounding colonies there, due to which foul smell spreads in the area.LIT superintending engineer Buta Ram said that the LIT is only installing static compactor at the site and the location has been finalised by the MC. “The stay order has been vacated. The contractor was stopped from taking up construction on Friday and we are taking up the matter with the MC and police,” he said.Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “There is some issue regarding the location. The matter will be sorted out after having a meeting with the villagers. The garbage will not be dumped in the open as it will be a covered facility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-barewal-residents-oppose-garbage-dump-on-cremation-ground-premises-101623442289657.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Thursday thunderstorm leaves a trail of destruction in Ludhiana||The thunderstorm accompanied by strong winds on Thursday evening wreaked havoc on the city with trees uprooted at over 55 locations and electric wires damaged at multiple sites. A major tragedy was averted as trees fell on two cars near Jamalpur Chowk while the vehicles were moving at a slow pace due to traffic jam. The occupants, however, came out safely. In Haibowal Kalan, boundary wall of a plot collapsed at a parked car, while a sign board was damaged on Chandigarh Road. No casualty was reported at any of these spots. Areas where trees got uprooted included Civil Lines, Model Town Extension, Model Gram, Haibowal, Dugri, Jamalpur, Gill Road, Chandigarh Road and Rakh Bagh, among others. Movement of traffic was hit at a few points, including Jamalpur Chowk, Civil Lines, and Gill Road, after fallen trees blocked the roads. Power wires were also damaged at most of the points as a result of uprooted trees. Similar damage was reported from the areas near the official residences of deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal as well. Strong winds also uprooted trees in Rakh Bagh, damaging a few swings and a trampoline. Trees fell on the tracks of toy train, but fortunately no one was injured as the park was closed at that time. A resident of Bhamiyan Road, Manjit Singh, said, “A direction board (unipole) installed at the centre of Chandigarh Road broke following strong winds on Thursday evening. Even though it was not the civic body’s fault, these unipoles should not be installed in the middle of the road. Even if they have to, these should be made of concrete material to avoid any mishap.” An employee of the corporate house looking after the maintenance of Rakh Bagh, Gurmukh Singh, said that fortunately, no one was injured after few trees fell near the activity area as the park was closed at that time.MC teams remained on toes till late nightAs per MC officials, the field staff remained on toes to clear the main roads of fallen trees in order to ease the movement of traffic till 2am on Friday. The officials said that 90% of the complaints were resolved by Friday noon.MC junior engineer Kirpal Singh said different teams of the civic body were deployed for removing the damaged trees and priority was given to those areas where movement of traffic was affected after trees blocked roads. “The teams remained on field till 2am. The work to clear the trees restarted at 7am on Friday and over 95% of the complaints have been resolved,” he added. Storm claims 55-year-old woman’s lifeA 55-year-old woman died after a cement roofing sheet fell on her in Preet Nagar on Tajpur Road after the storm hit the city on Thursday night. A two-and-a-half-year old boy and a pregnant woman have also suffered injuries as branches of trees fell on them following the high-velocity winds.The deceased has been identified as Surkhi Kaur. Kin of the deceased said that Surkhi was standing outside her house when the high-velocity winds hit the city. All of a sudden, a cement roofing sheet fell on her and she died on the spot.The Tibba police have handed over the body to the family after the autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thursday-thunderstorm-leaves-a-trail-of-destruction-in-ludhiana-101623442288105.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Body in gunny bags: Murder case cracked with arrest of Ludhiana labour contractor, son||Police claim to have solved the murder case of the woman whose body wrapped in gunny bags was found dumped a couple of days ago in Kanganwal, with the arrest of a labour contractor and his 19-year-old son on Friday. The accused have been identified as Dalip Kumar, 45, of Giaspura, and Deepak Kumar. Deepak is a student of Class 12. According to the police, the victim, who was divorced, was having an affair with the contractor for last 12 years. She was insisting the contractor to buy her beds and refrigerator. The woman was also forcing him to return ₹3 lakh which he had borrowed from her, the police said. ADCP (City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the victim was identified as a 38-year-old resident of New Samrat Colony. “The police contacted her neighbours and came to know about her relation with the contractor. The cops then zeroed on the accused and on Friday, arrested him. A kitchen knife used for slitting the throat of the woman has also been recovered,” he added. During questioning, the accused confessed to his crime and on the basis of disclosures made by him, his son was also nabbed.“Dalip has four daughters and one son. The woman, who was a tailor, had lent him ₹3 lakh, and the accused used to give her a fixed amount every month for her livelihood,” the ADCP said.“Dalip said the woman had built a house here and was forcing him to buy her new beds and refrigerator besides returning her ₹3 lakh. He then hatched a conspiracy to kill her and involved his son also. On June 7, when his wife, along with their four daughters, went out, he called the victim to his home, where they hit her with a baseball bat. When she lost consciousness, they slit her throat with a knife. They then dumped her body at a vacant plot after stuffing it in gunny bags,” he added.WhatsApp helps cops in identifying bodyAfter recovering the body, the police had circulated its pictures on various WhatsApp groups. Residents of New Samrat Colony then identified the victim. Her 14-year-old daughter also confirmed her identity, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/body-in-gunny-bags-murder-case-cracked-with-arrest-of-ludhiana-labour-contractor-son-101623442167614.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||140 contract Covid, one dies of black fungus in Ludhiana||Four persons died while 140 more tested positive for coronavirus in the last 24 hours in the district.The four deceased included two men and two women, all aged between 52 and 64 years. Among the dead were a 64-year-old man from Jangpur village, a 55-year-old man from Sunet, a 53-year-old woman from Gandhi Nagar, and a 52-year-old woman from Jagraon.There are total 1,724 active cases in the district at present.The total number of patients related to Ludhiana since the beginning of the pandemic is 86,061, 2,058 of whom have succumbed to the contagion.Two more cases of mucormycosis surfaceOne person died, while two fresh cases of mucormycosis (commonly known as black fungus) were reported in the district in the last 24 hours, district health department officials said. With this, the total number of confirmed cases of mucormycosis in the district has reached 109, out of which 16 patients have succumbed to the disease. There were 52 active cases in the district on Friday.The 109 confirmed cases included 55 residents of Ludhiana, while 54 patients were from other districts/states. Similarly, out of total 16 deceased, seven were residents of Ludhiana, while nine were from other districts.Major vaccination drive todayThe district administration announced that as many as 50,000 vaccine doses will be available across 159 vaccination centres throughout the district on Saturday for anyone above the age of 18. The list of all inoculation camps has been uploaded on the verified Facebook page of district public relations office (DPRO), Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/140-contract-covid-one-dies-of-black-fungus-in-ludhiana-101623442107830.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||State govt informs SC it has launched ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme||The Delhi government informed the Supreme Court on Friday that it has commenced implementing the One Nation One Ration Card scheme, which helps beneficiaries, especially migrant workers, to avail of subsidised food commodities anywhere in the country.The bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah was informed about the Delhi government making the national scheme functional by its standing counsel Chirag M Shroff while the court heard the suo motu (registered on court’s own motion) case on “problems and miseries of the migrant workers”.Asked by the bench, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Union government, said that Delhi was one of the four states which was yet to implement the scheme. But Shroff was quick to retort: “We are now implementing the scheme.”The statement by the city government’s lawyer follows an affidavit submitted by it in the Supreme Court, stating: “Regarding efforts to be made to encourage migrant NFSA (National Food Security Act) beneficiaries to use facilities of portability under One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC), it is submitted that in Delhi, to begin with ONORC has been implemented in circle 63, Seemapuri, and from this facility, portability facility can be availed.”The Delhi government’s affidavit, which was reviewed by HT, is dated June 8. The Union government had on June 8 written to the Delhi government to speedily implement the One Nation One Ration Card programme, pointing out that the scheme was already functional in 32 states and Union territories.Delhi government spokespersons did not comment on the matter despite repeated requests.The Delhi government and the Centre have been locked in a tussle after the state government’s ambitious plan to home-deliver subsidised foodgrain to the city’s residents, which has been blocked by the Centre citing procedural concerns.On Tuesday, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to allow the home delivery scheme “in national interest” as he maintained that it was a waste of resources to have two schemes trying to do the same thing.The One Nation One Ration Card scheme programme is currently functional in 32 states and Union territories, covering 690 million beneficiaries, or 86% of those eligible for food security cover.It provides for a portable public distribution system (PDS) where food distribution takes place through a network of fair price shops that act as the final points of delivery.Nearly 7.2 million people in Delhi are eligible for subsidised food, including 1.7 million ration card holders and nearly 3 million priority households, besides other additional food insecure categories identified by the Delhi government.In its affidavit, the Delhi government has also apprised the top court of its decision to provide food grains also to those who did not possess ration cards and the benefits were envisaged for around 20 lakh persons.On Friday, the apex court heard the submissions of the state governments briefly and reserved its order for issuing further directives while observing that all states must implement ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/state-govt-informs-sc-it-has-launched-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-101623441626204.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: Walk-in vaccines for everyone over 18 from June 21||From June 21, Covid vaccines will be available for all persons in the 18-45 age bracket in Mohali. District immunisation officer Dr Vikrant Nagra said currently government-sourced vaccine was being provided to only registered industrial workers, construction workers, family members of healthcare workers and people with serious illnesses in this age group. “No registration or slot booking will be needed from June 21. Anyone can walk in and get vaccinated at the permanent and temporary vaccination centres in the district,” said civil surgeon Adarshpal Kaur.In Chandigarh and Panchkula, currently vaccine for this age group is only available with prior appointment on the CoWin portal.Permission for second dose before 84 daysDeputy commissioner Girish Dayalan has allowed certain authorities to grant permission to those requiring the second dose of Covishield before the mandated 84 days until August 31.People flying abroad for work, study and sports, and the staff accompanying the Indian contingent to the Tokyo Olympic Games can receive the second dose with the permission of the SDM concerned, circle revenue officer, BDPO, MC executive officer, labour inspector, AETC/ETO/excise inspector, SHO, rural medical officer, and elected representatives of local and urban bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-walk-in-vaccines-for-everyone-over-18-from-june-21-101623441748025.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||A month after peak of 24K, Chandigarh tricity’s active Covid cases drop below 2,000||For the first time in 94 days, tricity’s active Covid-19 cases dropped below the 2,000 mark amid the steady downturn in fresh infections over the past few weeks.Since reaching the record high of 24,201 on May 12, the active cases have seen a 92% slump in the subsequent month, dropping to 1,939 as of Friday. This was combined with the recovery rate reaching over 97% across the tricity.It was only March 9 last when less than 2,000 (1,979) cases in the tricity were active.Amid the peak of the second wave in early May, Chandigarh’s active cases had shot up to 8,653 on May 10. The very next day, Panchkula reached its highest active caseload of 2,988. At 12,922, Mohali has the most patients under treatment on May 12, when the figure in the tricity was also the highest.A month later, UT has 564 active cases, Mohali 1,013 and Panchkula 362, an evident impact of the lockdown restrictions imposed in May’s first week.“This is the result of Covid appropriate behaviour being followed by people and our focus on early detection of cases. Lockdown has also played its role, while vaccination has helped improve people’s immunity. But people should continue to exercise caution to keep the third wave at bay,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, health, Chandigarh.The daily positivity rate, indicating the samples testing positive, was 2.54% in Mohali and 2.79% in Panchkula, but a tad higher in Chandigarh at 3.28%.169 fresh infections, eight deadThe tricity logged less than 200 new Covid-19 cases for the fifth time in the past six days, as 169 people tested positive. However, the figure was higher than Thursday’s 134, lowest since March 2’s 132 cases.Both Chandigarh and Mohali clocked 70 cases each, up from 66 and 49 a day ago, respectively, and Panchkula had 29 infections, higher than 19 on Thursday.Eight more people succumbed to the virus – five in Mohali and three in Chandigarh. Panchkula had no casualty for the sixth time since the advent of June.Those who died in Chandigarh were an 88-year-old woman from Sector 32, an 82-year-old woman from Sector 27 and a 49-year-old man in Sector 18.In Mohali, three women were among the five fatalities. They were aged 80, 65 and 59, and were residents of Boothgarh, Dera Bassi and Gharuan, respectively. The male deceased were an 81-year-old man from Mohali city and a 50-year-old man from Kharar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-month-after-peak-of-24k-chandigarh-tricity-s-active-covid-cases-drop-below-2000-101623441447783.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Summer break in Chandigarh’s govt schools to end on June 15||The summer vacations for government schools, which were supposed to end on June 8 and were later extended, will now end on June 15.A letter in this regard was sent by the district education officer (DEO) to all government and government-aided school principals and heads on Friday.As per the letter, schools will open for all teaching and non-teaching staff, but classes will be held online. School timings will be from 8:30am to 1:30pm. The admission process in government schools will also resume from June 15.The extra summer vacation holidays will be adjusted with the second Saturday holidays up to October. Senior officials of the education department confirmed that a system to start offline classes for students was being worked upon, and like last year the board classes will be called first followed by junior classes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/summer-break-in-chandigarh-s-govt-schools-to-end-on-june-15-101623441387577.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks list of manual garbage collectors in Chandigarh||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday sought a complete list of garbage collectors operating in the city prior to introduction of collection through motorised vehicles.The details were sought in a plea filed by garbage collectors against the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s move to purchase vehicles to carry out door-to-door collection of waste, replacing three-wheeler carts/rehris.Earlier, the UT had told the court that the total number of such workers was slated to be 1,284. However, the petitioner, a garbage collector, told the court that there were approximately 2,500 workers involved.The court, while posting the matter for July 7, asked the petitioner to supply a complete list so that none involved in collection and otherwise eligible to be employed by the MC were not ignored.It was on April 7 that the high court had put a stay on the operation and effect of the Solid Waste Management by-laws, 2018, and a December 2019 resolution by the MC through which it had purchased motorised vehicles for garbage collection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-list-of-manual-garbage-collectors-inchandigarh-101623441029335.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Solid waste management in Chandigarh: Material recovery, transfer station inaugurated||UT administrator VP Singh Badnore on Friday inaugurated the first material recovery facility-cum-garbage transfer station at the 3BRD solid waste treatment plant site in Industrial Area, Phase 2, here.Addressing the gathering after inauguration of the station, Badnore said that the centre was the first one out of three to be constructed in the city. The other two were under construction at Industrial Area, Phase I, and Sector 25 (West).Badnore said that the project was one of the components of the comprehensive solid waste management system as per SWM Rules, 2016, which aim at reducing time and cost involved in collection and transfer of waste, besides generating income by recovering reusable and recyclable waste.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said that door-to-door waste collection vehicles will bring segregated waste, both dry and wet, in different compartments to the material recovery facility that has dedicated space for sorting of recoverable dry waste into different categories like paper, card, recyclable plastics, glass bottles, metal etc.Dry waste left after recovery of recyclable materials will be compacted in huge compactors to the compost plant located in Sector 25, Dadumajra. Weigh bridges have been provided for measurement of dry and wet waste within the facility.He said that MRF facility was equipped with hopper-tippers and compactor capsules for transfer of waste from smaller vehicles to capsules where the waste will be compacted to one fifth of the original volume. The volume reduction will save cost of transportation of waste and space required for disposal of waste.KK Yadav, MC commissioner-cum-CEO, Chandigarh Smart City Limited, said that waste from Sectors 31, 32, 33,34, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, part 63, Industrial Area Phase 1, Ramdarbar, Hallomajra, Makhan Majra and Behlana was proposed to be brought at the 3BRD facility.The station in Sector 25 (West) will cater to Sectors 1, 2, 3,4, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24, 25, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, part 61, Maloya, Togan, Dhanas, Sarangpur, Shangari Wala, Khuda Lahora and Khuda Ali Sher. The remaining sectors will be catered to by the station at Industrial Area, Phase 1.The stations will be equipped with parking facilities and vehicle washing facilities, monitored through 20 CCTV cameras. Each transfer station will have two conveyer belts, industrial shed, three weigh bridges, one wash system, compactor and trucks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/solid-waste-management-in-chandigarh-material-recovery-transfer-station-inaugurated-101623440967984.html
12-06-2021||Bangalore||Tributes pour in as Dalit poet-activist Siddalingaiah succumbs to Covid||Bengaluru Noted poet and Dalit rights activist who used his poetry to raise issues of social injustices, Dr Siddalingaiah, died on Friday due to Covid-19. He was 67.Known for his humour and hard-hitting poetry, Siddalingaiah, has also been a member of Karnataka’s legislative council twice.“Dr.Siddalingaiah narrated the pain of Dalits through his writings and awakened them. He endured the pain and his poems set the required blaze to the Dalit movement. His services to the state and Kannada language as chairman, Kannada Development Authority and as a two time MLC is commendable,” chief minister BS Yediyurappa said on Friday.“In his death, we have lost a great writer with social concern, who strived for the upliftment of the depressed classes. I pray to Almighty to grant peace to the departed soul and strength to the bereaved family and followers to bear the loss,” the chief minister added.Siddaramaiah, the Congress’ leader of the opposition said that Siddalingaiah had made his poetry into a weapon to take the fight for social justice forward.His poem, Yarige Banthu, ellige bantu, nalvathayelara swatantrya (who got, where did it come, (1947’s independence), propelled him as one of the leading voices of the movement, converting the song into an anthem which is used even now in protests and other rallies of backward communities.The poet was one of the most prominent voices for social justice and was one of the co-founders of the Dalit Sangharsha Samithi.Condolences poured in for the loss of the poet.“Dr. Siddalingaiah will be remembered for his prolific writings, poetry and contributions towards social justice. Saddened by his passing away. My thoughts are with his family and many admirers in this hour of sadness. Om Shanti,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a post on Twitter.“The demise of Dr Siddalingaiah has left a huge void in Kannada literature. An eminent poet, social activist and academician, he became a fierce voice for the poor and marginalized and also enriched public discourse through his writings. My condolences to his family & followers,” Ramnath Kovind, the president of India shared in a post on Twitter.The Karnataka government said that his last rites would be performed with full state honours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/tributes-pour-in-as-dalit-poet-activist-siddalingaiah-succumbs-to-covid-101623439346879.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||48 foreign-made pistols, ammo seized in Amritsar, suspected militant held||Punjab Police on Thursday night seized a huge cache of foreign-made pistols and arrested a weapons smuggler allegedly linked with Pakistan-based terror outfits and pro-Khalistani elements based in USA, Canada and UK. He was operating on the directions of a USA-based handler, said police.The weapons were meant for carrying out terrorist activities across the country, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said on Friday.“Jagjit Singh alias Jaggu, 25, of Purian Kalan village in Batala, was arrested from near Kathunangal, Amritsar, on Thursday night by a team of Punjab internal security wing, State Special Operation Cell, Amritsar,” Gupta said.According to an official release, the State Special Operation Cell intercepted an i-20 car (PB-06-AN-7016) at a naka (checkpoint) on the Amritsar-Batala road at Kathunangal village and two nylon bags containing 48 foreign-made pistols, along with magazines and ammunition were recovered. The cache included Turkey made 19 Zigana pistols (9mm), 37 magazines and 45 rounds; nine made in China pistols of .30 bore and 22 magazines; 19 star mark pistols of .30 bore, 38 magazines and 148 rounds; and an Italian Baretta pistol of 9mm and two magazines, according to the release. The DGP said a case under Sections 13, 17, 18, 18-B, 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and 120, 120-B of the IPC and 25 of the Arms Act has been registered. Further investigation is on to unearth the whole nexus, he said.The DGP said preliminary investigations revealed that Jagjit had been directed by Darmanjit Singh, alias Darman Kahlon, a former gangster based in USA, to collect the weapon consignment. “During his stay in Dubai from 2017 to 2020, Jagjit had been in touch with Darman, who motivated him to work for him,” he said. “The mastermind of the smuggling racket, Darman, had reportedly tasked Jagjit to collect and conceal the weapon consignment and wait for further instructions,” said the DGP, adding, “open-ended warrants of Darman, a proclaimed offender in Punjab, have been obtained.” “Darman, who originally belonged to Talwandi Khumman village in Amritsar, was involved in various criminal activities in Punjab before escaping to the USA in 2017. He facilitated the escape of gangster Harwinder Singh, alias Mannu, from police custody in 2017. An FIR was registered on June 12, 2017, at the Batala Civil Lines police station and Darman was declared a proclaimed offender in January 2020,” the release said. During his stay in America in 2020, Darman funded a criminal group in Punjab with ₹2 lakh to purchase illegal weapons for carrying out anti-India activities, the release said, adding 10 members of his group were arrested by the Amritsar special operation cell and seven pistols were recovered from their possession. An FIR in this regard was registered on November 10, 2020, at the special operation cell police station, Amritsar. Punjab Police has have busted 44 terror modules over the last four years, said the DGP. Besides, 283 terrorists/criminals have been arrested, and 21 rifles, 163 revolvers/pistols, 38 hand grenades, 10 drones, 5 satellite phone, 2 walkie-talkie sets and RDX have been seized in this period, the DGP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/48-foreign-made-pistols-ammo-seized-in-amritsar-suspected-militant-held-101623439229950.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD to finalise poll manifesto by October||ChandigarhShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said the party will prepare its election manifesto for the 2022 state assembly elections by October. Sukhbir, who announced this at a meeting with the party’s Mulazam Front, said the manifesto will include only those demands of government employees, which can be fulfilled, unlike the Congress, which made tall and false promises with them. “The party believes in keeping its word,” he told the employee wing delegation. The SAD chief said the party is already in the process of preparing the manifesto. He also said that district-level organisational structure of the Mulazam Front will be announced in July. Akali MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder, and leaders Sikander Singh Maluka, Daljit Singh Cheema, Charanjit Singh Brar and Mulazam Front leaders Baaz Singh Khaira, Manjit Singh Chahal, Harmesh Dhiman and Gurjant Singh Walia were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-to-finalise-poll-manifesto-by-october-101623438989092.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||AAP misleading people on fateh kits, says Balbir Sidhu||Chandigarh Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Friday accused the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of misleading and playing politics on Covod-19 “fateh kits” as its own government in Delhi had purchased pulse oximeters at exorbitant prices last month. Sidhu said that before raising questions, AAP leaders have to look at what they did in Delhi where thousands of people died on roads for lack of treatment and screaming for oxygen and beds availability in hospitals. The minister claimed that on May 5, they (Delhi government) issued the purchase order to V&M Galaxy to supply 20,000 oximeters at ₹1,300 each, Divesh Chaudhary for 2,000 units at the rate of ₹1,290 each, Edif Medical Systems for 5,000 pieces at ₹1,250 each, Abhilasha Commercial Pvt. Ltd for 13,000 units at the rate of ₹of 1,300. “How could the Delhi government purchase same oximeter from various firms at different prices, whereas the Punjab government has been providing Corona “fateh kits” to patients at very low price of ₹883, which included 19 items such as digital thermometer, steamer, pulse oximeter, hand sanitizer (500 ML), facemask three ply and all essential medicines,” he said. He said Punjab is the only state where treatment kits have been provided to Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-misleading-people-on-fateh-kits-says-balbir-sidhu-101623438027467.html
12-06-2021||Bangalore||Uncertainty looms over Pak women married in India||Bengaluru: Karnataka Police on Thursday arrested a Pakistani national for illegally staying in Uttara Kannada district’s Bhatkal. According to police, she is married to a local and has been living in India since 2015 and was arrested following a tip-off.The woman was identified as Khadija Mehrin, 33, who had married Mohiddin Rukkuddin from Bhatkal in 2014 in Dubai and has three children from the marriage. Shivaprakash Devaraju, Superintendent of Police, Uttara Kannada said Mehrin has been remanded in judicial custody. He said after their marriage in Dubai she entered the country illegally and has been staying at Nawayath Colony in Bhatkal.“She had travelled on a tourist visa to India for three months in 2015 and stayed back illegally. She also obtained an Aadhaar card, a ration card, a PAN card, among others, by producing fake documents,” Devaraju said.While Mehrin was sent to judicial custody for her illegal stay, several Pakistani women are staying in Bhatkal who have either received their citizenship or are awaiting them. Marrying women from Karachi has been a long tradition in Bhatkal.“Before partisan, many Muslim families of Nawayath community, had business links with Karachi and in other parts of Pakistan. Once the partition happened, several families and friends were on either side of the border. Soon, to keep these relations going; the practice of marrying women from Karachi began. Most of them apply for Indian citizenship after the marriage,” said a senior officer of the state intelligence, who didn’t want to be named.In the 1990s, however, the fate of this Muslim-majority fishing town, which stayed peaceful even after the demolition of the Babri Masjid, changed following a political murder. “The murder of a popular RSS leader Dr U Chittaranjan, who was the first MLA to be assassinated while in office, changed the town’s political climate. This murder, over a period of time, led to communal tensions and eventually led to the creation of terrorists like Yasin and Riyaz; and the rise of far-right Hindu leaders like Anant Kumar Hegde,” the officer added.As the town’s name started getting associated with terror, the approval for citizenship of many Pakistani brides from Bhatkal became difficult.“I’m not certain about the exact numbers, but there are around 70 applications for citizenship are pending since 1992 with the home ministry’s office in Bengaluru. As per our records, there are 16 women of Pakistan nationality living in Bhatkal town of Uttara Kannada district on long-term visas. Of them, 14 are married to Indians and most of their children are born in India,” the officer added.For the families the wait for citizenship is difficult. Javeed (name changed), whose wife is Pakistani says that due to the visa restrictions travelling within the country itself is difficult. “We have to take permission from the police if we have to travel. We have been going to multiple offices and multiple police verifications have been done, but her request for citizenship hasn’t been processed yet,” he said.But the police say that the recent developments over the years have made the process even more difficult. The Pakistani wife of a suspected terror operative Syed Ismail Afaq, who is now in jail for supplying explosive material that Indian Mujahideen (IM) used in bomb strikes across India, was deported on October 7, 2019.“Her name was Arsala Abeer and then she had crossed the one-month deadline that the Union home ministry had set for her to return to her home country. The ministry of external affairs rejected her visa renewal application in August after her husband’s arrest. Arsala was living in India after periodically renewing her two-year visa after she married Afaq in 2006. This made our renewal and process for citizenship requests even more strict,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/uncertainty-looms-over-pak-women-married-in-india-101623437909154.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||If removing me as PCC chief strengthens Cong, it should be done: Jakhar||If removing him as the Punjab Congress chief strengthens the party, it should be done, said Sunil Jakhar on Friday responding to speculation that he may be replaced.His statement came a day after a three-member Congress panel set up to end factionalism in the state unit submitted its report to party chief Sonia Gandhi, suggesting a revamp to accommodate all sections.“If the Congress becomes strong by removing Sunil Jakhar, then that must be done today,” Jakhar said when asked that there was speculation that he may be replaced. When asked that the panel has said that Amritsar MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu be “suitably accommodated” in the revamped unit, Jakhar agreed that he should get a “respectable position”. However, he told reporters that they should not speculate over the panel report. “Let the committee’s report come, you should not do guess work on that. I have not read the report,” he said.Jakhar further said he would never like to become a “stumbling block” in any such effort of the party, which is aimed at strengthening it. “I have said from day one that if having someone else as the PCC chief strengthens the Congress, then it should be done,” said the former Gurdaspur MP. The Congress panel was chaired by leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, with AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP JP Aggarwal as its members.Rawat had on Thursday said the report has been submitted to the Congress president, who would take a final call on the suggestions made.Though no major changes have been recommended at the top level in Punjab, the panel is learnt to have said that idhu be “suitably accommodated” in the revamped unit.Sidhu’s name is doing the rounds for inclusion in the state cabinet and elevation as the deputy CM but chief minister Amarinder Singh is reportedly opposed to it.Sidhu had quit the state cabinet nearly two years ago after his Local Bodies portfolio was changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/if-removing-me-as-pcc-chief-strengthens-cong-it-should-be-done-jakhar-101623437907504.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 1,230 fresh cases, 59 more deaths||Punjab on Friday reported 1,230 fresh Covid cases taking the tally to 5,85,986, while 59 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 15,435, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government.Ludhiana topped the chart in the state with 140 fresh cases, followed by 103 in Amritsar, 101 in Jalandhar and 91 in Patiala, the bulletin said. A maximum of six deaths were reported in Amritsar, five each in Mohali, Fazilka and Jalandhar, and four each in Ferozepur, Sangrur and Ludhiana, according to the bulletin.The state’s positivity rate was 2.05% as against 2.36% on Thursday. The number of active cases dropped to 15,306 from 16,244 a day before. A total of 197 critical patients are on ventilator support, the bulletin said. With 2,071 more coronavirus patients recovering from the infection, the number of cured persons has reached 5,55,245, it said.So far, 99,41,391 samples have been collected for Covid testing in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-1-230-fresh-cases-59-more-deaths-101623437787386.html
12-06-2021||Bangalore||Will remain Karnataka CM for next two years: Yediyurappa||Bengaluru BS Yediyurappa on Friday said that he will continue as Karnataka’s chief minister for another two years and dismissed any change in leadership in the southern state.“For the next two years, I will be chief minister and will focus more on development works for the state,” Yediyurappa said on Friday, exuding new-found confidence after speculation of his removal was denied by the central leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Though it remains unclear if the BJP will actually replace Yediyurappa, the 78-year-old has made his intentions clear, irrespective of what the party high command has on their minds.The statement comes a day after Arun Singh, Rajya Sabha member and BJP’s national general secretary incharge of Karnataka, said that there were no discussions of a change in leadership.“The Karnataka incharge has said that there is no question and it does not arise and that Yediyurappa will remain for the entire term,” the chief minister said.Singh mirrored the recent gag order enforced by the state unit of the BJP, restricting anyone from speaking out against the chief minister or the government.Since Yediyurappa seized power in 2019 by engineering the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress coalition government, the 78-year-old has been on the receiving end of sharp criticism from his own partymen. First over the choice of cabinet that prioritized his close circle and then of turncoats who helped him to power, leaving many seniors out.The clamour to remove Yediyurappa has grown louder in recent months over the handling of Covid-19, corruption, non-performance and allegations that his son, BY Vijayendra, was running a parallel administration under the aegis of his father.“No one should speak against the party. And the high command will take a call on the change in leadership,” said one senior national level office bearer of the BJP, requesting not to be named. He, however, said that Yediyurappa was operating on “borrowed time”.“Three exceptions have been made for Yediyurappa by the BJP. One is that he left the party but was given the chief minister’s post after he returned. He is 78-years-old. And despite the lack of performance, he has still not been removed. So every day since 2019 is a bonus for him,” said the person cited above.Yediyurappa’s biggest challenges have mostly come from within his own party and government, with legislators and ministers rushing to Delhi frequently to complain against him.Vijayendra had even met prominent Lingayat seers on Thursday, which some people aware of the developments said, was to mobilise support for Yediyurappa.Yediyurappa, who hails from the Lingayat community, believed to be the single largest caste group in the state, enjoys their support and is banking on them to back him this time as well.People aware of the developments said that Yediyurappa’s removal before the next election (2023) was inevitable, but it had to be done tactfully so as to avoid a repeat of the 2013 elections (in which BJP were reduced to 40 seats from 110 in 2008) and lose their only presence in southern India.Karnataka has long been considered the gateway to the south for the saffron party which is yet to make any major inroads into Tamil Nadu and Kerala, where it has little or no political representation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/will-remain-karnataka-cm-for-next-two-years-yediyurappa-101623437726778.html
12-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka issues unlock guidelines||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Friday released guidelines for relaxation of lockdown restrictions across 19 districts of the state, including Bengaluru, to allow economic activities and ensure that more livelihoods are not impacted. The guidelines came a day after chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced some of the relaxations for most regions of the state and the continuation of the lockdown in 11 districts, where the Covid-19 pandemic continues to be severe. “Just because we are unlocking, it does not mean the coronavirus has gone somewhere. Till when everyone has taken two doses of the vaccine, at least over 70% of the population gets it, that’s when we can relax a little bit and live like how we used to in 2019 and early 2020,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education, said on Friday. He said unlocking of restrictions was taken based on calculations to ensure that more livelihoods are not impacted and more people do not fall below the poverty line. Karnataka has extended the timings for essential services like grocery, meat, vegetables, liquor and other shops from 6 am to 2 pm, extending it beyond the 10am deadline till June 14. The new guidelines will come into force after 6 am on June 14. “Do not come out on the streets at once on June 14. Some people are already running around as though they have permission from now itself,” said Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s minister for home, law and parliamentary affairs. Yediyurappa has also announced a night curfew on all days from 7 pm to 5 am and a weekend curfew to restrict movement in the state at least till June 21. He said the government will review the Covid-19 situation closer to June 21, and then decide on further relaxations, if any. Industries and other production facilities have been allowed to operate with 50% strength, while garment units have been restricted to 30% due to their labour-intensive process. Bommai said the relaxations were mostly to kick-start economic activities. Establishments like bars, restaurants, hotels, malls, schools and other places where high footfalls in enclosed spaces occur, remain prohibited. Religious functions and political events are also not allowed, he said. The state government said the already scheduled marriages can take place in homes with no more than 40 people and strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour. “No more than five people are allowed at funerals and cremations,” Bommai said. Hundreds of people had gathered for the funeral of senior BJP legislator CM Udasi in Haveri district, who died on Wednesday. Several ministers BJP leaders were also found in violation of Covid-19 norms in the state. Bommai said there were measures in place to conduct RAT (rapid antigen tests) in railway stations and bus stands. Karnataka recorded 8,249 new Covid-19 infections at a positivity rate at 4.86%, a sharp decline in the positive cases. There were 14,975 recoveries that brought down the active caseload to 203,769, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Friday. The fatality rate stood at 1.92% as 159 more succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 32,644. Bengaluru recorded a sharp decline as it registered 1154 new infections. There were 48 more deaths in Bengaluru, which took the toll to 15,263, data showed. The active caseload dropped to 91,760 as 4,769 more recovered, according to the daily bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-issues-unlock-guidelines-101623437666807.html
12-06-2021||Other||Woman, son murder Kharar moneylender to avoid repayment of ₹2.5 lakh||Mohali A 64-year-old resident of Kharar, Maya Devi, was murdered and her body dumped in a gutter in Morinda by a woman, son duo after she demanded back ₹2.5 lakh they owed to her. Maya’s body was recovered from a manhole near Morinda on Friday after police investigation and emergence of CCTV footage.Police have booked Gurdas Singh, of Ranjit Nagar in Kharar; his mother Krishna Devi; her sister Raj Dulari and Gurdas’s friend, Dinesh Singh, of Santemajra on a complaint from Vikas Tomar, the victim’s son. Police say Maya used to lend money on interest. She had given ₹2.5 lakh loan to accused and was killed when he demanded the money back. A case under Section 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC has been registered at Kharar (City) police station. Tomar, a businessman, told the police that Maya had left home to visit Krishna Devi on Thursday but never returned. Tomar added that Krishna had invited his mother by claiming that a spiritual guru was visiting her house and she should come to pay obeisance. Maya was dropped at the house of accused by her neighbour. “When my mother did not return till the night, I contacted Krishna and was told that she had left in the evening. I lodged a missing complaint with the police at 10pm,” Tomar added.CCTV NAILED ACCUSEDThe accused Krishna and her sister Raj Dulari were seen walking along with Maya in the CCTV footage. They were also seen forcing Maya into a Santro. The vehicle has now been recovered, with police sources claiming that Dinesh was at the wheel.The accused had tried to strangulate Maya, but as she managed to raise an alarm, they put Celphos tablets in her mouth. The accused drove about 20km and dumped the body in a manhole. FARMHOUSE GUARD FOUND MURDERED A farmhouse guard, Mani Lal 35, was killed at a farmhouse in Kurali on Thursday night. The police said a few unidentified persons with sharp-edged weapons attacked him, though the motive was unclear. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-son-murder-kharar-moneylender-to-avoid-repayment-of-rs-2-5-lakh-101623437547417.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Congress protests fuel price hike in Punjab, Haryana||The Congress held protests at petrol pumps across Punjab and Haryana on Friday against the rise in fuel prices, and demanded an immediate rollback of the hike.Besides the steep hikes in rates of diesel and petrol, prices of other commodities of daily use like cooking oil and gas have also registered a manifold increase, senior leaders of the party said.Protests were held at various places, including Amritsar, Mohali, Kurali, Patiala, Bathinda, Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Panchkula, Hisar, Gurgaon, Kaithal, Ambala, Panipat, Karnal, Fatehabad, Rohtak and Faridabad.Leading a protest in Kurali, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar said: “The arrogant government at the Centre has constantly been increasing fuel prices instead of providing relief to the people during the current crisis. During the Congress-led UPA regime, despite international crude oil prices being very high, diesel prices hovered around ₹50, which is now near ₹90 per litre, while petrol is touching ₹100 per litre.”In Amritsar, some protesters set fire to an old car, saying they wanted to send a message to the Centre that common people are unable to afford vehicles because of the high cost of fuel. Punjab Congress leader Raj Kumar Verka said the steep rise in prices of petrol and diesel has broken the backs of the common people amid the Covid-19 pandemicIn Haryana’s Kaithal, Congress general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala led the protest. A bullock cart was seen pulling a tractor there. Surjewala said prices of diesel and petrol are being increased at a time when the people of the country are battling the pandemic.He said the sharp rise in fuel prices has adversely hit various sections, including the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-protests-fuel-price-hike-in-punjab-haryana-101623437367410.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: SIT seeks permission to conduct lie detector test on Saini, Umranangal||The Punjab Police’s newly formed special investigation team (SIT), probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing case, moved a court seeking permission to conduct narco, lie-detector tests and brain mapping on former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal and then Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma.The SIT led by additional director general of police (ADGP) LK Yadav filed an application in the court of chief judicial magistrate on Friday, seeking permission to conduct narco analysis, polygraph and brain electrical activation profile (BEAP) of Saini, Umranangal and Sharma. The court has issued notice to the accused.The SIT questioned Saini for at least four hours at Chandigarh on Monday. Later, Umranangal and Sharma were also questioned. Officials privy to the development said they were asked about the sequence of events leading to the firing, besides who gave the orders to open fire at the mob that was protesting a series of sacrilege incidents. “However, all three evaded queries posed by the team. Hopefully, narco test will help getting a lead,” said a police official. According to rule, the accused has to give his consent to narco, polygraph and BEAP test before the court after which the SIT can go ahead. If the accused says no to the test, the SIT can’t conduct it.An official said seeking narco test is a tactical move on the part of the investigating team. “If the accused refuse to undergo the test, suspicion will grow further against them. If the test proves to be successful, it will be easy for the SIT to nail the accused,” he said. The SIT also recorded statements of two civilians, who were injured in the Kotkapura firing incident, on Friday at the Faridkot camp office. Two cops, including then Kotkapura head constable and another cop, who was in-charge of wireless transmission in the area also appeared before the investigation team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-sit-seeks-permission-to-conduct-lie-detector-test-on-saini-umranangal-101623437247940.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 11,766 new Covid cases, 406 deaths||The state saw the addition of 11,766 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally to 5,887,853. A total of 406 fresh deaths and reconciliation of 2,213 deaths from the past few weeks took the state’s toll to 106,367.Mumbai reported 721 new cases and 24 deaths taking the tally to 714,216 and the toll to 15,079. As part of the ongoing reconciliation process, the state has been adding few hundred deaths which were delayed reporting over the past two to three months. Of the 2,213 death reconciled on Friday, 546 are from Pune, 398 from Thane, 291 in Ahmednagar, 194 in Nashik, 160 in Nagpur, 129 in Beed, 53in Satara, 49 in Chandrapur, 46 in Buldhana, 45 in Nanded among others.The state had added 8,074 deaths to its tally between May 26 and June 10. It has, however, denied to have hidden any deaths of Covid-19 patients.The public health department has said that the recent addition of the 8,074 deaths over the past 16 days was part of the reconciliation process, by which, the data entry of Covid-19 deaths is done to the state and Central portal. The government has also said that the updation of the deaths to the portal was delayed owing to the overburdened staff over the past two months during the peak of the second wave of the pandemic. It has also blamed the private hospitals for the delay in entering the information of deaths late.As part of the reconciliation exercise, the state government added 8,074 deaths from the past three-four months to its tally, witnessing a sudden spike and fatality rate. The case fatality rate jumped to 1.77% on June 10, from 1.61% on May 25, a day before the reconciled numbers started adding to the list of the death toll.“The updation of deaths lags because of the technical reasons. The state government never intended to hide the number of cases and deaths. The reconciliation process is undertaken every 15 days to tally with the data updated on two portals of the Central government and weed out the repetition of the cases. Confirmation of the cause of death also takes some time leading to the delay in the data entry about the deaths,” a statement issued by the department has stated.Kolhapur (1769), Sangli (1369), Pune (1400), Ahmednagar (697) districts continued to report high daily caseload. Of the 406 deaths reported on Friday highest, 110, were from the Palghar district followed by 50 in Pune, 22 in Satara, 20 in Ahmednagar and 18 in Kolhapur. The state case fatality rate stands at 1.81%, while the recovery rate stands at 95.4%.Meanwhile, as many as 70% of the daily caseload of Covid-19 is from the rural or semi-urban parts of the state. Of the 12,207 cases registered on June 10, 8,639 were from the rural areas while 3,568 were from the jurisdiction of the 27 municipal corporations. Barring Mumbai Metropolitan Region, all other six divisions, classified for the health administration, have been witnessing more number patients in rural and semi-urban areas. In divisions like Aurangabad, Latur almost 90% of the patients are reported in these areas.Two months ago, on April 10, around 40% of 55411 cases registered on that day were from rural areas while 59.66% were from the cities. In MMR, almost 85% of the cases were from nine big cities, in the Pune division, more than a third of patients were from cities.According to the presentation made to the state cabinet on Thursday, a few districts like Sindhudurg, Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Raigad are doing bad on the Covid-19 parameters including growth and positivity rate, active patients etc. The weekly positivity rate in six districts is above 10% and much above the state percentage of 5.89%. Kolhapur (16.06%) tops the chart followed by Raigad (14.90), Ratnagiri (13.74%), Pune (12.19%), Satara (11.54%) and Sindhudurg (11.23%). The districts have witnessed a high growth rate as well.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer said, “The districts which have been witnessing a high number of cases, had started picking their infection curve late in the second wave. Sangli, Kolhapur are some of them, though Satara is witnessing exceptionally high cases despite having started getting cases from the beginning. We expect the cases in these districts to start dropping in the next few days. This will help state’s positivity rate dropping below 5% as the infection is reaching to its endemic level.”Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist from Hinduja Hospital said, “The rural areas are likely to get affected this time because they were not exposed during the first wave, because of the strict lockdown. They have no antibodies developed during the first wave. Unless the vaccination is escalated everybody is going to get affected at some time. But the cases there will start stabilising soon.”Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray during his interaction with sarpanches from Vidarbha and Marathawada appealed to them to put in efforts to make their villages Covid-19 free. “State has augmented its health infrastructure, but the endeavour should be towards keeping people unaffected so that they do not need to come to the hospital. The village heads should form smaller groups to take care of the villagers to keep them unaffected of infection,” he said.The state has 161,704 active patients, while 6024 are institutionally quarantined. 254,301 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours resulting in the daily test positivity rate of 4.62%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-11-766-new-covid-cases-406-deaths-101623437246778.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Unlock Mumbai: City eligible for next level, BMC says no change in Covid curbs||Even as Mumbai now qualifies for – level two – further relaxation in lockdown restrictions, the city will continue with the existing Covid curbs for another week, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Level two of unlock requires positivity rate to be below 5% and oxygen bed occupancy to be between 25% and 40%. The city’s positivity rate is 4.40% and oxygen bed occupancy 27.12%, according to the state government data. The city is currently under level three of unlock, which is imposed when the positivity rate is between 5% and 10% and oxygen bed occupancy more than 40%. Unlike the current curbs on timings, under level two, shops and establishments can operate during regular timings; malls and cinema halls can operate at 50% capacity and restaurants can allow patrons to dine throughout business hours. Besides, trains can be accessible for women commuters, if the BMC allows. The BMC’s circular by commissioner IS Chahal, however, stated that considering the geographical challenges, population and rain forecast for the city, level three of curbs will stay until further orders. Civic bodies in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, including Thane, Navi Mumbai, and Vasai-Virar, too, are cautious about lifting the curbs. With Mumbai and MMR connected and high mobility of people from one area to another, any decision taken in one part could impact the other. Even with the Covid-19 cases on a decline in the region and Mumbai, the authorities seem to be approaching cautiously. Surrounding municipal areas of the city in MMR too have improved on these parameters, except Kalyan-Dombivli, which remained in level three. Municipal corporation of Thane and Vasai-Virar upgraded to level two, while municipal areas of Navi Mumbai and Kalyan-Dombivli remained at last week’s levels of two and three, respectively. According to BMC officials, though the Covid-19 cases have gone down, the city is still reporting around 700 cases daily. A senior BMC official said, “We will continue with same restrictions for one week until the review next Friday. The plan is to keep Mumbai under level three for the entire month, however, the decision will be reviewed from time to time. We want to have an ideal situation where the city records around 200 cases daily for Mumbai to be brought to level two [restrictions].” Level three restrictions in the city that are expected to continue include, all shops in the city can open; restaurants can serve customers till 4pm on weekdays; private offices can be reopened with 50% staff but only till 4pm; and people can go for jogging and to gymnasiums, albeit with certain conditions. While suburban trains will still not be open for general public, commuters can travel by BEST buses provided there are no standing passengers.E-commerce firms will function regularly. Wedding ceremonies can be attended by up to 50 people. Although the state has allowed all women commuters to use local trains, last week the BMC restricted the services to medical staff and a few essential sectors. Thane municipal commissioner Vipin Sharma said, “We are in level two as per the parameters and we will continue the curbs and relaxation that we had last week.”Navi Mumbai municipal commissioner Abhijit Bangar said, “We are still in level two. Our positivity rate is around 2% and [oxygen] bed occupancy is 25%-26% which is marginal. For the timebeing, there will be no change in the restrictions.” Vasai-Virar Municipal commissioner Gangatharan D said the city falls in level two. “The restrictions will be as allowed in the level two in accordance with the government order,” he said. Following the devastating second Covid-19 wave that forced a lockdown in Maharashtra from April, the government’s five-level plan to ease curbs, based on weekly positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds in districts, came into effect from June 7. Every week, the weekly positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds is review for the districts for the restrictions to be lifted or enforced. The state has classified 35 districts and 11 municipal corporations with more than one million population into five categories-- level one to five. The degree of relaxation of restrictions has been decided as per the level of severity of Covid-19 in those districts. Level one has the least restrictions, while level five will have the most. As per government order issued by Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, disaster management, relief and rehabilitation department on Friday, 12 districts have improved upon the two key parameters from last week. Amravati, Bhandara, Parbhani, Solapur, Wardha, and Washim districts climbed from level three to level one. While Buldhana went from level four to level one. Hingoli and Nandurbar districts went from level two to level one, while Mumbai and Palghar improved on the parameters to go from level three to level two. Sangli district went from level four to level three on Friday. Of the 35 districts, 19 fall under level one—which has the least restrictions-- as on Friday. These districts include, Ahmednagar, Amravati, Bhandara, Buldhana, Chandrapur, Dhule, Gondia, Hingoli, Jalgaon, Jalna, Latur, Nagpur, Nanded Nandurbar, Parbhani, Solapur, Wardha, Washim and Yavatmal. Besides Mumbai, Palghar district has upgraded to level two this week. Last week, 15 districts fell in level three, which had restrictions on shop timings, restaurants timings and occupancy, curfew after 5pm, among other restrictions. This week, eight districts including Akola, Aurangabad, Beed, Gadchiroli, Nashik, Osmanabad, Sangli and Thane fell in level three. Districts including Kolhapur, Pune, Raigad, Ratnagiri, Satara, and Sindhudurg are in level four, which has stricter curbs including only essential shops allowed to be open till 4pm for all days, while restaurants can operate takeaway services. Government and private offices are allowed to operate at 25% capacity in these districts. (Inputs by Mehul R Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/unlock-mumbai-city-eligible-for-next-level-bmc-says-no-change-in-covid-curbs-101623437186819.html
12-06-2021||Other||BJP losing Brahmin votes in UP: Shiv Sena on Jitin Prasad episode||As Congress leader Jitin Prasada joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday, Shiv Sena said that the Brahmin votes which once backed BJP in Uttar Pradesh are now moving away from the party. The editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana added that until now, BJP did not require caste equations in UP and was reliant on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Ram Mandir issue. It also said that BJP continues to take away young leaders from the grand old party, adding that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will have to make a new team which can be an answer to the problems plaguing the Congress. It added that the Congress is fighting for its existence in the country, except in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala. The editorial said that Prasada is unlikely to help the BJP with the Brahmin vote bank in UP. “Until now, BJP didn’t require caste calculations and was reliant on Modi, Ram Mandir and the issue of Hindutva. Now the party is in [such] a bad situation that they have to induct Prasada. If Prasada had a sway over the Brahmin votes, then why wasn’t it transferred to the Congress?” the editorial asked. Elections in UP are scheduled in early 2022.The Sena mouthpiece added that the young brigade of Congress, including Prasada who came from a family of Congress loyalists, has moved out of the party. It stated that Jyotiraditya Scindia had quit the party to join BJP in Madhya Pradesh last year, while adding that Rajasthan Congress minister Sachin Pilot is still upset with the party though his rebellion fused last year. It also said that the Punjab Congress is also divided. The editorial said that the Congress still has connect at the grassroot level in India and lauded it for the work it did in the pre-independence era and for its contribution towards nation building later. “[Congress president] Sonia Gandhi has competently carried out the responsibility [of the party] till date. Now, Rahul Gandhi will have to make a new team which can be an answer to the problems facing the Congress party,” the editorial said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-losing-brahmin-votes-in-up-shiv-sena-on-jitin-prasad-episode-101623436946773.html
12-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC gives interim protection to private secy to Punjab jails minister in cheating case||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday granted interim protection from arrest in a cheating case to Bachittar Singh, private secretary to Punjab jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa. The high court bench of justice Manoj Bajaj while seeking response from the state by September 6, gave him the interim protection from arrest, said his lawyer, Gautam Dutt. The detailed order is awaited. The FIR in the case was lodged on May 2 in Longowal in Sangrur on the complaint of Ram Dass Bansal, proprietor of Bhavya Organics, Sangrur. Bansal has alleged that Bachittar had asked him through one Jagsir Singh to supply sugar to certain private persons, saying that he will be responsible for the dealings. Sugar worth ₹74 lakh and ₹2.2 crore was supplied by different firms, but payment was made only of ₹57 lakh and 87 lakh, with the remaining amount still due. It was claimed that Bachittar is the main accused in the case. Other accused are Abhishek Goyal, Kapil Garg and Sanjeev Kumar with at least ₹75 lakh still pending for the sugar supplied to them. Bachittar was nominated as an accused at a later stage. Before the high court, Bachittar has claimed that he was falsely implicated and had no role to play in the alleged offence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-gives-interim-protection-to-private-secy-to-punjab-jails-minister-in-cheating-case-101623436827831.html
12-06-2021||Other||Man who said his cars were used in Mansukh Hiran case booked for forgery||A Virar builder, Mayuresh Raut, who had last month alleged that two of his vehicles may have been used in the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, has now been booked in a cheating and forgery case by Tulinj police based on a complaint filed by assistant municipal commissioner of Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation (VVMC) Pradeep Avdekar. In the case against him, Raut is alleged to have forged the commencement certificate (CC) of a building developed by him at Vijay Nagar, Nallasopara (East), and sold the flats. The matter came to light when a person complained to VVMC on March 31, alleging that Raut had issued a fake CC to him. The civic body had issued a show-cause notice to Raut, but he purportedly did not respond to it.“The CC issued to buyers were found to be fake and Raut has been booked for cheating and forgery under relevant sections of IPC (Indian Penal Code) and the Maharashtra Town Planning Act. He’s not arrested yet,” said senior inspector Rajendra Kamble of Tulinj police. Raut came in news on May 7, when he had claimed that two of his cars, a Mercedes Benz and Toyota Fortuner, were forcibly taken away from him in 2017 allegedly by two inspectors working with the then Thane Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Raut feared that his cars could have been used in Hiran’s murder.The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing Hiran’s murder recorded Raut’s statement in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-who-said-his-cars-were-used-in-mansukh-hiran-case-booked-for-forgery-101623436826734.html
12-06-2021||Other||Elgar Parishad case: Sudha Bharadwaj moves Bombay HC, seeks default bail||Activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, has filed an application before the Bombay high court (HC) seeking default bail on the grounds that Pune Police had failed to file a charge sheet against her in the stipulated period of 90 days of her arrest. However, the application, which came up for hearing on Friday, was deferred after Bharadwaj’s counsel contended that as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had taken over the investigation as per the NIA Act, the application should be heard by a two-judge bench, to which the court agreed and asked the registry to place the same before a division bench. When Bharadwaj’s application came up for hearing before the single judge bench of justice Sarang Kotwal, her counsel, advocate Dr Yug Choudhry, informed the court that the application had been filed as there was a delay in filing the charge sheet and hence, she was eligible for default bail as per the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Dr Choudhry, however, submitted that as NIA had taken over the investigation last January, as per section 21 (2) of the NIA Act, all applications and appeals pertaining to its investigation should be heard by a division bench of HC and hence, the single bench could not hear the application. After NIA sought time to respond to the application, justice Kotwal agreed with Dr Choudhry’s contention and directed the registry to place the application before the appropriate division bench. Last month, Bharadwaj’s daughter Maaysha had filed a petition seeking treatment for her mother and bail on medical grounds. However, after Bharadwaj was provided treatment, the petition had been disposed of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgar-parishad-case-sudha-bharadwaj-moves-bombay-hc-seeks-default-bail-101623436768182.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: PhD enrolment up by 36%, PG by 25%, shows AISHE 2019-20 report||Higher education is becoming more accessible to students with every passing year, shows recently released All Indian Survey of Higher Education (AISHE) report 2019-20. Once again Maharashtra has reported to have attracted the one of the highest number of students by enrolling over 3 million students across higher education institutes in the state, second only to Uttar Pradesh with 4.7 million enrolments.According to the report, admissions to postgraduate (PG) and PhD courses witnessed a 19.7% rise across the country, from around 169,000 enrolments in 2018-19. PhD figures in Maharashtra rose by over 36% in one year, from 8,796 to 11,983 in 2019-20.“In the last few years, several public and private universities in the state have been attracting the brightest of minds in the field of research. Even public universities are giving out post-doctoral degrees to more and more students with every passing year. This could be due to more research and PhD fellowships being given out by state and central bodies as well as availability of more guides across universities,” said a senior official from the University of Mumbai.Overall, the Bachelor in Arts (BA) course remained the most popular among students across the country once again this year. From 9.3 million students who enrolled for the course in 2018-19, the number stood at a staggering 9.65 million in 2019-20.After witnessing a decline in the overall enrolment in professional courses, especially engineering and technology, the figures seem better in 2019-20. As per the latest AISHE report, BTech and MTech programmes witnessed a marginal rise after almost hitting a four-year low in 2018-19.The enrolment for MTech stood at 135,500 in 2018-19 and 137,051 in 2019-20. Similarly, enrolment for BTech programmes stood at 2,125,043 in 2018-19 which rose to 2,147,962 in 2019-20. Many felt the decision of the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to encourage introduction of new age courses like Artificial Intelligence (AI), Data Science and Robotics in technical colleges could be the main reason for this push.“In 2020-21 year as well, Electronics and Communication sector managed to swoop in the best of minds and many also opted for BTech in AI and Data Science fields. Since jobs in electronics as well as AI sectors are gaining more popularity, students are very clear about their ambition and aiming for seats in specific departments,” said Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College, Bandra.Other professional courses, including undergraduate degrees in medical, dental and law courses too witnessed a rise in enrolment this year. MBBS enrolment in the country went up by over 7% from around 267,000 to 287,000 in 2019-20. Similarly, law aspirants’ enrolment went up by 9% from 364,000 to 398,000 in 2019-20. MBA applicants too increased from 588,000 in 2018-19 to 609,000 in 2019-20, a 3.5% rise.More students opting for higher studiesMaharashtraTotal universities—65Total colleges—4,494Total stand-alone institutions—2,393Top five states with highest student (18-23 years) enrolment in colleges—State ----- 2018-19 ----- 2019-20Uttar Pradesh ----- 47,91,749 ----- 47,66,439Maharashtra ----- 29,57,491 ----- 30,09,419Tamil Nadu ----- 22,74,639 ----- 22,75,290Rajasthan ----- 14,97,385 ----- 16,03,931Madhya Pradesh ----- 13,90,781 ----- 15,01,236Maharashtra level-wise student enrolment— (M-Male, F-Female)Level-------------------2018-19---------------------------------------2019-20PhD-------------------8,796 (M-4,923 F-3,873)---------------------11,983 (M-7,122 F-4,861)Postgraduate--------4,61,243 (M-2.18Lac F-2.42Lac)---------,78,502 (M-2.25Lac F-2.53Lac)Under graduate------33,51,689------------------------------------33,92,975Diploma--------------3,55,209-------------------------------------3,23,134Foreign students enrolling in MaharashtraPG/PhD level—1,187UG level—3,403Certificate/integrated courses—9Total—4,599*Source-AISHE 2019-20||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-phd-enrolment-up-by-36-pg-by-25-shows-aishe-2019-20-report-101623436766781.html
12-06-2021||Other||Fuel prices surge again in Mumbai; petrol priced at ₹102.04/ litre||Fuel prices in the city surged on Friday, with the rate of petrol crossing the ₹102-mark. At an all-time high, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹102.04, while diesel was available at ₹94.15. The prices of petrol and diesel witnessed a surge of 28 paise and 30 paise, respectively, on Friday. On Thursday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹101.76, while diesel was available for ₹93.85 per litre. In neighbouring Thane, petrol and diesel were priced at ₹102.16 and ₹94.27 per litre on Friday. Fuel prices Mumbai have been on a rise since May 3. Transporters have termed the rise in fuel prices a “sadistic demeanour”. “The continuous rise in petrol and diesel prices has sadistic undertones. Common people are facing acute pressure on their household budget, mobility has become expensive, medical expenses have touched the ceiling, inflation is at an all-time high as the traders have increased the prices of their products, even as there is widespread job and salary cuts. Small operators, who constitute about 85% of the total commercial vehicle operators, are being forced to shut down their business and face extreme loss of livelihood. The government’s sadistic approach to the perils of the transporters and the citizens is despicable and appalling. We strongly protest against the continual hike of fuel prices as it is just financially crushing the people of the country,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fuel-prices-surge-again-in-mumbai-petrol-priced-at-102-04-litre-101623436646761.html
12-06-2021||Other||Algae strains from Mirzapur STP caused algal bloom in Ganga||VARANASI: The algae which caused algal bloom in the Ganga in Varanasi due to presence of nitrogen and phosphorus in the water, drained into the river from the oxidation pond in Chunar and sewage treatment plant (STP) in Mirzapur, revealed tests of samples by scientists of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma had constituted an expert team to find out the cause of algal bloom in the Ganga in Varanasi and instructed it to submit a report by June 10. The team comprised regional pollution control officer Kalika Singh, Ganga Pollution Control Unit general manager PC Agarwal, assistant commissioner of police (Dashashwamedh) Awadhesh Pandey and two other officials. Singh and a team of scientists of UPPCB did spot inspection in Ganga from Mirzapur to Varanasi and collected samples of water. UPPCB scientific officer Dr TN Singh said, “We collected samples of Ganga water from various stretches of the river to find out the cause of algal bloom. The samples were tested, and results revealed that algae strains drained into the river from Mirzapur district’s Chunar oxidation pond and STP. These algae flourished in Varanasi stretch of Ganga due to presence of nitrogen and phosphorous (though mild) which mainly come in the river water from untapped drains.” A 50 MLD untapped drain in Assi area is discharged in river Ganga. Likewise, another 10 MLD untapped Ramnagar drain also falls into the river. The nitrogen and phosphorus reach the river with the sewage water, according to Dr Singh, and nitrogen and phosphorous act as fertilizer for the algae. Moreover, a report about the findings had been prepared and it was submitted to the district magistrate, said a senior official at UPPCB. Regional pollution control officer Singh confirmed it. A UPPCB scientist said that algal bloom would end as soon as flow of Ganga water increased. Ganga conservation activist Rajesh Shukla said the algal bloom in the river in Varanasi was first seen around 20 days ago but it was washed away by rain after two days. The algal bloom returned around a week ago due to which the Ganga water looked green in certain stretches. He said efforts should be made to increase the flow of water. Shukla demanded that the untapped drains discharging into the river Ganga should be tapped as early as possible. Prof BD Tripathi, chairman of Mahamana Malviya Research Centre for Ganga, River Development and Water Resource Management (MMRC for Ganga), BHU, said algal bloom was not good for the health of aquatic animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/algae-strains-from-mirzapur-stp-caused-algal-bloom-in-ganga-101623436527895.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai building collapse: BMC to survey structures in area||A day after a building collapse killed 12 people, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started a survey of Malwani in Malad to identify dangerous and illegal structures. The civic body also began demolition of the adjacent ground-plus-three structure that started to tilt towards the ground. Malwani, located in the western suburb of Malad comes under P-North ward, one of the city’s most densely populated administrative wards of the BMC. It has one of the largest slum clusters in Mumbai with illegally constructed structures on land owned by state revenue department or the BMC. Sambhaji Adkune, deputy collector (encroachment and removal), said, “We are giving assistance to the BMC. The BMC will identify all structures that are dangerous or illegal.” After the collapse, the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) vacated structures in the vicinity. Mohammad Asif, a resident who vacated his house, said, “We were allowed to take our documents and important belongings. We would not like to see a repeat of what happened on Wednesday night.”Another resident Rasheed Shah said, “We do not have any alternate arrangement of buying or renting a house for now, but we will somehow manage at our relatives’ house for a few days. I have not been getting enough wages for almost 15 months now due to the lockdown as the car garage where I worked is facing losses. The compensation is only for the dead and injured. What about us? We are losing our house.” Bharat Marathe, deputy civic commissioner, said, “A team of structural auditors will survey the area. Three- and more than two-storey structures will be priority. A report will be submitted to the municipal commissioner for further action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-building-collapse-bmc-to-survey-structures-in-area-101623436527298.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Doppler radar to remain defunct for two months, IMD begins testing new radar||The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) doppler radar in Colaba is likely to remain defunct for at least the next two months, Dr MN Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, told HT on Friday. Meanwhile, IMD on Thursday began operating its new C-band radar in Goregaon, only on an experimental basis for the time being. The radar launch, initially planned for December 2020, has been postponed. A doppler radar provides long-range weather surveillance, detection and forecast for rainfall, cloud formation, thunderstorms and other weather conditions such as tropical storms. There are different types of doppler radars. The one currently installed near the Regional Meteorological Centre in Colaba is an S-band radar which provides surveillance up to 450-500 kilometres. A C-band radar can provide surveillance up to 250-350 km while surveillance by an X-band radar is up to 100 km.“Our Colaba radar is in a bit of trouble. We have engaged the Bengaluru-based company that assembled it for repairs, but given the current scenario with Covid and the recent lockdown, it is bound to take some time. It is a very specialised work which has been delayed due to unavailability of resources. It might take two to three months before it is running again,” said Dr Rajeevan on Friday.“However, if all goes well, our second, C-band doppler radar in Mumbai suburbs should be operational by the end of the month. There are still some things which need to be arranged before that can happen. The machine needs to be calibrated, and a steady internet connection is still needed. We have asked MTNL to provide a reliable line, until then I think a dongle is being used for connectivity in an experimental setting,” Dr Rajeevan added.Independent meteorologists said this was an unfavourable scenario, particularly during monsoon. “Absence of the S-band radar leaves forecasters pretty much in the dark. A satellite image can help in predicting the movement of larger weather features, but for more specific, real-time and local forecasting, radar is essential,” said Akshay Deoras, an independent meteorologist and PhD student at the University of Reading, England.Experts said that though the C-band radar may likely be commissioned this month, the past performance of IMD’s Colaba radar does not inspire confidence. The Colaba doppler went defunct just before the arrival of Cyclone Tauktae last month. On December 4, 2017, when Cyclone Ockhi brushed past the Mumbai coast, the radar was not functional. The radar was also not functional on multiple days during extreme rainfall events in June and July 2019, and also on June 1, 2020, about 48 hours before Cyclone Nisarga made landfall in Maharashtra.“Past performance of the S-band radar has been quite sketchy, and one hopes this will not be the case with the new doppler. Also, it’s important to note that a C-band radar suffers from higher signal attenuation than S-band radars and one cannot be a substitute for the other. We need both to work in tandem to get forecasts of real value,” Deoras explained, expressing concern at the prospect of Mumbai not having a single operational radar for the next two months. “Relying mainly on satellite images, as IMD is currently doing, will not be able to accurately predict intense rainfall of the kind that occurred on June 9. This will have direct consequences for the people of the city,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-doppler-radar-to-remain-defunct-for-two-months-imd-begins-testing-new-radar-101623436350565.html
12-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana Police tracing woman wanted by FBI||Ludhiana The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the principal federal law enforcement agency in the US, has sought the district police’s help via the CBI’s Interpol unit, to trace a woman. The suspect Jaswin Kaur is wanted for kidnapping and threatening witnesses with death or grave injuries in the US. The FBI legal attache has already sent two representations to the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI’s) Interpol unit; these were sent to the Ludhiana Police on April 29 and May 19.According to these representations, the FBI suspects that the woman is hiding in Ludhiana or its surrounding areas. The FBI also added that the woman is operating her two e-mail accounts from Apple i-phones and is using the internet network of Airtel. The FBI added that it would share more information about the woman and the case with the officer concerned in a video call.Sources added that the woman was changing her location to avoid being traced and Ludhiana Rural and Khanna police have been roped in to trace the woman. Joint Commissioner of Police (JCP, City) Deepak Pareek said the police were following due procedure to trace the woman and any information would be shared with relevant authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-police-tracing-woman-wanted-by-fbi-101623436349414.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cabinet nod to climate fund plan for coastal restoration||The Maharashtra cabinet has given its assent to the implementation of a Global Climate Fund initiative — Enhancing Climate Resilience of India’s Coastal Communities — in four districts on the Konkan coast, including Palghar, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg and Raigad.The six-year project, which is funded partly by the Green Climate Fund (GCF) through the United Nations Development Programme, partly by the Union environment ministry and partly by the state government, will aim to restore about 3,350 hectares of mangroves, 35 hectares of corals and 400 hectares of coastal watershed area in these districts, in addition to creating “climate-adaptive livelihoods” for coastal communities, in the form of aquaculture projects.The state government in its cabinet meeting on Thursday appointed the additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), mangrove cell, as the state projector director, allowing him to open up a bank account to receive funding from the GCF.“Maharashtra’s contribution is about $19 million, while the MoEFCC is allocating another $20 million. The state governments of Orissa and Andhra, where the project is also being implemented, are contributing $20 million each, while the GCF is providing $43 million in all,” said Virendra Tiwari, APCCF, mangrove cell. Out of $43 million, Maharashtra will be getting a share of 11.43$.The targeted areas for the project in Maharashtra are Devgad, Malvan, Vengurla, Dapoli, Guhagar, Rajapur, Panvel, Uran, and Dahanu and Palghar. Initiatives in each of the four districts will be overseen by district-level steering committees (which are yet to be created), which in turn, will report to a state-level steering committee (headed by the chief secretary). “We have already submitted an annual work plan to UNDP. That is awaiting the chief secretary’s nod before work can start,” Tiwari said.Though specific numbers for Maharashtra were not provided, the scheme aims to create employment opportunities for 1.7 million beneficiaries across three states, of which, 50% are targeted to be women. Ornamental fisheries, crab culture, mussel farming, seaweed farming and oyster farming are some of the livelihood opportunities that the scheme intends to create over the next six years. For this purpose, the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has already provided the mangrove cell with a list of creeks and inlets along the coast which may be conducive for these activities.“We will also need to conduct an assessment of where exactly the mangrove and coral restoration initiatives need to be implemented, for which an appropriate expert organisation will be engaged. While we have some experience with mangrove restoration, coral restoration requires specialists. The idea is to translocate corals into suitable environments and let them grow naturally. Local communities will be consulted and involved in the eco-restoration efforts,” said Tiwari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cabinet-nod-for-climate-fund-plan-for-coastal-restoration-101623436296467.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Local trains disrupted on both Central, Western Railway lines||Passengers travelling by local trains on the Central and Western Railways faced difficulties while commuting as train services were disrupted on both the lines on Friday. Local services were disrupted due to technical failure on both the lines. On the Central Railway (CR), a weld fracture was reported between Thane and Mulund railway stations, impacting train services from 9.25am to 9.50am.“I was travelling from Dombivli to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) when local trains stopped ahead of Thane railway station. The train was not moving and passengers were walking on the tracks. I got down and walked to Mulund railway station and then boarded a bus.” said Krishna Singh, a Dombivli resident. The second incident occurred around 3.30pm near Khadavli railway station wherein a pantograph of the local train got entangled with overhead equipment. The train was heading towards CSMT from Kasara railway station.On the Western Railway (WR), a technical failure was reported near Virar railway station at 10.57am. Train services were operating with a delay of 15 minutes. On Thursday, local train services resumed completely after 15 hours after services were disrupted due to heavy rainfall on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-trains-disrupted-on-both-central-western-railway-lines-101623436297173.html
12-06-2021||Noida||Cash, gold worth ₹25 crore, allegedly looted from flat, recovered; theft was never reported, say police||The Gautam Budh Nagar police on Friday arrested six men on charges of stealing valuables worth ₹25 crore, including 40 gold bars and cash, from a high-rise flat in Surajpur in September 2020. But what is puzzling the police is that till date, no theft of this magnitude was reported from Surajpur, leading them to believe that the looted valuables may be contraband or “black money”.Police said on questioning the suspects, they allegedly revealed that they committed the theft in September 2020. When police attempted to contact the flat owner, they could not trace him. Further investigation revealed that the flat owner had a case of extortion against him in Gurugram and the police suspect that the valuables may have been illegally amassed. According to police, an informant had tipped them off about two men who were allegedly involved in a crime. When the two were apprehended in Noida’s Salarpur, police found 1kg of gold biscuits with each of them. When questioned, they allegedly confessed to having stolen the valuables from a high-rise flat, along with eight others. That information led to the arrest of four more suspects.Deputy commissioner of police (Zone 1) Rajesh S said two gangs had tied up to carry out the loot. “The suspects said after the theft, each of them received four gold biscuits and ₹65 lakh cash as their share from the mastermind,” he said.Police recovered 13kg gold biscuits, jewellery worth ₹6.55 crore, an SUV, documents of property worth ₹1 crore and ₹57 lakh from the suspects.The mastermind of the operation -- police identified him as Gopal, who is currently on the run -- allegedly held all the details of the theft and the arrested men could only give police the name of the society where the flat is located.“Suspects in custody claim that they had only specific information about the owner who, along with his father, is currently outside the country. But he has several family members in the city but no one came forward to report the robbery and neither are they co-operating with the investigation,” said a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named.Police said they suspect that the flat owner may be involved in several more extortion cases and that he probably did not report the crime as the valuables were possibly obtained illegally. “The case is being referred to the income tax department and the Enforcement Directorate. Meanwhile, we are on the lookout for the rest of the gang of robbers,” said Rajesh.The six suspects were booked under Section 414 (assisting in concealment or disposal of stolen property, knowing it to be stolen) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 39 police station, and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cash-gold-worth-25-crore-allegedly-looted-from-flat-recovered-theft-was-never-reported-say-police-101623436295892.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders judicial inquiry into Malwani house collapse||The Bombay high court (HC) came down heavily on civic corporations and elected representatives for allowing unauthorised structures to come up in their jurisdictions, and ordered a judicial inquiry into the Malwani building collapse that resulted in loss of 12 lives, including eight children. The court also warned that if there are more instances of building collapses, it would hold the corporations responsible. The court observations came in light of four building collapses reported in Ulhasnagar and Mumbai in the past one month, which led to deaths of 24 persons and left 23 others injured. The court also sought to know from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as to the mechanism by which such unauthorised constructions come up and the extra-legal processes employed for the same. On Friday, a four-judge bench comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta, justice AA Sayyed, justice SS Shinde and justice Prasanna Varale was hearing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) instituted last year in light of the lockdown and pandemic. The bench said as the current situation was unclear it was extending the interim orders against demolition, eviction and dispossession till July 9. The bench had also taken note of the building collapses in Mumbai and neighbouring Ulhasnagar and sought the presence of all civic corporations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Regio. In the afternoon session, the chief justice along with justice Girish Kulkarni questioned the civic authorities, especially BMC and Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation (UMC), as to how the four buildings — two in each corporation limits — had collapsed, resulting in death of 24 persons. “The issue of the building collapse and the deaths pain us and we want this to stop. Eight innocent children lost their lives at Malad,” observed the bench. The court took note that residents of dilapidated structures were taking refuge using the HC’s interim order which stayed all demolitions, eviction and dispossession of properties, and said that if the civic authorities faced problems in getting dilapidated buildings, that needed immediate demolition, vacated they could always approach the court and HC would pave the way for them. Taking exception to the two collapses in Mumbai, the bench asked BMC as to why it was not able to curb such instances while it had taken appreciable measures to combat the Covid pandemic. Chief Justice Datta then questioned senior counsel Anil Sakhare about the mechanism or dashboard which BMC follows while stopping mushrooming of unauthorised structures. He stated that the civic authorities along with elected representatives of each ward should be held answerable for such incidents and said the HC would initiate judicial inquiries to unmask those guilty of allowing unauthorised structures to come up. On the suggestion by amicus curiae advocate Sharan Jagtiani, the court ordered a judicial inquiry into the building collapse and said it would name the court commissioner in the order. The bench also sought to know the modus operandi adopted by the people responsible for the unauthorised structures and asked the state to respond on its query on how a legislation was passed to regularise illegal and unauthorised structures at Ulhasnagar, and posted hearing of the replies after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-judicial-inquiry-into-malwani-house-collapse-101623436286703.html
12-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai building collapse: Owner knew that building was dangerous, say neighbours||Rizwan Siddique, owner of the Malwani building that collapsed on Wednesday night, leading to death of 12 people, allegedly knew about the precarious condition of the ground-plus-three storey structure, but could not repair it in time because of financial difficulties, his neighbours told the local police.Malwani police registered a first information report (FIR) against Siddique, who has lost nine family members in the tragedy, and building contractor Ramzan Shaikh under sections 304(II) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.Police on Friday recorded statements of some local residents and neighbours of Siddique who told the police that some of them had apprised Siddique about cracks in the structure, but he did not undertake repairs in time.“Some witnesses said that a week ago, they had warned Siddique about damage to the structure, but he chose to delay repairs due to financial difficulties, as his food stall was shut last year during the lockdown,” said an officer from Malwani police station.Some locals said the building was built on a drain infested with rats and that the walls of the building had developed cracks and become weak due to heavy rain.Police arrested contractor Ramzan Nabi Shaikh, who had constructed the building, late on Thursday evening. In his statement, he said the house was built more than eight years ago and he did not recollect the details.He has been remanded in police custody till June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-building-collapse-owner-knew-that-building-was-dangerous-say-neighbours-101623436106727.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Monsoon to arrive in Delhi on June 15, ahead of schedule: IMD||The south-west monsoon is set to reach Delhi and most of north-west India by June 15, almost a fortnight ahead of schedule, due to a low pressure system building up over the Bay of Bengal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday.The Met’s forecast also said that pre-monsoon showers are expected to start in the Capital from Saturday, and intensify on Sunday and Monday. This, weather analysts said, will lead to moderate to heavy rainfall, hail and thunderstorms, and bring down day temperatures in parts of the city to around 34 degrees Celsius.Some parts of Delhi got light rain and dust storms late on Thursday and early on Friday morning.The monsoon usually arrives in Delhi by June 27-28, and Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said it was set to advance swiftly this year due to weather conditions in the northern Bay of Bengal. “The reason behind this sudden advancement is the formation of a low-pressure system over northern Bay of Bengal. When a low-pressure area is formed at the onset of monsoon, it creates conditions that conducive for the advancement of monsoon.”He said that, except for some parts of Rajasthan and Gujarat, the monsoon is likely to cover all of north-west India by June 15.HT reported on Friday that the monsoon was racing across the country after arriving two days late in Kerala, and was likely to cover the entire country a fortnight ahead of the usual July 8 date under favourable conditions.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president, Skymet Weather Services, also said that the monsoon was likely to arrive by next week in Delhi.“A trough has formed over Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, covering Odisha and the monsoon activity will move along this trough. On Saturday, Delhi will start receiving patchy rain, and by Sunday and Monday, it will intensify,” he said.He added that while pre-monsoon showers are usually thundery, monsoon showers are characterised by uniform rain, and the transition is likely by Tuesday. “We can foretell monsoon arrival by patchy rain, increase in humidity, and persistent cloudiness.”Weather analysts said that the monsoon’s progress over the entire country has advanced in recent years. “We issued new monsoon onset and withdrawal dates last year after we noticed that monsoon dates had advanced in some parts while it was delayed in others due to many factors, including global climate change. The thresholds have changed,” said M Rajeevan, secretary, Union ministry of earth sciences.“For example, the new onset dates are delayed by three to seven days in many parts of central, west and east India, while the complete coverage of monsoon in the country has advanced. This year is exceptional because monsoon has covered parts of central India very early. Monsoon covered the entire country by June-end in the past also, but this year, its trajectory is exceptional,” he added.The weather pattern since August 2020 has thrown up a surprise and broken a historical record every single month -- either by being hotter, wetter, or colder than usual. This, for example, is likely to be the first June to not get a single heatwave day as rain brings down the temperature further.Met officials and scientists said that while the extreme weather recordings were the result of temporary atmospheric events in and around the national capital, the larger role of the climate crisis in the overall shifting of weather patterns was evident as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/monsoon-to-arrive-in-delhi-on-june-15-ahead-of-schedule-imd-101623434486621.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi skill university to start student intake this year||Education minister Manish Sisodia on Friday announced that the upcoming Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) will start admitting students from this academic session (2021-2022) and said the university will focus on conducting 360-degree assessment along with reaching out to schools to identify students’ interests, talent and mindset for entrepreneurship.DSEU will start admissions in July 2021 and the academic session for the degree courses will begin in September. Given the current circumstances, the university has developed a merit-based selection process, which will shortlist candidates premised on their performance in class 12 exams, vocational subjects in class 10 and 12, and their extracurricular activities in the last five years.The Delhi government established the DSEU in Dwarka last year. The university will offer 12 job-oriented undergraduate courses, including BA in Digital Media, BA in Business Management, BA in Data Analytics, and BA in Aesthetics and Beauty, among others. Initially, the university will admit 6,000 students of which, 4,500 will be enrolled in diploma courses and 1,500 in degree courses.In a statement issued by the Delhi government on Friday, Sisiodia said, “The admission process of the DESU will be such that the university will go to schools to extend admissions to all those children who want to be involved in skills learning. DSEU will focus on conducting a 360-degree assessment. While most universities are continuing with their old practice of admitting students based on grades, DSEU will be the first university in India that will focus on the overall interests, talent, and mindset of students. Such practice is new in India but is not unpopular abroad.”“Universities such as Oxford in the UK admit students based on the courses and projects they do, and not on grades in board exams. Similarly, our children now can now be certain of the fact that they will get admitted into a university that will not stress on their grades but on their intent and their interest to study skills and become entrepreneurs,” the education minister said.Sisodia on Friday also interacted with principals of Delhi government schools, the vice-chancellor of DSEU, Neharika Vohra, and MLA Atishi Marlena, through a webinar to discuss the admission plan for the university. “The purpose of this university is to impart confidence to every student, irrespective of his/her calibre. Generic undergraduate courses do not encourage our students to become entrepreneurs. We cannot think that our children will study generic and archaic courses to be future ready. They need to be equipped with adequate skills…”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-skill-university-to-start-student-intake-from-next-academic-year-101623434247194.html
12-06-2021||Other||Civil society members seek to extend 45-day deadline for raising objections||Citing restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic, civil society members want the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) to extend the deadline for submitting suggestions or objections to the draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041 (MPD-2041).While DDA officials said there are no plans to extend the deadline, they said the land-owning body is planning public interactions to clear the air regarding the implementation of MPD-2041. Civil society members too have demanded awareness campaigns by DDA in slum clusters and unauthorised colonies to tell people about the provisions of the draft plan.As per the DDA’s MPD-2041 notification dated June 9, suggestions and objections have to be submitted within 45 days (July 24). While the 45-day period is in accordance to the DDA Act which mandates a period of 30-45 days for receiving objections and suggestions, civil society members said the pandemic and ensuing restrictions is ground for extending the deadline.Mukta Naik, a fellow at Centre for Policy Research, said, “This is the critical time when we want to take the proposal back to informal settlements and various workers’ groups and unions. Tell them about the provisions and help them fill up the forms. It is difficult to mobilise people during the pandemic due to the restrictions, especially in 45 days. It is important to get the views of the people who are in majority in the city.”It is learnt that the DDA is planning public interaction sessions to clear doubts related to the draft plan. A senior DDA official said, “We will explain or clear doubts related to the draft plan before they submit their suggestions/objections.”Stressing on the need to extend the deadline for submission from 45 days to six months, Shalakha, coordinator of Main Bhi Dilli, a campaign aimed at making planning in Delhi more representative and inclusive, said, “It is not just the pandemic, people are struggling with related crises like unemployment, homelessness, lack of food, education and financial insecurity. If the duration is not extended, then the draft would lack views and suggestions/objections from the public.”She said that as the entire consultation process is going to be online this time, those living in informal settlements will not be able to participate. “Last year, only a few could join the consultation meetings organised by the DDA due to technical barriers. To ensure maximum participation, it is important that on-ground consultation meetings are organised by DDA officials with all the Covid precautionary norms so that people do not face any technical and language barrier,” said Shalakha.Shakeel Abdul, convener of Basti Suraksha Manch, said, “The present provision will only ensure limited participation from people. There is a need to have on-ground consultations, especially with people in the informal settlements. There are provisions related to rental housing, in-situ redevelopment etc, which impacts these people directly. Before they can give their suggestions, there is a need to create awareness about the MPD-2041.”A senior DDA official said, “People can also manually submit their suggestions/objections with the DDA. So far, there is no plan to extend the duration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mpd2041civil-society-members-seek-to-extend-45-day-deadline-for-raising-objections-101623434006583.html
12-06-2021||Pune||PMC razes 35 illegal structure violating river’s “blue line” in Baner||PUNE Following the orders from National Green Tribunal (NGT), the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday, razed 35 shops built illegally on survey numbers 191 to 195 in Baner. All the structures were on the “blue line” of the river in Baner. The blue line demarcates the flood line of the water body.The roads were blocked by slow moving traffic with people gathering in groups to see the shops being razed. “The NGT, in February 2020, passed orders to clear unauthorised or illegal constructions in the blue line area of Baner. Due to the Corona pandemic, this could not be done. Hence on June 11, 2021, the building permission department took this decision and began clearing the structures,” said Yuvraj Deshmukh, superintending engineer, building department. City engineer Prashant Waghmare and Shrikant Waidande, executive engineer, PMC, were present at the site. Armed with JCBs, gas cutters 20 workers, anti-encroachment personnel, and 17 police personnel, the PMC began the action against the illegal constructions. The action took seven hours, beginning at11 am until 6pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-razes-35-illegal-structure-violating-river-s-blue-line-in-baner-101623426929099.html
12-06-2021||Pune||PMC announces more relaxations in Pune from Monday as Covid positivity rate drops below 5%||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) announced further easing of Covid-induced curbs from Monday (June 14) following a decision taken by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar during the Covid review meeting on Friday. Under the third round of unlocking, malls, libraries and coaching classes have been allowed to reopen, restaurants to allow dine-in till 10 pm with 50% capacity while other shops can operate till 7 pm, according to the order released by the civic administration. However, standalone non-essential shops will remain closed on weekends. Gardens along with open grounds will now remain open even during evening between 4pm and 7pm on all days. During the first round, non-essential shops were allowed to function while in the next round implemented last week, restaurants with dine-in till 4 pm and public transport were allowed. Under the new guidelines, gathering of more than five people has been prohibited in PMC limits and curfew will be imposed post 10 pm.The decision on relaxations was taken after Pune city’s positivity rate for the past four days was reported below 5% and the average positivity rate was recorded at 4.95% with reduction in oxygen bed occupancy last week to 23.33%. These factors made the city qualified for Level 2. However, not all relaxations applicable under Level 2 have been adopted in the city. “These relaxations will be in place from June 14 till further orders. These will be subjected to review depending on changes in positivity rate and O2 bed occupancy,” stated Vikram Kumar, Pune municipal commissioner, in his order issued on evening. Though further relaxations have been declared in PMC limits, Pune guardian Minister Pawar cautioned against recklessness in Covid compliance. “Covid has not gone away. It is essential to follow Covid appropriate norms. Some relaxations are given in PMC because its positivity rate has gone down. They will continue only if the positivity rate remains low. Experts have raised concerns about opening up and we have to be cautious,” said Pawar at a press interaction after the Covid review meeting. HT in its Friday edition had reported about the decision on unlock. The announcement was prompted after the city fulfilled the criteria of Level 2 restrictions defined by the state administration based on positivity rate. Curbs remain in PCMC, rural Pune There are no relaxations given in rural parts of the district even as the positivity rate has been reported below 10%. Pimpri-Chinchwad will also not see any changes in Covid curbs. “No relaxations have been offered in the rural parts of the district which is currently under Level 4 restrictions. Officials said that the positivity rate in rural parts varies from tehsil to tehsil and hence it was decided to continue with the existing restrictions in rural parts. Pune’s Velhe tehsil has the lowest positivity rate at 6%, but other tehsils border near 10%. According to the state guidelines, we cannot issue separate orders for each tehsil. So, for now, the restrictions in rural parts will continue,” said Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-announces-more-relaxations-in-pune-from-monday-as-positivity-rate-drops-below-5-101623422125860.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Sandeep Kala’s journey from petty crime to being the most wanted||In Delhi’s Mandoli jail complex, wrestler Sushil Kumar, a two-time Olympic medallist, is watched round-the-clock through CCTV cameras inside his cell. There is a guard outside his cell too. The prison officers are on high alert. Last week, gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who was seen as a potential threat to Kumar’s life, was shifted to Tihar jail, about 32km from Mandoli. Delhi Police and Intelligence Bureau officials alerted the prison department that Kumar, arrested for murder, has a threat to his life from Sandeep Kala, 36, the most wanted man by the police. Kala is Bishnoi’s top lieutenant, who is currently running their gang’s operation.In the last two years, Kala has become the most wanted man, accused of crimes such as murder, extortion, and robbery. He carries a reward of ₹7 lakh for his arrest and is wanted by the police of four states. Kala was first arrested by a police constable while snatching a cell phone 17 years ago. It was his first crime and the start of a second life, in which he would be feared and become the most wanted fugitive in the national Capital.Also Read | Sagar Dhankad murder case: Another wrestler arrestedThe beginningBorn in 1984 in Jatheri in Sonipat, Haryana, about 69km from the National Capital, he completed schooling from his village before taking admission to an Industrial Training Institute in Sonipat. His police dossier says he fell in bad company and started demanding money from his parents, “who were not rich enough.”To earn money, Kala worked as a cable operator in his village during the early 2000s and came in touch with the cable mafia. “Those were days before Netflix and Amazon. Many local criminal gangs made money by wielding their influence over cable operations in a particular area. Every gang had dominance in a particular area. The power of a gang was gauged by the number of houses to which they provided cable networks. It was then that Kala came in touch with criminal elements,” said an officer of the crime branch, who has seen files on Kala.With the money earned from the cable business not enough, Kala tried his hand at snatching. It is unclear how many phones or gold chains he had snatched before being arrested for the first time outside a wine shop in Delhi’s Samaipur Badli.On September 29, 2004, he snatched the phone but was caught. For this crime, he spent four months in jail. These four months, police believe, would be Kala’s most formative years in his transition. “He did not look back or get reformed after coming out of Tihar jail. In fact, he graduated to bigger crimes such as robbery and extortion with his accomplices within a few months. But he was still a low-level criminal until that time,” the officer added.In 2012, his name made it to the list of the Haryana Police most wanted when he along with his three associates rammed a prison van with a truck near Dulina village of Jhajjar district and opened fire, killing three prisoners and injuring two policemen. “The killed prisoners were Bhagwan gang members, including the kingpin Shree Bhagwan, his brother Dilbagh and Anil Fauji. The attack was the fallout of a longstanding rivalry between the Bhagwan gang and Anil Chippi, for whom Kala was working,” said assistant commissioner of police Preetpal Singh Sangwan from Gurugram (Haryana) Police’s crime branch.Kala was later arrested and convicted for life in that case. He remained in jail for nearly eight years – from 2012 till February 2020, when he was released by his associates following a dramatic attack on the prison van in which he was being taken to Bhondsi jail from Faridabad court. Three assailants were chased and arrested but Kala managed to escape.His return to crime in Delhi “The bullet this time has hit the glass, next time it will hit your chest. Find someone who can save your life.” This was a handwritten message on a small piece of paper that a group of assailants left on the windscreen of a jeweller’s car after firing several bullets outside his shop in southwest Delhi’s Najafgarh in June last year. The same month, six similar threatening slips were thrown outside business establishments or houses of businessmen in southwest Delhi’s Najafgarh, Bindapur, and Baba Haridas Nagar within a week. There slips mentioned the name of “Kala Jatheri Group.” Also, all the firing and threatening slip-throwing incidents followed calls made through encrypted internet-calling platforms by persons who identified themselves as Kala Jatheri.“The back-to-back firing incidents left us as well as the higher-ups baffled not because they all were committed for extortion but the fact that the crimes were seen as an alert about the entry of a new player (Kala Jatheri) who was desperate to fill the void created in Delhi’s crime world after the arrest of some top wanted gangsters such as Jitender alias Gogi and Neeraj Bawana,” said a crime branch officer, who has arrested members of Kala’s gang.Such calls and threats spread fear among traders in outer Delhi, police said.“Apart from the extortion cases registered at different police stations, we know that there are nearly a dozen instances wherein traders succumbed to Kala’s extortion demands and never reported the matter. His gang is mostly targeting bookies, jewellers, and property dealers,” a second officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said Kala is the most wanted gangster and multiple teams from Delhi and the adjoining states are looking for him and his gang members. “We have arrested many of Kala’s associates in the past few months and our operation against them is continuing.”From the interrogation of his gang members, police have learnt that during his stay in Haryana jails between 2012 and 2020, Kala come in close contact with members of the Bishnoi gang.“As per our intelligence inputs, as Bishnoi learnt about the deportation of key aide Raju Basodi’s from Thailand, he did not want to lose his grip on the extortion and contract killing business in the north Indian states. So, he planned Kala’s release from Faridabad court last year. Our informers say that after his escape Kala fled to Punjab and started working to expand the syndicate’s footprints in Delhi-NCR as well,” an officer from the special cell, who wished not to be named, said.In less than a year, the Kala gang has committed several heinous crimes, including extortion as well as contract and revenge killings in Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Punjab. His name also emerged in the killing of youth Congress leader Gurlal Singh Bhalwan in Punjab’s Faridkot in February. His involvement is suspected in nearly 300 such cases, said Sangwan.Though no police officer, authorised to issue press statements, confirmed that Kala has fled abroad, many mid level officers said Kala has fled to Dubai and he is running his operations from there. His gang members have confirmed this. With over 200 known members, Kala Jathedi gang is the biggest and strongest gang in Delhi and its adjoining states.“Kala is a gangster with whom no criminal in the NCR region wants enmity. Even criminal Jitender Gogi, who was until last year Delhi police most wanted, supports Kala.It is evident from the fact that Kala’s involvement also surfaced in the release of Gogi’s key hitman, Kuldeep Maan, from police’s custody following a gunfight at GTB Hospital on March 25,” a crime branch officer, who probed the escape case, said.Kala’s name surfaces again in Sushil Kumar caseSushil Kumar has been arrested for allegedly murdering fellow wrestler Sagar Dhankad on May 4. That evening along with Dhankad, Kumar allegedly beat another person, Sonu Mahal. Mahal is Kala’s nephew.Sensing a threat to Kumar’s life, during his court hearings, Kumar was guarded by commandos from the police’s Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) team. Such commandos are used only in cases of high threat. SWAT teams have in the past been used to escort gangster Abu Salem and Indian Mujahideen terrorist Yasin Bhatkal.On June 3, when Kumar was sent to Mandoli jail in judicial custody, police handed the jail authorities a file with the names of all suspected members of Kala’s gang. For his safety, Kumar has been allotted a single cell and is constantly watched. Over the last few days, prison authorities have held many closed-door meetings to decide if Kumar should be kept in Mandoli or be transferred to the more secure Tihar jail. The Tihar complex is bigger (spread over 400 acres) and has better security, but it also has many jailed prisoners who belong to the Kala gang. The jail authorities will take a call next week.A prison officer, who was part of the meetings, said on condition of anonymity, “Kumar may be caged but he is the safest inside the prison. The real threat is outside when he steps out on bail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sandeep-kala-s-journey-from-petty-crime-to-being-the-most-wanted-101623413669642.html
12-06-2021||Delhi||Master Plan’s push for dust control could accelerate Delhi’s action plan||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA)’s draft Master Plan for 2041 released this week envisages a sustainable infrastructure for Delhi and also highlights the problem of dust pollution in the city. The document, which will steer the city’s development for the next two decades, has suggested all developmental projects should strictly follow dust mitigation measures to deal with the pollution. It also seeks to ensure that construction material, building, and demolition waste is handled in an eco-friendly manner.The DDA has proposed a dedicated dust management plan by Central Pollution Control Board, the apex body monitoring and strategising pollution control measures. It has said the plan should be used as a handbook for construction agencies in the city.DDA’s suggestions are expected to be the much-needed push for the city’s dust control measures. Authorities have imposed fines on construction agencies, made smog guns and water sprinklers mandatory at building sites, and ordered high panels and sheets to cover construction material as part of its seasonal measures to control dust ahead of the winter pollution season. Experts say the measures are often reactive and do not achieve much in the longer run. They argue while the government and pollution monitoring agencies battle Delhi’s winter pollution, the city is engulfed in a haze of dust through most part of the year, especially coarse PM 10 (particulate matter with a diameter less than 10 micrometres). This is due to the continuous construction activities, un-swept roads, and dust storms that are common in northwest India during summer.Also Read | A vision for Delhi-2041A 2015 Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur source and inventory study showed that during summer in Delhi, the overall average concentration of PM10 was over 500ug/m3, against the national ambient air quality standard of 100ug/m3. The study highlighted that crustal dust accounted for about 40% of the total particulate matter in summer. It concluded it is undeniable that air in Delhi is several times more polluted in winter because of an increased contribution of PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with a diameter less than 2.5 micrometres mostly from combustion). It suggested steps to check road dust as part of measures to improve air quality holistically in summer.Tanushree Ganguly, programme lead, Council on Energy Environment and Water, said cities across the country need to tackle dispersed sources of pollution such as open burning of waste, dust from construction sites and unpaved roads. “Pollution control boards and urban local bodies should have dedicated field inspection teams to identify such sources and ensure that they are addressed,” she said. “Secondly, we also need robust citizen grievance redressal mechanisms. The Green Delhi mobile application (which enables registration of complaints about violation of anti-pollution norms) is a great move but citizens should be encouraged to use it more actively.”The weather also plays a role in determining air quality. Delhi’s air quality on Tuesday and Wednesday suddenly deteriorated and reached the “very poor” category. After cleaner air for over two months because of the Covid-19 lockdown, Delhi’s air quality for the first time since February slipped under the danger mark.India Meteorological Department said the haze in Delhi recently was due to the impact of dust carrying storm from Rajasthan that settled over the region, pushing the air quality index to the poor zone. These storms are common during this time of year. Around May-June, south-westerly winds from Rajasthan often carry high quantities of dust.Environmentalists say the Aravalli range stood as a barrier for these dust storms and prevented them from entering the Capital. The range has shrunk by nearly 40% over the last 40 years.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said dust on its own is not life-threatening. She added in a metropolitan city like Delhi, it gets mixed with substances such as vehicular emissions, industrial fumes, residue from waste burning, and other combustion and becomes toxic.These coarse particles break down into finer particles (such as PM 2.5 or PM 1) as they constantly remain suspended in the air. The particles can easily seep into human organs or even into the bloodstreams.Roychowdhury called for the need to tackle pollution levels in Delhi as a year-long problem. “It is promising that through the Master Plan 2041, the DDA has tried to acknowledge that pollution is a multi-sectoral issue. We will need to plug all the sources and all agencies concerned will have to be roped in to make a visible impact.”Dr D J Christopher, who heads pulmonary medicine at Vellore’s Christian Medical College, said Indians have 35% reduced lung capacity due to air pollution in comparison to Caucasians. “Air pollution was the second-highest risk factor in India, second only to child and maternal malnutrition.”The DDA has also suggested a “robust monitoring framework for tackling environmental parameters”. “Data collected from such monitoring shall be regularly published through online platforms to improve awareness about these issues. Crowdsourcing of information may be explored for parameters like air pollution and noise levels, reporting on illegal dumping of solid and liquid wastes into greens and water bodies,” says the draft Master Plan.Delhi has 37 air quality monitoring stations. IIT-Kanpur scientists, in collaboration with a Mumbai-based environmental start-up, have also installed over 30 micro-monitors, which help get more localised pollution recordings.SN Tripathi, who leads the National Clean Air Programme, said that more sensors will ensure more thorough data and that eventually will help Delhi efficiently manage the pollution sources. “If I want to go out for a run or I have a senior citizen or a child at home and want to know the air quality levels in my area, I need to know the pollution level in my location. In a mega-city like Delhi, we still do not have enough air quality monitoring sensors.”The draft Master Plan also suggests the involvement of citizens in controlling pollution. “Citizens and other stakeholders play a critical role in managing pollution at the local level. All concerned agencies shall take steps to improve awareness, and provide adequate and reliable information to engage stakeholders as implementation partners.”SN Tripathi, who leads the National Clean Air Programme, said that more sensors will ensure more thorough data, and that eventually will help Delhi efficiently manage the pollution sources. “If I want to go out for a run or I have a senior citizen or a child at home and want to know the air quality levels in my area, I need to know the pollution level in my location. In a mega-city like Delhi, we do still do not have enough air quality monitoring sensors.”The draft Master Plan also suggests involvement of citizens in to control pollution. “Citizens and other stakeholders play a critical role in managing pollution at the local level. All concerned agencies shall take steps to improve awareness, and provide adequate and reliable information to engage stakeholders as implementation partners.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/master-plan-s-push-for-dust-control-could-accelerate-delhi-s-action-plan-101623406105918.html
12-06-2021||Other||Filmmaker booked for sedition over remark against Lakshadweep administrator||Thiruvananthapuram: The Lakshadweep police have registered a case of sedition against filmmaker Aisha Sultana for allegedly calling the Union territory’s administrator, Praful Khoda Patel, a “bio-weapon” launched by the Centre.Sultana, a Lakshadweep resident, allegedly made the comment during a TV discussion amid anger in the region over new rules introduced by Patel, which his opponents say threaten the livelihoods of islanders.The case against the filmmaker was lodged in Kavaratti on the complaint of Lakshadweep Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief C Abdul Khadar Haji on Thursday. In his complaint, Haji cited a debate on a Malayalam news channel quoting Sultana purportedly calling Patel a “bio-weapon”. He said her words were in “bad taste and intended to create hatred and aversion in the minds of people.” According to the FIR lodged by Kavaratti police, a case under sections 124 A (sedition) and 153 B (hate speech) of the Indian Penal code has been registered against the filmmaker. She has been summoned to the police station on Monday.Sultana said she used the word but did not attack the country or the Union government. “I was referring to some of the decisions of Patel which infuriated local people. Despite popular sentiment, he continues to antagonise people. As a local resident I have right to criticise him,” she said in a Facebook post.Meanwhile, several local BJP leaders on Friday protested against the sedition charge slapped against the filmmaker.Lakshadweep Sahitya Pravarthaka Sangam, a body of writers, has come out in support of Sultana.The Supreme Court on May 31 expressed concern over the misuse of India’s sedition law and said it will define the contours of the colonial era penal provision to indicate what does and does not constitute sedition.For over a month, residents of the archipelago have been protesting against the administrator, saying his moves will affect the “unique culture and tradition” of the island. The draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation that Patel has introduced proposes to develop the islands as a major tourist destination. Residents allege it will destroy the islands’ character and identity since 97% of the islands is covered by pristine forests and 95% of its Muslim population belongs to the Scheduled Tribe category.Many parliamentarians, former bureaucrats and artists have described the draft regulations as arbitrary and aimed against the community of the islands.The Kerala assembly passed a unanimous resolution seeking the recall of the administrator. As many as 93 retired bureaucrats sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi criticising the “partisan attitude” of the new administrator and urged him to protect the unique culture and tradition of the islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sedition-case-slapped-on-lakshadweep-filmmaker-for-remark-about-administrator-101623405205591.html
12-06-2021||Kolkata||1,300 Indian SIM cards sent to China in last 2 years: Arrested Chinese national||The Chinese national arrested by the Border Security Force (BSF) on Thursday has told officials interrogating him that at least 1,300 Indian mobile phone SIM cards were sent to China over the last two years.“The SIM cards were used to hack accounts and commit other types of financial frauds. At least 1,300 Indian SIM cards were smuggled to China,” said SS Guleria, DIG BSF (South Bengal Frontier), adding that the accused's statements need to be verified.It is not clear, for instance, how they managed to procure such a large number of SIM cards in the first place. Interrogation also revealed that Junwe’s associates used to hide the SIM cards in their undergarments to smuggle them out of India.Han Junwe, a resident of Hubei in China, was arrested by the BSF when he was trying to enter the country through the Indo-Bangla border in Malda district on Thursday. One of his associates, Sun Jiang, was arrested by the UP police earlier this year.Also Read | New moon tide to hit today, coastal districts of Bengal on alertSun Jiang named him as an accomplice during his interrogation by the UP police and the process to issue a Blue notice was initiated. A Blue Notice is issued to collect additional information about a person’s identity, location or activities in relation to a crime.Han Junwe told his interrogators soon after his arrest that his request for an Indian visa was rejected after Sun Jiang’s arrest, leaving him with no option but to try to enter India either via Bangladesh or Nepal.In his initial interrogation, Han Junwe also told BSF officers that he owns a hotel in Gurugram and has been to India at least four times since 2010. While some of the hotel staffers are Chinese, some Indian nationals have also been employed at the hotel, he said, according to the police.The BSF has handed over the case to the West Bengal Police. A four-member team of the Anti-Terrorist Squad of Uttar Pradesh Police reached Malda on Friday morning to interrogate the accused and take over the case."It is here that the role of specialised agencies like the ATS and NIA comes into play. The electronic gadgets need to be scanned as a lot of information could be hidden in them," said a senior BSF official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/1300-indian-sim-cards-sent-to-china-in-last-2-years-arrested-chinese-national-101623402865339.html
