13-06-2021||Other||Schools set to reopen for new academic year online||PUNE For a second consecutive year, Pune schools will reopen for the new academic year, 2021-22, in online mode, because of the Covid-19 pandemic. From June 15 onwards, a majority of schools start their academic year.For parent Sangeeta Mundada, it’s not as difficult as last year. “We are quite well prepared for this year. My younger son is in Class 3 and the older daughter in Class 8. Last year, we all were confused and worried, as we didn’t know how the school was going to operate, as Covid was new for us. Comparatively, this time, we are ready. Even the children have become used to online classes and study patterns. High school fees need to be cut down this time,” she said.Pankaj Shete, also a parent, said, “Though the schools are starting online, study material is all physical, like text books and stationery items. The lockdown in Pune has just ended and there is a heavy rush at the Appa Balwant chowk book market to buy school-related things. Some of the textbooks of my son’s Class 5 are not available. The lockdown of the last two months is now impacting the academics as well.”Shaurya Somavanshi, who is in Class 9 this year, said, “We are eagerly waiting to go back to school physically. We are fed up of online classes. Initially, it was good, but later on it started to get irritating. Most importantly, the feel of the actual school campus, meeting friends, that enjoyment and atmosphere cannot be replaced online.”Winifred Bhalerao, principal, St Paul’s high school, said, “All our preparations for starting the school from June 15 are set and we have already given instructions to students and their parents for the same. It will be much easier for both teachers and students this time, as we are already into online teaching, classes and exams for the last one year. We have kept the online classes the same, at five hours every day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/schools-set-to-reopen-for-new-academic-year-online-101623608318587.html
13-06-2021||Other||If Covid cases rise again, restrictions will be reimposed: Wadettiwar||PUNE State minister for relief and rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar, on Sunday, said that new restrictions will have to be imposed if Covid cases go up again after relaxations in Maharashtra. He also said that it would be inappropriate to comment on the restarting of local train services in Mumbai, as of now. Wadettiwar pointed out that in some districts Covid numbers have slightly increased after relaxations. “Saturday’s daily Covid numbers in Maharashtra indicated more fresh cases than those that had recovered. I cannot comment on restarting local trains as of now. Let’s monitor the situation for the next eight days,” Wadettiwar said, addressing a press conference in Pune. On June 4, the state government rolled out a five-level unlocking plan for Maharashtra after the Covid curve in many districts showed a downward trend. The levels of relaxations were decided on two parameters, positivity rate and occupancy of oxygen beds. Covid curbs have since been eased in various administrative units by local authorities from June 6“In some districts, the caseload has slightly increased after the relaxations. If cases increase again then restrictions will have to be increased,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/if-covid-cases-rise-again-restrictions-will-be-reimposed-wadettiwar-101623608319212.html
13-06-2021||Other||Lonavla police opt for “no entry” rather than fines, as sight-seers flock to hill station||PUNE Massive crowds over the weekend have left the Lonavla rural and city police struggling to ensure Covid norms in the hill stations.Police, on Sunday, began preventing people from entering the cities asking them to return from where they came.Heavy traffic on roads leading into the hill stations resulted in traffic jams in the heart of the cities, as well as on the Mumbai-Pune express highway.“The rush is so much that we cannot halt one vehicle and inquire. Instead, we are politely telling them to go back as all the sight-seeing spots are not open, as per orders. We are only allowing people who have hotel bookings or have their houses here, to stay. For them as well, sight-seeing is not allowed,” said Dilip Pawar, senior inspector in charge of Lonavla city police station.On Sunday, when HT visited Lonavla, it faced two traffic jams at separate locations, 30 minutes each. The first was at the Bhagwan Mahavir Swami chowk -- a locality in the heart of the Lonavla, famous for its chikki shops; the second jam was on the road leading toward INS Shivaji.Among the sight-seers that had got in, no social distancing was followed and most were flouting the mask rule as well.“The rush is unbearable. Most of them are travelling with families and if they don’t wear masks in their cars we cannot fine them. Individually, they should maintain Covid norms,” said Pavan Tayde, police constable, Lonavla city police.Currently Lonavla and other rural parts of Pune district are under level 4 of the restrictions as the positivity rate is not below 10%.As per the norms of level 4, non-essential shops are still closed, and essential shops are permitted to remain open for a limited time.These levels of restrictions set by the state administration are defined by two factors - positivity rate and the occupancy of oxygen beds.The positivity rate in Lonavla is 15%. It was 22% on June 4.“Every day cases are going down. Residents of the city are hoping they will soon see more relaxations,” said Dr Sourabh Gharde, medical officer, urban primary health centre, Lonavla.For the police, handling the situation is becoming difficult because there are no orders restricting people from entering the city. The order is only for sight-seeing spots to be closed.“If we receive an order saying no outsider will be allowed, then it will help us to control the tourist movement,” said Satish Panchal, police constable rural police.Somnath Jadhav, chief executive officer (CEO), Lonavala municipal council, said, “Looking at the situation of the last two days, we will be increasing the number of check posts at the entry and exit point of the hill station.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lonavla-police-opt-for-no-entry-rather-than-fines-as-sight-seers-flock-to-hill-station-101623608317796.html
13-06-2021||Other||PERA CET online from June 16||PUNE The Preeminent Education and Research Association (PERA), an association of private universities in Maharashtra, have announced their Common Entrance Test (CET) examination dates for various professional courses, including engineering, food technology, pharmacy, management, education, architecture, law and hotel management, starting from July 16. “While the results will be declared on July 23, the examination will be conducted through an online proctored system,” said Prof Mangesh Karad, president of PERA India.“Due to the pandemic PERA India had taken a decision in view of the students’ academic interest and for their health safety, to conduct an online entrance exam for private university admissions for various professional courses. The last date of PERA CET registration is July 10,” he added. PERA CET will be conducting examinations on the July 16, 17, and 18 in multiple slots. The candidates can appear for the PERA CET exam from their homes. Candidates are advised to visit the official website of www.peraindia.in to get the latest updates on the exam. Shantanu Deshpande, a class 12 student said, “Along with the Maharashtra CET exams, this private university CET exam is equally important for us. I want to take admission for engineering and there are some of the best private universities who offer quality education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pera-cet-online-from-june-16-101623608317066.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Car sinks in well after parking area caves in at Ghatkopar society, video goes viral||A parked car sank after a portion of the parking area caved in at a Ghatkopar (West) society on Sunday. The vehicle was parked in the parking space in the society on a well that was covered with reinforced cement.The incident took place at the Ram Nivas society located at Kama lane in Ghatkopar West area on Sunday morning, police said, adding no one was injured.The video of the incident went viral on social media on Sunday morning, leading to harsh remarks against Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), for poor maintenance of public places. Reacting to them, the BMC issued a statement clarifying that they have nothing to do with the incident.Some years ago, the housing society had closed half the portion of the well by carrying out RCC work and used the spot to park the vehicles. However, due to rains, the portion caved in, and the vehicle drowned, he said.“The incident took place in a private society compound. Nobody got injured in the incident as no one was inside the car. We are helping in pumping out water from the well and have asked the society to cordon off the well area after removing the car.” the BMC statement read.Society has been asked to take necessary safety measures immediately, the BMC said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-car-sinks-in-well-after-parking-area-caves-in-at-ghatkopar-society-video-goes-viral-101623608197188.html
13-06-2021||Other||Thane station sees crowds, civic body increases testing||With the increased crowd at Thane railway station after the unlock phase; Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has increased the numbers of testing facilities at the station. Moreover, there has been an overall increase in the number of testing within Thane city. This has had an impact on the daily positive cases as well. During the peak of the second wave, testing in Thane was around 10,000 daily. This figure reduced to around 2,000 daily during the lockdown as fewer people started venturing out. The figures have now risen to more than 4,000 tests daily. “We have increased the testing within the city as people have started to step out of their homes. The lockdown had resulted in fewer people turning up for testing, hence we had fewer testing numbers. Now, we are gradually increasing the testing, as many are returning to their jobs from the villages or other states, this has led to an increased crowd for testing at Thane station,” said a senior officer from TMC.“With hotels and shops getting permission to open up and the probability of malls as well, to open soon, many who work in these establishments are returning in the hope to be back on their jobs. This has probably led to an increase in people at the railway station for testing,” said Dhananjay Singh, founder, Rudra Pratishthan, an organisation that works for the welfare of the north Indian community in Thane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-station-sees-crowds-civic-body-increases-testing-101623607776962.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Activists want lady doctors for female inmates of prisons, Bombay HC says only if need genuine||While observing that “there is no requirement of law that lady inmates cannot be treated by male doctors,” the Bombay high court (HC) has asked the state government to consider sending female doctors to such prisons after it was informed that some of these prisoners were not comfortable sharing their problems with male doctors. Prof Vijay Raghavan from Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) who is assisting the HC in the suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) pertaining to the increase in death of prison inmates due to the second wave of Covid, sought visitation of female doctors on rotation basis said that he is only stressing on implementing the 2017 prison reforms wherein the health department has been asked to have a panel of female doctors to visit women’s prisons regularly.On June 10, the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni while hearing the PIL was informed by Prof Raghavan of four major issues that were faced by jail inmates with regards to the availability of treatment and medical facilities in the jails across the state.Prof Raghavan pointed out that there was a shortage of doctors and paramedical staff in jails due to which inmates had to be taken to hospitals. He further stated that the unavailability of police escorts to take inmates to hospitals for treatment was delayed. He also added that apart from this there was also the issue of assigning female doctors for treating inmates of women’s prisons. In light of this, he sought regular visit of a female doctor from a civil hospital for inmates of women’s prisons. After perusing the compilation prepared by Dr Chhering Dorje, special inspector general of police (prisons), south region and hearing the submissions of advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni which assured the court of improvement in the condition of inmates as vaccination of inmates with and without comorbidities had started and many vacant posts of doctors and paramedical staff had been filled up, the court said that the schedule of MBBS doctors who would visit prisons on all seven days mentioned in the compilation would suffice to treat ailing patients. While addressing the issue raised by Prof Raghavan regarding lady doctors the court said, “There is no requirement of law that lady inmates cannot be treated by male doctors. However, we observe that if for any special reason a female inmate wishes to be attended by a female doctor and the prison authority is convinced that the request is genuine, the due requisition may be sent by the prison authorities to the health department for doing the needful.”Prof Raghavan while clarifying his request said, “I was only asking for implementation of the justice (retired) Dr S Radhakrishnan committee report on prison reforms. The committee had recommended that a panel of five doctors which included a gynaecologist and paediatrician should visit the prisons once a week for two hours. However, based on the HC directions the state has decided to send an MBBS doctor every day is also commendable.”He, however, added that the issue of lady doctors was something which inmates themselves sought as many of them were not comfortable while disclosing and discussing their medical problems with male doctors. “We have not come across any instance of lady doctors being uncomfortable while doing duty in prisons. On the contrary male doctors are hesitant to treat female inmates so much so that if there are complications they refer the inmate to a civil hospital rather than treating the inmate themselves,” said Prof Raghavan.Dr Dorje and Pradeep Vyas, the secretary health department did not respond to calls and messages for a comment on the issue.When asked about the observation of HC regarding there was ‘no requirement of law that lady inmates cannot be treated by male doctors’ activist and advocate Abha Singh said, “Lady doctors for female prisoners would be covered by article 21 of the Constitution on right to life which also envisages a right to live with dignity. If a woman inmate wants a female doctor and it is also observed that these inmates are more comfortable discussing their health issues with female doctors, then why should necessary amendments not be made in the law to make it into a requirement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/activists-want-lady-doctors-for-female-inmates-of-prisons-bombay-hc-says-only-if-need-genuine-101623607657583.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Congress leaders, supporters protesting against fuel hike flout Covid norms, booked||The Bangur Nagar police on Sunday registered a case against Mumbai Regional Congress Committee president Ashok ‘Bhai’ Jagtap, Congress ward leader Gaurav Rane, Manoj Yadav and 40 to 50 supporters for violating Covid-19 norms.According to the police, the Congress leaders had organised a protest against the increasing cost of fuel at the SV Road junction, on Saturday. The officers said that the crowd of around 50 people had gathered at the spot and carried out the protest without wearing masks and not following social distancing norms. Moreover, the protestors were over the permitted count of 50.Based on the violations, the Bangor Nagar police have booked the leaders and their supporters under the relevant section of the Indian Penal Code.“The leaders and their supporters would now be given notices to be present in court for the offence,” said an officer. The party is yet to issue a clarification or statement in this regard.HK Patil, general secretary in charge, Congress, said, “Its a feeling that many of our workers have. They feel that we have support on ground and this will work best. However, no formal decision has been taken yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-congress-leaders-supporters-protesting-against-fuel-hike-flout-covid-norms-booked-101623607596981.html
13-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Migrant workers return, industrial units hope better production||NOIDA: With ease in Covid-19 curfew restrictions, the migrant workforce has started returning to the Gautam Budh Nagar district to their work. Entrepreneurs in the district said they hope for a better production period in coming times and if all goes well, the losses incurred due to the second wave of the pandemic can be compensated for in two months.Vipin Malhan, the president of the Noida Entrepreneurs’ Association (NEA), said most of the workers of industries in GB Nagar, who had gone to their hometowns and villages for Holi vacations in March, didn’t return as cases had started to rise around that time.“As per a rough estimate, the number of migrant workers in GB Nagar is around 0.75 million and over 50% of them either didn’t return after Holi or migrated back during the second wave. Now, with improvement in the situation, entrepreneurs have started calling them back and the workers are also responding very positively,” he said.Malhan, however, said that the enthusiasm of entrepreneurs might be a short-term affair due to the likelihood of a third wave. “Entrepreneurs are fighting half-heartedly at the moment, because they had never seen such huge losses or such unforeseen situations. We need at least two months to come out of losses incurred in the second wave as it was not a complete lockdown but a partial curfew. To compensate for the overall losses due to Covid-19, entrepreneurs need to work very hard for at least three years,” he said.Lalit Thukral, the president of Noida Apparel Export Cluster (NAEC), said that the dearth of workers in post-Holi time is not new. “Every year, workers go back home before Holi and usually return in mid-May, after the harvesting of Rabi crops in their villages. But this time, they didn’t remain in contact with their employers in fear of Covid-19. Now, however, they have started coming back and it will certainly increase the production of industries to their former strength in GB Nagar,” he said.When asked about impact on annual turnover, Thukral said that enthused with growing manpower in the apparel sector, overseas buyers have started floating orders.“Before the Covid-19 outbreak, the annual turnover of the apparel sector in the district was around ₹25,000 crore in the financial year 2019-20, which went down to ₹18,000 crore in fiscal 2020-21. If the response of overseas importers is any indication, it is expected to be ₹18,000 crore in the coming fiscal 2021-22,” he said.When contacted, Anil Kumar, the deputy commissioner of district industries centre, said the government is providing all support to entrepreneurs to help them exit the deficit faced since the Covid-19 outbreak.“The government is coming up with new plans to save lives as well as the livelihood of the people. We hope that very soon all industrial units in GB Nagar will start functioning to their full capacity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-migrant-workers-return-industrial-units-hope-better-production-101623607056934.html
13-06-2021||Noida||Blood donation camps restart in GB Nagar as Covid cases decline||Noida: With World Blood Donor day being marked on June 14, the Transfusion Medicine department of the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Postgraduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI), also known as Child PGI, in Noida will hold a blood donation camp on campus in Sector 30 on Monday. As per medical experts, voluntary blood donations have reduced to a minimum since the second Covid wave hit the district in April this year.“Usually blood banks have enough stock as people voluntarily donate blood and we keep holding donation camps as well. But during pandemic situations, especially since April as cases increased, there was scarcity of blood. However, donations are carried out following all Covid protocols and especially since we are medical experts, utmost care is taken,” said Dr Satyam Arora, from Transfusion Medicine department at Child PGI.He added that before the second Covid wave, the department used to hold camps in rural areas and high-rise societies as well to encourage voluntary donations. Now the department has restarted holding donation camps.“As hospitals have also started opening non-Covid services, that include surgical procedures and patient treatments that were earlier suspended, there will be an increasing demand for blood. In such a scenario, without any voluntary donation, an acute shortage of blood can prevent procedures for those in need of life saving surgeries. Hence, people are encouraged to go out and donate blood,” said Dr Arora.The transfusion medicine department of the hospital recently held a small camp in Dadri village to gauge the response among people. “We held a small blood donation camp on June 10 in Dadri village and the response was good. There were 40 donors who came forward to donate blood in one day which was a good number, even during pre-pandemic days. This has encouraged us to hold more such camps which we will start from Monday,” said Dr Seema Gupta from the same department.She added that the department will also hold more such camps across Noida during this month in order to mark the World Donors Day 2021. On June 12, the department along with National Health Mission Blood Cell (UP) also organised an online educational event on transfusion medicine which was focused on latest updates in the field of transfusion medicine and blood banking. Over 150 medical experts attended the same from all over UP.“We have been raising awareness on social media and calling on people to donate blood. The blood bank at child PGI currently has 80 units of blood and supports patients of Thalassemia, cancer in children, cardiac surgery and newborn children requiring blood,” said Dr Arora.Dr Gupta added that people should be encouraged to donate blood before they get vaccinated.“Keeping in mind the vaccination drives happening across the district, our department is raising awareness on social media to urge people to donate blood two days before their vaccination appointment. This will help us avoid any blood unit scarcity,” she said.She further informed that Covid patients can donate blood 28 days after their recovery or discharge from hospital after a radiological and virological clearance.Meanwhile, the Rotary Blood bank in Noida will also observe the day by holding an in-house blood donation. “Our volunteers have been tasked to create awareness and encourage people to donate blood as we are holding an in-house blood donation camp at the Rotary Club on June 14 in order to mark the World Blood Donor day. However, there is still a lot of apprehension among people to donate blood. We have over 200 below poverty line (BPL) card holder patients of cancer and other diseases who require blood regularly from us, which is provided free of cost. But we have been struggling to provide them the same since the past two months as there have barely been any voluntary donations,” said Trilok Sharma, founder trustee of Rotary Blood Bank, Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/blood-donation-camps-restart-in-gb-nagar-as-covid-cases-decline-101623606997566.html
13-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad, GB Nagar gear up to vaccinate 30k people per day in July||Ghaziabad: Hours after the Uttar Pradesh government decided to increase the Covid-19 vaccination target in the state to one million doses per day from July, officials of Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar on Sunday said that they will scale up their vaccination capacity to more than 30,000 per day. At present, the two districts are administering about 12,000 doses each per day in the government-run facilities, the officials said.Officials of the UP government said that the state has planned to administer 100 million doses in the next three months. The state officials also said that a target of administering 10 million doses was set for June, and it is likely that the month’s target will be surpassed. About 46 lakh doses were administered in the first 12 days of the current month in the state, they said. “The state government is expediting the vaccination process. About 4.58 lakh doses were administered yesterday (on June 12). So far, about 2.29 crore beneficiaries have received Covid shots. Now, we plan to administer one million doses per day from the next month and in the next three months we wish to achieve a target of vaccinating 100 million beneficiaries. For this, we are already providing training to about 20,000 vaccinators and other staff,” Navneet Sehgal, UP’s additional chief secretary (information), said on Sunday. According to Co-WIN portal figures of Sunday, about 19.20 million beneficiaries in the state were provided first dose so far while 3.79 million were also given their second dose. In Ghaziabad, a total of 744,601 doses were administered while in GB Nagar, about 870,419 doses were provided till Sunday, as per the portal figures. “At present, we have 110 teams at about 56 vaccination centres and can create about 40 more teams. So, with 150 teams, we will be able to administer about 30,000 doses per day in the government facilities. At present, we are administering about 12,000-13,000 doses per day, and with an increase in teams, we will be able to more than double the current vaccination capacity,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. “Further, we have also given permission to eight private hospitals in the district which will take up paid vaccination. At present, only two of them are able to get vaccine stock,” he added. The officials of GB Nagar also said that in order to meet the new target set by the UP government for July, they will increase the number of teams engaged in the vaccination process. “We are conducting about 12,000 vaccination per day in the government-run centres, and about 10,000 per day in the eight private hospitals. We have 62 teams at present, and we can take up the numbers to 150 to further increase our daily vaccination capacity by three times,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar. According to figures of the UP health department till June 11, the GB Nagar district has a population of 356,345 in the age group of over 45 years, and it has vaccinated 326,233 people so far with a coverage of 91.55%. Likewise, the district has managed to vaccinate 362,228 beneficiaries out of total 778,941 in the age group of 18-45 years, with a coverage of 46.5% of the target population till June 11. On the other hand, the Ghaziabad district has a population of 722,874 in age group over 45 years and provided first dose to 346,436 (47.92%) and second dose to 78,160 (10.81%) till June 11. In the age group of 18-45 years, the target population is about 1.57 million and 234,565 of them (14.93%) were vaccinated till June 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-gb-nagar-gear-up-to-vaccinate-30k-people-per-day-in-july-101623606996902.html
13-06-2021||Other||Another group of Sangrur farmers leave for Delhi||Sangrur Even as the paddy season is on, hundreds of farmers including women, under the banner of Bharti Kisan Union (BKU) (Ekta-Ugrahan) moved to Delhi borders via Khanauri border of Sangrur to participate in the ongoing protests against three agriculture laws on Sunday. They marched in tractor-trolleys, jeeps and any other vehicle they could find, while raising slogans against the Centre.Jagtar Singh Kalajhar, a protester, said farmers wanted to intensify the struggle against the ‘black laws’. “Farmers have planned hard and long and a schedule has been drawn up to ensure the protest remains strong, even amid the paddy season and no one suffers. We want to convey to the Modi government that farmers will not step back. We will fight till these anti-farmer laws are revoked,” added Kalajhar.Harjinder Singh, another protester, said farmers go to the Delhi border to protest every Sunday. “Residents of the state are aware of the adverse consequences of these controversial laws. We are participating in the agitation with women and youth,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-group-of-sangrur-farmers-leave-for-delhi-101623606817673.html
13-06-2021||Noida||Man held for killing elderly parents for property||Ghaziabad The city police arrested a 40-year-old man on Sunday for allegedly killing his parents at their house in Balram Nagar area of Loni in Ghaziabad on Friday.The suspect, identified as Ravi Dhaka, owns a grocery shop in the locality. Earlier, he worked as a collection agent for online companies. According to the police, Ravi was miffed with his parents — 70-year-old Surendra Singh and his 63-year-old wife Santosh Singh — who were bent on transferring property ownership to the infant child and widow of their other son, Gaurav. Police said Gaurav had died in a road accident in 2019, and his wife had been taking care of his parents since then. During the investigation, police said they got initial clues from the neighbours who had told them that the suspect was allegedly not on good terms with his parents. “After the cremation, we interrogated Ravi, and he broke down and confessed to his crime. He said he had strangled both his parents around 10 am on Friday, before going to his shop that day. Usually, he returns by the afternoon to eat lunch and sleep, but that day, he did not go home and instead visited a neighbour’s house where he stayed till the evening. He wanted someone else to visit his house and inform the police about the murders,” the SP said. However, no one visited the house, and Ravi allegedly finally went to his house in the evening on Friday raised an alarm, after which the police reached there, the SP added.According to the police, it was a blind case, and the crime scene has been tampered with to make the incident look like a robbery and murder case. “The house was ransacked, suggesting that someone had entered there for robbery, and later, murdered the elderly couple. However, the entire situation seemed suspicious. The bodies had developed rigor mortis, which generally happens in eight-10 hours, indicating that the murders took place somewhere during the morning that day. Post-mortem reports also indicated almost similar time of deaths,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).Police said that Santosh was strangled first with a cloth, and Surendra was strangled with a wire later.The call records of the victims also revealed that they did not call anyone from their cellphone after 8.30am on Friday. Police said Ravi allegedly told the police that he felt neglected when he got to know that his parents wanted to transfer property ownership to his sister-in-law, who stayed in the same house. “Both Ravi’s sister-in-law, and wife were at their parents’ houses on the day of the murder. Taking advantage of this situation, Ravi, who was alone with his parents, killed them,” the SP added.A case was registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 302 (murder) against Ravi at the Loni Border police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-for-killing-elderly-parents-for-property-101623606636883.html
13-06-2021||Other||Punjab to link land record with foodgrain procurement||Chandigarh The Punjab government is set to integrate land record of farmers with foodgrain procurement from this kharif season. Farmers will get their payment (Minimum Support Price or MSP) for their produce (wheat and paddy) only when revenue record of their agriculture land is linked to the payment system. The Centre has asked the state government to implement the integration for kharif (paddy) procurement scheduled in October and November. In rabi (wheat) procurement season this year, the state government implemented the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system by transferring crop payment directly into farmers’ bank account. This bypassed the traditional system of routing payment through the arhtiyas (commission agents). Apprehending trouble from arhtiyas, the state government was reluctant to implement the DBT, but the Centre was firm that the system had to be introduced and executed. State government ministers had even met Union food and civil supplies minister Piyush Goyal, but failed to get relaxation on its implementation. Principal secretary finance KAP Sinha, who till recently also held the charge of principal secretary, food and civil supplies, said DBT was difficult and more tedious to impellent. “We have been able to implement that successfully. The next step is the integration of land record,” he said, adding that these steps were part of larger reforms in the procurement system. “It is a tedious process, but we have to implement it,” said a top officer of state food and civil supplies department. For implementing integration of land, the food department has to involve the revenue department which has details of land record of farmers. During wheat procurement, DBT showed that there were 9.5 lakh farmers in the state. The number, however, is expected to go up during paddy procurement as a greater number of farmers sell their produce to government agencies, unlike wheat, when private companies also make purchases.WHEAT RDF CONDITIONAL ON PADDY The Centre has not yet released the rural development fund (RDF) for wheat procurement that ended in May. The Centre wants Punjab to accept and implement the condition of integration of land record from this year’s paddy procurement season before giving clarity on the release of RDF. The state charges 3% RDF on wheat and paddy procured on the behalf of the Centre. During wheat procurement, the RDF was curtailed to 1%, and the Centre also asked Punjab to justify the higher rate of 3% A provisional cost-sheet sent to the state by Centre, last week, mentions accrual and other incidental expenses to be made to the state. “The cost sheet does not mention anything on the release of the RDF. The Centre wants Punjab to clear its stand on land record integration,” an officer of the food department said. With ₹25,500 crore disbursed to farmers for wheat procurement at MSP this season, the Centre owes Punjab ₹760 crore as RDF. “It is a substantial amount that will ease the state’s finances. We need it,” Sinha added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-to-link-land-record-with-foodgrain-procurement-101623606577499.html
13-06-2021||Lucknow||FIR against local land mafia, others for attack on family||A local land mafia and his six aides along with 12 unidentified people were booked on Sunday in connection with the attack on a Dalit family in Hariharpur village under Sushant Golf City police station limits of the state capital on Saturday afternoon, said a senior police official. Five members of the Dalit family, including a woman, were attacked allegedly by the local goons outside their house. Lucknow Commissioner of Police (CP) Dhruv Kant Thakur said an FIR was registered on the basis of a written complaint given by one of the victims, Bajrang Rawat, on Sunday morning. Those named in the FIR included Durga Yadav, his two sons Jai Prakash Yadav and Janaradan Yadav, Durga’s closest aide Raj Kumar Yadav, Raj Kumar’s brother Rajesh Yadav alias Raju and Ajay Yadav, he said. The CP said they have been booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 395 for dacoity, 397 for dacoity with attempt to cause grievous hurt, 504 for international insult, 506 for criminal intimidation as well as the charges of atrocities against Scheduled Caste (SC) people. He said the efforts are on to arrest all accused involved in the crime. Another senior police official said the presence of Rajesh Yadav has been found near the complainant Bajrang Rawat’s house when he and his family members were attacked on Saturday afternoon. “Rajesh Yadav’s presence at the spot hints the involvement of Durga Yadav and Raj Kumar Yadav, who are local land mafia of the area, behind the entire incident as they had old enmity with Bajrang Rawat,” he said. He said Durga Yadav, Raj Kumar and their aide Mahesh Verma were main accused in the murder of Bajrang Rawat’s father Beekha Ram Rawat on October 7, 2015, in a bid to grab their 2-bigha land. He said Durga and Raj Kumar were mounting pressure on Rawat and his family to compromise as they have been charge-sheeted in the murder case and are likely to be arrested. On Saturday, Bajrang, his brother Vishal and his wife Sarita and two relatives Dilip and Rajesh were injured in the attack. Of them, Rajesh suffered bullet wound on right side of the chest, Vishal suffered bullet injury in his palm while three others suffered severe injuries on their heads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/fir-against-local-land-mafia-others-for-attack-on-family-101623606517471.html
13-06-2021||Noida||Three killed, two injured in accident on Yamuna Expressway||Greater Noida: Three persons died while two others were injured when a car hit a stationary truck on the Yamuna Expressway in Greater Noida on June 13. The injured were identified as 22-year-old Sonu, a resident of Uttam Nagar in Delhi who was driving the car, and his uncle Santosh Kumar, 40. The deceased were identified as Sonu’s parents – Pratap Singh, 55 and Usha Devi, 50 – and a relative Satyapal Singh, 30. Rameshwar Kumar, station house officer of Beta 2 police station, said that the truck had broken down on the Agra-Greater Noida side of the expressway, around two kilometre from Zero Point in Greater Noida.“The truck driver had de-boarded the vehicle around 4:50am and was trying to fix it. Around the same time, the car, coming from Auraiya to Delhi via Greater Noida, hit the stationary truck,” he said. The accident was so severe that the car’s front portion was completely damaged and its occupants were trapped. Some passersby informed the police after which, a team from the Beta 2 police station was rushed, police said. The five victims were rushed to a private hospital where three of them were declared brought dead. According to Sonu, he used to drive the Swift Dzire as a cab in the National Capital Region. “I went with my family to my home town, Auraiya, last week. On Sunday, we were returning to Delhi when the incident took place,” he said. The SHO said it appears Sonu allegedly fell asleep while driving and lost balance of the vehicle. “The three bodies have been sent for a post-mortem and medical reports are awaited. Two other injured are recovering in the hospital,” SHO said. The victim’s family had not filed a police complaint till the evening. The SHO, however, said a case would be registered against the truck driver once a complaint is filed. He said the truck driver is absconding. Both the vehicles have been removed from the spot by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-killed-two-injured-in-accident-on-yamuna-expressway-101623606516786.html
13-06-2021||Noida||UP govt to formulate rules for providing power connections in floodplain areas, says minister||NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government has planned to introduce a bill provide power connections to people living in floodplain areas in the Gautam Budh Nagar district. For this, state energy minister Shrikant Sharma has asked discom officials to conduct a survey of such areas and send a blueprint to the state government.If the government okays power connections in floodplains, it will benefit over 1.5 lakh people of 35,000 households residing in Chotpur, Chhijarasi, Bahlolpur, Kulsera, Haldauni, Sorkha and other villages in the district.Sharma, who was on a random inspection of the 33/11 volt amps (KVA) power sub-station in Sector 58 on Sunday, said that the decision to introduce the bill was taken in light of the long pending demands of the people residing in the floodplain areas of the district. However, it was not immediately clear if the decision would affect the rest of the state as well. “The Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) – the power distribution company in Noida – has been asked to submit a report in this regard before the state cabinet, where an amicable decision will be taken soon for these people,” he said.After the discom sends over its proposal and survey, the state cabinet will review the same and decide on the matter, the minister added. It should be noted here, however, that residential structures on floodplains are not permitted, as per the National Green Tribunal. Such colonies are deemed unauthorised by the green court. When asked by HT for his response over this, the minister chose not to respond.According to Prem Kant, who lives in Chhijarsi, the decision will be a big respite to people residing in these areas. “We have been repeatedly demanding for legitimate power connections for the last three years, giving our representations to the various elected representatives. The minister’s assurance has given us a ray of hope,” he said.Regarding the progress in conversion of single-point connections to multi-point connections in high-rise societies, he said that he has received a number of complaints from people about the hiked electricity prices from builders.“The state government is determined to bring relief to those who have opted for community living in areas like Greater Noida, Noida and Ghaziabad. People living in high-rises have repeatedly been complaining that builders are charging them extra as part of their electricity bills. In the name of power backup, the builders ask for around ₹10-12 per unit – which is illegal in any case,” he said.He said the aim of fragmenting single-point connections is to save consumers from whopping electricity charges being collected by developers. “Now the time has come that builders give multi-point connections to their clients as a replacement of single-point connections. They can’t impose unnecessary burdens on consumers. I have asked the PVVNL officials to take legal action against builders who are trying to harass residents in this manner,” he said. So far, 272 out of the 600 high-rises in Noida have given their consent for giving individual connections to the residents.“The conversion work has already been completed in eight societies and soon the work will be completed in the remaining ones. Since our government is providing adequate electricity to every consumer in the state, they in return trust us more. We’ll not let them be exploited by the hands of developers, who are virtually sub-letting them the electricity,” he said. VN Singh, chief engineer of the discom, said: “The minister also asked officials for timely redressal of consumers’ grievances and to ensure uninterrupted electricity supply.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-govt-to-formulate-rules-for-providing-power-connections-in-floodplain-areas-says-minister-101623606456788.html
13-06-2021||Bhopal||Limit for wedding guests increased to 40 in Madhya Pradesh: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced more relaxation in the Janata Curfew imposed to contain the Covid-19 infection in MP on Sunday. The CM said, 40 people will be allowed to attend a wedding after RT-PCR tests. “Schools, colleges, social, religious and cultural functions, cinema halls and swimming pools will remain closed, but we are thinking of opening gyms,” he said. “The district crisis management committee will take a decision on relaxing norms by June 15. The committee will select two people at village level and three people at block level to create awareness about the infection,” the CM said. The decision was taken after the positivity rate of Covid-19 reduced to 0.35%. “We all want to open markets and trade but the transition has to be controlled. When we had relaxed the norms last time, the careless attitude spread the infection. Now, we have to adopt Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. I see crowds getting unruly in some places where we’ve unlocked. We don’t want to let this happen as we can’t impose lockdown again and again,” he added. Chouhan also said the state government will come up with a plan for orphans , who lost their parents due to Covid- 19. “We cannot leave the orphans on the streets. The government, along with the society, will make complete arrangements for the education, shelter, food and livelihood of such children. A plan will be made for this very soon,” said the CM. He also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for leading the vaccination drive and said the state will get sufficient doses from the month of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/limit-for-wedding-guests-increased-to-40-in-madhya-pradesh-shivraj-singh-chouhan-101623606398063.html
13-06-2021||Lucknow||President may lay the foundation of Ayush varsity in Gorakhpur||President Ram Nath Kovind is likely to lay the foundation-stone of Ayush University at Gorakhpur in the end of this month.District magistrate of Gorakhpur K Vijyendra Pandian said on Sunday that acquisition of around 52-acre land for the university in Bhathat area of the district had been completed and a team of the district administration officers inspected the land on Saturday after the instruction from the state government for the foundation-laying programme at the end of the month.The officers have been directed to clear all the encroachments on the acquired land to construct a drain to clear the water-logging during the rainy season. The officers were also directed to construct three helipads. The construction agency as well as architects had completed the survey of the land, he said.A district administration officer, who did not wish to be named, said during visit to Delhi on June 11, chief minister Yogi Aditynath had extended invitation to President Ram Nath Kovind for the foundation-laying ceremony and the district administration had been directed to start the preparation. The President might lay the foundation of the university through virtual medium or be there at Gorakhpur as he is likely to visit UP on June 22, he said. Earlier, the state government had planned to organize the foundation laying ceremony in mid- January of the University which has been named Maha Yogi Guru Gorakhnath Ayush University, but due to litigation over the land acquired at Malmaliya village and later at Bhassthan village, the programme was delayed. The second wave of the Covid delayed the programme further, he said.During his visit to Gorakhpur on Sunday, the chief minister was to review the preparations for the foundation programme as well as the construction of the university building, but due to inclement weather his visit was cancelled. The state government plans to spend ₹815 crore on the construction of the university. In December last year, the PWD had earmarked ₹29,987.83 lakh for the construction work for the university. The Ayush University will be run according to the guidelines of the Central Council of Indian Medicine on the establishment of Ayurveda, Unani, Homeopathy, Yoga and Naturopathy educational institutions, the officer said. The state government has decided to affiliate all the 98 Ayurveda, Unani, Homeopathy, Yoga and Naturopathy colleges in the state with the new university. The state government has planned to complete the construction of the administrative building, information and evaluation centre, hospital building, residential block by December 2021, construction of academic block and hostel by June 2022. A guest house, auditorium and other structures are scheduled to be constructed in the third phase. The academic session of the university is likely to commence in 2022-23.Meanwhile, the district administration has made temporary arrangement for the Vice-Chancellor and 25 staff on the premises of the Sitapur Eye Hospital located in the Gorakhpur city area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/president-may-lay-the-foundation-of-ayush-varsity-in-gorakhpur-101623606396837.html
13-06-2021||Noida||14 booked for having pool party, violating Covid norms||Noida The city police booked 14 people, including five women, late Saturday night for allegedly having a pool party at a farmhouse in Noida Sector 135, and violating Covid-19 norms. Most of the party attendees are architects — either studying or working in Delhi, said the police.According to the police, they got a tip-off about the gathering, and later a complaint on the police helpline over loud music being played at the venue, following which a police team was sent to the spot.“It was a birthday turned pool party at the farmhouse in Sector 135. Thirteen people from Delhi were present there. They had booked the house online, for ₹12,000 for a night,” said Yatendra Kumar Yadav, station house officer (SHO), Expressway police station.Police said that the caretaker of the house, Dharamveer, has been also apprehended, while the owner and another caretaker who managed to escape, are being traced. “Action will be taken against them as well,” Yadav added.They were booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 188, 269 and 270 at the Expressway police station. Police said that a small quantity of alcohol was found at the house.According to Covid-19 guidelines, swimming pools are still closed, and the party was in violation of the regulations, in addition to breaking the coronavirus-imposed night curfew, said the officials.This was the second farmhouse pool party to be raided by the Expressway police in the area in a week. On the night of June 8, 16 people, including three Uzbek women, were apprehended for organising a birthday party. While the women had been staying at the property for a couple of days, the men had gone there from Delhi to attend a birthday celebration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/14-booked-for-having-pool-party-violating-covid-norms-101623606338187.html
13-06-2021||Gurugram||Rains bring respite from heat to Gurugram||The city received some respite from the heat on Sunday following a light spell of rain on Saturday night and scattered spells on Sunday. The maximum temperature in Gurugram was 33.9 degrees Celsius, which was seven degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 23.3 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal.The light rain on Sunday was recorded as trace (006.4mm). Trace is an amount of rainfall that is greater than zero but too little to be measured. The humidity level on Sunday was at 69%.According to the weekly forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), one or two spells of rain or thundershowers is likely till Wednesday, after which the city is likely to see clearer skies.“Though rain predictions are till the middle of the week, temperatures are likely to remain less than 35 degrees Celsius till the end of the week. The maximum temperature in Gurugram is expected to be around 30-32 degrees Celsius over the next few days. The minimum temperature can drop till 21 degrees Celsius,” an IMD official said.Officials from the IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre said that the National Capital Region (NCR) is likely to witness pre-monsoon showers over the next few days as conditions are favourable for light to moderate rain due to the presence of moisture-laden easterly winds.The Meteorological Centre Chandigarh issued an alert for rain in Gurugram district till June 17. An official said that rain could cause waterlogging at several locations in the city, especially in low-lying regions. No waterlogging was reported from the city on Sunday.On Sunday, Gurugram’s air quality improved to the satisfactory zone, with an air quality index (AQI) of 82, from moderate AQI 142 recorded on Saturday. The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi on Sunday predicted that the air quality in Delhi-NCR will improve from moderate to satisfactory category over the next five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rains-bring-respite-from-heat-to-gurugram-101623606280993.html
13-06-2021||Gurugram||Six illegal call centres busted last week, many moving out of Gurugram, say police||The police and the chief minister’s flying squad last week busted six illegal call centres, being used to defraud people, from the city, Faridabad and neighbouring Delhi, even as the police said that call centre operators are shifting their base to other cities in the National Capital Region (NCR) due to increased vigilance in Gurugram.According to the police, more than 45 people were arrested and fake documents, hard drives, workstations and laptops were seized from the locations since last March.Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police, DLF, said that the more than 50 such setups that had shifted out were busted from Delhi, Noida, Faridabad and Ghaziabad in the last year. “We have been regularly carrying out raids in all suspected locations such as Sohna Road, Udyog Vihar, Palam Vihar and other residential areas. Many have rented spaces in commercial complexes in other cities as it is cheaper when compared to Gurugram,” he said.The illegal call centres dupe foreign nationals posing as officials of law enforcement agencies and coercing them into transferring money to them on the pretext of fines, the police said. The suspects used to threaten US citizens that their social security numbers (SSN) would be blocked or that they would be booked for consuming drugs or taking loans based on forged documents, the police said.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that they are coordinating with other districts and the national capital to ensure these illegal setups are cleaned and strict action can be taken against the suspects. “People are moving out their operations but are easily setting up in other cities and districts. We all have to join hands and conduct regular raids in our jurisdictions so that this illegal business can be stopped,” he said.The police said that most of the operators of such call centres were repeat offenders and operated in the same groups, with not even one conviction over the last six years.Palwal’s superintendent of police (SP), Deepak Gehlawat, said they have busted three illegal call centres from Delhi’s Mayur Vihar, Peera Garhi and Uttam Nagar that were earlier operating from Gurugram. “We have recovered strong evidence against them and during questioning, they revealed that due to the strictness in Gurugram they had shifted their base,” he said.The police said the suspects did not possess any valid OSP (other service providers) licence from the department of telecommunications or any other agreement or MoU related to their work, following which action was taken against them across NCR.In January this year, Rao had directed station house officers (SHOs) to watch out for illegal call centres and warned of strict action if any such centres are found running in areas under their respective jurisdictions.Inderjeet Yadav, the deputy superintendent of police (DSP) of the crime investigation department (CID), said that they regularly received tip-offs and on average, they used to raid at two establishments every month. “Since the beginning of this year, the number of illegal call centres has reduced and many have shifted their locations to Faridabad. We are focusing on other cities also.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/six-illegal-call-centres-busted-last-week-many-moving-out-of-gurugram-say-police-101623606277877.html
13-06-2021||Gurugram||Monsoon preparations in newer sectors of Gurugram not completed: Residents||With monsoon approaching, residents of the newer sectors of Gurugram alleged that authorities have failed to undertake adequate preparatory measures and expressed concerns over an open drain, claiming that chemical waste is discharged into it and open defecation takes place in it.Ashok Malik, the president of United Association of New Gurugram, an umbrella body of 40 housing societies from sectors 77 to Sector 90, said, “We have noticed several times that local vendors of a sewage plant and maintenance staff are discharging slurry waste in this open drain. Recently, residents from slums built in the area during lockdown are also using this open drain for defecation. We have requested authorities to take necessary action to cover the drain and plant trees along its route.”Under the banner of the United Association of New Gurugram, residents wrote to the Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) as well as the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) on June 6 regarding problems faced due to open drains in New Gurugram. Residents said that they are mainly facing problems with the drain numbered 3, a stormwater drain that connects to the Badshahpur drain.The letter states, “The residents of societies and villages from sector 85 to 95 at New Gurugram and falling under the area of Municipal Corporation of Manesar have an open drain which is creating a lot of health hazards. This drain, which flows from the Industrial Area of Manesar to the residential area of New Gurugram carries industrial chemical waste and sewage water from villages and societies along its route. It has a foul smell, releases harmful gases and is a fertile ground for breeding of mosquitoes and flies thus turning into a big health hazard…”Services such as maintenance of roads, stormwater drains and sewage system in the newer sectors are looked after by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), while the newly formed MCM looks after sanitation, streetlights, waste management and land use records. Residents also said that not enough measures have been taken to tackle waterlogging.Praveen Malik, a resident of Sector 92, said, “Work on most of the stormwater drains in this area is incomplete. The stormwater drainage system that is already in place has not been cleaned on time. There has been no preparation done by the MCM for monsoon, be it preparing green belts or making service lanes. For a few societies in our sector, we have built service lanes ourselves through the residents’ welfare association.”Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer for infrastructure-II division of GMDA, said, “Due to different legal issues, the handover of drainage infrastructure in new sectors from Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) to GMDA has not taken place. After meetings with officials concerned, HSVP is now working on completion of all incomplete projects and will hand it over to us after testing. GMDA will manage the infrastructure after the handover.”In April, the MCM had launched a survey to identify points prone to waterlogging, to prepare the areas under its jurisdiction for monsoon, but officials said work got delayed as resources were shifted towards managing the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. The civic body of Manesar was formed in December last year.Munish Sharma, the commissioner of MCM, said, “We had conducted meetings with residents’ welfare associations in March and April, but due to Covid-19 second wave, work on the ground got affected. To solve the complaints regarding the open drains, we are looking into the situation and will be resolving it soon. We are conducting meetings with residents on online mode now and have asked them to constantly share videos and locations with us for issues related to waterlogging during monsoon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/monsoon-preparations-in-newer-sectors-of-gurugram-not-completed-residents-101623606277456.html
13-06-2021||Lucknow||Tech institutes should conduct online exams as per convenience: Yogi||Technical educational institutions should conduct online examinations as per their convenience, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath in a meeting with officials here on Sunday.Hours later, secretary, technical education, Alok Kumar tweeted: “CMHelpline1076 is being used to call students to know about their online classes and availability of device to attend these classes.” “Apart from this, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) and technical education directorate have already reached out to more than 50,000 students to know any issue,” the tweet read.When contacted, Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) vice chancellor prof Vinay Kumar Pathak said, “University will implement government order and it is getting ready to hold online examinations for all students. We will surely abide by the government order.”Earlier on Saturday, Kumar announced that final year exams of engineering students of all technical universities and polytechnic institutes in the state will be held in third week of July while the exams of students of other classes (first, second and third years) will be held in the last week of July.In the CM’s meeting with the officials, it was further decided that other higher educational institutes should declare the results by August 31 and start new academic session by September second week. It was also suggested that the students should be informed about the formula of promoting them without holding examination, an official said. “Detailed guidelines will be issued by technical universities under broad framework given by the state government by Monday,” Alok Kumar had said in reply to a query raised by a student on twitter.Engineering and polytechnic students are upset as according to them more than 50% syllabus is yet to be covered by teachers. They alleged that many of the private institutions were not taking online classes and hardly any lessons were taught from March end to June 10.Some of the students also asked as to why the government was not promoting first year engineering and polytechnic students to next year as it did in case of students of higher educational institutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tech-institutes-should-conduct-online-exams-as-per-convenience-yogi-101623606156787.html
13-06-2021||Other||Ram temple:Trust collects ₹3,200 cr till March 3||Lucknow: The Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust had received ₹3,200 crore till March 31 for construction of Ram temple, general secretary of the trust Champat Rai told media persons on Sunday, after a meeting of the trust. Chairman of Ram Temple Construction Committee Nripendra Misra on Sunday reviewed the ongoing foundation work of the temple.Misra is in Ayodhya on a two-day visit. “In the last one month, ₹60 lakh were donated by devotees in the donation box at the Ram Janmabhoomi,” said Rai. Informing about the nationwide fund collection campaign for construction of Ram temple from January 15 to February 27 last, Rai said: “Around 11 crore families at 5.37 crore places across the country were contacted during the campaign.” He said experts of renowned institutions had finalised the design of the Ram temple foundation. In Sunday’s meeting, all details of the ongoing foundation work were discussed and engineers presented the progress of the work, Rai added. Former director of IIT Delhi, BS Raju, director of IIT Guwahati TG Sitharam, director of NIT Surat SR Gandhi, director of Central Building Research Institute, Roorkee, Gopal Krishnan and professors of IIT Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai had done study and homework over a long period for construction of the temple, he said. During the meeting, nine members of the trust were present in Ayodhya and six joined the meeting virtually. About the foundation work, Rai said that for around two months digging of foundation was carried out. During the ongoing filling process, around 44 layers of 300 mm each will be laid. Thereafter, each layer will be compressed with simple and vibrating rollers. In April, the Ram Temple Construction Committee had started the filling work with the target of completing 1.25 lakh cubic metre dug-up ground by the end of September. Tata Consulting Engineers is working as project management consultant and is assisting the Larsen and Toubro in the construction work. According to Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust, Larsen and Toubro has appointed Balaji Construction Company of Rajasthan as its assisting partner to complete the foundation work at the earliest and has also increased working hours from eight to 12. The temple’s foundation, which will be 107 feet above sea level, is being made of layers of stones. For filling the foundation, crushed stone (gitti) of Banda, coarse sand, fly ash and asbestos are being used.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ram-temple-trust-collects-rs-3-200-cr-till-march-3-101623605436764.html
13-06-2021||Ranchi||4 die of electrocution in Jharkhand||Four persons - a 70-year-old woman and three minor boys - died of electrocution at Pipla in Jharkhand's East Singhbhum district, after a high tension electric wire snapped and fell on them while they were taking bath near a dam, an official said.The minor boys were aged between eight and 12 years, he said.All four of them were rushed to a nearby hospital, where the doctors declared them dead, the official added.BJP MP Bidyut Baran Mahato announced a compensation of ₹10,000 each for the family of the victims, and urged the government to provide them ₹10 lakh each.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/4-die-of-electrocution-in-jharkhand-101623603961921.html
13-06-2021||Other||Monsoon to cover entire UP in 48 hrs||Lucknow: The south-west monsoon is expected to cover all parts of Uttar Pradesh in the next 48 hours, according to a forecast issued by the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday. The monsoon covered some parts of east and central UP on Sunday, following a delay of two days. “Under the influence of prevailing synoptic conditions, the monsoon has further advanced into more parts of east UP and is likely to advance in the remaining parts of west UP in during the next 48 hours,” read the forecast issued by the IMD. The department has predicted heavy to very heavy rain in many parts of the state. “Uttar Pradesh is expected to receive over 18 mm of rainfall in the next 48 hours. The rain will be scattered fairly across the state. Some areas of central and west UP may experience heavy rain accompanied by thunderstorm,” said state MeT department director JP Gupta. According to MeT officials, the monsoon reached UP after a delay of two days which was caused due to formation of high-pressure zone over north India. “The monsoon has covered more than 30 % of the state, mostly in east UP in the past two days. The movement of the monsoon from east to west across UP seems normal and as expected,” Gupta said. Meanwhile, heavy rain and thunderstorms were reported from some parts of the state on Sunday. In Etah, a woman and her daughter were killed when the roof of the room they were sleeping in collapsed following heavy rain during the wee hours on Sunday. Two other members of the family were also injured in the incident. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over the incident and directed district officials to ensure proper medical treatment of the injured. Acting on the forecast, administrations of all UP districts have been put on alert to avoid any losses due to adverse weather conditions. The district administrations have been asked to intimate locals about heavy rainfall and advise caution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-to-cover-entire-up-in-48-hrs-101623604776771.html
13-06-2021||Pune||Depressed man dies by suicide after mother dies from Covid-19||Depressed over the death of his mother from Covid-19, a 23-year-old man allegedly died by suicide in his house in MIDC area of Nagpur on Sunday, police said. The deceased had an engineering degree, while his mother operated a mess from the house and had also rented out two rooms, an official said. "The woman died of Covid-19 last month, and the son, depressed over this, hanged himself from a ceiling fan on Sunday afternoon. A suicide note was recovered from the spot. In it he wrote he wanted to serve his mother," the MIDC police station official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/depressed-man-dies-by-suicide-after-mother-dies-from-covid19-101623604169229.html
13-06-2021||Other||Rain cleans UP air, AQI below 100 in most cities||Lucknow: Many cities in Uttar Pradesh are breathing relatively cleaner air, as rain caused by the progressing monsoon and accompanied with strong winds in the past few days has washed away the pollutants and helped in improving the Air Quality Index (AQI), as per the data of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).The AQI in major UP cities was recorded below 100 on Sunday. The AQI of Lucknow was 48, of Kanpur 44, Ghaziabad 94, Agra 62, Meerut 41, Prayagraj 29 and Varanasi 61. Most of these cities record an average AQI above 300 every year and figure among the most polluted cities in the country. According to the CPCB classification, AQI below 100 is termed satisfactory with minimum impact on human health. AQI between 101 to 200 is categorised as moderate with very little impact on human health while AQI between 201 and 300 is poor, between 301 and 400 is very poor and above 400 is severe. According to experts, the above average rainfall across the state has led to improvement in the air quality. The state recorded more than 40 mm of rainfall in June. “The state recorded around 5 days of rainfall caused by the progressing south-west monsoon, causing rain, thunderstorms and gusty winds in most parts of the state,” said director of state MeT department JP Gupta. “The rainfall helps settle particulate matter and other pollutants suspended in the air, thus cleaning the atmosphere. This leads to a considerable drop in AQI reading,” he explained. Experts feel that the coming monsoon may help to keep the AQI across UP in check. “The AQI of UP cities will remain better during the monsoon. But these changes are temporary that will subside post the monsoon. The citizens and decision-makers must try to make arrangements so that we can have cleaner air all around the year, not only for a short duration,” said senior environmentalist Devesh Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rain-cleans-up-air-aqi-below-100-in-most-cities-101623604596658.html
13-06-2021||Other||No trace of 2 missing girls from MTWT shelter home, 5 accused still at large||Police were still trying to trace two minor girls who went missing while shifting 40 inmates of Mother Teresa Welfare Trust (MTWT) shelter home to Patamda in Jamshedpur on Friday last, officials said on Sunday.“We intensified search for the two missing girls who went missing late Friday evening at the time of shifting children from MTWT home under Telco police station. Both the girls have also not reached their homes in Birsanagar and Ghatshila as of yet. They don’t have mobile phones with them, but we have intensified our search. Teams have also been formed to arrest the five named accused, including MTWT director Harpal Singh Thapar and his child welfare committee (CWC) chief wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey,” Dr M Tamil Vanan, Jamshedpur senior superintendent of police (SSP), said. As per available information, the two girls escaped when the district administration and police were shifting the inmates to Bal Kalyan Ashram in Patamda on Friday evening.According to accused CWC chief Pushpa Rani Tirkey’s last press statement on Monday last week, the shelter home has 43 children, 23 girls and 20 boys, all of whom are under the age of 18. However, earlier on June 5, two girls were reported missing from the shelter home. They were later rescued by the police from Birsanagar on June 6 night, and a case was subsequently registered based on their allegations of sexual assault and torture at the home for the past four years.On June 7, a first information report (FIR) was lodged under Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and sections of the Indian Penal Code against Thapar and Tirkey, besides warden Geeta Singh, her son Aditya Singh, and another staff member Tony Singh. All the five accused are absconding. Police said mobile phones of the Thapar couple were switched off after their location was once tracked far away from Jamshedpur on Thursday last.Police also found names of accused Aditya Singh, and one Gurleen Kaur, another child of warden Geeta Singh, in the list of inmates at the shelter home. Both Aditya and Gurleen are adults, while the shelter home was meant for minors, officials said.Meanwhile, BJP district spokesperson Ankit Anand requested East Singhbhum DC Suraj Kumar to direct the 11-member district level probe committee to investigate the bank accounts of Thapar and his wife, along with MTWT’s accounts. MTWT has no links with Mother Teresa’s Missionaries of Charity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-trace-of-2-missing-girls-from-mtwt-shelter-home-5-accused-still-at-large-101623603937854.html
13-06-2021||Ranchi||Govt to conduct survey of Covid-19 deaths for welfare scheme||The state health department will carry out a survey of all 3,983 Covid -19 deaths that occurred during the second wave of the pandemic between March 15 and June 9 this year in a bid to prepare a welfare scheme for social security of the aggrieved family members.Arun Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary heading the department, has shot off a letter to civil surgeons of all 24 districts in this regard. The department asked the civil surgeons to compile relevant information about the deceased their respective districts in a given format. It sought the survey reports by June 25.The civil surgeons were directed to set up survey team and take assistance of district level surveillance medical officer of the World Health Organisation and other development partners.The department, however, cautioned to maintain all sympathy and compassion while interacting with the bereaved families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/govt-to-conduct-survey-of-covid-19-deaths-for-welfare-scheme-101623603937290.html
13-06-2021||Other||3 kids, elderly woman electrocuted while bathing||Three minor boys and an elderly woman died of electrocution while bathing in a check dam after a high tension electric wire fell into water at Belajuri village under MGM police station in Jamshedpur on Sunday, police said, adding that another minor sustained burn injuries in the incident.A cattle bathing in the check dam also died on the spot. “Three minor kids and an elderly woman died and another minor boy was injured while bathing in a check dam after an overhead high tension electric wire fell into it,” Mithilesh Kumar, MGM police station officer in-charge (OC), said.Following the incident, irate locals put up a road blockade on National Highway-33. They alleged that the accident occurred due to the electricity department’s negligence. “The wire that fell into the check dam was joined at three parts. The electricity department paid no attention and took no action despite repeated complaints. It was precariously hanging over the check dam,” the local alleged. The blockade was removed after four hours around 5pm after a large contingent of police led by city SP Subhash Chandra Jat reached the spot. Jamshedpur MP Bidyut Baran Mahato also gave ₹10, 000 to families of the deceased as instant relief for last rites. He also urged the state government to provide ₹10 lakh compensation to the bereaved families. “The incident was a result of carelessness on the part of the electricity department,” Mahato said.Later, electricity department officials reached the site and gave ₹50, 000 to the bereaved families, besides promising further compensation of ₹2.50 lakh and adequate compensation to the injured. They also assured to fix the overhead wire immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-kids-elderly-woman-electrocuted-while-bathing-101623603879268.html
13-06-2021||Other||Mining officer booked for demanding bribe||An FIR was lodged against Seraikela-Kharsawan district mining officer (DMO) on charges of demanding ₹60,000 bribe for releasing a seized tractor, police said on Sunday.The accused DMO was identified as Sunny Kumar. The development came after victim Vinayak Dubey filed a complaint case against Kumar in the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Seraikela-Kharsawan. “An FIR has been lodged under Sections 323, 341, 379 and 384 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) against DMO Sunny Kumar as per the court order. We are further investigating the allegations against the DMO,” Manohar Kumar, Seraikela police station officer in-charge (OC), said.As per the complainant, the DMO seized his three tractors about three months ago. “Two tractors were released after payment of due fine but the third tractor wasn’t released and no fine was levied nor any case was lodged. Instead, the DMO demanded ₹60,000 bribe for releasing the third tractor and threatened to implicate me in other cases if I don’t pay up,” Dubey alleged in his complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mining-officer-booked-for-demanding-bribe-101623603877400.html
13-06-2021||Ranchi||Monsoon covers entire Jharkhand, sowing for Kharif crops begins||With monsoon setting in, sowing for Kharif crops has started across Jharkhand amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The south-west monsoon, that hit Jharkhand on Saturday, covered the entire state on Sunday.The state agriculture department has asked farmers and seed distributors to abide by Covid-19 protocol issued by the disaster management department. “Farmers need to follow general guidelines such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing during sapling plantation on field,” state agriculture secretary Abu Bakr Siddiqui said.As per officials, the timely arrival of monsoon season is expected to boost kharif harvest prospect again this year. “We have also started seed distribution among farmers on time. If everything goes as per plan, we can hope for another great year in terms of kharif harvest,” the agriculture secretary said.Jharkhand saw a record kharif production of around 50 lakh metric tonnes last year.This is for the second time in past one decade that monsoon has hit Jharkhand almost on time. The actual date for onset of monsoon in Jharkhand is June 10. However, it has never hit Jharkhand before June 15 between 2009 and 2019.The rainy season entered Jharkhand on a very positive note and major parts of the state have been receiving decent rainfall for past three days. The state also received good rainfall on Sunday. “Monsoon covered the entire state on Sunday. As per our prediction, the state will be receiving good rainfall for next four to five days. Prospect of rainfall is also positive after that,” said senior scientist at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Abhishek Anand.He said the low pressure area over northwest Bay of Bengal and adjoining coastal areas of West Bengal and North Odisha with the associated cyclonic circulation is likely to move west-northwestwards across Odisha, Jharkhand and north Chattisgarh during next two to three days.“Under its influence, widespread rainfall activity along with isolated heavy to very heavy rains are likely in Jharkhand during next five days,” he said.Anand said, “The monsoon rainfall count begins from June 1, even as monsoon this year hit on June 12. Jharkhand has so far recorded 44% surplus rainfall. The state has received 73.44mm rainfall from June 1 to 13 against the normal rainfall of 51.1mm.”Palamu has so far recorded the highest 154% surplus rainfall. This was followed by Ranchi with 147% surplus rains and Lohardaga by 138% surplus rain from June 1 to 13. There are seven districts that have recorded deficient rainfall among which Chatra stood at first with 43% rainfall deficient. However, deficit in other districts was within the normal bracket, officials said. Meanwhile, agriculture department officials said taking advantage of early rain this year, direct sowing of paddy has been started in four districts--Khunti, Gumla, Simdega and East Singhbhum.The state has set a target for sowing kharif crops on 28.27 lakh hectares of land, including 18 lakh hectares for paddy. The rest comprises 3.12 lakh hectares for maize, 6.12 lakh hectares for pulses, 60,000 hectares of oil seeds and 42,000 hectares for coarse cereals.As per data provided by the agriculture department, the paddy sowing percentage was 0.41%, maize 3.14%, pulses 0.15% and oilseeds 1.66% till now.Monsoon pattern in Jharkhand Year Monsoon onset Rainfall2021 June 12 NA2020 June-13 901.9mm2019 June-21 863.9mm 2018 June-25 784.4mm 2017 June-16 988.5 mm 2016 June-17 1096.9 mm 2015 June-21 941.9mm 2014 June-18 930.1mm 2013 June-18 844.5mm 2012 June-19 938.5mm 2011 June-15 1160.6mm 2010 June-17 578.4mm 2009 June-24 825.8mm (Note: Normal average rainfall in Jharkhand—1092mm (June, July, August, September) (Source: Ranchi Meteorological Office)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/monsoon-covers-entire-jharkhand-sowing-for-kharif-crops-begins-101623603876716.html
13-06-2021||Other||Man held with over 900g brown sugar in Chatra||The Chatra police on Sunday nabbed a man with 935g of brown sugar, a contraband item, officials said. This is a second strike against drug peddlers in Chatra district in past 48 hours. Earlier, police arrested nine drug peddlers with 300g of brown sugar and ₹7.74 lakh on Friday last.The arrested man was identified as Tribhuvan Kuamr Verma (37), a resident of Lowagada village in the district. Police also seized a bike and a mobile phone from his possession.Chatra subdivisional police officer (SDPO) Avinash Kumar said, “The man was nabbed with 935g of brown sugar during a raid carried out following an intelligence input.”Price of the seized item runs into lakhs, the SDPO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-with-over-900g-brown-sugar-in-chatra-101623603818040.html
13-06-2021||Other||Two minors ‘die by suicide’, bodies recovered from rail track||Bodies of a minor girl and boy were recovered from a railway track after they near Birbans halt station under Seraikela-Kharsawan district on Saturday, police said on Sunday. The families of the deceased claimed that the minors died by suicide. Both the deceased were aged 15 years old and used to study in the same school, Seraikela police station officer in-charge (OC) Manohar Kumar said.“Mutilated bodies of the girl and the boy, both students of class 10, were recovered from a railway track Saturday. Their families have submitted applications claiming that the girl and the boy committed suicide. We have handed over the bodies to the two families after autopsy. It seems to be a case of death by suicide over spurned love affair,” the OC said.However, according to the police, the bereaved families were clueless about the minors’ alleged affair. “We are further investigating the matter,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-minors-die-by-suicide-bodies-recovered-from-rail-track-101623603816618.html
13-06-2021||Other||Inebriated man axes wife before jumping into well, both dead||A man allegedly in inebriated condition axed his wife before killing himself by jumping into a well in Palamu district, police said on Sunday, adding that the woman died during treatment.The incident took place at Khujuri Naudiha village under Chhatarpur police station of the district in the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. The couple was allegedly drinking alcohol together before they started quarrelling over some family issue, police said. “The man in a fit of rage hit the woman with an axe and jumped into a nearby well. Both died soon afterwards. Before the incident, they were fighting over some family issue, Palamu superintendent of police (SP) Sanjeev Kumar said. According to the family of the deceased, the profusely bleeding woman was rushed to a local community health centre, while locals tried to rescue the man out of the well. The man died before he could be taken out , they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/inebriated-man-axes-wife-before-jumping-into-well-both-dead-101623603817262.html
13-06-2021||Ranchi||Union forest ministry takes cognizance of proposed 3rd railway line in tiger reserve||Taking cognizance of the Jharkhand government’s objection over construction of another railway line through core area of Palamu Tiger Reserve (PTR), the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change has written to Railway officials for examining the technical feasibility of an alternative route, officials said on Sunday.The director general (DG) of forest under the aforesaid Union ministry, Sanjay Kumar, in his letter, a copy of which is with the HT, said, “The feasibility of alternative route to bypass the core area of PTR should be examined by Railway authorities immediately in consultation with state government officials and the NTCA. The Ministry of Railways may resolve this matter without any further delay.”Two railway lines already pass through the tiger reserve’s core area. A third broad gauge line has been proposed between Patratu and Son Nagar stations with a nine km long stretch passing through the PTR, that might lead to irreparable loss to biodiversity and fragmentation of the critical tiger habitat, state forest officials said.According to the forest officials, the existing double lines passing through a stretch of around 11km between Chhipadohar and Hehegara section within core area of the reserve has caused much damage.The Jharkhand government has been demanding to shift all railway lines--the two existing ones and the one proposed--outside the core area of the reserve.When contacted, DG Kumar said over phone, “A letter from Jharkhand was earlier received, saying that alternative route for the proposed railway line has still not been explored by Railway authorities. So, I have written to Railway authorities to conduct a technical feasibility for the alternative route. Everything has its pros and cons; they cannot be understood until a study is done.”He said if the Jharkhand government has raised concerns over the proposed railway line, the Railways must address it.The DG’s letter also mentions that at a PRAGATI (Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation) meeting, chaired by Prime Minister in January last year, it was directed to examine the alternative route for the proposed railway line. The ministry of railways, state government officials and ministry of environment, forest and climate also taken charge to resolve the issue, the letter said. The PTR, notified a year after former PM Indira Gandhi announced Project Tiger in 1973, is one of the oldest among such reserves in India. The reserve, that once housed over 70 tigers, has now become “tiger-less” due to various reasons, including habitat loss. The big cat’s population dwindled to 10 in 2010 and came down to zero in 2018, according to an All India Tiger Estimation (AITE) 2018 report. The report did not record a single tiger in the reserve, spread over 1129.93 square kilometres. Principal chief conservator of forest (Wildlife), Rajiv Ranjan, said, “We have not received any official communication from Railways for exploration of alternative routes. Meanwhile, it (Railways) has submitted proposals for wildlife clearance, that has been forwarded to the state board of wildlife. We have raised objections over it.”He said, “At a a meeting with Railway officials on March 10 this year, we demanded to explore alternative alignment of the proposed third line and existing lines outside the PTR. However, the officials of Railway Vikas Nigam Limited, the agency that is carrying out the work, said they were not authorized to consider the proposal. They suggested consulting the Union Railways ministry in this regard.”The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has also warned against the construction of another Railway line in the PTR. “An NTCA committee in its report dated January 11, 2020 recommended that no construction of the third broad gauge line should be carried out within the core habitat of PTR, considering its wider ecological ramification on the fragile Palamu landscape and its impacts on recovery and future persistence of many endangered species including tigers,” Ranjan said.Former state wildlife board member DS Srivastava claimed that the existing double line has already caused killing of several wild animals in past 10 years. “In August last year, five deer were mowed down by a goods train in the PTR. In the past one decade, around 13 elephants were killed on track,” he claimed.“The third proposed line will divide the reserve in two parts due to frequency of trains. Wild animals will not be able to roam freely in the forest, as tracks will permanently fragment the habitat,” he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/union-forest-ministry-takes-cognizance-of-proposed-3rd-railway-line-in-tiger-reserve-101623603756551.html
13-06-2021||Other||Know your N95 mask for credible protection from Covid virus||New Delhi: As deadly variants of the coronavirus take away precious lives and the threat of a possible third wave looms large, there is a sudden scramble for face masks that give the best protection against the killer virus and the choice obviously falls on masks that filter 94 to 95% airborne particles, even as tiny as 0.3 microns. However, if you go online to search such masks, you are sure to be led astray by online sites displaying a wide variety of masks labelled ‘N-95’ but with no third party validation of the quality. In fact many of them claim to have certificates from a number of regulatory authorities around the world, including the US, Europe and China, and even use their logos, but if you look closely, you will realize that it is a pure lie because of the absence of any proof to the effect.Consumers must know that N-95 is not a generic name. In fact the common term used for these masks is ‘Particulate Filtering Face Piece Respirators’ or FFPR and N-95 is one of the several types of FFPRs approved by the US National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH ) and denotes a filtration efficiency of 95%. So, if a manufacturer calls his product as N-95 then it must have the approval of NIOSH, carry the approval number and must be listed on the website of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, USA. However, unscrupulous manufacturers are exploiting lack of consumer awareness to claim their product to be N-95 masks.Having said that, I must point out that almost every country has its own equivalent standard . For example, it is P2 in Australia and DS2 in Japan. The corresponding Indian standard is FFP2 under IS:9473 . The Indian standard is aligned with the European standard EN149 of 1991 .(Europe has since revised it) Under European standard, these masks are classified as FFP1, FFP2 and FFP3, corresponding with minimum filtration efficiency of 80%, 94% and 99% respectively. India too classifies the masks under IS:9473 in a similar manner.The good news is that the number of manufacturers selling ISI-marked FFP2 masks have steadily grown in the last one year and the number now stands at 246. They may not crop up prominently on online stores, but one can easily identify them on the BIS website. The link www.manakonline.in/MANAK/ApplicationLicenceRelatedrpt will take you to the list of ISI-certified manufacturers — all you need to do is to key in the relevant Indian standard — IS:9473. You can also download the BIS app- BIS CARE on your mobile phone and check out the manufacturer by keying in the license number. During the first wave, because of their acute shortage, these masks were reserved only for front line health workers and others were dissuaded from using them. There is no such rationing now.The quality and effectiveness of these five layered respiratory protective devices depend on three important factors. While one is the quality of the filters and their performance, the other is their snug fit, with their edges designed to form a seal around the nose and the mouth. So besides tests to check their filter efficiency, the BIS standard puts a cap on the leakage of aerosol via filter penetration as well as the face seal (Total Inward Leakage) . Third, to ensure breathability and also the safety of the wearer, the standard also puts limits on the carbon dioxide content of the air within the mask . There are also several other tests that the mask has to go through before getting the quality seal.Indian standard allows both ear loops and head bands but the latter would be far more comfortable and whatever your choice, adjust the strap to ensure a tight fit around the nose, cheek and the chin because however good the mask, it’s effectiveness decreases if it is worn loose.Lastly, given the fact that these masks are our lifeline in these pandemic times, the government should not only bring all FFP2s under mandatory third party certification, but also ensure reduction in their price. At ₹45-90 a piece, these masks are not very pocket friendly for one-time use. The government should also distribute them free of cost to the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/know-your-n95-mask-for-credible-protection-from-covid-virus-101623603696586.html
13-06-2021||Other||Bettiah: Two idols of Hindu gods found desecrated||Unidentified miscreants allegedly desecrated idols of two deities at Ramjanaki temple in Baswariya under town police station in West Champaran district on Sunday.The incident led to a protest by locals for hours. Pratap Kumar, a resident of Baswariya, said he along with other people came to know about the incident around 7am. “We rushed to the temple and found two idols uprooted and badly damaged,” said Pratap Kumar. A large number of the people gathered at Baswariya Peepal chowk with damaged idols and blocked Gopalganj road from Bettiah via Imali chowk by burning tyres. On getting the information, local police reached the spot and persuaded the locals to lift the blockade. However, calling it the work of miscreants to hurt the religious sentiments, the locals demanded Bettiah superintendent of police (SP) to assure them of the arrest of persons indulged in the crime. The blockade was lifted around 11.15am after sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Mukul Parimal Pandey reached the place and assured the locals of installing idols in place of damaged ones.“We will make sure that all those indulged in the crime are arrested at the earliest,” said the SDPO. Police were yet to register a case at the time of filing this report..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bettiah-two-idols-of-hindu-gods-found-desecrated-101623601296403.html
13-06-2021||Patna||Centre gives nod to build NH on Bakarpur-Manikpur stretch in Bihar||All Indian Institute Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, will have smooth road connectivity from north-western areas of Bihar in the next few years. The Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) has given its clearance to build a four-lane national highway on a 33-km stretch from Bakarpur (in Saran) to Manikpur (in Muzaffarpur district). The National highways authority of India (NHAI) has already embarked on the task to develop the existing 104km stretch of the state highway between Manikpur to Areraj in East Champaran into a four-lane and begun the land acquisition process. The road is being strengthened under Bharatmala Pariyojna of the Central government, which will connect many religious places of importance. Additional chief secretary, road construction department (RCD), Amrit Lal Meena said that the MoRTH had on Saturday asked the district magistrates of Saran and Vaishali to launch the land acquisition in their respective jurisdiction so that the work on the fresh stretch of the NH could start at the earliest. Once the four-lane road is ready, it would become a matter of barely two-three hours to reach Patna and AIIMS from any corner of north-western towns of the state. The NHAI has allocated nearly ₹600 crore to acquire land and build the road with one reinforced concrete cement (RCC) bridge on the river Gandak. The NHAI has already started the land acquisition in East Champaran and Muzaffarpur districts to widen around 104km-road from Mankipur to Areraj via Sahebganj, which will later connect to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh and Kathmandu in Nepal. The NHAI has earmarked a sum of ₹1,500 crore to develop Manikpur-Areraj stretch into four-lane. Officials of the RCD said that the state government had already built a four-lane road from Bakarpur to JP Setu in Saran. “The JP setu on river Ganga is connected with a four-lane elevated road that terminates on the NH 138 near Patna AIIMS. NH138 connects Palamu district in Jharkhand with Pali in Patna. Those coming from north Bihar through the upcoming NH would have the liberty to connect other many NHs to go to UP, North East districts and Jharkhand,” said an executive engineer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/centre-gives-nod-to-build-nh-on-bakarpur-manikpur-stretch-in-bihar-101623601176376.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid: Haryana sees lowest single-day spike in three months||Haryana on Sunday reported 43 fatalities and 339 fresh Covid-19 cases, according to the health bulletin. It is for the first time in the past three months that the single-day infection tally has come down to this level, even as 32,373 samples were taken in the past 24 hours. In Jhajjar district, only one positive case was recorded, while the figure stood at zero in Charkhi Dadri. With 821 patients being discharged on Sunday, the active case load has fallen to 4,661 while recovery rate has been pushed up to 98.2%. The state has recorded 7,65,861 cases so far, of which 7,52,208 have been cured. The fatality rate stands at 1.17% and the death toll at 8,992.The 43 fatalities on Sunday were reported in 14 districts, with the highest six each in Hisar and Panipat, followed by five in Sirsa district. Four people each died in Yamunanagar and Bhiwani, while Gurugram, Jhajjar, Fatehabad and Kaithal recorded three deaths each. Two deaths were reported in Rohtak and one each in Ambala, Panchkula, Kurukshetra and Jind. Sirsa recorded 33 new cases, followed by 31 in Palwal, 29 in Fatehabad, 27 in Yamunanagar, 26 in Hisar, 23 each in Karnal and Panipat, 19 in Gurugram, 18 in Ambala, 15 each in Rewari and Bhiwani, 13 each in Sonepat and Kurukshetra, 11 in Faridabad, 10 in Jind, nine in Nuh, seven in Panchkula, six each in Rohtak and Kaithal, four in Mahendergarh and one in Jhajjar. The bulletin stated that 33,733 people were vaccinated on Sunday across 22 districts, increasing the cumulative coverage to over 65 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-haryana-sees-lowest-single-day-spike-in-three-months-101623601121505.html
13-06-2021||Patna||80% Patnaites unaware of Clean Air Action Plan: CEED survey||Around 80% of people living in the state capital are not aware of Patna Clean Air Action Plan (PCAP) even after more than two years of its implementation, while 55% of people are not satisfied with the steps taken by the state government to control air pollution, revealed a survey report released by Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED) on Saturday.CEED conducted a public perception survey titled ‘How Patna perceives Air Pollution’ in March and April, which involved more than 1,235 participants. The main objective of the public survey was to gauge the mood and perceptions of the people on air pollution and its impact on public health.As per survey findings, 96% of people blamed air pollution for its impact on their health, especially risks like asthma, respiratory diseases and breathing-related disorders. However, 88% of people do not know where to go and lodge complaints on polluting sources or subsequent violations.Speaking on the occasion, Mr Ramapati Kumar, CEO of CEED said, “Patna launched a Clean Air Action Plan in 2019, however effective implementation remains a big challenge. Our study indicates that even after two years, there is a lack of transparency and accountability among departments and enforcement agencies for better implementation. The State government must put words into action to convert the grey sky into a blue sky in Patna.”Elaborating the key recommendations of the report, Ankita Jyoti, Senior Program Officer at CEED said that, “We need to urgently have an integrated and responsive implementation task force at the district level, which must work in a convergent and coordinated approach. The state nodal agency must bring transparency in implementation measures and must publicise adequate information regarding ‘Grievance Redressal Cell’ for ensuring active and collaborative participation of the people in the fight against air pollution.”CEED also urged for active citizen and civil society participation in a collaborative manner on main stages of implementation as a part of preventive and mitigation measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/80-patnaites-unaware-of-clean-air-action-plan-ceed-survey-101623601122228.html
13-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: IAS Officers Association comes forward to help Thalassemia patients||A mega blood donation camp will be held on Monday by the IAS Officers Association and IFS Officers Association with the Vaishno Devi Seva Samiti in Patna for those who need safe blood, especially the Thalassemia patients.Currently, the state has nearly 4,000 Thalassemia patients. To cater to their requirements, chief minister Nitish Kumar had launched Child Thalassemia Centre at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) in the state capital on Blood Donors Day on June 14, 2020.“Thalassemia is a physical problem in which fresh blood needs to be transfused in the body of the patient after every 15 to 20 days. So the need for a regular supply of blood is always there. Blood donation and donors are always in demand to keep the lives of Thalassemia patients safe,” Deepak Kumar Singh, IAS Officers’ Association secretary, said.To encourage the donors and to make the blood donation camp memorable, the department of forests, environment and climate change has decided to offer each of them a memento, certificate and an indoor plant, he added.Mukesh Hissarya, convener of the Vaishno Devi Samiti, working for Thalassemia patients and running a nationwide network of blood donors, said that this blood donors camp is the most needed thing due to a severe crisis of donors during the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown.“The pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have aggravated the need of donors. Despite having donors’ card, many have not been able to donate blood for one or other reasons, while the need for Thalassemia patients is still not catered. They need it regularly,” he said.Last year things were worse. Even those having blood donor’s cards were not allowed to go out, he added. “Then we requested the government to allow donors to go to blood banks. This time, during the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, though the donors were allowed to go out for donations, the response has not been very encouraging. That is why there’s been the need for a blood donation camp,” he said.The activist said that the state has nearly 4,000 Thalassemia patients. “Though it’s not an official figure because there has been no such survey, we can claim on basis of our experiences. Not less than 4,000 families must have contacted us for help in the last three-four years,” he said.At present, the Child Thalassemia Centre in Patna has 350 registered Thalassemia patients, and they are availing the facility of blood transfusion here. “Chief minister launched had launched this Centre on Blood Donor Day in 2020, and since then it has made blood available to 1,700 Thalassemia patients in the state,” he said. Bihar chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, development commissioner Aamir Subhani and principal chief conservator of forests AN Sharan will attend the camp, besides other VIPs..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharias-officers-association-comes-forward-to-help-thalassemia-patients-101623601116999.html
13-06-2021||Patna||Bihar withdraws free supply of black fungus drugs to pvt hospitals||Faced with a shortage of drugs of mucormycosis or black fungus, the Bihar government has stopped free supply to private health facilities. This has come as an additional burden for patients, as the Liposomal Amphotericin B injection, a specific drug for the cure of mucormycosis, is costly besides being scarce and available through government channel. “We are procuring the drug for anything between ₹4,000 and ₹7,000 per vial, depending on the brand available, and billing it to our patients,” said Dr Asif Rahman, medical superintendent of the Paras-HMRI hospital, accredited to the National Accredited Board of Hospital (NABH). Depending on the severity of the fungal infection, a patient requires an average of six vials of injection of Amphotericin B a day. The government was earlier supplying them free of cost to private healthcare facilities, providing some financial relief to patients undergoing treatment in the private sector. The state government had declared mucormycosis a notifiable disease on May 22. Ruban Memorial hospital, another NABH accredited hospital, has also begun charging patients for drugs of mucormycosis. “We charge our patients for the drugs at the same price we buy them through government channel after the government stopped its free supply,” said Dr Satyajit Kumar Singh, managing director of Ruban hospital. Patients undergoing treatment at government health facilities, however, continue to get the drug free of cost. The free supply of the drug to private players was stopped around 10 days back. The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), which bear the brunt of patient load, are struggling to get a requisite quantity of the drug. “We are dependent solely on government supply for drugs to cure black fungus. Against our daily requirement of over 600 vials, we get a small quantity of Amphotericin B, not even enough to last a day, at an interval of 3-4 days sometimes, causing hardship to patients,” said a doctor in the know of drug inventory at the IGIMS. The AIIMS, on the other hand, is trying to procure them directly through manufacturers or local vendors by entering into rate contract with them, said Dr Kranti Bhavana, additional professor and head, department of ENT (ear, nose & throat) at the AIIMS. “We are facing an acute shortage of drugs against our average daily consumption of 500-600 vials every day,” she said. The AIIMS had over 101 patients of black fungus under treatment as on June 11, but the government supply of the drug was erratic and inadequate. The same day, the IGIMS had 116 patients out of the total 174 cases reported at the institute since May 18, when it came up with a separate ward for patients with mucormycosis, said its medical superintendent Dr Manish Mandal. The IGIMS achieved a small milestone when it operated upon its 100th patient with black fungus last Friday. “Our team of ENT, eye and neurosurgery experts performed a rare surgery on Saturday when they extricated fungus of the size of a cricket ball behind the eye orbital of a 60-year old man from Jamui district, without causing any vision loss to the patient,” said Dr Mandal. The institute had completed 106 surgeries of mucormycosis till Saturday. “We operate 8-10 patients of black fungus on an average daily,” said Dr Rakesh Kumar Singh, professor and head, ENT, IGIMS. “We use Amphotericin B and Posaconazole drugs on our patients. Depending on the severity of the infection, it takes 4-6 weeks generally for patients to become stable,” added Dr Singh. Bihar had so far reported 562 cases of black fungus and 76 deaths, of which three died on Sunday. As many as 333 patients were under treatment, as per the health department’s bulletin on mucormycosis, the first released on Sunday, after it declared the fungal infection a notifiable disease on May 22. Efforts to reach Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar, proved futile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-withdraws-free-supply-of-black-fungus-drugs-to-pvt-hospitals-101623600996259.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Weed brownie being sold at Mumbai bakery, 3 held, says NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau has intercepted three persons, including a woman, in Mumbai for allegedly running a marijuana bakery in Malad. The probe agency said that this is the first case in India in which edible weed is being used for baking cake. The NCB has seized 830 grams of edible weed brownie, pot brownie and 160 gram of marijuana during the raid, news agencies reported. This is a new trend among youngsters to consume edible weed, the agency said.Jagat Chaurasia, one of the arrested, is believed to be the supplier."Cannabis edibles may affect people for a longer period than smoked cannabis. The important base to all food edibles is that it has fat that has been infused with THC (Tetrahydrocannabinol)," the agency said in a statement. It explained that any food that contains butter, oil, milk, or any fatty substance can be turned into an edible. Not only brownie, candy, potato chips can also be made infused with cannabis, the agency said. It is not easy to distinguish between a regular baked good and a cannabis-infused one by seeing. Cannabis products generally have a slightly green tinge.  The NCB has registered a case against the trio under various sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.The Mumbai zone of the NCB has been conducting several raids in the city in connection with the Bollywood drug case which came up following the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14, 2020. The agency started the probe after chats between Sushant Singh Rajput and his friend actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik regarding drug consumption and procurement came to the surface. In its probe, the agency has interrogated several Bollywood personalities and made dozens of arrests, including druglords running their rackets in the city(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/weed-brownie-being-sold-at-mumbai-bakery-3-held-says-ncb-101623598897089.html
13-06-2021||Other||Pandemic shows signs of easing, devotees throng Golden Temple||Amritsar With the Covid-19 pandemic showing signs of easing, devotees made a beeline to pay obeisance at the supreme Sikh shrine, the Golden Temple, on Sunday. The searing June heat was no deterrent, with the huge footfall forcing the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to make arrangements to ensure no devotee was inconvenienced. “Based on the consumption of langar (free food) during the second wave of the lockdown, footfall of devotees had always been less than 50,000 a day. Over the past ten days, however, there has been a gradual increase in footfall. On Sunday, the number was around 80,000, again, based on langar consumption,” said Satnam Singh, manager, Golden Temple langar hall, the largest community kitchen in the world.He added that the situation was not normal yet, as devotees from overseas and other states could not come due to travel restrictions. “Before the pandemic, 1 lakh devotees visited the Sri Darbar Sahib (Golden Temple) on a week day and 1.5 lakh on weekends and special days,” he said. After a long time, the entire parkarma (circumambulation marble path around the holy water tank called as ‘sarovar’) of the Golden Temple was full of devotees. To enforce social distancing, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) had to make extra arrangements. Tents were set up outside the ‘Darshani Deori’ to ensure devotees queued up with the mandated distance between each other. Devotees jam-packed the area between the Akal Takht and the Darshani Deori with the queue extending up to the parkarma. At the Dukh Bhanjani Beri, a historic tree on the bank of the sarovar (It is believed that if anyone takes bath under this tree, he or she is freed of all sorrows), the devotees had to wait for their turn to have a dip. A queue of women had built up outside their designated changing room. Before covid-19 struck, the average collection of offerings at the Golden Temple was ₹23 lakh a day. Due to the first phase of the lockdown, the collection dipped to between ₹10,000 and ₹15,000 a day. In the present second wave, however, the number should improve as footfall did not see as drastic a dip as in the previous wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pandemic-shows-signs-of-easing-devotees-throng-golden-temple-101623600337105.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Karnal to get night food market||A Night Food Bazaar with at least 40 stalls will be set up at the Sector 12 market in Karnal. Likely to become operational in August, it will remain open from 7pm to 12pm and will offer a variety of vegetarian and non-vegetarian food items. A part of the smart city project, it will have seating arrangement for around 1,000 people and will cost around ₹40 lakh. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav, who is also the chief executive officer of Karnal Smart City Limited, said the step is being taken to ensure families can enjoy food of their choice at a single place. He said the food court will also help reduce rush at other markets, as people come out in large numbers to dine in the evening.Yadav said a tender to set up the stalls will be floated soon. The vendors will be charged a monthly rent, which will be spent on providing basic facilities at the food court, he said. “The blueprint of the project has been prepared. It will also have a music system, mobile toilets and water ATM,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/karnal-to-get-night-food-market-101623599136935.html
13-06-2021||Pune||Seven locked houses broken into in Ambegaon Budruk||The police are on a lookout for a group of thieves for breaking and entering into seven locked houses in a locality in Ambegaon Budruk area of Pune on Saturday night. “They have broken into seven houses in three buildings and one case has been registered. All houses were locked, and the CCTV has been recovered. We will detect the case soon,” said Rahul Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-2 of Pune police. The thieves used a metal cutter to cut open the traditional metal latch on doors to render the padlocks useless. The police are now on a lookout for them. The men fled with a total of ₹3,33,000 in cash and jewellery from the seven houses. A case under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/seven-locked-houses-broken-into-in-ambegaon-budruk-101623598896206.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 death toll goes up as govt reconciles fatality data||Maharashtra reported 10,442 cases of coronavirus diseases (Covid-19) on Sunday taking the state-wide tally of cases to 59,08,992. The state also reported 483 Covid-related deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 1,11,104. The total number of recoveries reached 56,39,271, after 7,504 people recovered from the infection.The capital city of Mumbai reported 695 number of cases, pushing the city-wide cumulative to 7,15,660. The death toll reached 15,183 after 19 fatalities were reported.Sunday's tally marks a slight decrease from the 10,697 cases recorded a day before. The death toll however went up by a wider margin on Sunday after 483 deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, as opposed to the 360 recorded on Saturday.Maharashtra has also been reconciling fatality data since May 21, and has reconciled well over 15,988 deaths in the last 23 days. On Sunday an additional 2,288 deaths were reconciled. As per the state health department data, in the last three days, the state has added 1522, 2,213 and 1,606 deaths respectively through the reconciliation exercise.“The scope of data on Covid-19 cases, recovery of patients and deaths is vast. For that, the state’s integrated disease surveillance programme is working in a transparent manner... Due to technical reasons, there is a delay in reporting data. However, the districts and municipal corporations have been asked to immediately complete it.” the state health department said in a statement.A total of 212,536 samples were tested on Sunday, this takes the total number of samples tested in the state to 38,046,590 since the pandemic started. Testing declined on Sunday as a total of 223,049 samples has been tested just a day prior.The state is ramping up its vaccination drive with door-to-door vaccination drive for bedridden individuals, said state health minister Rajesh Tope. The state's task force on vaccination is in the process of formulating protocol and guidelines for allowing at-home vaccination for those in need.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-death-toll-goes-up-as-govt-reconciles-fatality-data-101623597624053.html
13-06-2021||Pune||Sena leader among 26 held for gambling||The Pune rural police in Bhigwan arrested 26 people including a former deputy sarpanch and city head of Shiv Sena political party in a night raid on a gambling den. The gambling den was located near the foothill along Nimbodi road in Madanwadi area of Indapur and the raid was conducted around 6:10pm, according to assistant police inspector (API) Jeevan Mane of Bhigwan police station. All the men were produced in a local court on Sunday and granted bail. Among the 26 people were Sachin Uttam Mane (31), a resident of Tandulwadi area of Baramati who is the Baramati head of Shiv Sena and Jaydeep Shankarrao Jadhav (42), a resident of Bhigwan in Indapur who is the former deputy sarpanch of Bhigwan, according to the police. The den was run in a tin shed built near a sugarcane field close to a foothill and has now been destroyed, according to the police. The den was run by Hanumant Manik Thorat (52), a resident of Madanwadi area of Indapur. The men were arrested while being in possession of cash worth ₹1,12,780 and belongings worth ₹3,12,780, according to the police. “We had arrested Thorat last year too. But he stopped due to the lockdown for some time. And we again got a whiff of their activities. They have managed to get information about police raids 2-3 times before but this time we wore civil clothes and went on two-wheelers. They had also made use of the farm behind the house. Therefore, we sealed the exits first and then announced ourselves,” said API Mane. A case under relevant sections of Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act was registered at Bhigwan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sena-leader-among-26-held-for-gambling-101623598116166.html
13-06-2021||Pune||50 per cent rise in demand for medicinal plants: SPPU Botany department||Ever since the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, the demand for medicinal plants has increased by 50 per cent according to the regional cum facilitation centre, western region, department of Botany, Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). This special centre has been set up and sanctioned under the national medicinal plants board, ministry of Ayush, Government of India. Since the beginning of June, the centre began bookings for distribution of medicinal saplings free of cost to farmers, gardeners, societies and anyone who is interested and wishes to farm and cultivate these plants. “Last year we began with planting three lakh medicinal plants using different nurseries across the district and on World Environment Day, we announced this year about the free distribution of the plants,” said K N Dhumal, deputy director, regional cum facilitation centre, western region. “We have seen a 50 per cent increase in demand for medicinal plants like Arjunsal, effective in preventing heart diseases, Sitashok, used for women’s problems, Gulvel one of the most important plant especially with immunity boosters during the past year of Covid-19, of which two lakh saplings have been given so far,” he added. The centre has produced wuality planting materials of different medicinal plants such as Adulsa, Nirgudi, Arjun, Sarpagandha, Padal/ Patala, Tetu/ Shonak, Giloy/ Gulvel, Guggul, Chitrak, Agnimantha, Sitashok, Shivan/ Kashmiri, Jitsaya, Shatavari, Bacl, Bilva, Amla, Hirada/ Hard, Beheda/ Behad, Jal-brahmi, Anantamool, Mandukparni, Vekhand, Ritha. These saplings are being given free of cost on a first come first serve basis. Sandeep Kale, member of the tree authority, has booked 100 gulvel saplings and has distributed them among the residents of Model colony. “Ever since the beginning of Covid pandemic, there has been a sudden awareness of Ayurvedic medicines, especially medicinal plants among the residents and gulvel has worked wonders for many as an immunity booster hence I have booked 100 saplings,” Kale said. Rajendra Gadekar, a farmer in the Pune district has booked saplings of ginger, turmeric, jestimadh and cinnamon besides amla and tulsi. “Tulsi kadha and aswhamedh kadha have really worked wonders among the people in my family and we want to plant more of these saplings,” he said. “We are asking those coming for the sapling to give an undertaking and also bring along the 7/12 of the land where the plantation will be done, so that they do not resell these plants outside,” added Dhumal. The distribution of the saplings booked until June 25 will begin on July 1, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/50-per-cent-rise-in-demand-for-medicinal-plants-sppu-botany-department-101623597575928.html
13-06-2021||Pune||64-year-old arrested for sexual harassment of minor girl||A 64-year-old man was arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Saturday for sexual harassment of a minor girl in a residential society in Hinjewadi area of Pimpri-Chinchwad. The arrested man was identified as Anantrao Kisanrao Shinde (64), a resident of a society in Hinjewadi Phase 3. The incident happened around 7:20pm on June 8, according to the police. The man was produced in a local court on Sunday. The complainant child, who is also a resident of the same residential complex and had gone to the common garden to play with her younger brother. The man and the girl were sitting on the same park bench when the senior citizen allegedly held the girl’s arm and pulled her, according to the complaint. The girl tried to get up to wrestle her arm free, but the man allegedly pulled her down on the bench and then touched her back and chest, according to the complaint. Police sub inspector Mahadev Yelmar of Hinjewadi police station is investigating the case. A case under Sections 354 (assaults or uses criminal force to any woman to outrage her modesty) and 354(a) (sexual harassment) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 8 and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) of Hinjewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/64yearold-arrested-for-sexual-harassment-of-minor-girl-101623597155881.html
13-06-2021||Pune||Most flood-prone areas under PMC jurisdiction, civic body claims risk minimised||The Pune district administration declared 21 flood prone areas in Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits most of which are located in the PMC jurisdiction; however, the civic body has claimed that the affected parts and affected people have been reduced as it has taken precaution to construct a retaining wall and anti-encroachment drive along the river to avoid flooding during monsoon. Under the Mula-Mutha valley, there are four dams-Temghar, Varasgaon, Panshet and Khadakwasla which supply water to Pune city and some rural parts of the Pune district. The total storage capacity of four dams is 29.15 Thousand Million Cubic feet (TMC). The water release from these dams flows through the Pune city and merges with Bhima at Rahu about 66 kilometres from Pune city. Temghar dam has a water release capacity of 12,120 cusecs and Varasgaon and Panshet can release 52,698 cusecs and 42,036 cusecs respectively. Temghar, Varasgaon and Panshet- all three dams release water to Khadakwasla dam and therefore, Khadakwasla can release maximum 98,766 cusec water which creates flood line situation in Pune city. There are nine flood prone areas like Hingne Khurd, Vitthalwadi, Erandwane (Pulachi vadi), Shivajinagar ( Patil estate), Yerawada ( Shantinagar, Indiranagar), Sangamwadi, Aundh, Baner. Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune district collector said, “Under the Pune district disaster management plan, we have made preparations to tackle the flood like situation in the monsoon season. We have identified 21 major flood prone spots in the PMC and PCMC area. We have given instructions to concerned officials to prepare as mentioned the duties and responsibilities in the disaster plan.” In 2007 and 2009, the city had faced a flood situation due to excess rainfall in the PMC and adjacent part of Pune city. Considering the history of floods, PMC Disaster Management Cell (DMC) and flood control department had spotted flood prone areas within the last few years of flood situations in the city. Mula and Mutha rivers flow through the city, the Khadakwasla irrigation division releases water when there is heavy rainfall in catchment areas of dams which affects riverside areas. In 2015, PMC identified a total 38 flood prone areas in Pune municipal limits which included Manjari (budharuk) and Mundhwa (Keshavnagar) which are tail parts of the city areas as they had experienced flood situations. Based on the last five-year experience and displacement of people in flood areas, there are only a few major areas where there is more risk as compared to the 2007-2009 flood. Ganesh Sonune, head of PMC disaster management cell said, “The PMC’s disaster plan has integrated with Pune district disaster management plan. Due to information and technology (IT) service, we are getting information in advance. Therefore, we are getting more time to take precautionary measurements as early as possible.” “As per Pune city disaster plan 2015, we had mentioned to shift around 3,000 people from low line areas along Mula-Mutha riverside. The number has come down to 300 to 500. We constructed retaining walls and removed hurdles, encroachments in most of the areas such as Pulachi wadi, Kamgar Putala near Shivajinagar, Sangamwadi and Yerawada areas reduced displacement and reduced risk of life of people. Therefore, the number of flood prone areas has also reduced, and it has come down in few numbers,” he added. In the PCMC area, Pavana dam provides water, it has a capacity of 10.77 TMC. It can release 44,466 cusec waters from dams which cause flood situations in PCMC areas, and it affects Dapodi, Sangvi. Hingan gaon, Kasarwadi, Phugewadi, Pimple Saudagar, Pimpale Gurav, Rahatani, Choviswadi, Nigargudi and Sangvi area. ===================================== Flood prone areas in PMC and PCMC area – PMC Area- Hingne Khurd, Vittalwadi, Ernadwane (Pulachi vadi), Shivajnagar ( Patil estate), Yerwada ( Shantinagar, Indiranagar), Sangamwadi, Aundh, Baner PCMC- Dapodi, Sangvi, Hingangaon, Kasarwadi, Phugewadi, Pimple Saudagar, Pimpale Gurav, Rahatani, Choviswadi, Nigargudi and Sangvi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/most-flood-prone-areas-under-pmc-jurisdiction-civic-body-claims-risk-minimised-101623596915864.html
13-06-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad high court grants bail to man booked for possessing bulls, instruments used for slaughter||Stressing that merely preparing for slaughter would not attract offences under the law, the Allahabad High Court granted bail to a man, who along with some others, was booked for possessing two bulls and instruments used for slaughter.The Lucknow bench of the court also directed the Sitapur superintendent of police to file an affidavit explaining the circumstances under which the accused was booked under section 3/5/8 of the UP Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955 for merely making preparations for slaughter.It fixed June 16 as the next date of hearing in the matter.Filing a bail application, accused Suraj pleaded that he and other accused were arrested on February 25 by Ataria police of Sitapur. He said that he was innocent because no offence was made out against him. Opposing the plea, the government lawyer argued that the applicant along with others was apprehended with two bulls, a bundle of ropes, one hammer, two 'ghandasas', one nail and 12 empty packets of 5 kg each on February 25.The lawyer said the police party overheard that the accused were going to slaughter the bulls and the offences were clearly made out.After hearing the matter, the bench observed, "From perusal of the FIR, it does not come out that the applicant/accused made any attempt to slaughter or executed the slaughter. Thus, the culpability of the applicant under the 1955 act is clearly not attracted. Consequently, it is prima facie apparent that Section 3 and 8 of the act have wrongly been invoked against the applicant."Thus, the bench allowed the accused's bail plea but clarified in its order, "It is provided that none of the observations made in the order shall be considered by the trial court and the trial shall proceed on its own merits.""Considering the peculiar circumstances of the case, this court finds it in the interest of justice to direct the Superintendent of Police, Sitapur to file his personal affidavit specifically adverting to the averments made in the bail application as well as indicating how the cognizance of Sections 3 and 8 of the act have been invoked against the applicant," the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-high-court-grants-bail-to-man-booked-for-possessing-bulls-instruments-used-for-slaughter-101623595768199.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Sputnik V most likely to be available at Delhi’s Indraprastha Hospital from June 15: Sources||Sputnik V, the Russian Covid-19 vaccine, is expected to be available at Delhi’s Indraprastha Apollo Hospital from June 15, sources told news agency ANI. The vaccine rollout depends on the number of consignments received by the hospital.Sputnik V was accorded emergency use authorisation by the Drugs Controller General of India on April 13 and is already available in a few hospitals. Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, Hyderabad, is the Indian partner of the Russian Direct Investment Fund to locally produce the vaccine. It is the third vaccine to get approval in the country after Serum Institute of India’s Covaxin and Bharat Biotech’s Covishield. The price per dose of the vaccine has been capped at ₹1,145 by the Union government.On May 1, 1.5 lakh doses of Sputnik V vaccines from Russia landed at the Hyderabad airport, the nation's first Sputnik V consignment. The southern state of Tamil Nadu also received its very first consignment on June 8. The first phase of vaccine rollout by Apollo Hospitals and Dr Reddy's Laboratories started on a pilot basis on May 17 in Hyderabad and on May 18 in Visakhapatnam.Russian President Vladimir Putin told reporters that Sputnik V was being sold in 66 countries around the world and that Russia is the only country to transfer vaccine technology for the purpose of expanding production abroad.Sputnik V has been developed by the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the country’s sovereign wealth fund, and the Gamaleya Institute. RDIF has said that more than 850 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine will be produced annually in India, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sputnik-v-most-likely-to-be-available-at-delhi-s-indraprastha-hospital-from-june-15-sources-101623595349009.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Farm protest: Jind women leave for Delhi borders||To once again intensify agitation again the three contentious farm laws, scores of women on Sunday left for the national capital’s Tikri and Singhu borders in eight buses from Jind’s Khatkar toll plaza. Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders, demanding a repeal of the three central legislations and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price.Savitri Devi, a farm activist, said scores of women from various villages of Jind district assembled at the Khatkar toll plaza to start their march towards Delhi’s borders.“As the Covid-19 cases have started to come down, we have decided to intensify the agitation. Most of us have received vaccine shots and will continue our protest till our demands are met,” she said. Indrawati, another protester, said another batch of women protesters will go to Delhi’s borders after the return of this batch. “Now, we have no work in the fields, and we will show our strength to the government. Other women will continue to take part in the protest at the Khatkar toll plaza,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-protest-jind-women-leave-for-delhi-borders-101623594457688.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Groundwater depletion: Haryana CM pushes for micro-irrigation||Asking farmers to adopt micro-irrigation where the groundwater level has gone down, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said the previous governments did not pay attention to increasing water availability for agriculture. Presiding over the first meeting of Haryana Water Resources Authority in Chandigarh on Sunday, the chief minister expressed concern over the groundwater level going down to 80 feet in districts such as Kurukshetra, Karnal, Kaithal and Panipat. “The farmers should give priority to micro-irrigation in areas where the groundwater has gone down. The condition of Shahabad and Ismailabad in Kurukshetra district is worst,” he said. The dependence of people on groundwater increased, he said, because the previous governments did not pay any attention to increasing the availability of water for agricultural use. Khattar said that to raise the depleting groundwater level in the state, there is a need for a customised plan for water recharge and utilisation, so that people can get adequate supply for agriculture and domestic use. The CM said for the smooth availability of groundwater, river water and treated water to the farmers in the state, a centralised water monitoring system should be prepared over the next two years. The plan should be extended to the village level with the participation of people and public representatives. He directed the officers concerned to formulate plans on the basis of different areas of the state and prepare water availability index of each village, so that people can get information regarding availability of water. Keshni Anand Arora, chairperson of Haryana Water Resources Authority, said a customised water plan will be prepared for the availability of water as per the requirement of all people in the state. 60% blocks severely hitAdditional chief secretary (irrigation and water resources) Devender Singh said the problem arising out of groundwater exploitation has taken a formidable form in 14 out of 22 districts of Haryana, besides waterlogging and water salinity in seven districts. He said of 141 blocks in the state, 60% (85) came in the red category in 2020, up from 48% (55 of 114 blocks) in 2004, due to groundwater exploitation. “Therefore, farmers should reduce their dependence on groundwater and give priority to crop diversity,” he said. DS Dhesi, chief principal secretary to chief minister, said that the state government’s Mera Pani Meri Virasat scheme, which incentivises farmers who conserve water, has been appreciated not only in the country but also by the World Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/groundwater-depletion-haryana-cm-pushes-for-microirrigation-101623594456366.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Former Haryana CM Chautala escapes unhurt in car accident||Former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala on Sunday escaped unhurt after his SUV met with an accident in Gurgaon district, police said.The SUV, in which Chautala, 86, was travelling, had a minor collision with another car on the Gurgaon-Badli-Jhajjar road, said a police official. “The former CM was sitting in the front passenger seat. The SUV’s airbags deployed after the accident. Barring a bruise, he had no injuries. Others involved in the accident too suffered bruises,” said sub-inspector Braham Prakash of the district’s Bhudera police post over phone.A spokesperson of the Indian National Lok Dal said that Chautala, who is the INLD president, is doing fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-haryana-cm-chautala-escapes-unhurt-in-car-accident-101623594396373.html
13-06-2021||Ranchi||Need robust mechanism to check migrant workers' exploitation, says Jharkhand CM||Concerned over "exploitation" of Jharkhand migrant workers in various parts of the country, especially in difficult terrains, Chief Minister Hemant Soren has voiced the need to put in place a robust mechanism to check such practices and said he would hold necessary discussions with his counterparts from other states.Soren also claimed that several central government agencies have failed to protect the rights of the workers after hiring them for development projects, while underlining that a "nexus between recruiting bodies and contractors" makes such unfair treatment possible."It pains me to see their plight...The workers are denied their legitimate dues even when organisations such as NTPC and BRO engage them through contractors or middlemen. Policies to protect their rights do exist, but they are usually not implemented," Soren told PTI.The CM further stated that he had been raising the issue on different platforms but to avail."Once we tide over the Covid-19 crisis, I will personally hold meetings with chief ministers and administrators of Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh among other states and UTs and pitch for a robust mechanism to check workers' exploitation," Soren said.He lamented that the state had to use its own resources during catastrophes to evacuate workers or in some cases bring their mortal remains home, having received no help from the stakeholders.Citing examples, the CM said 15 Jharkhand migrant workers engaged by Border Roads Organisation (BRO) in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, near India-China boundary, had lost their lives in an avalanche in April.Similarly, several workers were killed in February when a devastating flash flood demolished a 13.2 MW hydel project and caused extensive damage to another NTPC venture in along Dhauliganga in Uttarakhand, he said."We have lost workers in cloud burst in Jammu & Kashmir... in other natural disasters. Despite flagging such instances, policies to protect the migrant labourers are not being implemented," the CM maintained.Soren further said that his government, notwithstanding its unpleasant experiences in the past, had given its approval to BRO to employ workers, keeping national interest in view amid the India-China face-off in Ladakh."Hundreds of migrant workers are made to live in pathetic condition in the hilly and difficult terrains, devoid of proper amenities and wages. They are reluctant to take up similar jobs on their return to the state. Jharkhand, on its part, is augmenting the labour management system by ensuring registration for all workers, and efforts are being made for their gainful employment," he said.The CM pointed out that his government has launched the Mukhyamantri Didi Kitchen Yojana, which fed four crore people during the lockdown last year."We made sure that the first special train that was available ferried as many as 1,200 workers from Telangana to Hatia in Ranchi. Migrant workers stuck in Leh were brought to Delhi, from where they boarded another flight to Jharkhand after two months of anxiety and uncertainty," he noted.Soren was the first chief minister in the country to airlift 60 migrant workers stuck in Ladakh in May last year.The Supreme Court had on May 24 said the process of registration of migrant workers is "very slow" and it must be expedited so that benefit of various schemes can be extended to them amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The apex court had also observed that it was "not happy" with the efforts of the Centre while hearing an application filed by three activists who had sought directions to the Union government and states to ensure food security, cash transfers, transport facilities and other welfare measures for migrant workers facing distress due to the pandemic-induced curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/need-robust-mechanism-to-check-migrant-workers-exploitation-says-jharkhand-cm-101623592474508.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||MVA allies united in running govt, but no decision yet on alliance for assembly polls: NCP||The NCP on Sunday said that all three Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) partners are united in running the coalition government in Maharashtra, but no decision has been taken so far on alliance for the 2024 Assembly and Lok Sabha elections.NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik made the remark a day after state Congress president Nana Patole said that the Congress will emerge as the single-largest party in the next state polls.The MVA government in the state that was formed after the 2019 Assembly polls, is led by the Shiv Sena, in which the NCP and the Congress are its partners. Talking to reporters, Malik said the MVA was formed on a common minimum programme (CMP) and it has taken several decisions in public interest.The common man is satisfied with the performance of the government, be it farmers’ welfare or Covid-19 management, he claimed. “State Congress chief Nana Patole has said that his party will contest the next polls independently. He aspires to be the chief minister. No one can be stopped from aspiring for any post. All parties have to work to boost the morale of its cadre and strengthen its organisation,” Malik added. The upcoming local bodies polls may be contested by all the three parties together or independently. Two of the three parties can also have an alliance. A decision about it will be taken as per the prevailing situation, he said.“The three parties are working united in the government for welfare of the people and have not decided on how to contest the 2024 elections,” he said.On Saturday, Patole had said in Amravati that the Congress will emerge as the single-largest party in the state in 2024 and only Congress’s ideology can save the country. Meanwhile Senior Congress leader Naseem Khan said if his party contests the elections separately, it would benefit it.Malik welcomed the reduction in GST on medical equipment and medicines used for COVID-19 treatment from 18 per cent to five per cent.“A committee of finance ministers was set up under the leadership of Ajit Pawar, the state finance minister. They made a recommendation, which was accepted by the GST council. The NCP welcomes it," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mva-allies-united-in-running-govt-but-no-decision-yet-on-alliance-for-assembly-polls-ncp-101623591868158.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Car disappears in sinkhole in Mumbai parking lot after heavy rain. See viral video||A video of a car disappearing into a sinkhole in a few seconds at a residential complex in Mumbai's Ghatkopar has gone viral on social media, raising alarm that this might have happened because of the incessant rain.As per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the incident took place on the premises of a private society in Ghatkopar. The video shows the rear part of the car entering the sinkhole while the car's bonnet and front wheels are already under the water. The car was seen disappearing under the water within seconds in the video.Also read | Mumbai rain updates: IMD issues orange alert, train services resume in cityOther vehicles were parked near the car too, including one right next to it. However, the cars surrounding it were not affected, as seen in the video.OMG! Car swallowed by a sinkhole in Mumbai's Ghatkopar. #MumbaiRains #mumbairain#MumbaiMonsoon pic.twitter.com/m6m1PDKZl6Fact-checking the viral video, the BMC clarified that no one was injured in the accident as there was no one in the car. Explaining how it happened, the civic body said that the residential society had a well, half of which was closed off by RCC (reinforced cement concrete) work to carve out a parking lot."After receiving the information of the incident, the water pumping work is being coordinated by the departmental office of the corporation. Also, the society has been informed to take necessary measures for safety in this place immediately," BMC tweet, in Marathi, read.Officials of Ghatkopar police station also visited the spot, the BMC further informed.Also read: Double the vehicles on Mumbai’s roads after unlockingThis comes after heavy rains, with thunderstorms and lightning, lashed Mumbai for the past few days. Mumbai received as much as 706.1mm of rainfall from June 1 to June 12, surpassing the monthly average of 505mm, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The waterlogging and flooding due to heavy rains disrupted traffic and local train services in Mumbai on Saturday.The financial capital was placed under red alert by the Met department earlier, but the warning category was later changed to orange. The department on Saturday said Mumbai and the entire Konkan coast of Maharashtra can see heavy to extremely heavy rains at isolated locations on Sunday and Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/car-disappears-in-sinkhole-in-mumbai-parking-lot-after-heavy-rain-see-viral-video-101623583536008.html
13-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh records less than 500 new Covid-19 cases for first time since second wave||The Uttar Pradesh government said on Sunday that the state recorded less than 500 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the first time since the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic struck the country, crediting chief minister Yogi Adityanath with an effective handling of the deadly second wave.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh vaccinates more than 5 million people in 18-45 age group“Uttar Pradesh recorded 468 fresh Covid-19 cases, the lowest daily count in over two-and-a-half months, also marking a steep decline in the number of active Covid-19 cases, as the figure has dropped from a high of 310,783 in April to 8986 now, a remarkable reduction by 97.10%,” the state government noted in an official release.The government further said that by implementing measures such as the intensive “Trace, Test and Treat,” prevention through vaccination, and partial corona curfews, it adopted a multipurpose approach to minimise the impact of the second wave. This, it said, resulted in the positivity rate slumping to 0.1%. “Uttar Pradesh’s positivity rate has been registering a steady decline for several days, which is a sign that the deadly second wave is receding in the state,” the government said.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh lifts Covid-lockdown restrictions in all districts, except theseOn Covid-19 testing, the Uttar Pradesh government said that the ramping up of daily tests helped it in fighting against the virus, adding that the state is conducting more than 300,000 tests for the coronavirus each day. With 53,345,463 samples tested thus far, of which more than 26 million samples were from rural areas, Uttar Pradesh is the first state to cross the milestone of 50 million tests for Covid-19, it said.The release also noted that 25 oxygen plants were already functional even before the Yogi Adityanath government took steps to construct more such plants on war-footing to ensure the availability of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) for possible future needs. Elaborating with statistics, it said that 87 out of 427 plants have already been established, and are functional, while the work on the rest is going on.Also Read: Uttar Pradesh gears up to tackle 'black fungus'; 12-member CAM team formedThe installation work will be monitored real-time, and district administrations have been directed to continuously monitor its progress. Officials have also been directed to ensure the availability of raw material so that the work is completed on time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-records-less-than-500-new-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-since-second-wave-101623587372616.html
13-06-2021||City||Maharashtra: Residents evacuated after building develops cracks||Residents of more than 30 flats in a five-storey building at Mumbra in Maharashtra’s Thane city were evacuated soon after several cracks were spotted in it, officials said on Sunday.Deputy Municipal Commissioner (Mumbra) of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), Manish Joshi, said the building named Shree Sai Krupa, located in Sanjay Nagar area, has been sealed and the occupants shifted to a civic school in the locality after the residents observed cracks on Saturday evening. The building, which was constructed in the 1990s, is currently being examined by structural consultant and civic engineers, he said.“One of the residents of a ground floor observed cracks on the beams and alerted his family member, who also saw the plaster falling down and cracks on other parts. The other occupants of the building were immediately alerted and rushed out,” Joshi said.The fire brigade was intimated. But before their arrival, the residents of all the flats were evacuated, he added.“I appreciate the presence of mind of the local residents. We do not want the building to be razed and we will see if any corrective measures can be taken,” he said. A civic official said the construction quality of the building is inferior. TMC’s Regional Disaster Management Cell chief Santosh Kadam said the building figured in the civic body-prepared list of dangerous structures in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/maharashtra-residents-evacuated-after-building-develops-cracks-101623587342356.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav Thackeray will be chief minister for 5 years: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday denied reports that Maharashtra chief minister's post will not remain with his party. The Member of Parliament said that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is an alliance of three parties which decided that Uddhav Thackeray will be the chief minister.“It's a rumour that Shiv Sena CM will be replaced after 2.5 years. When 3 parties formed the government, they committed and decided that CM will be Uddhav Thackeray for 5 years. If someone talks about this, then it is nothing but a lie and rumour,” Raut was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Since chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a one-on-one meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 8 reports of the MVA government not being able to complete their five-year term has been doing the rounds. All three political parties in the coalition - Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congresss - have been vehemently denying such reports."Our commitment is to serve for five years and we will complete that tenure. There is nothing to be afraid of about a separate meeting that took place between chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. There is no threat to the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra," NCP leader Jayant Patil told news agency PTI.NCP supremo Sharad Pawar too denied such reports, insisting that the MVA government will complete its term in office. Pawar praised Shiv Sena as a trustworthy party, and stated that the MVA will perform well in the next Assembly and Lok Sabha elections.Meanwhile, Raut had criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at a gathering on Saturday. Raut alleged in Jalgaon that attempts were made to finish off the party.“We were like slaves, secondary people. The situation was quite bad... The fortunes of Shiv Sena have changed now,” Raut told Shiv Sena workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/uddhav-thackeray-will-be-chief-minister-for-5-years-shiv-sena-101623587265459.html
13-06-2021||Bangalore||Days after ruling out leadership change, BJP incharge Arun Singh to visit K'taka||BJP General Secretary Arun Singh is arriving here on Wednesday, days after ruling out replacing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa amid speculation in some quarters about leadership change. "Arun Singh would be in Karnataka for two to three days. It is his duty to hold meetings and take stock of the situation, for which he is coming here. I welcome him and I will be here to cooperate with him," Yediyurappa told reporters here on Sunday. According to party sources, Singh is likely to hold meetings with Ministers, MLAs and the party's core committee members during his visit. On June 10, Singh said: "Yediyurappa is the Chief Minister, he is doing a good job and will remain the Chief Minister. He has done a good job during the Covid situation, all the Ministers and the party- everyone has done a good job". Singh had also said that no discussions have happened at the party's central leadership level, regarding seeking resignation from the chief minister as he termed talks about replacing CM, and also state party president Nalin Kumar Kateel as "rumour" and "imaginary". A day later, Yediyurappa said Singh's statement ruling out his replacement, has given him "more strength" and that he will work for the development of the state during the remaining two years of the term. Speculations have been rife for some time now that efforts were on by a section of the ruling BJP to unseat Yediyurappa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/days-after-ruling-out-leadership-change-bjp-incharge-arun-singh-to-visit-karnataka-101623586222428.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Rains lash parts of Haryana, Punjab; more expected in next 2 days||Rains lashed several parts of Punjab and Haryana on Sunday morning, and more showers are expected in the region over the next two days, the meteorological department said here.It said downpour was recorded at several places in the twin states between 5.30 pm on Saturday and 8.30 am on Sunday.The Union Territory of Chandigarh, which is the common capital of Punjab and Haryana, received 20.6 mm rainfall, while its adjoining areas, including Mohali and Panchkula, also received showers, the weather office said.In Haryana, Sirsa received a heavy downpour of 101.4 mm, while Dabwali received 62 mm rain.Among other places, Narwana recorded 32 mm downpour, Ratia in Fatehabad 52 mm, Ambala 28.6 mm, Hansi 20 mm, Jhajjar 19 mm, Narnaul 16 mm and Rohtak 14.8 mm, the Met said.In Punjab, Bathinda received 49.4 mm rainfall, Faridkot 24.4 mm, Hoshiarpur 23 mm, Adampur 17.2 mm, Muktsar 51 mm, Balachaur 19.1 mm, Rajpura 57.6 mm, Ludhiana 15 mm and Jalandhar 10 mm.According to the weather office forecast, light to moderate rain and thundershowers are likely in many parts of Haryana and Punjab on June 14 and 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rains-lash-parts-of-haryana-punjab-more-expected-in-next-2-days-101623586637449.html
13-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand registers zero fresh Covid fatality for first time during 2nd wave||Jharkhand on Sunday did not report any fresh coronavirus death for the first time during the ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, but 239 new cases pushed the state's tally to 3,43,304, a health bulletin said.East Singhbhum district registered the highest number of new cases at 51, followed by 27 in Ranchi and 23 in Hazaribag, it said.The state now has 3,966 active cases, while the coronavirus death toll remained unchanged at 5,082.A total of 3,34,256 people have recovered from the disease thus far, including 493 in the last 24 hours, the bulletin said.The recovery rate among the coronavirus patients in the state has improved to 97.36 per cent.The state has tested over 90.6 lakh samples for Covid-19 to date, including 43,653 in the last 24 hours, it said.In a bid to combat the surge of cases, the state government has imposed lockdown-like restrictions till June 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-registers-zero-fresh-covid-fatality-for-first-time-during-2nd-wave-101623581562313.html
13-06-2021||Pune||Your Space: Covid unlock in Pune- Preparedness and lessons learned||With Covid cases declining, the administration has lifted many restrictions as part of the unlock plan. While the reopening of many sectors will boost the economy, have the authorities and public learned the lessons to tackle the virus and follow Covid-appropriate behaviour?Follow Covid-appropriate norms strictlyIn the later days of lockdown, the crowd on the roads had started to swell. Unlock is just an official announcement. As the cases started to drop, people lost the fear of the virus and sort of resumed their regular activities. My family and I have been following every Covid norms for more than a year. There were patients in my family and, fortunately, all recovered. If such reckless public behaviour continues, it won’t be long that we will be facing the third wave. Everything cannot remain closed forever. It is essential that people adopt the simple Covid rules such as wearing masks, social distancing, washing hands, and use of sanitisers not just to evade fines by the administration but for everyone’s safety. Unless everyone realises this and starts acting on it, we will face many such waves and possible lockdowns.Madhuri DeshpandeResidents lax about prevention protocols Wagholi is the nearest suburb to Pune city. The administration has declared the unlocking and reopening which is essential for businesses, but now it is an even bigger responsibility for everyone to follow the Covid rules. We see photos and videos of crowds on roads and markets and criticise them, but little do we realise that we became part of them when we unnecessarily roam around. When the second wave was at its peak, everyone had fear in their minds. Now that fear seems to have vanished. Every family has suffered because of Covid. Let’s not forget that.Sandip SatavChange in market timings is confusing I do not think the administration had planned the reopening phases. They should have realised that once everything is officially allowed to remain open, crowd and traffic will increase. Look at the status of roads in Pune city. Some road work is going on everywhere. They should have finished it during the lockdown. Also, now the frequently changing rules of market openings and timings have become confusing for shopkeepers like me. I run an ice cream and snacks shop. The changing shop timings even confuse customers. Once the timings are in place, it should remain unchanged at least for a week.Deepak KaroteRural areas should be closely monitoredI think the Covid situation is still worrisome in rural parts and it is difficult for the administration to monitor the virus compliance in those parts. In city areas, people are aware and at least know basic things about Covid. In rural parts, there is lack of awareness. Once the lockdown restrictions are relaxed, crowds will be seen at weddings, funerals, and other social gatherings. There should be strict monitoring in rural areas. Also, the administration should focus on improving health infrastructure in villages. Covid tests and oxygen beds should be available in every village. There is still a lot of hesitancy for Covid test and getting hospitalised when required. This fear should be addressed.Hemant TakawaleGet vaccinated at the earliestMy husband is an autorickshaw driver. During the latest lockdown, rickshaws were permitted to operate, but everything else was closed so there were no passengers. Now as the shops have reopened, there is a rise in passenger count. It’s a little relief for our family. When the vaccination had opened for 45-plus citizens, I had insisted him to get the jab as he comes in contact with a lot of people. I don’t know much about the policies and science, but I read in newspapers that vaccines can prevent the Covid infection. So, those who have to go out should get vaccinated. Surekha LandageFollow Covid rules in the new normal While most of the senior citizens have taken the first jab, if people of other age groups don’t follow the Covid norms then the risk to the elderly remains during the unlocking period. They are vulnerable. When reopening after the lockdown, the administration should imprint in people’s minds the importance of norms. There should be strict punishment for Covid violators. Otherwise the reckless behaviour will continue. Senior citizens have suffered a lot in last year and the loneliness will not go away even if the cases in second wave have dropped. Until the time the virus is tackled completely, lives cannot be back to normal. We can try to come close to normal living by following the rules. Pandurang Ingole No clear guidelines for education sectorWe hardly got a chance to go to college this year. Everyone is relying on online classes. When it comes to reopening, the administration only thinks of shops, markets and businesses. But even after a year, there is not a clear policy for education. Schools could hardly reopen. Colleges remained shut. After a point, we are missing out on a proper student life. The plus point is that we get to live at home and attend classes. So, there is no additional expenditure on hostels, mess. But we are missing the college life and friends. Our hangouts have become an online event. It’s high time that the government release a policy for the education sector which will minimise the risk, but studies will continue.Tanmay Joshi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-covid-unlock-in-pune-preparedness-and-lessons-learned-101623581796153.html
13-06-2021||Kolkata||Trawler capsizes in river near Nandigram, 1 dead, 3 missing||A trawler capsized in the Haldi river in West Bengal's Purba Medinipur district, killing a fisherman, while three others were missing, an official said on Sunday.The incident happened on Saturday night near Nandigram when the trawler with 14 fishermen on board was anchored at the mouth of a canal where it meets the Haldi river, he said.The fishermen had anchored the trawler as they wanted to have dinner before setting out for fishing, he added.The trawler toppled due to high tide, and the fishermen fell into the river.Ten of them either managed to swim to safety or were rescued, while four others went missing, the official said.A body was fished out in the early hours of Sunday, he said.A search is underway for those missing, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/trawler-capsizes-in-river-near-nandigram-1-dead-3-missing-101623581604419.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 255 new Covid-19 infections, positivity rate climbs to 0.35%||After reporting the lowest daily infections in over three months on Saturday, Delhi reported 255 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours, the state health bulletin showed. The positivity rate, which declined to 0.30 per cent on Saturday, has climbed 0.05 percentage points and stands at 0.35 per cent on Sunday, according to the data.The national capital logged 23 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the data. The daily fatalities due to the virus declined on Sunday as Delhi reported 28 deaths on Saturday.Also read: How Delta variant of Covid-19 is now wreaking havoc across the worldThe additions to the positive cases and death toll registered in the past 24 hours took the tally to 1,431,139 and toll to 24,823, the health bulletin showed.As many as 72,751 samples were tested for Covid-19 in 24 hours, while 71,513 tests were conducted for the detection of the virus in the population of Delhi the previous day. The total tests conducted so far amount to 20,263,554, as per the bulletin.Since Saturday, Delhi registered 376 new recoveries from the disease. There has been a decline in the number of new recoveries as 479 patients recovered from the illness caused by Sars-Cov-2 virus the previous day, according to the data.The rise in the daily count of Covid-19 cases comes as Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced the further opening of the national capital.Following the graded re-opening of Delhi, the state government allowed all weekly markets, barring those in the containment zones, to function from 4pm to 10pm for one week.Ending the odd-even system for markets, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the activities are being permitted for one week on a trial basis and if cases rise, strict action will be taken."After 5 am tomorrow, all activities will be allowed except some activities that will be prohibited and some activities that will be done in a restricted manner. The odd-even system ends in Delhi markets and malls. Now all shops can be opened simultaneously in all markets and malls. However, this is being permitted for one week on a trial basis. If cases increase then we will take strict action. Otherwise, it will be continued," ANI quoted Kejriwal as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-255-new-covid-19-infections-positivity-rate-climbs-to-0-35-101623578461789.html
13-06-2021||Bhopal||Man shot dead during ops against sand mafia, 9 forest officials booked||Madhya Pradesh police has booked nine forest department officials for alleged murder following the death of a villager in Morena district during an operation against illegally mined sand in the district, said police. The forest department has refuted the allegations and claimed that the deceased was shot down while protecting the illegal sand mining mafia.Police said two eyewitnesses alleged that one Mahaveer Singh Tomar, a 45-years old resident of Amol Pura village, was beaten up and shot dead by forest department officials after he objected to officers’ firing at the tractor-trolley, laden with illegally mined sand, citing it was a residential area“Mahaveer’s son Rahul Tomar, 19, filed a complaint with the police and said after abusing his father, forest officials Pramod and Raghvendra shot him dead with their service gun while others used the butt of their guns to assault him. Rahul and two other villagers are claiming to be the eyewitnesses,” Morena’s superintendent of police Lalit Shakyawar said, citing the complaint filed by Mahaveer’s family.Police said they have registered a case under Section 302 (murder), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 294 (using abusive language) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the nine forest officials on the basis of the complaint and are further investigating the matter.However, divisional forest officer (DFO) Amit Nikam said that while the forest team was chasing a tractor–trolley laden with illegal sand, the villagers including Mahaveer stopped the team’s vehicle to save the mining mafia. “Mahaveer and others were trying to snatch the guns from forest officials, when a bullet was fired accidently which hit Mahaveer in his chest. We are sending a report on the whole incident to the police,” said the DFO.The heavy police force has been deployed after villagers staged a demonstration against the forest department and blocked a road connecting the village to the district headquarters.According to South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People (SANDRP), MP was at the third spot in illegal sand mining activities with 16,405 cases registered in 2018-19.Most of the cases were from Chambal and Narmada river basins. In Morena only, at least more than 600 cases have been registered against illegal sand mining mafia. According to an estimate of environmentalist and local businessmen, every day more than 500 tractor trollies of illegally mined sand, are supplied in the market.(With inputs from Shiv Pratap Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/man-shot-dead-during-ops-against-sand-mafia-9-forest-officials-booked-101623576455406.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Malls, restaurants in Delhi can now open: All you need to know about Covid curbs||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced that the city will ease its ongoing lockdown in view of the declining cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from Monday. "After 5am tomorrow, all activities will be allowed except some activities that will be prohibited and some activities that will be done in a restricted manner. A detailed order will be issued," Kejriwal said while addressing a press conference.All educational institutions such as schools, colleges and other academic organisations will remain shut, Arvind Kejriwal said. All religious, social and cultural gatherings will also remain suspended, he said. Religious places will be opened but visitors will not be allowed, Kejriwal added.Here is all you need to know about the easing of Delhi's Covid-19 lockdown:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/malls-restaurants-in-delhi-can-now-open-all-you-need-to-know-about-covid-curbs-101623567807651.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi shops can open all days, restaurants allowed 50% guests in new relaxations||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced further relaxations in the ongoing lockdown in the city, allowing shops located in markets to operate all days in a week, restaurants to operate with 50% sitting capacity and weekly markets on a zonal basis.“Last week, we had allowed shops in markets to operate in an odd-even basis, whereas standalones shops could operate all day. From this Monday, all shops will be allowed to operate all day. However, they have to operate between 10 am and 8 pm,” Kejriwal said in a video briefing.It essentially means, all shops – including liquor shops – will now be open all day but for a shorter time window.“Similarly, weekly markets will be allowed to operate but with restrictions – only one market in one municipal zone in a day,” said Kejriwal. Delhi has 12 municipal zones in total.He also said restaurants can also open dine-in with 50% sitting capacity while strictly following social distancing and all Covid-19 appropriate protocols.So far, restaurants were only allowed to offer take-in and home delivery services.Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) later issued an order to say: "It is directed that all district magistrates, districts DCPs, deputy commissioners of municipal corporations... and all other authorities concerned shall be responsible for ensuring Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, which is wearing of masks, maintain[ance of] social distancing ... (and) no consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco, etc in all shops, malls, market complexes, weekly markets, restaurants, mandis, ISBTs and railway station.A senior official of the DDMA clarified, "Only restaurants are allowed to open with certain conditions this week. Bars are not allowed."Kejriwal said, relaxations implemented last week will continue including operation of factories in industrial areas, construction activities, government offices with full attendance for officers above Grade-1 and half attendance below that, private offices with maximum 50% attendance between 9 pm and 5 pm, public buses and metro at 50% sitting capacity and all day operation of standalone business enterprises.Taxis, autos and other paratransit vehicles too will be allowed with a cap on maximum number of passengers, weddings are allowed with a maximum presence of 20 guests either at courts or inside residential premises. Funerals can be attended by a maximum of 20 guests. Religious sites can open but they cannot entertain visitors. Home delivery of goods will be allowed too.Schools, colleges, coaching centres and education institutes will continue to remain closed and the restriction on social, political, cultural, religious and academic gatherings will continue too. Centres of mass congregations such as swimming pools, gymnasiums, yoga centres, cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes; banquet halls; auditoriums and business to business exhibition arenas; entertainment parks, water parks and public parks will also remain closed, said the chief minister.The lockdown in Delhi was imposed on April 19 in the light of a severe surge in Covid-19 cases which left the healthcare system overwhelmed. The city was under a hard lockdown – with only essential activities allowed – for six weeks before the first phase of relaxations were allowed last month.“The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is under control now. We are now concerned largely about recovering the economy and preparing for a potential third wave. Yesterday, we launched 22 new oxygen plants. Day before yesterday, three oxygen storage plants were inaugurated. From Monday 5 am, more or less all economic activities will be allowed except a few. And few things will be allowed to function in a restricted fashion,” Kejriwal said, explaining the government’s thinking.He added that the administration will “keenly” observe the Covid-19 trends after the latest relaxations remain in force for a week.“If cases continue going further down, all restrictions can be scaled down in a phased manner in the coming days. However, if cases go up, we may have to impose restrictions again. I urge everyone to strictly adhere to regulations and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” Kejriwal added.National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI), which has more than 5,000 members across the country welcomed the development. “The industry could not recover from the shock of the first lockdown by the time the second lockdown happened. The industry is in distress. We hope the coming days will witness economic recovery. ...But the government should also allow bars to open. Prohibiting bars, especially when liquor stores are open and dine-in is allowed, makes no sense,” said Manpreet Singh, a Delhi-based restaurateur and treasurer of the association.Arbind Singh, national coordinator of the National Association of Street Vendors of India, said: “The government should have allowed them earlier with strict protocols. But better late than never. Weekly market vendors are in extreme distress. Many of them are migrants and they have been struggling for food and ration.”Health experts however warn that Covid-19 containment protocols will have to be observed in letter and spirit if the relaxations are not to backfire.“The government should be very meticulous about the phased relaxations. 100% mask compliance should be... not just on paper but enforced efficiently as more public spaces open up. For markets and offices, the government should draft a policy of staggered timings to ensure that the crowd is under control. The government should keep a close watch on covid-19 trends and take its time in lifting restrictions from close spaces such as gyms, cinema halls, etc. Also, gatherings of any kind should not be allowed at this stage,” said Dr Jacob John, former head of the clinical virology department at Christian Medical College in Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-shops-can-open-all-days-restaurants-allowed-50-guests-in-new-relaxations-101623571235248.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||'If Covid-19 cases spike...': Warning from Arvind Kejriwal after lifting Delhi curbs||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced more relaxations for the national capital, which has seen stringent curbs during the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to check the spread of the infection. Kejriwal, however, warned that if the number of daily cases spike, his government will again impose curbs.The daily caseload has been falling in Delhi over the past few weeks and on Saturday, it recorded 213 cases of Covid-19 with the positivity rate dropping to 0.30 per cent.Also Read: Arvind Kejriwal eases Covid curbs. Shops, restaurants, malls can reopen"If spike in Covid cases is observed in next week, restrictions will again be imposed on markets and restaurants in Delhi," Arvind Kejriwal said at a press conference on Sunday.The chief minister said that Covid-19 situation in Delhi under control "to a large extent", and preparations are on for possible third wave.The lockdown-like restrictions were imposed in Delhi by the Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government on April 19. It had ordered shutting down of all activities, barring essential ones, and stopping people from gathering at a place.The curbs were extended a number of times, and the unlocking began from May 31, when Kejriwal said that the number of cases have come down substantially. Every week since then, the cases and positivity rate have been falling and the Delhi government has been allowing relaxations to allow economic activities to resume.On Sunday, the chief minister said that many activities will be permitted, but some of them will have to be carried out in restricted manners and some will be restricted. He said that a detailed order will be issued by the Delhi government soon."We have decided to allow religious places open but no without visitors. Weekly markets will also be allowed but only one market per zone. Weddings won't be allowed in public places like banquet halls or hotels; such events will be allowed only in courts or homes with not more than 20 people. Further, only 20 people will be allowed at funerals" said Kejriwal."Spas, gyms and yoga institutes will remain closed. Public parks and gardens will remain closed. In government offices, there will be 100% attendance of Group A officers and 50% for the rest. Essential activities will continue," he added.Restaurants too have been allowed, but with 50 per cent of their seating capacities. The lifting of curbs will be effective from 5am on Monday, as announced by Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/if-covid-19-cases-spike-warning-from-kejriwal-after-lifting-delhi-curbs-101623568088371.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal eases Covid curbs. Shops, restaurants, malls can reopen||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced more relaxations in the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown from Monday, saying the coronavirus situation has been improving in the national capital. Arvind Kejriwal said that the Covid situation in Delhi is under control to large extent. "All activities will be allowed after 5am tomorrow except some activities that will be prohibited and some activities that will be done in a restricted manner. A detailed order will be issued," Arvind Kejriwal said in a press briefing.Restrictions will again be reimposed on markets and restaurants in Delhi if there is a spike in Covid-19 cases next week, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal said.Arvind Kejriwal last week announced the reopening of markets, malls and Delhi Metro services among other relaxations, saying more activities would be allowed if the Covid situation continued to improve in the city. Phased reopening of Delhi started as the government allowed construction and manufacturing activities from May 31 keeping in mind the declining numbers of coronavirus disease cases and positivity rate.Here what Arvind Kejriwal said:1. Restaurants will be allowed to open at 50 per cent of their seating capacity. "We will observe this for one week, if cases increase, stricter restrictions to be imposed, otherwise, it will be continued," he said.2. In government offices, there will be 100 per cent attendance of Group A officers and 50 per cent for the rest. Private offices will operate on 50 per cent capacity from 9am to 5pm.3. All market complexes and malls will now be completely open from 10am to 8pm.4. Spas, gyms and yoga institutes will remain closed. Public parks and gardens will also be shut. So will cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes, banquet halls, auditoriums and business to business exhibition arenas, entertainment parks, water parks and public parks.5. Schools, colleges, coaching centres and education institutes will continue to remain closed in Delhi.6. Religious places to be opened but no visitors will be allowed.7. Weekly markets in Delhi to open from Monday but with restrictions – as only one market in one municipal zone in a day. There are 12 municipal zones in Delhi.8. Social, political and cultural gatherings will continue to remain prohibited in Delhi.9. Weddings will not be allowed in public places like banquet halls or hotels, They can only be held at courts or homes with not more than 20 people.10. Only 20 people allowed will be allowed to attend funerals.11. Public buses and Delhi Metro can operate at 50% sitting capacity and standalone business enterprises can operate between 10am and 8pm.12. Taxis, auto-rickshaws and other paratransit vehicles will also run but with a cap on the maximum number of passengers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-eases-covid-curbs-shops-restaurants-malls-can-reopen-101623567853606.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai MLA asks workers dump garbage on contractor for not doing 'job' properly||In a bizarre incident, a Shiv Sena lawmaker from Mumbai, Dilip Lande, asked civic workers to dump garbage on a contractor who failed to do his job properly. Lande also made the contractor sit on the road which was waterlogged due to improper cleaning of the drainage system."I did this as the contractor didn't do his job properly," Lande was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The incident took place on Saturday and a video of it was posted by ANI.#WATCH | Mumbai: Shiv Sena MLA from Chandivali, Dilip Lande makes a contractor sit on water logged road & asks workers to dump garbage on him after a road was waterlogged due to improper drainage cleaning He says, "I did this as the contractor didn't do his job properly" (12.6) pic.twitter.com/XjhACTC6PIIn the video, Lande and his men can be seen forcing a contractor to sit in a pile of garbage and putting the trash on his head.The local train and bus services in Mumbai took a hit due to the incessant rainfall in the city over the past few days. The rain waterlogged major sections of train tracks and roads.Mumbai recorded 565.2 mm or downpour after three days of torrential rain. The city had recorded the highest monthly rainfall at 1106.7 mm in 2015.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has announced red alert for Konkan region and orange for Mumbai and Thane on Sunday.Meanwhile, train services in Mumbai resumed on Saturday evening as rain subsided, leading to a drop in water level. The services were earlier disrupted as railway tracks were waterlogged due to the heavy downpours. Bus services were also hit as roads were submerged, making it extremely difficult for vehicles to move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mla-asks-workers-dump-garbage-on-contractor-for-not-doing-job-properly-101623564668740.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Restaurants to open at 50% capacity in Delhi, announces CM Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday restaurants will be allowed to open at 50% capacity as he announced more relaxations for the Capital's exit from its Covid-19 induced lockdown. Hindustan Times had earlier reported that the Delhi government is likely to allow the opening of restaurants with 50% capacity.Also Read: Arvind Kejriwal to address media, could ease Delhi's Covid-19 lockdown“Educational institutions, coaching institutions will stay closed. No public gathering will be allowed. Swimming pools, sports complexes, cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks, water parks, amusement parks, banquet halls, assembly halls, and auditoriums will also remain closed,” Kejriwal announced at a virtual press briefing.These norms will be observed for one week and will be continued if fresh Covid-19 cases continue to decline, the chief minister said further. However, he also warned of strict curbs if daily cases begin to rise.Weddings can take place only in courts or at homes with only 20 guests allowed to attend. A similar number of people can attend funerals and last rites. Delhi Metro and buses will run at 50% passenger capacity while in other modes of public transport, such as auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws and taxis can carry only two passengers each.Kejriwal also announced religious places can open but no visitors will be allowed inside.The latest relaxations will come into effect from June 14 and mark the third phase of Delhi's exit from the lockdown. The lockdown began on the night of April 19 and was originally scheduled to be lifted in the early morning hours of April 26 but witnessed several extensions. However, with the city's daily Covid-19 cases declining, the first stage of unlock began on May 31, with construction and factory works exempted from the lockdown.Also Read: Markets, shops reopen on 'odd-even' basis after nearly 2 monthsIn the second phase, which began on June 7, Delhi Metro was allowed to resume operations. Government offices, private offices, shops, malls and markets were also permitted to open, albeit with certain conditions. E-commerce activities were also given the nod to resume services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/restaurants-to-open-at-50-capacity-in-delhi-announces-cm-arvind-kejriwal-101623564336850.html
13-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan announces relief package for Covid-19 orphans and widows||Rajasthan government on Saturday announced a financial assistance package for kids and women who lost their parents and husbands due to Covid-19, said a government release.Under the package, orphaned kids will get paid ₹1 lakh as immediate assistance apart from a sum of ₹5 lakh, to be given when they turn 18. They will also receive a monthly sustenance amount of ₹2,500. Under the Mukhyamantri Corona Bal Kalyan Yojana (CM Corona Child welfare scheme), Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has also announced immediate assistance of ₹1 lakh to kids who have lost only one of their parents.Women widowed due to coronavirus will also be paid ₹1 lakh immediately apart from ₹1,500 monthly pension for themselves and ₹1,000 per month for raising their children. They will also get ₹2,000 per child per annum towards the cost of school uniform and school books, as per the official release.The Rajasthan government said it will also provide free education to orphaned kids till class 12 through residential schools or hostels. Orphaned girl students will be allotted hostels in colleges on priority basis whereas boys will benefit from Ambedkar DBT Voucher scheme.Under the DBT scheme, 5000 underprivileged college students who move to urban areas to study in colleges get ₹5,000 or ₹7,000 subsidy for residential facilities.Unemployed youngsters affected by the Covid-19 pandemic will get unemployment allowance on priority under the Mukhyamantri Yuva Sambal yojana, the official release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-announces-relief-package-for-covid-19-orphans-and-widows-101623565114661.html
13-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand's villages move towards a 100% vaccination target||Several villages in Jharkhand are slowly moving towards 100 per cent Covid-19 vaccination, with a few already having achieved the ambitious target.As per a statement from the Chief Minister's Office, all the people of the Banmara village located at the Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh border have been vaccinated with at least the first dose of the vaccine."Despite being one of the farthest villages, people here actively participated in the vaccination drive and achieved 100 per cent vaccination in the village. After a few awareness attempts by the administration people of these villages realized the importance of vaccination for the safety of their people," the statement said.The Ranga panchayat of Masaliya block in Dumka is also heading towards the 100 per cent vaccination target. Shikaripara and Gandrakpur Panchayats, which are situated at the farthest part of the districts have achieved more than 80 per cent vaccination.Garu, a Naxal-affected block in the Latehar district has administered close to 36,000 jabs. Nearly 50 per cent of the 18 population of this block have received the vaccine jab.The district administration is running intensive awareness campaigns across the block and a rise in vaccine coverage is being reported every day."Awareness campaigns run by the government in native and regional languages are helping people understand the benefits of the vaccine. Myths and fallacies related to the vaccine are being exposed among the rural population of the state," the statement said.More than 70 per cent vaccination coverage has been recorded in the Dumka district of the Santhal Pargana region. Intensive awareness drives are being run across the district to encourage people and dispel hesitancy.Apart from the efforts made by the administration to create awareness among the rural population, every week people would gather at different parts of the village. Everyone would share their inputs related to COVID safety behaviour and vaccination.Other factors that have contributed towards this success include self-education, village-level meetings related to vaccines, and weekly social work for the upliftment of their village and their people."This created a similarity of thought among the villagers. Villages like Banmara, Jins Jara Kani and Ranga were motivated by the awareness drives run by the government, they accepted the importance of vaccination. They admitted that death due to Covid can create chaos among villagers. To avoid such mishappenings they voluntarily came ahead to take part in the Covid vaccination," the statement added. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhands-villages-move-towards-a-100-vaccination-target-101623561511359.html
13-06-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: 95-year-old woman beats Covid-19||A 95-year-old patient has successfully recovered from Covid-19 in Tapan Sinha Memorial Hospital in Kolkata, West Bengal.The woman named Nandarani Acharya, was tested positive for Covid-19 infection on May 15 this year and was admitted to the hospital on May 19 with low oxygen saturation and mild breathlessness.According to an official statement from the hospital, doctors, nurses and other para-medical staff attended her immediately with proper round-the-clock medical treatment, oxygen therapy and care. She recovered from Covid-19 pneumonia after 25 days.Acharya was discharged from the hospital on Saturday in healthy condition without any oxygen support, said the hospital.The patient's family members thanked all the doctors, nurses and other para-medical staff of the hospital for treating and curing Acharya from Covid-19.As per the state health bulletin issued on Saturday, West Bengal reported 4,286 new Covid-19 cases, 3,149 recoveries and 81 deaths over 24 hours. There are 16,248 active cases in the state taking the cumulative caseload to 14,57, 273. The total recoveries registered since the pandemic stands at 14,24,213 while the death toll is at 16,812.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-95-year-old-woman-beats-covid19-101623561518217.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal to address media, could ease Delhi's Covid-19 lockdown||Arvind Kejriwal could announce relaxations in Delhi's Covid-19 induced lockdown when the chief minister addresses a press conference on Sunday with cases of the coronavirus disease on the decline in the national capital. "Honourable CM Shri @Arvind Kejriwal will address an important digital press conference today at 12 noon," the Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) tweeted on Sunday morning.Hon'ble CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal will address an important digital press conference today at 12 noon.Watch Live- 👇 ➡️ Twitter - https://t.co/RURHm7DQWR➡️ Facebook - https://t.co/QPIoH2dicA➡️ YouTube- https://t.co/hfuxvO0Afl pic.twitter.com/vAf3iz1RSTThe relaxations, if announced, will mark the beginning of the third phase of the Capital's exit from the lockdown. The lockdown came into force on the night of April 19 and was scheduled to end in the early morning hours of April 26. However, it witnessed several extensions and continues to be in force, but with the city's daily Covid-19 cases on the decline, it started unlocking from May 31, with construction and factory works being the first two sectors to be exempted from the lockdown.Also Read: Delhi restaurants may reopen with 50% capacity from MondayThe second phase of Delhi's unlock began on June 7 and during this phase, the Delhi Metro, considered the city's lifeline, resumed operations. Government offices were allowed to function at 100% capacity for Grade-A level officers and at 50% for others. Private offices, meanwhile, were permitted to function with 50% staff, though work from home or staggered work timings were recommended. E-commerce activities were also allowed while shops, malls and markets could open on an odd-even basis. A status quo was ordered on all the remaining activities.Also Read: Delhi unlock: Markets, shops reopen on 'odd-even' basis after nearly 2 monthsOn Saturday, Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases fell further to 213, while its death toll due to the viral disease increased by 28, according to the health department bulletin on the day. The cumulative positive cases have reached 1,430,884, including a death toll of 24,800. Recoveries and active cases, meanwhile, are at 1,402,474 and 3610 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-address-media-could-ease-delhi-s-covid-19-lockdown-101623556825336.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi records minimum temperature of 23.8 degree Celsius; rain likely||The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 23.8 degrees Celsius on Sunday morning, four notches below the season's average, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.According to MeT officials, the maximum temperature is likely to settle around 35 degrees Celsius on Sunday.The weathermen forecast thunderstorm with rain during the day.The relative humidity was recorded 71 at per cent.The air quality index (AQI) in the national capital was 93 at 8.05 am, real-time data issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ''good'', 51 and 100 ''satisfactory'', 101 and 200 ''moderate'', 201 and 300 ''poor'', 301 and 400 ''very poor'', and 401 and 500 ''severe''.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-minimum-temperature-of-23-8-degree-celsius-rain-likely-101623558322328.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rain updates: IMD issues orange alert, train services resume in city||Mumbai rains have been incessant for the past four days and have disrupted normal life in the Maharashtra capital. This is the second time this year that Maharashtra is under the spell of heavy rainfall, after the impact of Cyclone Tauktae in May, which wreaked havoc.In a major relief, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday downgraded the alert for Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Sindhudurg districts from red to orange till June 15. An orange alert denotes heavy to very heavy rainfall for an area. “Extremely heavy rainfall belt has shifted southwards. So warnings are downgraded. Still, IMD expects heavy to very heavy rainfall in the city and suburbs,” IMD Mumbai’s deputy director Shubhangi Bhute told news agency ANI on Saturday.However, weather officials told Hindustan Times that an active rain spell is expected over the Konkan coast for a minimum of four to five days due to the formation of a low-pressure area over the north Bay of Bengal and cyclonic circulations in the Arabian Sea facilitating strong westerly winds.Here are the latest updates:> Mumbai has so far recorded 706.1 mm rainfall against the monthly average of 505 mm from June 1 till June 12.> Mumbai and its suburbs will witness heavy to very heavy rainfall for the next two days, IMD said on Saturday evening. However, Raigad and Ratnagiri districts in the Konkan are still placed under red alert. Thunderstorms with lightning, gusty winds and extremely heavy rain is expected in these two districts.> Train services in Mumbai resumed on Saturday evening as rains subsided. The services were earlier disrupted as tracks were waterlogged due to the heavy downpours in the city. Bus services were also hit as roads were submerged, making it extremely difficult for vehicles to move.> The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) once again appealed to the residents to stay home and not venture outdoors. “Heavy rain is expected in the city tomorrow [Sunday] as well as the day after. We request you to not venture out, especially near the sea,” the civic body said in a statement.> Even though Mumbai has seen a drastic fall in its coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and is placed under level two as per the state government’s unlock plan, the city will be under level three of lockdown for the time being as a precautionary measure against the worsening weather conditions. BMC said the lockdown was imposed keeping in mind the city’s geographical structures, the density of population, heavy rainfall prediction and the number of people coming through local trains.> The Powai lake started overflowing as a result of heavy rainfall in the city for the past few days, an official from BMC said. The water from the lake has a storage capacity of 5.45 billion and is utilised for industrial purposes. The civic body said Powai lake had last overflowed in July 2020.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-live-updates-monsoon-weather-forecast-today-101623556827233.html
13-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal minister says he was muzzled in GST council meet, Centresays not true||West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra claimed he was muzzled at the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council meeting on Saturday, resulting in the council’s “anti-people decision” to continue taxing Covid-19 drugs, vaccines and disease containment equipment. While he said he was deliberately silenced by the Union finance minister in yet another blow to cooperative federalism, Nirmala Sitharaman’s deputy denied these allegations and said Mitra’s video conference connection was not stable, making him inaudible. “I write this letter with great anguish. In your remarks near the end of today’s GST Council Meeting, you referred to several of my observations by name and yet I was not given the floor, despite repeated requests to you. Instead, you gave the floor to the minister from UP, who sought deletion of some of my comments by name and shockingly you agreed,” Mitra wrote in a letter to Nirmala Sitharaman. The 44th meeting of the GST Council decided to cut taxes on several essential equipment and medicines including mucormycosis drug Amphotericin B and Tocilizumab-- from 5% to zero; Covid-19 drug Remdesivir and anticoagulant drug Heparin-12% to 5%. It also cut taxes on medical grade oxygen and testing kits. The tax levy on ambulances was also reduced to 12% for a little over three-and-a-half months to help individuals and governments fight Covid-19 and its fallout.Alleging that his muzzling was “unprecedented” and a “major blow” to the spirit of cooperative federalism, Mitra, claimed that the GST council forced its decision to continue taxing Covid-19 vaccines and items like masks, PPE kits and hand sanitizers among others. “GoI [government of India] led the anti-people move & IMPOSED GST on VACCINE, MASK, hand sanitizer, OXYGEN, PPE [kits], oximeters, Covid test kit, Remdesivir, RT PCR machine... Since my voice [was] IGNORED, I have recorded my DISSENT by letter. Unprecedented. Slow death of the only body of cooperative federalism,” Mitra tweeted. Responding to Mitra, Union minister of state for finance Anurag Tahkur said the Bengal finance minister’s video conference line was not stable and that he was not properly audible. “During the GST Council discussions today (June 12), it seemed as if the Finance Minister from West Bengal did not have a stable VC connection. Revenue Secretary repeatedly informed him his line was breaking, that he was not properly audible & to turn off his video for better connectivity,” Thakur tweeted. He also claimed that at the end of the discussion, when Sitharaman asked whether anyone would like to speak, Mitra remained silent. “Further, during the speech made by the Uttar Pradesh finance minister, nobody heard Dr Mitra ji speak up nor did he ask to have his opinion heard. Other members can attest to this,” Thakur added. Thakur also said that the Union finance minister has never stifled dissent in the GST Council. “It is unbecoming of a senior member of the Council to suggest that this has happened. The GST Council embodies the collective spirit of all states towards debate in a healthy manner; it has been & shall continue,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-minister-says-he-was-muzzled-in-gst-council-meet-centresays-not-true-101623555154133.html
13-06-2021||Patna||Cricket ball-sized mucormycosis removed from man's brain in Patna||Doctors at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Bihar’s capital Patna have successfully removed mucormycosis or black fungus from the brain of a 60-year-old infected patient, HT’s sister publication Livehindustan has reported. The size of the fungus was equivalent to a cricket ball and the surgery, led by Dr Brajesh Kumar, on Friday went on for three hours.The man, identified as Anil Kumar from Jamui, is currently stable. Kumar recently recovered from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was suffering from frequent episodes of dizziness and faintings for the past few days. He was then referred to IGIMS and was detected with mucormycosis.Dr Manish Mandal, the medical superintendent of IGIMS, told Livehindustan on Saturday the fungus entered Kumar’s brain through his nose but did not spread to his eyes. And because of this, the 60-year-old’s eyes remained unharmed during the surgery. The Livehindustan report also pointed out that doctors have had to remove the eyes in a majority of the patients in similar cases.Bihar has so far reported more than 500 cases of mucormycosis, which is caused by fungal spores and has severe effects. The state government declared mucormycosis as an epidemic on May 22. People get infected by black fungus after coming in contact with fungal spores in the environment. The disease is mostly detected among recovered patients of Covid-19, diabetic patients and those with low immunity.In recent days, doctors in Bihar have complained of a severe shortage of Amphotericin B, which is used for treating mucormycosis.Meanwhile, the Covid-19 disease caseload in Bihar has climbed to 716,296 of which 9466 people have died and 701,234 have recovered. The active cases have come down to 5596. The state government is facing flak over its alleged undereporting of deaths due to the viral disease with the opposition parties accusing the former of botching up the battle against the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cricket-ball-sized-mucormycosis-removed-from-man-s-brain-in-patna-101623547724337.html
13-06-2021||Kolkata||'Not everyone can stay in BJP': Dilip Ghose on Mukul Roy's return to TMC||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) West Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh on Saturday, dismissed Mukul Roy as an "Aaya Ram, Gaya Ram" and stated that staying in the BJP proved difficult for people who were used to the "cut money" culture of the Trinamool Congress."It is not necessary that whoever comes to the BJP will stay on as one needs to do "Tapasya" here. Staying on in the BJP is a little tough for those who come from that party (TMC) where there is cut-money and syndicate culture," Ghosh told ANI.Ghosh said that BJP will not be affected in way with the exit of Mukul Roy."He is an experienced politician. Whatever he has done, he must have done with a proper planning. The BJP will not be affected in any way by his exit. People are joining the party in thousands, if a few of them have some problem, they can leave. It is their personal problem, not party's," the BJP leader added.He further said that the BJP embraces everyone and also gives them responsibility as it functions in a democratic manner. He added that there are some who can not work with discipline and a commitment towards its ideology and such people leave.Ghosh also said that the party was built by old workers who remain committed to the party and will remain with the party."We do not care much about 'Aaya Ram Gaya Rams' (turncoats), we care for our old party workers," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/not-everyone-can-stay-in-bjp-dilip-ghose-on-mukul-roy-s-return-to-tmc-101623538578183.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||6 fire tenders rushed as fire breaks out near Delhi's Kalindi Kunj area||A fire broke out at the Madanpur Khadar area near Kalindi Kunj in the national capital early on Sunday.At least six fire tenders have been rushed to the spot to carry out fire fighting operations to douse the blaze.This comes a day after a massive fire broke out at a showroom in the Central Market of Lajpat Nagar area in Delhi on Saturday morning.The Delhi fire brigade had rushed 30 fire engines to the spot to douse the fire.No casualties were reported in the massive fire at showrooms of Lajpat Nagar's Central Market, informed Delhi Fire Services on Saturday.Director of Delhi Fire Services, Atul Garg also mentioned that the situation is now under control and cooling operation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/6-fire-tenders-rushed-as-fire-breaks-out-near-delhi-s-kalindi-kunj-area-101623538292627.html
13-06-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad HC grants bail to Mahoba man booked under UP anti-conversion law||The Allahabad high court has granted bail to a man from Mahoba district of Uttar Pradesh in an alleged case of abduction, rape and unlawful religious conversion of a woman by marriage.Justice Rahul Chaturvedi passed the order on June 11 while allowing the bail application of Munna Khan.An FIR was registered at the Kotwali Nagar police station of Mahoba on March 4, 2021 against Khan and his sister in connection with the alleged abduction, rape and conversion of the woman by marriage under sections 3, 5(1) of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020.The FIR also said the alleged victim and Munna Khan resided in the same locality of Mahoba. The applicant had taken certain obscene photographs and videos of the victim and used them for blackmail to maintain a physical relationship with her for the last four years, it was further alleged in the FIR.On December 8, 2020, the woman got married to another man and went to Delhi. According to her, she came back from Delhi to Mahoba on February 8, 2021. Later, the accused abducted her and thereafter, from February 18, 2021 to March 2, 2021, she resided with the applicant/accused at Orai, along with his sister, where he started compelling her to change her religion, the FIR said.The applicant’s counsel argued, “The victim resides in the same locality where the applicant resides. In such circumstances, it is un-swallowable proposition that in a small city like Mahoba, she was not aware about the background of the accused.” Advocates Gayatri Rajput and Dinesh Kumar Singh represented the applicant.After hearing the parties concerned, the court observed, “Keeping in view the nature of the offence, evidence on record regarding complicity of the accused and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-grants-bail-to-mahoba-man-booked-under-anti-conversion-law-101623531873762.html
13-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Mason held for sexually assaulting minor||The Basti Jodhewal police arrested a 53-year-old mason for sexually assaulting the 10-year-old daughter of his tenant on Friday. The accused also threatened the victim that if she narrated the incident to anyone, he would kill her younger brother.The case was lodged following the complaint of the victim’s mother. The complainant stated that she, her husband, their 10-year-old daughter, and their 7-year-old son have been living as tenants in the accused’s house for the past three months. Her husband is an auto driver.She added that on Friday evening when she was taking a walk, her daughter came to her and started crying. When asked, she told that the owner had taken her on the roof of the house and sexually assaulted her.The victim’s mother said she immediately complained to the police.Inspector Mohammad Jamil, SHO at Basti Jodhewal police station, said the police arrested the accused immediately after the mother complained. A case under Sections 376 AB (punishment for rape on woman under twelve years of age) 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act has been lodged against the accused.The police produced the accused before the court on Saturday. The court remanded the accused two days in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mason-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-101623530075765.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||28-year-old Chandigarh man found dead in car parked in Zirakpur||A 28-year-old Chandigarh resident was found dead in his car under mysterious circumstances at Shatabgarh village in Zirakpur on Saturday morning. The deceased, Raghav Narang, lived in Raipur Kalan, Chandigarh, and worked at a private firm. He was found dead in the back seat of his car that was locked from the inside. According to police, the vehicle’s gear box was damaged and there was no external injury mark on the body. Raghav’s wife told the police that he had called her on Friday night to share that his vehicle had developed a snag while he was in Zirakpur for some work. He had assured her that he will return home soon after getting the vehicle fixed. However, he didn’t return through the night.She also said that her husband was taking treatment for drug addiction.After he was found dead, locals shared that the car was parked in the same spot since 6pm on Friday and the driver had sought information for a nearby mechanic. Police have sent the body to the Dera Bassi civil hospital for post-mortem examination to determine the exact cause of death and initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The deceased is survived by his wife and a five-year-old son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28yearold-chandigarh-man-found-dead-in-car-parked-in-zirakpur-101623529893053.html
13-06-2021||Other||Wife of Ludhiana SI facing rape charges comes to his defence||The wife of sub-inspector (SI) Jagjit Singh, who is facing rape charges, has come forward in her husband’s defence and stated that he was implicated by the victim. Seeking a fresh probe into the matter, the SI’s wife, Shivjit Kaur, handed over her complaint to members of Ludhiana grievances committee. She stated that contrary to the victim’s claims, her husband does not drink alcohol. “According to the victim, my husband was drunk when she met him for the first time. But my husband doesn’t consume alcohol. Moreover, the victim alleged that she was overpowered. But she is a national-level powerlifter. It won’t be easy for anyone to overpower her,” the SI’s wife told the committee. She further alleged that the victim had filed a complaint after nine months. “If she was sexually assaulted, why did she not lodge a complaint earlier,” the SI’s wife said while claiming that the victim was demanding ₹35 lakh from her husband and when he refused, she lodged an FIR against him. Simmi Chopra Pashan, member of the Ludhiana Grievance committee, said she will send the complaint to Police Commissioner Rakesh Agrawal requesting him for re-investigation in the case.The Salem Tabri police had booked SI Jagjit Singh, in-charge of traffic wing, Zone-1, and his two accomplices on June 8 for allegedly raping a 39-year-old national level power and weight lifter on the pretext of securing a job for her in police department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wife-of-ludhiana-si-facing-rape-charges-comes-to-his-defence-101623529532652.html
13-06-2021||Other||2022 Punjab polls: BSP-SAD eyes Congress bastion led by Pandey in Ludhiana||With the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) joining hands after 25 years, the alliance partners have decided to field a BSP candidate from the Ludhiana North and Payal constituencies.Ludhiana North is a stronghold of Congress leader Rakesh Pandey who has won the seat six consecutive times over the last three decades. The Payal constituency is currently represented by Congress MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha.Soon after the alliance was announced on Saturday, SAD and BSP leaders came together at Jalandhar Bypass Chowk and stated that they are confident of winning the 2022 state assembly polls. Even as BSP was not able to make a mark in the North constituency in the past, leaders stated the SAD-BSP combine will defeat the Congress. SAD had contested the 2017 assembly elections in alliance with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in which the latter’s candidate Praveen Bansal (39,732 votes) lost to Rakesh Pandey (44,864 votes) by a margin of 5,132 votes. The BSP remained a no show and secured only 1,513 votes here in 2017.BSP district president Jeet Ram Basra said, “Congress has lost its ground as it has failed to fulfill the promises made during the last elections. Further, Pandey has also failed to work for the betterment of residents. He has even stopped meeting people of the constituency. BSP-SAD will surely win the North constituency in the upcoming elections.”Basra said there are a few BSP leaders who have been working in the constituency and the candidate will be finalised by the high command soon.Similarly, SAD district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon said, “The parties have joined hands after 25 years as earlier both the parties contested Lok Sabha elections in alliance in 1996. SAD-BSP are like-minded parties and we are confident of winning the upcoming elections as Congress has not been able to meet the expectations and fulfill the promises made to the public in the past.”Meanwhile, MLA Pandey, who was first elected from the seat in 1992 and has been representing the constituency for the last three decades, said, “It is too early to predict the results. The opposition can make big claims but the voters of Ludhiana North have always stood by my side and with the Congress party.”The major areas falling under the North constituency include Haibowal, Salem Tabri, Chhawani Mohalla, area around Clock Tower, portion of Field Ganj among other areas. As Buddha Nullah moves through the constituency and touches areas starting from Salem Tabri to Haibowal, pollution in the nullah and unhygienic conditions in the vicinity have been a major issue. Despite making tall claims in the previous elections, the authorities and public representatives failed to solve the problems. Residents here have also been raising the issue of potholed roads and contaminated water supply. SAD aspirants left disappointed SAD leaders Madan Lal Bagga and Vijay Danav who have been eyeing a party ticket from Ludhiana north constituency were disappointed after the announcement, as per party leaders.However, when contacted after the announcement of alliance, the leaders took a safe side and stated that they stand by the decision of the party and will support the BSP candidate.Bagga had contested the 2017 elections as an independent candidate after he was expelled from the party due to his rebellious attitude. He secured 12,136 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2022-punjab-polls-bsp-sad-eyes-congress-bastion-led-by-pandey-in-ludhiana-101623528752714.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: In peril, Siswan treasure||The Punjab forests and wildlife preservation department’s lack of on-ground supervision at the Siswan Community Reserve has led to a complexity of threats to the wild flora and fauna. Taking advantage of easy access to Siswan Dam’s far end, fish poachers from the main highway to Baddi intrude in broad daylight and cast nets for small fish or minnows. Such wanton poaching takes away the small fish that are the staple diet for kingfishers, cormorants and wetland birds, including a diverse range of migratory species in passage. Fish poachers pay no heed to the avian life and disturb rare species foraging on the banks such as the greater sand plover. Their desire for fish, even the small ones, is compulsive as they fry and relish these as snacks with the night-time hooch or cheap liquor. Since there is no regular patrolling by forest guards, village dogs have created mayhem by massacring thirsty sambar fawns. Well-heeled tipplers drive their vehicles right down to the dam’s far end (where the rivulets enter from the foothills) and indulge in booze binges, evidenced by the upmarket alcohol bottles found littered in the water and on the bank. Ironically, the department has facilitated access by vehicles to the pondage area from the dam’s far side but has done little to ensure that patrolling or supervision insulates wildlife from poaching and disturbance. Interestingly, the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, submitted a detailed management plan for Siswan in 2017 after it was commissioned by the department.When this writer brought the dismal scenario to the notice of Punjab chief wildlife warden RK Mishra, he assured that a plan for Siswan’s supervision and protection will soon be drawn up by the divisional forest officer concerned. “I fully agree that this precious biodiversity reserve needs to be safeguarded from the threats you have brought to my notice,” Mishra told this writer.Good old blood and guts The hapless Sambar fawn is the fall guy for the unnatural predation by village dog packs at drying water holes and dams in the Shivalik foothills. In my rambles deep into the Shivaliks over the last two decades, I observed that the other two principal mammals, wild boar and barking deer, have gone virtually unscathed. As compared to sambars, the barking deer is too nimble, clandestine and smart a target for dog packs. The boar, on the other hand, is a formidable, well-armed opponent as compared to a sambar. The male sambar, when cornered, can merely wave its antler stack in the air or attempt to deliver a clumsy kick with its hind legs to the very agile hounds. Boars frequent water holes mostly at night when lurking dog packs are less active due to fear of leopards and are usually encountered in sounders, making them a difficult piece of meat. But the crucial factor is the boar’s defence system anchored by lethal, upward curving tusks and a thick, bristling hide. The boar’s stout neck is armour plated with hide and bristles and dogs find it difficult to lock their canine teeth and secure a killing grip.Leave aside the fate of less formidable village dog or mongrel hunting packs, pugnacious boars are known to have ripped apart and killed robust, trained hunting dogs such as bull terriers, pointers and bullies with their tusks. Boars bite hard into the soft flanks of dogs with their formidable dentition and cannot be shaken off easily. Even tigers and leopards have on occasion backed off from an old, irascible tusked boar unwilling to retreat but very willing to plunge into a headlong bloody battle.A wounded boar can run and dodge for several kilometres, greatly testing the pursuing dogs. Boars easily take refuge in thorny lantana but the invasive weed lacerates the softer skin of the pursuing dog and stymies the chase. The long legs and big, flapping ears of the sambar allow dogs to easily grip and bite the tendons to retard the deer’s getaway speed but boar legs and ears are shorter and prove evasive for snapping dog jaws. vjswild1@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-in-peril-siswan-treasure-101623528093261.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Congress chief booked for violating Covid protocols||Police have booked Chandigarh Congress president Subhash Chawla and several other party members for violating Covid safety protocols during their protests against the hike in fuel prices on Friday.Chawla, Shashi Shankar Tiwari, Inder Pal and Naresh Kumar were booked after their protest near a Sector 21 petrol pump. Similarly, some party supporters were also booked for their protest near the New Labour Chowk in Sector 34. The cases were registered under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Pena Code and the Disaster Management Act. Meanwhile, with the administration easing lockdown curbs, Chandigarh Police have intensified patrolling to ensure compliance of safety protocols. SHOs concerned have been directed to form teams to keep a check on crowding in public places, especially at Sukhna Lake, Sector-17 Plaza, Elante Mall, and markets in Sectors 19 and 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-congress-chief-booked-for-violating-covid-protocols-101623528032515.html
13-06-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad HC grants bail to man booked under UP’s anti-conversion law||The Allahabad high court has granted bail to a man from Mahoba district of Uttar Pradesh in an alleged case of abduction, rape and unlawful religious conversion of a woman by marriage.Justice Rahul Chaturvedi passed the order on June 11 while allowing the bail application of Munna Khan.An FIR was registered at the Kotwali Nagar police station of Mahoba on March 4, 2021 against Khan and his sister in connection with the alleged abduction, rape and conversion of the woman by marriage under sections 3, 5(1) of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020.The FIR also said the alleged victim and Munna Khan resided in the same locality of Mahoba. The applicant had taken certain obscene photographs and videos of the victim and used them for blackmail to maintain a physical relationship with her for the last four years, it was further alleged in the FIR.On December 8, 2020, the woman got married to another man and went to Delhi. According to her, she came back from Delhi to Mahoba on February 8, 2021. Later, the accused abducted her and thereafter, from February 18, 2021 to March 2, 2021, she resided with the applicant/accused at Orai, along with his sister, where he started compelling her to change her religion, the FIR said.The applicant’s counsel argued, “The victim resides in the same locality where the applicant resides. In such circumstances, it is un-swallowable proposition that in a small city like Mahoba, she was not aware about the background of the accused.” Advocates Gayatri Rajput and Dinesh Kumar Singh represented the applicant.After hearing the parties concerned, the court observed, “Keeping in view the nature of the offence, evidence on record regarding complicity of the accused and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, the court is of the view that the applicant has made out a case for bail. The bail application is allowed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-grants-bail-to-man-booked-under-up-s-anti-conversion-law-101623527971870.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Smack down drug habit||The malice of drug abuse was unheard of when we were young and seems to be the fruit of a new affluent era. It is a silent but lethal weapon that has the potential to destroy the youth. The desire to make a quick buck, peer pressure, questionable company and youngsters’ week moral foundation have encouraged drug trafficking. Studies have revealed that schoolchildren are often targeted by peddlers and once they are hooked, they not only become regular customers but also help sell the narcotics. The government is not doing enough to control this menace; thus, the onus falls on parents and teachers to ensure that their wards are strong enough to not succumb to temptation. It sounds easy enough. However, how many parents will be successful in getting through to their children. It is traumatising for parents to realise that their child has become addicted to drugs. The clues are in the child’s changing behaviour — aloofness, poor eating habits, and declining performance in school. Those from affluent families have little trouble in procuring drugs. However, those with financial constraints start stealing and borrowing money and selling household items to fund their habit. Most of the times, parents can do little to wean off their child from drugs as they lack awareness. Providing professional help through a counsellor or psychiatrist does not come cheap. Besides, consulting a shrink is still taboo in our society. Gradually, it starts affecting the child’s health. Gender gap in treatment Those admitted to de-addiction centres hardly come out clean, and in many cases relapse soon after. It is worse for women who fall prey to the disease because of the social stigma and lack of proper de-addiction centres. Thus, a lot of women addicts remain untreated inching towards a slow death. I know a lot of families who are going through this ordeal. A man died in his mid-30s despite being admitted to a reputed de-addiction clinic as he relapsed after returning home. The pain of parents, who had to cremate their young son, is unimaginable. He is survived by his wife and two young daughters, who will forever feel the void. The parents of another addict who was gradually deteriorating tried to marry him off, hoping that it might help him recover, but who would marry an addict? The father, a senior retired officer, could do nothing but to see his middle -aged son die of an overdose. Families destroyed My aunt took a massive loan to send her son to the United States of America to fulfil his dreams. While abroad, the boy suffered some racial attacks and took to drinking. This turned into an addiction. The damage to his liver was so severe that he succumbed. Another housewife I know has not been able to overcome temptation of binge drinking despite undergoing some treatment. Her young daughter is a wreck after seeing her in a drunken state every evening. Her parents and spouse do their bit but there is no real solution. At times addicts come out strong only when their conscience pricks at them and they develop an iron will to resist the siren call. Sometimes sheer motivation helps them beat the addiction. The affliction has consumed numerous people, consigning their near and dear ones watch them decline helplessly. At times, one feels the affliction is worse than cancer, because it can be treated if detected in time. Here, the dear ones die every day watching the impending tragedy unfold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-smack-down-drug-habit-101623527673530.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Vax drive for shopkeepers, staffers begins in Panchkula||The vaccination drive for shopkeepers started in Panchkula district on Saturday from the markets in Sectors 7 and 8.The drive was launched by Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta from the Sector 8 dispensary. Gupta said that all shopkeepers and their staff will be vaccinated within a week. In the next phase, employees and workers of industrial units will get jabbed, he added.He said: “The Covid-19 vaccination in Panchkula is being done at a large scale. The shopkeepers and their staff members can get jabbed at the dispensary adjoining their respective markets from 9am to 2pm.” This drive is likely to be completed in a week. Gupta said that an identification mark will be pasted outside shops where all the members have taken the vaccine.The immunisation officer said the drive will be further expanded to other sectors depending on the availability of vaccine doses.President of the Sector 7 Market Welfare Association Satpal Gulati, said, “There are 96 shops in the sector where around 400 people work. However, hardly 90 went to get vaccinated.”Gupta seen violating Covid normsWhile Gupta urged people to continue following Covid guidelines, he was seen flouting norms. A picture shared by the public relations department shows a small room which is packed with officials and Gupta. In another picture,Gupta can be seen wearing a mask on his chin and one more person can be seen without a mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vax-drive-for-shopkeepers-staffers-begins-in-panchkula-101623527672449.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||1,965 cartons of illicit liquor seized from two trucks in Ambala||The Ambala police and excise department seized two trucks loaded with 1,965 boxes of illicit liquor in Mandour village on Friday night.The trucks were parked at a godown opposite Gill Wire Products on Mandour-Jatod Road and the raid was conducted on the basis of a tip-off, police said.Mohan Lal, station in-charge of Panjokhara police station, said that both trucks had registration numbers starting with HR 37 (local commercial).“These were parked by liquor contractor Pardeep Mittal and the owner of the godown, who in a conspiracy with the truck owners and drivers, wanted to supply this unlicensed liquor to their customers from this spot,” he said.An FIR under Sections 120-B, 420, 467 and 468 of the Indian Penal Code and Excise Act was lodged against Mittal and six others. No arrest has been made so far.Bhagat Singh, additional excise and taxation officer, said that all the liquor was Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) and each box contained 12 bottles, making it 23,580 bottles in total.Alok Passi, district excise and taxation commissioner, said that police is investigating the owners of the godown and trucks, its supplier and customers.Meanwhile, police arrested Himanshu from Baldev Nagar area and seized 21 bottles (all sizes) of mixed local liquor from his house.The accused was selling the alcohol through a minor and was nabbed inside his home near the main market, while another man managed to flee.“We recovered the liquor from his house while he was delivering it through a kid. After an FIR was lodged, Himanshu was presented before a court and was released on bail on Saturday,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1965-cartons-of-illicit-liquor-seized-from-two-trucks-in-ambala-101623527614294.html
13-06-2021||Other||Maya cautions BSP cadres against leaders who sell out for personal gain||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati, who has expelled 11 party MLAs and three Uttar Pradesh party chiefs in the past three years and seen several of her key aides’ defecting either to the BJP or the SP, has hit out at party deserters who get ‘sold out’ for individual gains. After a meeting at the party office in Lucknow on Saturday called to expand the party’s base ahead of 2022 Uttar Pradesh polls, she urged the party leaders and workers to start holding small meetings of the party cadres across the state. These cadres, she said, would connect with the masses and remind them of the various initiatives and works undertaken by the BSP leadership when the party was in power in the state. “We need to continue with such small cadre meetings,” said the four-time former UP chief minister. At the meeting, she cautioned cadres against those party leaders who were deserting the party for individual gains. “We have to realign ourselves and work with missionary zeal to ensure a BSP government in the state that works for the welfare of all. The party people must trust cadre more than such leaders who take the name of Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram ji but who get sold out for individual gains,” Mayawati said at the meeting. The BSP had 18 MLAs in the state’s legislative assembly but after rebellion of 9 lawmakers, including Ramvir Upadhyaya, Anil Singh, Aslam Raini, Aslam Ali, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind, Hargovind Bhargava, Sushma Patel, Vandana Singh as well as recent expulsion of Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar, the party’s effective strength has since been reduced to seven MLAs. In fact, as she spoke, one of her suspended party MLAs Ramvir Upadhyaya, whose son Chiragvir has already joined the BJP, was seen with BJP leaders in Mathura. Upadhyaya was among BSP’s key Brahmin leaders who served as power minister in the Maya government in 2007.“We are in an election year now so the effective current strength of parties in assembly is meaningless. The model code would come into force in another seven to eight months’ time. Defections are common in an election year but those who have left BSP for other parties have soon realised that they have been used,” a BSP leader said. At the meeting Mayawati, party leaders said, cautioned the cadres against leaders who ‘bik jaate hain’ (get sold out). “Such people don’t hesitate about harming the party movement and get sold out though in the end these people end up harming themselves the most which they realise later. We need to stay wary of such people,” she said. Mayawati followed the ‘bik jaate hain’ phrase by reminding the cadre that BSP was a ‘movement-based’ party which unlike other political parties, didn’t rely on donations from corporate world. Instead, it relied on cadres for support, a BSP leader said. This was the first time Mayawati spoke after expelling two of her trusted MLAs in the party— veteran Lalji Verma and former UP BSP chief Ramachal Rajbhar. Both the leaders expelled on the charges of anti-party activities during the recently concluded panchayat elections had denied that they were in touch with either the BJP or SP and appealed to Mayawati to give them a hearing.The BSP chief, however, hasn’t responded to their appeals so far. Party cadres felt Mayawati’s address to the cadres to be cautious about ‘opportunists’ was in a way an attempt to pre-empt more desertions from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maya-cautions-bsp-cadres-against-leaders-who-sell-out-for-personal-gain-101623527613146.html
13-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s daily Covid count goes below 100 for first time in 96 days||For the first time in four months, Ludhiana’s daily Covid count fell below 100 to settle at 92 on Saturday. In another major respite, the number of daily deaths also dipped to two, a first in three months.The district currently has 1,531 active cases. Since the outbreak in March 2020, Ludhiana has recorded a total of 86,153 Covid cases and 2,060 deaths.It was on March 8 this year that the daily count of cases remained in double digits at 92 following which the cases consistently went up, reaching a peak of 1,729 on May 9.The two who died on Saturday are women aged 65 and 57, residents of Mandaini Kalan and Guru Nanak Colony respectively.There are 26 Covid patients currently on ventilator support in various hospitals of the city.The daily count cases first started swelling on April 25 when a burgeoning 1,389 cases were recorded. On this day, the cases had not only surpassed the 1,000-mark but also increased by a whopping 60% from the previous day’s count of 861 cases.The spike then continued for the next two weeks, reaching an initial peak of 1,600 cases on May 1 followed by 1,729 cases and 22 deaths on May 9. On May 10 and May 11, the death count was 30 which sent a wave of panic across the city and left the cremation grounds choked to capacity. All hospitals in the city were fully occupied during this time with the medical fraternity going through the worst of times, witnessing horrifying moments with so many deaths happening on a daily basis.The huge number of daily cases and deaths fuelled the administration to announce a slew of restrictions, including a 17-hour daily curfew from May 9. Restrictions started to ease only after May 20 when curfew timings were first relaxed with shops being allowed to open till 1pm instead of noon. At present, all shops are open from 5am to 6pm on all week days and Saturdays.Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said while it is a huge respite that daily cases and deaths have come down, there should be no complacency and residents should adhere to wearing masks and practicing social distancing at all times. “Venture out of homes only when absolutely necessary. As restrictions are being eased, it is observed that people tend to be casual, which should not happen as we have to avoid the third wave,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-daily-covid-count-goes-below-100-for-first-time-in-96-days-101623527557734.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Pre-monsoon showers arrive in Chandigarh with 47.2mm rain||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced the arrival of pre-monsoon showers after the city recorded 47.2mm rain between 2.30am and 5.30pm on Saturday.IMD officials said moderate to heavy rain between 30mm and 70mm is likely on Sunday as well. Thereafter, up to 20mm can be expected till Tuesday.The 47.2mm rain was the highest precipitation recorded so far this year. In 2020, the rainiest day in June was on the very first day when 50.4mm rain was recorded. As per IMD, monsoon has advanced northwards to some parts of Bihar and Jharkhand, and is likely to arrive in Chandigarh in the coming week.Following the rain, the city’s maximum temperature decreased from 36°C on Friday to 34.3°C on Saturday, five degrees below normal. The minimum temperature also saw a dip from 22.2°C to 21.2°C, four notches below normal. With more showers expected, the next three days may see the temperature dropping to 33°C, but night temperature may rise to around 23°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/premonsoon-showers-arrive-in-chandigarh-with-47-2mm-rain-101623527492495.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Ride with a real reel-life character||Characters in films are often inspired by real people. However, sometimes it so happens that a character from the reel manifests in real life as well. It so happened that I was driving towards Shimla from Nahan when I stopped at a roadside tea stall near Chandigarh to grab a bite. There I caught sight of a handsome middle-aged man speaking to the stall owner, his baritone clearly audible to everybody in the vicinity. His bus had broken down and he desperately wanted a lift up to Shimla. I recognised him at a glance, he was none other than Manu Gupta, the irritating blabbermouth from 2011 movie, Chalo Dilli, essayed by the versatile Vinay Pathak. Impulsively, I offered him a lift and in no time he was cheerfully sitting beside me, sprouting a steady stream of chatter. In a little while, I realised that we were reliving a scene from the movie, only instead of Mihika, played by Lara Dutta, I was the victim of his endless blabber. He would start a full-blown commentary at everything that came in sight. As we zoomed pass an election rally, he immediately got fresh ammunition. “In politicians ka bhi koi dharm imaan nahin hota!” he began, pontificating on the subject for a few kilometers. The conversation then seamlessly segued into corruption in society. A billboard displaying the poster of the latest movie triggered a monologue on the quality of movies of yore. His mouth seemed to be a pause-less cassette player. However, to his credit, his comments were witty and knowledgeable. By the time we crossed Chandigarh and entered Kalka, I was exasperated by his constant chatter. Hoping to dam the cascade, I turned on the CD player. Reaching common ground I had always been a lover of classical Hindustani music and only had those CDs in my car. A chota khayal rendition in Raga Yaman had just started when my co-passenger exclaimed, “Wah! Wah! I simply adore his voice. Pure bliss!” My incredulity must have been apparent on my face because he blurted out, “Arre bhai saab! It is the inimitable Bhimsen Joshi, who else? His melodious voice always soaks my mind and soul!” His acquaintance with classical music astonished me and he steadily rose in my esteem. At Dharampur, we made a pit stop at Gyani Ka Dhaba. While ordering food, I asked my companion if he would like some beer. He eagerly responded in the affirmative. After finishing our food and beer, I took out my wallet and cast an oblique glance towards my partner, half expecting him to offer to pay. But no protests came as I settled the bill as he was busy comparing the voices of Pandit Jasraj and Bhimsen Joshi. I had yet again revised my opinion about my new travel buddy by the time we resumed our drive. Now, he seemed to be a parasitic freeloader who fooled people through sycophancy and smooth talk. For the rest of the journey, he remained unusually silent most of the time, perhaps lost in the euphoria induced by the beer and music. I dropped him at his destination in Shimla and forgot about the episode. A friend in need But this narrative does not end here. It reached an interesting climax a few months ago. We were living at our winter sojourn in Panchkula when the second wave of Covid swooped in. My wife was severely infected. It was a very difficult time with the blood oxygen in her body dipping to alarming levels and no vacancy available in any hospital. I tried hard to procure an oxygen concentrator but without success. I dropped a message in all the WhatsApp groups stating my desperate requirement. One evening, when I returned to my flat, I found an oxygen concentrator delivered anonymously. There was a note attached to it with a phone number, requesting to be informed when the need for the machine was fulfilled. I immediately dialled the number to offer my gratitude. After a brief pause, a familiar voice boomed from the other side: “Perhaps, I have slipped from your memory, bhai saab! But how can I forget that blissful drive with beer and Bhimsen Joshi on the serpentine road to Shimla! No, you don’t have to thank me or pay me anything. I have just earned that beer as well as that rapturous ride today after 10 years!” The writer is a Shimla-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-ride-with-a-real-reel-life-character-101623527316307.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mother-son duo among four held for Kharar moneylender’s murder||Four people, including a mother-son duo, were arrested for the murder of a 64-year-old moneylender on Friday. The accused Gurdas Singh, his mother Krishna Devi of Ranjit Nagar, Kharar; her sister Raj Dulari and Gurdas’ friend Dinesh Singh of Santemajra, were sent to a four-day police remand on Saturday. The victim, Maya Devi of Kharar, was found murdered in a manhole near Morinda on Thursday. She had lent the accused ₹2.5 lakh and was killed when she demanded the money back. The car, in which Maya was murdered, has been recovered, police said. The vehicle had been rented by Gurdas, who organises tours for a living, and was driven by Dinesh, who works at a hotel in Kharar. Police said Krishna and Raj Dulari forced Maya into the car and covered her face to prevent her from raising the alarm. Later, Krishna and Gurdas strangled her. After Maya fell unconscious, the accused popped a pesticide tablet in her mouth before dumping her body, 20km from Morinda, police said. A case has been registered on the complaint of the victim’s son Vikas Tomar under Sections 302 (murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at the Kharar (City) police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/motherson-duo-among-four-held-for-kharar-moneylender-s-murder-101623527072386.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Executive accountability in Covid – a fool’s errand||As the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic causes carnage throughout the country, the legislature has been conspicuously silent, refusing to convene, ostensibly on grounds of the danger posed by the pandemic to members of the House.Against this backdrop, it is pertinent to understand the system of government envisaged under the Constitution and whether this system has fulfilled its original purpose during the times of the pandemic. India is a Parliamentary democracy based on the Westminster model where the executive emanates from the legislature. The executive power of the Union vests in the President but he is merely a formal figurehead. A closer reading of the Constituent Assembly Debates sheds light on the architecture of Indian polity. Elaborating on the position of the President, Dr BR Ambedkar, had said, “He is the head of the State but not of the executive. He represents the nation but does not rule the nation.”The Apex Court has reaffirmed the Parliamentary nature of the executive and has said that the satisfaction of the President does not require his personal satisfaction but satisfaction in the constitutional sense, that is, of the council of ministers.Ambedkar felt a non-parliamentary executive will be less responsibleThe chief protagonist of the parliamentary system was Dr Ambedkar who believed that a non-parliamentary executive will be less responsible. In comparisons drawn with the American presidential system, where strict separation between the legislature and executive existed, the consensus was that it created impunity for the executive. The parliamentary system, it was argued, will preclude the possibility of a dictatorial executive through the principle of collective responsibility. More importantly, it provided for daily assessment of responsibility through questions, resolutions and debates. Such daily assessment, according to Ambedkar, was more effective and necessary than the periodic assessment done by the electorate at time of the election. Thus, the touchstone for choosing the system of government was the one providing greater responsibility.The inefficiency of the legislature in exercising vigil over the executive has reached the nadir under Covid. Data from PRS Legislative Research reveals that the Lok Sabha has cumulatively met for 34 days in the financial year 2020-21, lowest to date. The 2020 budget session shortened amid the pandemic outbreak, which was followed by a curtailed monsoon session where the question hour was suspended. The winter session was cancelled altogether. The 2021 budget session was adjourned sine die on March 25, two weeks ahead of the original schedule.The constitutional imperative on calling of sessions is that a period of six months shall not elapse between the last sitting of one session and the first sitting of the next. However, the government of the day enjoys discretion in summoning and proroguing of sessions (excepting cases where President exercises discretion). This provision has been opportunistically utilised to reduce the legislature to a rubber stamp for bulldozing of the annual budget, approval for ordinances and passing of laws through its brute majority. But as evidenced by the Constituent Assembly debates, the legislature is much more than just a law-making forum. The true performance metric of the executive for its daily activities lies in the legislature.Executive has unchallenged monopoly in summoning sessionsHowever, the current system ensures the predominance of the executive as it has an unchallenged monopoly in summoning of sessions. In such a scenario, daily assessment of the executive is woefully inadequate when the legislature refuses to meet regularly during a public health emergency such as the pandemic. At a time when the executive has abjectly failed in designing a coherent vaccine policy and securing seamless medical supplies, the legislature does not have an avenue to expeditiously hold the executive accountable since the government can avoid scrutiny by conveniently paying lip service to the six-month condition. Time is of the utmost essence, and it would be futile for the legislature to do a post-mortem analysis of the executive once the tide has passed. This loophole has unintentionally created a crippled legislature leaving it ill-equipped to carry out its basic function of ensuring ‘greater responsibility’.Thus, the current design of Indian Parliamentary system with no fixed calendar and vesting the executive with the sole power to convene a session is dysfunctional. It betrays the original principle of greater responsibility and compromises the independence of the legislature. The indifferent attitude of the executive during Covid-19 is merely a symptom. The real disease lies in the hollow functioning of our parliamentary system and until we have a thorough reinforcement of the parliamentary ethic and spirit, daily assessment will remain elusive.(The writer is an advocate at the Punjab and Hayana high court. Views expressed are personal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-executive-accountability-in-covid-a-fool-s-errand-101623527013414.html
13-06-2021||Other||Blackout in Ludhiana as 220 KV feeder develops a snag||The city plunged into darkness for several hours on Friday night as a snag developed in the 220 KV Feeder on Hambran Road. The power went out at 9.30pm and could not be restored till about 2am in several areas. In some areas, the supply resumed around 11am on Saturday.In areas connected to the sub-stations of Kitchlu Nagar, GT Road and Chaura Bazaar, it took more than six hours for workers to rectify the fault. Residents of Pritam Nagar were in for a shock as power went out again on Friday, a day after it was restored after a 48-hour outage that started on Tuesday. Angry residents came out their houses and staged a protest against Punjab State Power Corporation Limited officials. They said that the transformer in the area got damaged but despite submitting complaints online, supply was not restored till 11am on Saturday.Varun Gupta, a resident of Pritam Nagar, said, “At 9.30 pm, the power suddenly went off. Our family could sleep the whole night due to the unscheduled power cut.”The situation was no different in areas such as Punjab Mata Nagar and Pakhowal Road where power was restored after 14 hours. PSPCL officials said that in many areas, transformers got damaged due to excessive load. Ishneet Sharma, a resident of Punjab Mata Nagar, said, “Due to the outage, I was not able to sleep last night. Usually, the fault is rectified in one or two hours but after Friday’s power cut, supply was restored around 11am on Saturday. Water supply on the first and second floors of the house was also affected due to this.”In Surjit Colony, no power since 3 daysFor the last three days, residents of Surjit Nagar have been without electricity. With no power to run household appliances and erratic water supply posing a problem, residents say the experience is nightmarish. “We have called the helpline number but even after registering a complaint, no one has come to resolve our issue. We are living in hell as there is no power or water at home. We have been purchasing drinking water for the last three days. For washing clothes and bathing, we have no water. We have no option but to wait till regular supply resumes,” said Sukhwinder Kaur, a resident.As per officials, workers are repairing the faults in two areas Aggar Nagar and Focal point and will restore the power by evening. PSPCL chief engineer, distribution (central), Bhupinder Singh Khosla, said, “The blackout was due to a problem in the feeder on Hambran Road. It took several hours to fix the problem. Workers remained on their toes the entire night and used flood lights to check the fault. Supply in most areas was restored between 1 to 2 pm.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/blackout-in-ludhiana-as-220-kv-feeder-develops-a-snag-101623526892566.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||In further slide, Chandigarh tricity’s Covid cases drop to 121, lowest in 107 days||Tricity’s daily Covid-19 cases recorded further dip on Saturday as 121 people tested positive, a first in the past 107 days.Saturday’s tally was the lowest since February 25 when 114 cases had surfaced. The daily cases were also below 200 for the sixth time in the past seven days and 95% down from the peak of 2,612 on May 10.On June 10, the tricity had recorded 134 cases after a gap of 100 days. A day later, the number had increased to 169.On Saturday, Chandigarh led the tally with 58 cases, followed by Mohali with 53 cases, both down from 70 on Friday; while Panchkula reported only 10 infections, lowest since February 28 that also saw the same number of people testing positive.For the seventh time in June, Panchkula had no casualty, but three people each died in Chandigarh and Mohali.The Chandigarh residents were a 70-year-old man from Sector 41, a 70-year-old woman from Bapu Dham Colony and a 40-year-old man from Khuda Alisher.As many as 1,018 people have died in Mohali till date, Chandigarh’s toll is 789 and Panchkula has reported 362 deaths.On the bright side, the active cases in the tricity receded further, from 1,939 on Friday to 1,653 on Saturday. Mohali has 919 patients under treatment, followed by 540 in Chandigarh and 194 in Panchkula.The recovery rate continued to remain over 97% across the board, highest in Panchkula at 98%.In more good news, only 1.02% of the people tested in Panchkula in the past 24 hours tested positive. Mohali’s daily positivity rate was close second at 1.9%, followed by 2.4% in Chandigarh.On just 10 cases on Saturday, Panchkula’s civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur congratulated the health staff for successful management of the pandemic’s second wave. “Dedication and commitment of the health teams was par excellence. Face masks, social distancing and quick vaccination of priority groups will surely help in minimising the severity of the third wave,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-further-slide-chandigarh-tricity-s-covid-cases-drop-to-121-lowest-in-107-days-101623526532858.html
13-06-2021||Other||Disproportionate assets case: ACB starts open inquiry against Aarey Colony CEO||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has initiated an open inquiry against Aarey Milk Colony chief executive officer (CEO) Nathu Vithhal Rathod to ascertain if he has amassed any disproportionate assets (DA). Rathod was arrested last month in a bribery case. A senior ACB officer said that as such as the agency had seized ₹3.46 crore in cash from his official bungalow at Aarey Milk Colony, Goregaon (East), there is strong possibility that he may have amassed illegitimate assets during his service all these years. The cash was hidden under a bed, in gunny bags kept in the backyard and on the terrace. During the open inquiry, all the movable and immovable assets – including Rathod’s savings in bank, lockers, private investments, insurances –would be scrutinised to ascertain if the assets owned by him are from sources other than his known income. “To ascertain the quantum of possible illegal assets, an open inquiry has been initiated against him. Generally, such an open inquiry takes nearly six months. But given the high amount of cash seized from his official residence, we have expedited the process and are trying to complete it as soon as possible. If the inquiry finds out excess properties in the names of Rathod or any of his family members, then a fresh case of DA will be registered against him,” the officer said. Rathod, 42, was arrested on May 24 after his aide Arvind Tribhuvam Tiwari, 57, was nabbed while accepting ₹50,000 on the CEO’s behalf. A resident from Aarey Colony had complained to ACB against Rathod on May 14 for allegedly demanding bribe from him for granting permission to carry out the repair work of his house. It is mandatory to secure prior permission from the office of CEO to carry out any construction/repairing work at Aarey Milk Colony, as the state owns the area. Rathod, who was also holding the charge of the deputy commissioner of Worli Dairy – which is considered to be a post held by a senior bureaucrat – is in judicial custody. He is facing charges under relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/disproportionate-assets-case-acb-starts-open-inquiry-against-aarey-colony-ceo-101623526351828.html
13-06-2021||Lucknow||After returning from Delhi, it is business as usual for Yogi in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed the Covid-19 situation and carried out other official business, besides meeting public representatives amid speculation about a likely cabinet reshuffle in the coming days in Uttar Pradesh.It was Yogi Adityanath’s first full day in Lucknow after returning from two-day meetings in New Delhi with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda. He had also met President Ram Nath Kovind before returning here on Friday evening.Back in the state capital, he met more than 12 legislators, two MPs, a few ministers and BJP office bearers from some districts. He viewed a presentation about the progress of implementation of a vision document for development of Ayodhya and also asked senior officers to take necessary action to step up the economic activity.What came up for discussions at the meetings with legislators and MPs was not immediately known. An official spokesman said the chief minister keeps on meeting public representatives almost regularly and he carried on with his official business as usual.“The chief minister wants economic activity stepped up in the state. He has given directives to ensure that vacant posts in different departments are filled and people get jobs. He wants more loan melas to be organised and expeditious implementation of development projects,” said a senior official functionary.“The Uttar Pradesh government has given about four lakh government jobs in the past four years and the chief minister wants this number to be taken to five lakh jobs by December 2021,” said the functionary.About the cabinet reshuffle, the functionary said more discussions may be required with the party leaders before any final call was taken on the issue.The names of former bureaucrat and BJP MLC Arvind Kumar Sharma, former Union minister Jitin Prasada and leaders of BJP’s allies are already doing rounds in the corridors of power here. The BJP’s allies, including Apna Dal (Sone Lal) and Nishad Party, have been pressing for their representation in the state and central ministries. Apna Dal (Sone Lal) MP Anupriya Patel and Nishad Party chief Sanjay Nishad had met union minister Amit Shah in New Delhi and raised the issue there. A senior BJP office bearer said the party and government would do all that may be needed to step up preparations for the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. The BJP leadership may have more discussions at various levels on the issue and an appropriate decision would be taken at the appropriate time, said the office bearer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-returning-from-delhi-it-is-business-as-usual-for-yogi-in-lucknow-101623525872980.html
13-06-2021||Other||Two cops, two civilians killed in militant attack in J&K’s Sopore||Two policemen and as many civilians were killed and at least three others injured on Saturday when militants opened fire targeting security forces in Sopore town of Baramulla district, officials said.Militants fired upon a joint party of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and police near Main Chowk, Sopore, in the north Kashmir district around noon.The officials said in the firing, two police personnel and two civilians were killed.At least three others, including a policeman, were injured in the attack, they said.The injured were rushed to a nearby hospital from where the injured policeman was taken to army’s 92 Base Hospital here. The security forces have cordoned off the area.Lashkar behind ambushThe Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) was behind the attack on security forces in Sopore, J&K director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said here.On the sidelines of a wreath-laying ceremony for the two slain police constables, Singh asserted that the perpetrators had been identified and would be brought to justice very soon.He said it was a Sopore police station team on Covid-19 duty that came under attack. Even as they mounted a retaliation, four police personnel and three civilians were injured, the DGP said.Constables Waseem Ahmad and Showkat Ahmad succumbed to injuries later, while sub-inspector Mukesh Kumar and special police officer Danish are undergoing treatment, and their condition is stated to be stable, he said.The civilians who died in the firing were identified as Manzoor Ahamd Shalla of Shalimar Colony and Bashir Ahmad Pahloo of Taliyan, Sopore. The injured civilian is Tariq Ahmad Dar of Kralteng, Sopore.Meanwhile, Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar visited Sopore and inspected the spot where the attack took place and held a meeting with army’s Sector Commader, deputy inspector general and the CRPF. “Local LeT terrorists are involved in today’s attack and have been identified as Fayaz War and Mudasir Pandit. Security forces are on the job and these terrorists will be neutralised at the earliest,” he said.L-G, political parties condemn attackLieutenant governor Manoj Sinha and political parties in J&K on Saturday condemned the militant attack on security forces in Sopore and described it as a cowardly and mindless act.“Strongly condemn the terror attack on civilians and security personnel at Sopore, Baramulla. My sincere condolences to the families who have lost their loved ones in this attack. Praying for the early recovery of injured,” Sinha said on Twitter.Former chief minister and National Conference vice-president Omar Abdullah said such attacks must be condemned without reservation.“Terrible news coming in from Sopore. Such attacks must be condemned without reservation. Prayers for the injured and condolences to the families of the deceased,” he said in a tweet.Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti said these incidents defame Kashmir and be it the gun of Delhi or youth of Kashmir who picked the arms, it never helps to resolve things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-cops-two-civilians-killed-in-militant-attack-in-j-k-s-sopore-101623525633884.html
13-06-2021||Other||Pawar-Kishor meet: BJP says Modi to win in 2024||Former chief minister and leader of Opposition in the state Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said the Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will come back to power in the 2024 general elections. Fadnavis made the statement a day after poll strategist Prashant Kishor met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar at the latter’s Mumbai residence for three hours, fuelling speculations that efforts were on to form a national coalition against the ruling BJP for the next national elections. “There are no restrictions on meeting people. Those in ruling as well as in opposition parties prepare their strategies. But let me tell you one thing, irrespective of the strategies prepared, Modiji will come back even in 2024 elections,” Fadnavis said in response to the meeting.Pawar has been insisting on a united forum of opposition parties to take on the BJP, which is in power for the second consecutive term.Dismissing other speculations, the NCP clarified that it is not giving any responsibility to Kishor for making political strategies for the party. Party chief spokesperson Nawab Malik said Kishor may have discussed the current political situation. “The party is not considering to rope in Kishor to formulate strategies. He is an experienced strategist and has the ability to see things with different angles and understand them well. We believe he shared his experiences with Pawar saheb and discussed the political situation in the country,” Malik said on Saturday.“It’s true that Pawar saheb wants to bring all the opposition leaders together and he has been vocal on this issue. He had planned to visit West Bengal during the Assembly polls, but had to postpone the visit due to health issues. The NCP will continue making efforts to bring together all opposition leaders and form a strong front against the BJP,” he added.‘Cong to be single-largest party in next state polls’ State Congress chief Nana Patole on Saturday claimed that his party will emerge as the single-largest party in the 2024 Assembly polls. “...And the government will work on the thoughts of Rashtrasant Tukdoji Maharaj,” Patole said at Amravati district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pawarkishor-meet-bjp-says-modi-to-win-in-2024-101623525576291.html
13-06-2021||Other||Delta variant led to raging second wave in J&K, say experts||Recent epidemiological studies have linked the new SARS-CoV-2 variants to the raging second Covid wave in India, including Jammu and Kashmir.The sudden increase in the number of Covid-related deaths in J&K, especially in Jammu, raised concerns about the fast-spreading delta variant (B.1.617.2) in the division, and research has found it to be the major cause, said Dr Shashi Sudhan, principal and dean, Government Medical College and Hospital, Jammu.The expert said Covid positive samples are routinely sent to Indian SARS CoV-2 Consortium of Genomics (INSACOG) for genomic sequencing and analysis of circulating Covid viruses and several variants were reported in Jammu.“There is information which suggests that the increased transmissibility and deaths in the month of May were linked to the delta variant,” he said. As per the recent data of positive samples sent from microbiology department, GMCH Jammu, to National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, for genetic sequencing, 68.5% of the infected patients were reported to have B.1.617.2 variant, generally known as the double mutant and classified as a variant of concern by the WHO.She added said that the mortality rate among patients admitted at GMCH’s in the high-dependency unit was 62.5% in those infected with the variant of concern, with a huge number of young patients, indicating the higher public health implications of the variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delta-variant-led-to-raging-second-wave-in-j-k-say-experts-101623525575617.html
13-06-2021||Other||At 866, J&K sees lowest daily spike in 64 days||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded its lowest daily Covid-19 infections in 64 days with 866 cases, taking the overall count to 3,06,638.The UT had last witnessed below 900 infections was on April 9.As many as 14 persons also succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 4,174 in the UT.There were 601 cases and six deaths in Kashmir, while the Jammu division reported 265 infections and eight fatalities. Since Monday, the UT has mostly recorded below-20 daily fatalities.The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Saturday was 2,153, including 1,446 from Kashmir and 707 from Jammu. The active cases dropped to 16,284 from the highest ever count of 52,848 on May 13. With total recoveries of 2,86,180, the cute rate to climbed to 93.32 %.Officials said 46,528 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the total number of tests crossing 9.12 million.Preparations for possible third wave afootJ&K chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta on Saturday chaired a meeting to oversee the preparation of an action plan for tackling a possible third wave of Covid-19 in the union territory based on the recommendations of an expert advisory committee, which is headed by professor Mohammad Sultan Khuroo.The chief secretary complimented the efforts of the health and medical education department in combating the Covid-19 pandemic by maintaining high-level testing and vaccination rates, and ramping up Covid-dedicated medical facilities. Mehta emphasised the need for strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour in addition to vigorous vaccination drives for successful containment of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-866-j-k-sees-lowest-daily-spike-in-64-days-101623525574436.html
13-06-2021||Other||Central review panel to address AIIMS Pulwama row||A review committee under Union home ministry additional secretary Manohar Agnani has been constituted to steer the approvals for All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), coming up in Pulwama district, co-opting officials from the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), AIIMS and the army.Recently, the army in a review meeting chaired by Kashmir divisional commissioner PK Pole had red-flagged the possible violation of Works of Defence Act (WODA) in constructing the institute building.“Indian Army has been in contact with the AIIMS authorities from the inception of the project in 2016 and the latter were informed at the planning stage that Centre’s NOC guidelines have to be honoured for all projects in the vicinity of army establishments. The coordination efforts have been proactive since inception,” a defense spokesperson had said in a press statement.The defence official had added that the army was told that the plan would be reviewed based on the security concerns put forth.“Based on a ground assessment, the divisional commissioner had assured the army that their security concerns will be factored into the construction/ layout plans, and instructed the CPWD and Pulwama DC, accordingly. A review committee under additional secretary Manohar Agnani has been constituted at the central level to steer the approvals co-opting CPWD, AIIMS and army officials,” the spokesman said.He informed that the construction works on AIIMS buildings which are not violating the NOC guidelines are progressing as per the schedule.“Adequate alternate space is available for the affected buildings and balance work is to resume once the amended campus layout is approved. All concerned are working speedily to avoid any delays. Indian Army, in close coordination with the civil administration, remains committed to extend all assistance to the AIIMS authorities for early execution of the project,” he said.Two AIIMS were approved by the Centre in 2019, one in Jammu and another in Kashmir. The projects were scheduled to be completed by 2025.PDP chief spokesman Suhail Bukhari had on Friday demanded that the issue be resolved at the earliest as health institutions were need of the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/central-review-panel-to-address-aiims-pulwama-row-101623525572520.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Maratha quota stir set to intensify from June 16||The agitation for restoring the Maratha quota scrapped by the Supreme Court (SC) in May is likely to intensify in the coming days as groups and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati have begun mobilising the community. The agitation is set to begin on June 16. On Saturday, Sambhajiraje visited Kopardi village in Ahmednagar where a minor girl from the community was raped and brutally murdered in 2016, triggering a large-scale agitation for justice for the victim, along with their old demand of reservation. After visiting the village, Chhatrapati demanded formation of a special bench of the Bombay high court (HC) to complete the hearing in six months in order to provide justice to the affected family.He then visited residence of Kakasaheb Shinde, a 28-year old Maratha youth in Aurangabad district, who committed suicide by jumping into the Godavari river in July 2018. He was the first youth who committed suicide demanding reservation after which a few more youths from the community ended their lives for the demand. He also reiterated this announcement that Maratha outfits will start holding silent protests for reservation from June 16.Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendant of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji, has taken the lead for providing reservation to the community after the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act 2018, which was enacted by the state government to provide quota to the community, was quashed by the Supreme Court on May 5.“Today I met the family. They want justice as the case is still pending before the high court. I want the state government to write to the high court to constitute a special bench and complete the hearing in six months. I will also personally speak to the chief minister on this,”Chhatrapati told reporters.“As decided, we will start our agitations from June 16 demanding reservation for the Maratha community. We will be holding silent protests across 36 districts, which will start from Kolhapur,” Chhatrapati said.The BJP MP had given an ultimatum till June 6 to the state government for taking decisions on the demands put forth by him, after which he announced to start silent protests on June 6. The demands include review and curative petitions in the Supreme Court against its order to scrap the quota, as well as a petition to the Centre for the reservation. Besides, he also had demanded other benefits such as hostel facilities and scholarships for the community’s students and revival of Sarthi — a Pune-based institute — to ensure educational and social well-being of Maratha youth.On May 5, the Supreme Court quashed the 12% and 13% reservation given in education and jobs to Maratha community under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018. The state government then appointed a committee of retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale to study the ruling and suggest a way forward. In its report, the committee has recommended the government to move a review petition in the SC challenging its verdict.On July 13, 2016, a 14-year-old from Kopardi village in Ahmednagar district was raped and brutally murdered by three men from Dalit community. The incident had triggered silent protests by the Maratha community demanding justice to the family. The trial of the case was completed in a fast track court. The Ahmednagar sessions court has found all three accused guilty of the charges of rape and murder and pronounced death sentence on November 29, 2017||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-quota-stir-set-to-intensify-from-june-16-101623525331733.html
13-06-2021||Other||Double the vehicles on Mumbai’s roads after unlocking||The number of vehicles on Mumbai’s roads has more than doubled after restrictions on travel were eased by the Maharashtra government on June 1, following the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic.As per the data collected by the Mumbai traffic police, since Monday, around 24,000-25,000 vehicles have been crossing the two toll junctions at Dahisar and Mulund (entry and exit points of Mumbai) everyday, as compared to 10,000 to 12,000 vehicles during the partial lockdown in April and May.Traffic police officers said there were days during the lockdown when they witnessed traffic congestion as motorists were confused about the restrictions on travelling without a valid reason or emergency.“We have now increased bandobast and posted traffic constables at all the points in Mumbai to see to it that traffic jams do not occur. However, due to heavy rainfall and waterlogging, many low-lying parts of the city experienced slow-moving traffic,” said a traffic police officer.A study by TomTom, that analyses traffic data and provides real time traffic management data of 416 cities worldwide, showed that this year, during the lockdown months of March, April and May, traffic congestion in Mumbai was the lowest at 8% on the 16th and 17th weeks (April 19-25 and April 26-30). This means that it took 8% more travel time to reach their destinations.The graph from March to June, as revealed by TomTom, pointed out that in the 9th week (March 1-7), the traffic congestion was at 32% percent – the highest this year – in Mumbai which came down in the 16th and 17th weeks and again rose to 20% in the 22nd week.“In January 2020 (pre-lockdown), the congestion level was 64% in Mumbai. The congestion levels measured in March, April and May 2021 were 29%, 14% and 11%, respectively – which is a tremendous reduction in the congestion levels owing to the state lockdown,” said Parag Bedarkar, manager, enterprise sales, TomTom.In 2020, when a complete lockdown was announced in Mumbai, the 10th week (March 2-8) showed the congestion level at 45%, but it dropped to 0% on week 22 (May 25-31), which meant that an emergency worker could reach one point to another in time in the city. Mumbai was among the three cities of India that feature in the top 10 most-congested cities in the world, as per TomTom Traffic Index 2020. With 53% of traffic congestion in January-December 2020, Mumbai ranked second in the world after Moscow, which had 54% traffic congestion. The four cities from India which featured in TomTom list, which analysis real-time traffic to help drivers and city planners to manage traffic, are Mumbai, Delhi, Pune and Bengaluru. The other global cities that had featured in the top 10 include Manila (Philippines), Bogota (Colombia), Moscow (Russia), Lima (Peru), Istanbul (Turkey) and Jakarta (Indonesia).In 2019, Mumbai was the fourth-congested city with 65% congestion and in 2018, it ranked number two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/double-the-vehicles-on-mumbai-s-roads-after-unlocking-101623525091743.html
13-06-2021||Other||Chorus for free vax on campus grows at IIT-Bombay||Several students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT- B) have written to their management, demanding free vaccination for students on campus.“Many concerned students have been writing to the institute asking for free vaccines. Given the strict quarantine rules, many have been discouraged from registering at vaccination centres outside the campus,” said a student requesting anonymity.Students have raised four major concerns, he said. “IIT-B should hold a free vaccination programme because that is the policy declared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. If IIT-B takes the private vaccination route, then it should do so at the rate decided by the government. If the price is higher than the one decided by the government, then the institute must provide a satisfactory justification for it and not just conjectures. In case there is a private vaccination drive, the institute must provide financial assistance to those who want it,” read a statement by students.Despite registering at a government vaccination centre, the hospital on campus has not been able to procure vaccine doses. The institute is now planning to hold a vaccination drive with the help of private hospitals for its students on campus.A workplace vaccination drive is being planned where beneficiaries have to pay ₹1,000 plus taxes, much to the disappointment of students. Tapanendu Kundu, dean, student affairs, said, “We are doing our best to reduce the financial burden on students for vaccination. The aim is to get more and more students inoculated during the drive. There are no government rules for institutes to pay for students’ vaccines.”The institute is considering to adjust the vaccination charges in the fee paid by students towards hostel amenities. “We are also in touch with alumni groups to raise funds for the vaccination drive,” said Kundu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chorus-for-free-vax-on-campus-grows-at-iitbombay-101623524972731.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Capt, Sisodia in war of words over state of school education||A bitter war of words has erupted between Punjab chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh and Delhi deputy CM and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia over the Performance Grading Index 2019-20. In the performance grading index of school education released by the Centre on June 5, Punjab topped the chart with a score of 929 out of 1,000, followed by Chandigarh (912) and Tamil Nadu (906). Whereas Delhi is at number six in these rankings.While Sisodia, who is also the Delhi education minister, on Saturday alleged a “secret” friendship between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amarinder, the latter said the AAP was crying foul in the face of its imminent wipeout from Punjab in the 2022 assembly polls. Sisodia claimed that Punjab’s government schools are in a “miserable state” yet the Central report says that the schools are outstanding. “This shows ‘jugalbandi’ between two leaders,” he added.“Captain (Amarinder Singh) has got the blessings of Modiji. Delhi’s schools have been ranked much below. Nearly 800 government schools in Punjab have been shut down in the last five years and many schools have been handed over to private entities but Punjab has been ranked on the top,” he said.Sisodia alleged that Punjab’s government schools have poor educational facilities for students and parents prefer to send their children to private schools. The index is an effort to hide the incompetence of the Punjab government in the field of school education, he alleged.“Maybe later, the government might release a report saying Punjab’s hospitals are best. There is a secret friendship between Modiji and Captain,” Sisodia added. Ridiculing the allegations, Amarinder said the AAP leadership was so obsessed with electoral politics that it saw poll conspiracies even in something as basic as school education. The fact was that the AAP, which had failed to make a dent in Punjab’s political arena over the past over four years, beginning with its poor performance in the 2017 elections, could see the rout, which it was facing in 2022, he added. “Come to Punjab and I will show you around our schools. Revamp of the state’s schools was an exercise undertaken by the Congress government as a top priority, and the Performance Grading Index reflected the success of those efforts,” said Amarinder. “If you are really interested in improving the education system of Delhi, maybe you should do a ‘jugalbandi’ with me, and I will teach you how to manage things better,” Amarinder said. “From a ranking of 22 on the earlier index that was in place when I took over as CM to Number 1 on the scale, Punjab’s school education has undergone a massive transformation,” the CM said.“Your political dialogues cannot undermine this success,” he said, terming Sisodia’s comments as an obvious case of sour grapes. Meanwhile, Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla said teachers and staff of the Punjab education department have worked hard to bring the state to the top position. He added that it also helped increase around 15% enrolment in government schools. “More than three lakh private school students have shifted to government schools in the past two years,” Singla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-sisodia-in-war-of-words-over-state-of-school-education-101623524972274.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Application stuck amid lockdown, University of Mumbai likely to enter 5th yr without NAAC grade||The Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown has again delayed the University of Mumbai’s (MU) plans to complete its accreditation from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). NAAC accreditation is a performance indicator for higher educational institutes and is mandatory for applying for funds from Central agencies. The university had been granted a ‘Grade A’ score by NAAC in 2012. However, the score expired in March 2017 after the university failed to apply for re-accreditation in time.The university is now entering a fifth academic year without a NAAC grade as the accreditation process remains on hold. While the varsity submitted its self-study report (SSR) to the NAAC committee early this year, the council is yet to send a peer review committee for a visit to its campuses in Mumbai. “Because of the pandemic and the lockdown in Mumbai, the peer review has not happened yet. We have completed our part of the application process and are waiting for the NAAC committee to visit,” said a senior official from MU.The peer review team was expected for a visit in February. “A peer team is a contingent of various members. It’s a big team. It is likely that amid travel restrictions and strict quarantine rules, the council has not been able to put a team together,” said the official. The university took a while to complete its application process and put together all documents. In December 2019, the varsity had submitted the institutional information for quality assessment (IIQA) and the same was approved by the apex grading body. The process for SSR, however, got delayed as the university was shut for at least six months in 2020 due to the pandemic and eventual lockdown.While IIQA is a document recording the university’s compliance with the criteria and policies of the NAAC committee, SSR is a form of self-evaluation to identify strengths and rectify deficiencies.“We are now waiting for the peer review team’s visit to our campuses. We are completely prepared for the next steps of the application process,” said Ravindra Kulkarni, pro-vice chancellor, MU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/application-stuck-amid-lockdown-university-of-mumbai-s-likely-to-enter-5th-yr-without-naac-grade-101623524851779.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man whose ID was used to rent flat in Kolkata for gangster Jaipal arrested||Punjab Police on Saturday arrested a Haryana resident, whose credentials and documents were used to hire a flat for the hideout of slain gangsters-turned-drug smugglers Jaipal Bhullar and Jaspreet Singh, alias Jassi, in Kolkata. The arrested man has been identified as Sumit Kumar, a resident of Meham in Haryana. The development comes three days after Jaipal and his aide Jaspreet Jassi were neutralised by the STF of the West Bengal Police in Kolkata. Additional director general of police (ADGP) counter intelligence and Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) Amit Prasad said that they have nabbed Sumit, a close associate-cum-business partner of Bharat Kumar, who helped Jaipal and Jassi in escaping from Morena, Gwalior, and arranged a flat for them in Kolkata, after they killed two ASIs Bhagwan Singh and Dalwinderjit Singh at the Jagroan grain market on May 15.Bharat was arrested with a .30 bore pistol and Honda Accord car from near Shambhu border in Rajpura on June 9 and on his disclosure, Punjab Police gave information to the West Bengal Police that gangsters Jaipal and Jassi were holed up in a rented apartment in Kolkata. The ADGP said preliminary investigations found that both Sumit and Bharat, who were business partners since 2015, were involved in illegal sale of fancy mobile numbers, including mobile numbers of foreign-based telecoms, purchased from different countries and other states, and they used to sell them across Punjab, Haryana at exorbitant rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-whose-id-was-used-to-rent-flat-in-kolkata-for-gangster-jaipal-arrested-101623524613288.html
13-06-2021||Other||LU VC, staff to support education of students orphaned by Covid-19||Lucknow : Vice chancellor of Lucknow University Alok Kumar Rai has urged staff members to bear the cost of education of students who lost one or both of the parents in the Covid-19 pandemic. The VC informed senior officials of the university on Friday that he had decided to bear the cost of one year of education of a student who lost his parents to Covid-19. Following this, the registrar and other officials along with teachers also volunteered to bear the cost of education of such students. “We are collecting information about university students who have lost one or both their parents to Covid-19. The yearly cost of their education will be paid by contribution made by the VC and other staff of the university,” said LU spokesman Durgesh Srivastav on Saturday. “The university is also planning to make efforts to provide more relaxation in fees to such students as long as they study here,” he added. The VC has also asked officials concerned to expedite help for family members of university staff who died during the second wave of the pandemic. The university will also help their family members in getting jobs in various sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lu-vc-staff-to-support-education-of-students-orphaned-by-covid19-101623524552860.html
13-06-2021||Other||Bedridden citizens can soon get jabs at home, says Maharashtra health minister||Ruling out door-to-door vaccination for all in Maharashtra, state health minister Rajesh Tope said his department is working on allowing home inoculation for those who are bedridden and cannot go to the vaccination centre. So far, the Centre has not issued any guidelines allowing door-to-door vaccination. The state task force on vaccination is working on formulating protocol and guidelines for allowing home vaccination of such citizens. “The Maharashtra government is planning to start door-to-door vaccinations for those who are bedridden and cannot step out of their homes. There will be a separate protocol for such beneficiaries. Their family members will have to give us in writing that if there is any AEFI (adverse effect following immunisation) they would bear the small risk. A certificate from the family doctor will also be required stating that the beneficiary needs vaccination at home. Once the protocol and guidelines are ready, we would be able to start the vaccinations. However, door-to-door vaccination for all will not happen,” said Tope.The minister added that people are inoculated in hospitals as there are medical facilities available in cases of any minor AEFI. Last week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) wrote to the Union health ministry, expressing the civic body’s willingness to conduct door-to-door vaccinations for severely ill and bedridden people. BMC also requested the Centre to issue guidelines for such drives. The Bombay high court had asked the Centre to respond to BMC’s June 10 letter. If Maharashtra starts door-to-door vaccination of bedridden citizens in the absence of any standard operating procedure from the Centre, it would follow the footsteps of Kerala and Jammu & Kashmir.Meanwhile, the state administered 289,096 doses till 8pm on Saturday across 4,100 centres, taking the number of beneficiaries to 25,863,029, as per the data on the CoWIN portal. So far, 5,172,410 beneficiaries in the state have received both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bedridden-citizens-can-soon-get-jabs-at-home-says-maharashtra-health-minister-101623524551654.html
13-06-2021||Other||La Martiniere student’s firm to host Pride Business Conclave||A student-led consultancy firm would host a virtual ‘Pride Business Conclave’ on June 21 to help promote and support LGBTQQIP2SAA+ spectrum businesses.LGBTQQIP2SAA is an abbreviation for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, queer, intersex, pansexual, two-spirit (2S), androgynous and asexual people and Kinjalk Sharma, a class XII student from La Martiniere College, Lucknow, who is leading the consultancy firm - Soleco Consortium, said the virtual conclave would give a chance to more than 50 businesses to present themselves to a wider audience. Kinjalk claimed that this would be country’s first ‘Pride Business Conclave’. “The conclave has a set theme and will give a chance to more than 50 businesses to present themselves to a wider audience. The targeted audience for the webinar is 500 and it will be streamed on the social media handles of the firm,” said Kinjalk.“The event will commence at 1pm IST and will have two intellectual keynote speakers who will join as chief panelists. The firm shall also provide its services for free to the Pride businesses for a year. This will be a fruitful session for upcoming start-ups and entrepreneurs as they will get to learn from the professionals,” Kinjalk said. He said the details regarding registration were given on the social media handles of the firm –Soleco consortium on Instagram and its website- www.thesoleco.org “The firm has also orchestrated contests for these businesses, non-profit organisations and for investors,” Kinjalk said. “We will soon be interviewing applicants from all over the nation to choose its first set of interns. The forms are available on their website, this is a great opportunity for students 18 and below to participate in practical implementation of various skills and learn from experts as suggested by the firm’s tagline- Fathom. Resolve. Flourish,” Kinjalk said. “The firm was set up this month (June) and focuses on three major aspects of businesses- social, legal and economic and constitutes of students from institutions spread all over India. It offers services such as business continuity management, outreach and promotion, secondary legal assistance, productivity increase, database management, cyber security, economic consultancy and technological help,” Kinjalk said. La Martinere College, Lucknow principal, Carlyle McFarland said “These are still difficult areas of social interest with which I hope my boys will be able to deal with maturity and awareness.”Prince Manvendra Singh Gohil, the world’s first openly gay prince, congratulated Kinjalk and his team. “It fills my heart with joy to see the entrepreneurial and innovative spirit in our country’s youth with students coming up with such large-scale initiatives and working for the betterment of the world,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/la-martiniere-student-s-firm-to-host-pride-business-conclave-101623524552294.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||5 health experts with roots in Punjab in Queen’s Birthday Honours spotlight||LondonIndian-origin healthcare experts involved in the field of Covid-19 vaccine trials and community support efforts are among those in the spotlight at the Queen’s Birthday Honours List. The Queen’s Birthday Honours List, unveiled on Friday evening, is released every year to coincide with Queen Elizabeth II’s official birthday celebrations held during the second weekend of June. This time, it has a special focus on the extraordinary efforts made by individuals across the country during the pandemic.Kolkata-born Divya Chadha Manek has been honoured with an Order of the British Empire (OBE) for services to the government during the Covid-19 response for her involvement in the research and development of vaccines and the resulting clinical trials.Manek, whose father was a Punjabi, moved to the UK as a teenager. She is now the director of business development and marketing at the British government’s National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Clinical Research Network, was at the heart of ensuring that Covid-19 vaccines could be put through requisite trials for a timely deployment as the clinical trials workstream lead at the UK’s vaccine taskforce.Among the over 30 Indian-origin honours recipients for 2021 include OBEs for Jasvinder Singh Rai, founder and chairman of the Sikh Recovery Network for services to the Sikh community during the pandemic, and Jasjyot Singh of Lloyds Banking Group for services to financial services during the pandemic.Those honoured as Members of the British Empire (MBE) include Devina Banerjee, from Vaccine Taskforce, Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, for services to Covid-19 vaccine development, Anoop Jivan Chauhan, professor of respiratory medicine and executive director of Research, Portsmouth Hospitals University NHS Trust, for services to respiratory medicine, and Dr Ananthakrishnan Raghuram, consultant physician, Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, for services to the NHS and Covid-19 response.Others across different fields honoured with an OBE include Jagjit Singh Chadha, director of the National Institute of Economic and Social Research, for services to economics and economic policy, actress and writer Lolita Chakrabarti for services to drama, and Sumita Singha for services to architecture. Those receiving MBEs include Vimalkumar Choksi, councillor, Ashton Waterloo, Tameside, for services to the community in Greater Manchester, Gurveer Dhami, senior private secretary to the Secretary of State For Education, and Amika Sara George, Founder of #FreePeriods Campaign, both for services to education, Sumit Goyal, consultant oncoplastic surgeon, Cardiff and Vale University Health Board, for services to breast cancer and Cardiff Breast Centre Charity; and Priya Guha, Venture Partner, Merian Ventures, and Member, Innovate UK Council, for services to international trade and women-led innovation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-health-experts-with-roots-in-punjab-in-queen-s-birthday-honours-spotlight-101623524434829.html
13-06-2021||Other||Clear pending dues of govt lawyers: UP Bar Council||Lucknow: The Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh has asked the state government and the Centre to clear pending dues of government advocates. To note, the state and the Centre appoint government advocates in both district courts and the high court to represent the government. In this Covid phase, lawyers are also facing financial crisis as courts are working only partially and that too only through virtual hearing. “We have asked the government to clear pending dues of government advocates. In corona times lawyers are the worst hit as working of courts has been adversely affected,” said Paresh Mishra, member, Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh. The Bar Council has also demanded financial assistance for non-government advocates. Functioning of courts has been affected since March 2020 after the nationwide lockdown when the courts remained shut for over two months to fight the pandemic. The Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh has already extended financial assistance to the state’s 1,71,000 lawyers who hold certificate of practice (COP). For the purpose, it had used ₹10 crore from its own resources. These lawyers across 75 districts across the state, including those in Allahabad high court and its Lucknow bench, got financial help through lawyers’ associations of their respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/clear-pending-dues-of-govt-lawyers-up-bar-council-101623524432269.html
13-06-2021||Other||Mumbai’s pvt hospitals adopt monoclonal antibody cocktail therapy to reduce severity of Covid-19||Private hospitals in the city are using the Monoclonal antibody therapy – a new antibody cocktail treatment that was used to treat former US President Donald Trump – in the treatment of Covid-19 patients. Doctors claim that though the method does not cure the infection, the treatment helps in preventing the development of Covid-19 severity among mild to moderately infected patients with severe comorbidities, if administered within seven days of the infection. Antibodies produced naturally in bodies fight against diseases. Monoclonal antibodies, too, work similarly, but are made artificially in a laboratory that helps in defending against the disease. Casirivimab and Imdevimab are monoclonal antibodies that are specifically directed against the spike protein of Sars-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) that helps to block the virus’ attachment and entry into human cells. The two antibodies of 600 milligram each are mixed like a cocktail. It is administered intravenously or even subcutaneously (under the skin) like an injection. If it is given subcutaneously, these injections can be given at four spots in the body. A full dose of an antibody cocktail is given to the patient within 30 minutes. The patient will then be monitored for an hour to check for any reactions. The therapy has previously been used to treat infections such as Ebola and HIV (human immunodeficiency viruses). The Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved the therapy in May, following which a few private hospitals in the city such as Nanavati Max Super Speciality Hospital (Vile Parle) and Wockhardt Hospital (Mira Road) started using the new method. Since June 1, Nanavati Hospital has successfully treated four patients with multiple comorbid conditions, including two severely obese individuals with Body Mass Index of over 45, using the cocktail therapy. Dr Salil Bendre, consultant pulmonologist at the hospital, said a 58-year-old severely obese, chronic smoker, weighing 130kg, with a history of severe obstructive sleep apnea syndrome was the first to receive the antibody cocktail at the hospital. “He was a high-risk patient with no hypoxia, but had mild symptoms like body ache. As the patient had tested positive on May 30, we decided to administer the monoclonal cocktail to avoid the development of severe Covid-19 complications. Despite having severe comorbidities, the patient didn’t develop any further ailments. Two weeks on, his condition is now completely stable,” Dr Bendre said. In another case, a 50-year-old woman weighing 125kgs with a history of poliomyelitis, hypertension and borderline diabetes with mild Covid-19 infection showed improvement after receiving monoclonal antibody therapy. She was treated by Dr Girish Parmar, who is a senior consultant, endocrinology and diabetology, at the hospital said. Dr Parmar said, “The woman visited us on the seventh day of her Covid-19 infection. She was mildly symptomatic with cough and fever. Considering she was a high-risk patient, we decided to administer the monoclonal antibody cocktail within the initial window of disease advancement.” Wockhardt Hospital has treated two female patients above the age of 60 with comorbidities like diabetes, kidney disease and high blood pressure, using monoclonal antibody therapy. Dr Jinendra Jain, consultant physician at the hospital, said, “The antibody cocktail therapy is for those above the age of 65, home isolation patients having an oxygen saturation of 93% or require no oxygen support but are at risk of developing a severe form of the infection owing to comorbidities such as obesity, diabetes, liver disease, heart ailments, and chronic lung disease.” The therapy works effectively when administered within three-four days of contracting the infection, when the virus replicates and multiplies, said Dr Jain. However, he also cautioned that the therapy is not recommended for patients who have severe Covid-19 infection, require oxygen therapy and have allergies. However, doctors have cautioned about over-emphasising the term ‘life-saving drug’. “Yes, it has helped in reducing the viral load, shortening the duration of the treatment and lowering the probability of hospitalisation. But if a patient’s condition is already serious, then the treatment should be avoided. We need more studies on it,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, consultant pulmonologist, Hinduja Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbais-pvt-hospitals-adopt-monoclonal-antibody-cocktail-therapy-to-reduce-severity-of-covid19-101623524431662.html
13-06-2021||Other||Maharashtra reconciled 13K Covid-19 deaths since May 21||Maharashtra added over 13,700 deaths in its data reconciliation process over the past 22 days. Since May 21, the state reconciled 13,708 Covid-19 fatalities and added to the toll, health department data showed. However, state health department officials clarified that the reconciliation process was owing to delayed reporting of deaths and not because of underreporting or misreporting. State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said that there is no question of hiding the death count. As per the state health department data, between May 21 and June 12, Maharashtra added 21,715 fatalities to its toll, of which 13,708 were reconciliation deaths. In the past three days, the state has added 1522, 2,213 and 1,606 deaths respectively through the reconciliation process. The cumulative number of people who died due to the pandemic in the state now stands at 108,333. Officials said that the reporting of deaths on the Centre’s portal is a time-consuming process and the large number of Covid-19 cases in April and May led to delay in reporting of these deaths. A statement from the health department read, “The scope of data on Covid-19 cases, recovery of patients and deaths is vast. For that, the state’s integrated disease surveillance programme is working in a transparent manner... Due to technical reasons, there is a delay in reporting data. However, the districts and municipal corporations have been asked to immediately complete it.” A senior health department official said that the districts update cases on CV Analytics portal and deaths on Covid-19 portal of the Union government. The official said that the process of reconciliation of Covid-19 cases and deaths happens fortnightly. “However, there was a delay on part of private hospitals and district administration due to the load during the second wave. Private hospitals have been provided with a “facility app” to upload discharges and deaths, but they do not do it regularly. Districts or municipal corporations then compile this data and add the data. Besides that, laboratories have to upload positive cases on ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) portal. When there is a delay from that end, there cannot be real-time reporting of deaths and discharges,” the official said.Another senior official said that the parameters for categorising a death as Covid and non-Covid are laid down by ICMR and World Health Organization (WHO). “It generally takes five-seven days to classify a death as Covid or non-Covid. If a person has comorbidities, the doctors have to look at the medical history. Death audit committees at district level check the health complication and cause of death. If they are unable to categorise it due to multiple complications, then it is referred to the state audit committee,” the official said.On Saturday, Maharashtra added 10,697 fresh Covid-19 cases and 1,966 fatalities, including 1,606 reconciliation deaths. Out of the 1,606 deaths, 315 occurred in Nashik, 276 in Nagpur, 230 at Pune, 149 in Satara, 138 in Ahmednagar, 126 in Thane, 41 in Sangli, 36 in Jalna, 34 in Ratnagiri, 30 in Dhule, 29 in Nanded, 28 at Buldhana, 27 in Palghar, 19 each at Latur and Raigad, 16 in Solapur, 13 in Yavatmal, 12 in Chandrapur, 11 at Aurangabad, nine in Gondia, eight each at Jalgaon and Parbhani, seven in Wardha, six each at Beed and Osmanabad, five in Kolhapur, three in Sindhudurg, two each at Akola and Amravati and one in Bhandara.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-reconciled-13k-covid-19-deaths-since-may-21-101623524312833.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Jakhar terms SAD-BSP alliance opportunistic tie-up||Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Saturday termed the SAD-BSP electoral alliance as a desperate attempt on the part of leadership of “beadbi dal” to save their very existence, which is under threat. Jakhar said this opportunistic tie-up is not going to save their sinking ship. “BSP leaders may have forgotten the way they were treated after their 1996 alliance which did not even last one year, but Dalits and poor people who associate themselves with the party have not forgotten it,” he said in a statement. The Punjab Congress chief cautioned BSP leader Mayawati against taking (Akali Dal leader and former CM) Parkash Singh Badal’s invitation to contest from Punjab at face value. “(BJP leader) Arun Jaitley Ji had taken their invitation at face value and had to suffer a humiliating defeat. I hope she is wise enough not to go for it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jakhar-terms-sad-bsp-alliance-opportunistic-tieup-101623524312233.html
13-06-2021||Other||Ex-BSP MLC arrested in 8-year-old extortion case||LUCKNOW: Former BSP MLC Sanjiv Dwivedi alias Ramu Dwivedi was arrested from his allotted flat in Bahukhandi building in Dalibagh locality here on Friday night in connection with two cases of extortion and firing registered Deoria in 2012, said senior police officials on Saturday. His three associates were also arrested from different places. Deoria superintendent of police (SP) Sripati Mishra confirmed about the arrest of the former MLC, who is on the list of top mafioso of the state. He said the three others arrested along with him were identified as Raghvan, Bajrangi Tewari and Manish Mishra. Another senior police official said the action came after senior government authorities decided to open old cases against the former MLC. He said the MLC was thereafter arrested in the case of attack on liquor trader Sanjay Kedia and a social worker Nikunj Agarwal. He said the police had recently filed the chargesheet in the matter. The police were collecting more details about the former MLC and his aides involved in different criminal activities. The police had also collected the details of assets procured by them through criminal activities, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exbsp-mlc-arrested-in-8-year-old-extortion-case-101623524251632.html
13-06-2021||Other||Amritsar weapon haul: 10 held in November 2020 to be quizzed||Two days after a major weapon haul in the district in which at least 40 pistols (almost all of foreign make) and their cartridges were recovered, Punjab Police will interrogate 10 persons arrested in November 2020, as part of its investigation. At the time, seven pistols were recovered from these accused, some of whom are in jails and would be brought on a production warrant. On Thursday, Jagjit Singh, alias Jaggu, of Purian Kalan village in Batala was arrested. Preliminary investigation suggests that all weapons were smuggled from Pakistan. Police say Jaggu has links with Pakistan-based terror outfits and pro-Khalistani elements based in the US, Canada and the UK. They also claimed that Jaggu was operating at the behest of his US-based handler Darmanjit Singh, alias Darman Kahlon, a former gangster.Kahlon’s name had also cropped up in November 2020, when the State Special Operation Cell (SSOC) had arrested 10 in from Amritsar in connection with the recovery of seven pistols that were allegedly smuggled from Madhya Pradesh (MP). Seven of the ten accused have been identified as Gagandeep Singh of Tarn Taran, Ravideep Singh, Rajbir Singh, Hira Singh Pawandeep Singh and Gurpreet Singh of Gurdaspur district, and one Rahul of MP. The investigation into this case had found that Kahlon had given ₹1.5 lakh for the smuggling of weapons.“We will question all ten accused arrested in the 2020 case,” said ADGP (internal security) RN Dhoke, adding that it was unclear as to how much funding Kahlon had given in the Thursday night seizure case. He added that their teams were also working to ascertain the identity of banned and pro-Khalistani organisations in the US, Canada, the UK and Pakistan. “Most weapons are foreign-made and the possibility of their being smuggled from Pakistan can’t be ruled out,” the AGDP added. Kahlon had fled to the US after accusations emerged that he had orchestrated the escape of a notorious gangster, Harwinder Singh alias Manu, from police custody in 2017. Police are now working to ensure his extradition. A senior police official said, “Jaggu was nabbed soon after he received the weapon consignment. He had instructions from Kahlon to conceal it till further orders. He does not know who delivered the weapons. We are looking for this absconder.” Assistant inspector general (AIG), SSOC Amritsar, OS Ghumman said, “Investigation is on.” Police added that Jaggu came in contact with Kahlon during his stay in Dubai from 2017 to 2020. They remained in touch even after Jaggu’s return from Dubai. Batala police have said that Jaggu did not face any criminal case, prior to his arrest on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-weapon-haul-10-held-in-november-2020-to-be-quizzed-101623524132158.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai rains: Stay home, civic body tells citizens||Do not venture out of your homes, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) directed its citizens, following a heavy spell of rain over Friday night and Saturday morning, resulting in waterlogging across several areas. The BMC said the city will witness extremely heavy rain on Sunday and Monday. The advisory is an upgrade from Friday’s notice of not venturing near the sea and coast. The BMC, in a statement on Saturday, said, “Heavy rain is expected in the city tomorrow [Sunday] as well as day after. We request you to not venture out, especially near the sea.” The city also witnessed a high tide of over 4m, owing to which the gates were closed, and hence the city reported waterlogging, said BMC officials.According to BMC officials, between 11am and 12 noon, several locations in the city and suburbs received 40-60 mm rainfall due to which waterlogging was reported in several parts of the city. In the city, waterlogging was reported at 10 locations, which included Andheri Veera Desai Road (Sorata Pada), Malad Subway, Antop Hill road no 07, Bandra National college, Hindmata, Kurla Kamani, Gandhi market (King’s Circle), Sangam nagar(Wadala), Sion Road no 24 and Western Express Highway (WEH). As the day passed, water from all locations drained out after the rainfall stopped. Suburban train services on Central Railway (CR) were also disrupted due to waterlogging. However, activists claimed waterlogging in the city was reported much before the gates were closed. Nikhil Desai, a Matunga resident, said, “At Gandhi Market, waterlogging was reported at 8am itself, and it is not possible that gates were closed at that time. The high tide has been used by the BMC as an excuse for many years now. It is high time they accept that their management is not proper. On Saturday, there were no dewatering pumps present at Gandhi Market when water logging was reported. If this is the arrangement during heavy rainfall warning, the city will obviously have water logging.”On the other hand, Gautam Rao, a resident of Santacruz, said, “Just two days ago, during heavy rain on Wednesday, there was waterlogging within minutes of rainfall. Assuming the BMC learnt from this, we should not have had waterlogging on Saturday. But again, on Saturday, we had water logging. This is after the BMC set up a newly built pumping station by spending over Rs100 crore.”Further, the island city’s Colaba observatory got 90mm of rainfall between Friday morning and Saturday evening, followed by Santacruz observatory registered 171 mm. On Saturday, city reported five tree falls, nine incidents of short circuits. However, no injuries were reported in the incident.On Saturday, local train services were also suspended between Kurla and Dadar railway stations on the (CR mainline on Saturday afternoon at 12.15 pm. Train services suspended due to waterlogging at Sion railway station.Though train services were operational between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus(CSMT) and Dadar railway stations. However, as heavy rain stopped and water receded on the railway tracks, train services resumed at 1.15 pmOn the harbour railway, local trains were delayed as they were operating with caution. It was due to waterlogging at Chunabhatti railway station.There was no disruption of train services on the Western Railway (WR).The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) also diverted its buses on 50 routes in the city due to waterlogging at arterial roads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rains-stay-home-civic-body-tells-citizens-101623523891689.html
13-06-2021||Other||90% work of Purvanchal e-way complete: Satish Mahana||Industrial Development minister Satish Mahana has stated that 90% work of the Purvanchal expressway has been completed after conducting an aerial and on-the-spot inspection of the project on Saturday. Awanish Awasthi, CEO, UPEIDA, and Arvind Kumar, additional chief secretary, infrastructure and industrial development, were also present. Mahana carried out spot-inspection of the Ayodhya phase of the expressway and thereafter, reviewed progress of the work in a meeting with all officials concerned. Thereafter, the minister inspected Sultanpur and Azamgarh phases of the expressway.The 340-km expressway will start from the state capital and will end in Ghazipur, eastern Uttar Pradesh. Several ROBs are also coming up along this expressway. The expressway will traverse through nine districts of the state, including Lucknow, Barabanki, Faizabad, Ambedkar Nagar, Amethi, Sultanpur, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur. Besides, the expressway will also connect important cities like Varanasi, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur and Prayagraj through link roads. The expressway will also have a three-km long runway at Kudebhar in Sultanpur district. This runway has been proposed for landing and take-off of Indian Air Force jets during an emergency. Counted among the most prestigious projects of the state government, the project cost of the Purvanchal Expressway is around ₹22,494.66 crore, including the cost of the land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/90-work-of-purvanchal-e-way-complete-satish-mahana-101623523532277.html
13-06-2021||Other||Be wary of leaders who get ‘sold out’ for personal gains: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati, who has expelled 11 party MLAs and three state party chiefs in the past three years and seen several of her key aides’ defecting either to the BJP or the SP, has hit out at party deserters who get ‘sold out’ for individual gains. After a meeting at the party office in Lucknow on Saturday called to expand the party’s base ahead of 2022 UP polls, she urged the party leaders and workers to start holding small meetings of the party cadres across the state. These cadres, she said, would connect with the masses and remind them of the various initiatives and works undertaken by the BSP leadership when the party was in power in the state. “We need to continue with such small cadre meetings,” said the four-time former UP chief minister. At the meeting, she cautioned cadres against those party leaders who were deserting the party for individual gains. “We have to realign ourselves and work with missionary zeal to ensure a BSP government in the state that works for the welfare of all. The party people must trust cadre more than such leaders who take the name of Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar and Kanshi Ram ji but who get sold out for individual gains,” Mayawati said at the meeting. The BSP had 18 MLAs in the state’s legislative assembly but after rebellion of 9 lawmakers, including Ramvir Upadhyaya, Anil Singh, Aslam Raini, Aslam Ali, Mujtaba Siddiqui, Hakim Lal Bind, Hargovind Bhargava, Sushma Patel, Vandana Singh as well as recent expulsion of Lalji Verma and Ramachal Rajbhar, the party’s effective strength has since been reduced to seven MLAs. In fact, as she spoke, one of her suspended party MLAs Ramvir Upadhyaya, whose son Chiragvir has already joined the BJP, was seen with BJP leaders in Mathura. Upadhyaya was among BSP’s key Brahmin leaders who served as power minister in the Maya government in 2007.“We are in an election year now so the effective current strength of parties in assembly is meaningless. The model code would come into force in another seven to eight months’ time. Defections are common in an election year but those who have left BSP for other parties have soon realised that they have been used,” a BSP leader said. At the meeting Mayawati, party leaders said, cautioned the cadres against leaders who ‘bik jaate hain’ (get sold out). “Such people don’t hesitate about harming the party movement and get sold out though in the end these people end up harming themselves the most which they realise later. We need to stay wary of such people,” she said. Mayawati followed the ‘bik jaate hain’ phrase by reminding the cadre that BSP was a ‘movement-based’ party which unlike other political parties, didn’t rely on donations from corporate world. Instead, it relied on cadres for support, a BSP leader said. This was the first time Mayawati spoke after expelling two of her trusted MLAs in the party— veteran Lalji Verma and former UP BSP chief Ramachal Rajbhar. Both the leaders expelled on the charges of anti-party activities during the recently concluded panchayat elections had denied that they were in touch with either the BJP or SP and appealed to Mayawati to give them a hearing.The BSP chief, however, hasn’t responded to their appeals so far. Party cadres felt Mayawati’s address to the cadres to be cautious about ‘opportunists’ was in a way an attempt to pre-empt more desertions from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/be-wary-of-leaders-who-get-sold-out-for-personal-gains-mayawati-101623523292451.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana’s Bhikhi village first in Punjab to inoculate all 18+||Ludhiana’s Bhikhi village of Payal constituency has become the first village in the state to vaccinate 100% population in the 18+ category. Payal MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha said the population of Bhikhi is 1,700, of which 947 residents are above the 18 years of age. He said that barring 18 pregnant women and some people unfit for vaccination due to health issues, all 905 eligible persons have been vaccinated till Saturday. He said now all eligible residents of the village have received at least one dose of vaccine. A function in this regard was organised in the village, in which the residents were felicitated by the Lakha, ADC (development) Sandeep Kumar, SDM Mankanwal Singh Chahal, besides others. The ADC aid that the village panchayat has thus emerged a pioneer among civic bodies eligible for a special grant of ₹10 lakh, announced earlier by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma also congratulated the village and urged other residents of Ludhiana district to get vaccinated to fight Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhianas-bhikhi-village-first-in-punjab-to-inoculate-all-18-101623523232302.html
13-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports less than 1,000 Covid-19 cases after 100 days||Punjab on Saturday registered less than 1,000 cases of coronavirus infections after almost 100 days. The state reported 979 cases, taking the total count of infections to 5,86,947, while 56 more fatalities pushed the toll to 15,503, said a medical bulletin.It is for the first time in the past four months that all districts reported less than 100 cases. The number of active cases dropped to 14,064 from 15,306 on Friday.Six deaths were reported from Amritsar and five each from Fazilka, Ferozepur, Gurdaspur and Patiala. Amritsar reported 99 infections, followed by 92 in Ludhiana, 91 in Jalandhar and 79 in Bathinda, the bulletin said.The state’s positivity rate dropped to 1.78% from 2.05% on Friday. With 2,135 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,57,380, the bulletin said.There are 195 critical patients who are on ventilator support, besides 604 other critical patients while 2,659 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-less-than-1-000-covid-19-cases-after-100-days-101623522992639.html
13-06-2021||Other||Producing skilled drivers: Minimum requirements for driving schools’ accreditation set||Driving schools will have to impart more rigorous and hi-tech training as new rules for the accreditation of such centres will come into effect from July 1 in Uttar Pradesh and the rest of the country. Those who successfully complete the more in-depth training at the driving schools will not have to go to RTO for a test to acquire a driver’s licence.The idea behind the move is to produce skilled drivers to put a check on road accidents in the country.Exercising its powers under Section 8 of the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, the Central government has made rules with regard to accreditation of driving training centres.As a result, driving training centres (schools) in Uttar Pradesh – like elsewhere in the country – will need to fulfil certain minimum requirements before they get accreditation from the registering authority. Some of these include being equipped with simulators and dedicated driving tracks.A candidate, who successfully completes training at an accredited driving training centre and gets a certificate to that effect, will be exempt from taking a test at the regional transport office (RTO) when he goes there to procure a driving licence.“On June 7, the ministry of road transport has published a notification wherein the requirements to be fulfilled by accredited driver training centres have been mandated to help them impart proper training and knowledge to candidates,” transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu said. “The new rules that will be called the Central Motor Vehicles (Eleventh Amendment) Rules, 2021, come into effect from July 1, 2021. They will help the state get skilled drivers and this will surely have a positive impact on road safety,” he pointed out. The new rules stipulate that no person ‘shall’ establish or maintain an accredited driver training centre without an accreditation (to be applied through Form 11 A) granted by the state transport authority or any authorised agency notified by the central government.While considering an application for the grant or renewal of an accreditation under this rule, the designated authority shall ensure that the facility has two classrooms with teaching aids like computers and multimedia projectors for holding theory classes or lessons on traffic rules and regulations, driving procedures, public relations, apart from being equipped with simulator(s) and dedicated driving tracks.The applicant (driving school) also needs to have a biometric attendance system, qualified instructors, e-payment, real time evaluation, online evaluation process and adequate staff resources. The rules also have a prescribed syllabus and duration of training. They mandate the designated authority to monitor the operation of the centre and compliance of these rules through regular and surprise audits and inspections.“The candidates who successfully pass the test at these accredited centres will be exempt from the driving test requirement at the time of applying for a driving licence, which is currently being taken at the RTO,” Sahu pointed out, quoting the rules. These centres, he added, would be allowed to provide industry-specific specialised training as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/producing-skilled-drivers-minimum-requirements-for-driving-schools-accreditation-set-101623522871623.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Wife of former West Bengal Governor wins case against driver||The wife of former West Bengal Governor has won a legal battle against their driver who had refused to vacate a servants quarter allotted to him, claiming he was a tenant and paid rent.Anjana Shah, 80, wife of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Viren Shah, had approached the city civil court in March 2016 against their driver Anil Nair. The court has asked Nair to vacate the servant quarters occupied by him even after he was dismissed from the job in 2014.Nair was appointed in 2003 as full-time driver/chauffeur to Shah and his family by Mukund Limited, where Shah was a chairman. Nair was given an accommodation in a service quarter annexed to Suneeta Building, Malabar Hill, where Shah resided. The company continued to provide him with the service when he resigned from the company in 1999.However, after Shah died on March 2013, the company terminated services of Nair.Nair then approached Anjana saying he would continue his services for a monthly salary of ₹30,000. Anjana did not accept his offer, following which Nair misbehaved with the Shah family. He was then removed and asked to vacate the quarters.Nair refused to vacate the house and asked for alternative premises of a self-contained room kitchen on ownership basis in south Mumbai or ₹70 to ₹80 lakh cash to purchase the same, either by plaintiff or by the company.Nair claimed he was a tenant of the quarters and paid rent to Shah. He claimed to have paid a deposit of ₹12 lakh along with monthly rent of ₹2,300. He also denied that he was their driver. The court has rejected Nair’s claims as he could not produce any document or proof to show that he had paid deposit or rent to Shah for occupation of the premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wife-of-former-west-bengal-governor-wins-case-against-driver-101623522693825.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Police constable suspended for rape of colleague||A police constable has been suspended after he was booked by Ghatkopar police for allegedly raping and having unnatural sex with a woman police constable. The cop was attached to the Tardeo Local arms division. According to police, the accused and the complainant woman, a constable attached to the protection branch of the city police, knew each other since few years. Both are married and stayed in the police quarters at Ghatkopar. The woman in her complaint said that the accused befriended her, came close to her and under some false pretext cheated her and had physical relationship with her.“The accused under false pretext allegedly raped her and had unnatural sex with the complainant on a number of occasions at various places including Sakinaka and Navi Mumbai. Since, the complainant lives in Ghatkopar, she lodged the complaint with us,” said an inspector from Ghatkopar police station. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), Tardeo local arms, has taken cognizance of the matter and ordered for his suspension pending departmental enquiry, an officer said. As the accused cop could not be found at his place, police officers pasted the suspension notice at his house.Jitendra Agarkar, senior inspector, Ghatkopar police station, said the accused has secured anticipatory bail in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-constable-suspended-for-rape-of-colleague-101623522692702.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: GRP arrests specially abled man for thefts||Mumbai Central Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested a 33-year-old hearing and speech impaired man on Friday for allegedly robbing mobile phones and backpacks of commuters. GRP officers said the accused, Salim Shaikh alias Tushar, was wanted in several theft cases on the suburban lines in Mumbai.M Inamdar, senior inspector of Mumbai Central GRP, said they received a complaint from one Santosh Gaikwad, 35, a resident of Akola on June 6 that while he was asleep on the platform waiting for his train, an unidentified man robbed his backpack containing his mobile phone, gold earring and smart watch.Police scanned CCTV recordings of the platform and exit points of the station and noticed a man carrying the complainant’s backpack outside the station premises. “We identified the man as Tushar who was wanted for many such thefts,” said Inamdar.On Friday, police officers received a tip-off that Tushar was a resident of Bhandup, following which they went to Tushar’s residence and arrested him.“Since the accused is hearing and speech impaired and does not know how to read and write, it becomes difficult to question him. All we can do is present him before the court,” said Inamdar.Upon searching Tushar’s house, the police recovered the phone, smart watch and earrings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-grp-arrests-specially-abled-man-for-thefts-101623522693261.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Powai lake overflows; lakes supplying drinking water do not get much rainfall||Powai lake began to overflow on Saturday as the city received heavy rainfall in the last few days. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a statement on Saturday said the lake overflowed 24 days earlier in 2021 when compared to 2020. In 2020, the lake overflowed on July 5. The artificial lake was built in 1890 at an expense of around ₹40 lakh and it has a capacity to store 5,450 million litres of water in it, which is used mainly only for industrial use and not for drinking purpose.Meanwhile, though the city has received heavy rainfall in the past few days, the seven lakes that supply drinking water to the city did not see significant increase in the water stock as their catchment areas did not get enough rainfall, said BMC officials. According to the data, as of Saturday, lake level at the seven lakes was 185,971 million litres or around 12.85% of the total capacity of 1,447,363 million litres. The same on Tuesday was 185,864 million litres. This indicates that not much has changed in the ongoing week.A BMC official said, “Though the city has got heavy rainfall, catchment areas have not got much rainfall, due to which the lakes have not seen any major increase in water levels. Currently, we have enough water for around 50 days and there are no plans for water cuts.”As per the data, Upper Vaitarna lake has no water stored, Modak Sagar has 33.66% water stock, Tansa has 12.98%, Middle Vaitarna 12.23%, Bhatsa which supplies 55% of city’s water has 11.39% water, Vihar has 51.17% and Tulsi has 52.41% water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/powai-lake-overflows-lakes-supplying-drinking-water-do-not-get-much-rainfall-101623522632769.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra braces for heavy rainfall in coastal districts||On the backdrop of prediction of extremely heavy rain in the coastal districts of Maharashtra, the state administration has shifted locals from low-lying and landslide prone areas to safety, and deployed 12 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Mumbai and Palghar districts. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted extremely heavy downpour on Sunday.The regional meteorological centre had issued red alerts in Raigad and Ratnagiri districts for Saturday, while it upgraded alert status from orange to red for Mumbai and Palghar for Sunday. Raigad and Ratnagiri continued to remain on red alert as forecast of extremely heavy rainfall is made for these four districts. Extremely heavy rainfall, as per definition, is above 204.5mm rainfall.According to government officials, the districts have sounded alerts asking people to remain indoors. An official from Raigad collector’s office said the district administration has moved over 1,000 people from around 20 villages to safer locations. “Raigad has been receiving a lot of rainfall; in the past 24 hours we received over 80mm rainfall. Since there was a risk of landslide in some talukas, we have moved 1,138 people from 20 villages,” said the official, who did not wish to be named. Officials from Ratnagiri collector’s office said the state has deployed three teams there. Mumbai too has braced for heavy downpour on Sunday. The city has three NDRF teams deployed. State environment minister and Mumbai guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray said, “People should remain extremely careful while stepping out. There is forecast for heavy rains in Mumbai, besides that we still have Covid-19 restriction. So we have to remain careful.”Palghar collector Manik Gursal said on Saturday there was not much rain, but they are prepared. “We have level four Covid-19 restrictions in place [except in Vasai-Virar] so there is hardly any movement. We have issued advisory in the fishing villages and have two teams of NDRF in place for any situation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-braces-for-heavy-rainfall-in-coastal-districts-101623522632182.html
13-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai, Konkan coast under orange alert till June 15||The entire Konkan coast and Mumbai are expected to see heavy to extremely heavy rains at isolated locations on Sunday and Monday. Raigad and Ratnagiri districts have been placed under a red category weather alert for Sunday and Monday, indicating a higher chance of severe weather, while Mumbai, Thane, Palghar and Sindhudurg districts have been placed under orange category alert.Earlier on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a red alert for Mumbai and the entire Konkan region, but this was later downgraded to an orange category alert for all districts except Ratnagiri and Raigad, as the “heavy rainfall belt has moved southwards”, IMD officials clarified. However, with the formation of a low-pressure area over North Bay of Bengal and cyclonic circulations in the Arabian Sea facilitating strong westerly winds, an active rainfall spell is expected over the Konkan coast for at least four to five days, IMD officials said. Mumbai has recorded a total of 706.1mm of rain as of 5.30pm on Saturday, a sharp increase from the monthly average rainfall of 505mm, between June 1 and June 12. This includes pre-monsoon showers that took place between June 1 and June 8. In the 24 hours ending 8.30am on Saturday, Mumbai had received 107mm of rainfall, as per the automatic weather station at Santacruz. In the nine hours ending 5.30 pm, it recorded 64.8 mm rain.Mumbai’s only operational doppler radar at Colaba, meanwhile, was revived after over three weeks on Saturday. The radar had been defunct since May 16, a day before Cyclone Tauktae passed by the city on its way to Gujarat. Dr MN Rajeevan, secretary, ministry of earth sciences, had told HT on Friday that it was likely to remain defunct for at least two months. Despite repeated requests, IMD officials did not clarify the reason for the radar’s speedy recovery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-konkan-coast-under-orange-alert-till-june-15-101623522631603.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi restaurants may reopen with 50% capacity from Monday||The state government is likely to allow restaurants with 50% capacity and a limited number of weekly markets to open from Monday, senior government officials said on Saturday.An official added that opening salons is also under active consideration.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to announce the new set of relaxations on Sunday afternoon, said officials.“Once allowed, restaurants will have to follow social distancing norms like they did during the previous unlock process. There will be enhanced enforcement in weekly markets too which will be strictly regulated. They will be opened on a zonal basis, with restrictions,” said a senior official on condition of anonymity.As part of the unlock process, shops in malls, markets and liquor shops in the Capital were allowed to open on an odd-even basis from 10am to 8pm from June 7. Stand-alone and neighbourhood shops were allowed on all days from 10am to 8pm. Government and private offices have also been allowed to function, with up to 50% of their staff. The Delhi Metro was also allowed to resume its services.Delhi on Saturday witnessed a further drop in the daily count of Covid-19 cases as it registered 213 new infections in the last 24 hours, according to the state health bulletin. The active caseload, which stood at 3,922 on Friday, dropped to 3,610 in the last 24 hours, the Capital’s Covid-19 dashboard showed.The test positivity rate is at it’s lowest since February, when it stood at 0.25%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-restaurants-may-reopen-with-50-capacity-from-monday-101623521554144.html
13-06-2021||Lucknow||Yogi asks UP officials to distribute aid through public representatives||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday asked the officers concerned to ensure that disaster relief or any other government monetary aid was distributed through local public representatives.He also directed the officials to activate the bank accounts of all the newly elected gram pradhans (village heads) at the earliest.“Local MLAs and MPs should be present at such events (organised for distribution of aid),” he said at the Covid review meeting. He also said, “It’s time to make serious efforts to create new sources of income in villages. The government is taking many steps to empower gram panchayat (village governments).”Asking officials to train all the newly elected gram pradhans, he said it should be ensured that gram sabhas (village councils) held their meetings regularly.“They should be educated on how to select useful development projects for the respective villages. Village heads, with collective efforts, can do innovative projects,” he said.Yogi Adityanath said the rainy season had begun which was also the time when vector-borne diseases like encephalitis and malaria were transmitted faster.He directed better preparations, precaution, prevention and treatment arrangements in the districts of Gorakhpur, Basti and Devipatan divisions and those bordering Nepal.“From June 15, launch door-to-door medicine kit distribution for children. Also, do surveillance for diseases in a better manner,” he said.He said the Covid pandemic intensity had decreased in UP and the situation was under control in all the districts.“Now, there are only 9,806 Covid active cases, which is similar to the pre-March 31 situation. The daily positivity rate is a mere 0.2% and the recovery rate is 98.1%. In the past 24 hours, 524 new cases were recorded while a total of 1,757 people recovered and were discharged from hospitals. So far, a total of 16.7 lakh people in the state have recovered from Covid (since March 2020),” he said.Nevertheless, the aggressive Covid testing policy should continue and daily test numbers should be increased, the chief minister said.He also said Covid vaccination was progressing fast in the state and 4.61 lakh doses were administered in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 2.24 crore doses (since January 16).“Currently, on an average, four lakh doses are being administered daily and this capacity has to be increased to 10-12 lakh doses per day by next month. Also, run a campaign in the rural areas, telling people the need and benefits of the Covid vaccination,” he said to the officials at the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-asks-up-officials-to-distribute-aid-through-public-representatives-101623520711518.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt places fresh order to streamline distribution of food grains scheme||The Delhi government has placed fresh orders to procure 5,000 metric tonnes (MT) of wheat and rice to ensure no more hiccups in its scheme to provide free food grains to people without ration cards in the city, senior officials said on Saturday.“A large number of people turned up at our centres over the past two weeks. The demand was clearly way more than what we had expected. But people should not panic. Delhi government will provide free ration to every deserving person and no one will return empty handed from our centres. We have placed orders with the Food Corporation of India (FCI) for more food grains, which will arrive soon,” said Imran Hussain, Delhi food and civil supplies minister.Over the past two weeks, beneficiaries faced a lot of problems with the distribution centres running out of food grains due to huge demand. Till Friday, centres set up at schools in Hauz Rani, Munirka, Shahpur Jat, RK Puram, Ber Sarai continued to send people back citing shortage of stock, said functionaries on the ground.On Saturday, Hussain said the government has “taken note of all the grievances” reported by people. “We assure you that things will be further streamlined in the coming days to make the entire process smooth and hassle-free. The Aam Aadmi Party government believes that ration is the right of people,” he said.On May 18, Kejriwal announced that people without ration cards too will get free food grains, pegging the number of beneficiaries at 2 million over and above those covered under the public distribution system. Under the scheme, which was implemented on June 5, each beneficiary gets 4kg wheat and 1kg rice.Department reports showed that from June 5 till Saturday afternoon, the Delhi government distributed 5,000MT of food grains to 450,000 beneficiaries through 280 centres. Each ward in Delhi has one distribution centre set up in a government school.Himanshu Bisht, a resident of East Vinod Nagar who got his package of ration on Saturday, said the system does not require prior registration. “I just had to show my Aadhaar card and got 5kg of free ration. A lot of us have had to face pay cuts and have even lost our jobs. This scheme of the Delhi government has proved to be extremely helpful,” he said.Kalyan Rai, a resident of Seelampur, said these are walk-in centres. “I just walked in at the school near my jhuggi. The officials took details such as my name, parentage, mobile number, Aadhaar and so on. Then an SMS was sent on my mobile number after which I got my ration,” she said.Officials said even those without a mobile phone are being given free ration. “Those who cannot provide a mobile number are being given a code (token) generated in the system on the spot, after which ration is given to them. If one doesn’t have any ID proof, we still give ration for one person. If all the members of a family have Aadhaar cards, then everyone will get 5kg ration each,” said an official on condition of anonymity.The 280 free ration centres remain open from 10am to 4pm on all working days, except on gazetted holidays and on Sundays. Apart from walking in at any of these centres, people can also call up the 1031 helpline, to identify the location of schools from which ration is being distributed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-places-fresh-order-to-streamline-distribution-of-food-grains-to-those-without-ration-cards-101623519091481.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||High risk of third Covid wave, preparing on war footing: CM||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the chances of a third wave of Covid-19 (the fifth for Delhi) are “quite real” and assured that the Delhi government is preparing to combat it on a “war-footing”, as he inaugurated 22 oxygen pressure swing absorption (PSA) plants in nine state government-run hospitals.“We are now at the risk of the third wave of Covid-19 and are receiving indications that the United Kingdom has already started experiencing the third wave. Covid-19 cases are rising rapidly, even though 45% of the people are already vaccinated there. However, initial indications suggest that the intensity is lower this time. So, we also have to be fully prepared for the same. Delhi government is committed to preparing with full conviction,” Kejriwal said in a digital address during the inauguration of the oxygen plants.These 22 small-sized oxygen plants can, in total, produce 17.3 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen, while 17 more such plants will be commissioned by July.The Delhi government plans to set up 57 oxygen generation plants with a total capacity of 64MT, which will generate 35,000 litres of oxygen per minute, data seen by HT showed. Of the 57 oxygen plants, 22 were inaugurated on Saturday, five were commissioned in May, while the Central government has already installed six. The Delhi government will set up 17 more plants, while the Centre will open seven.“The fourth wave of Covid-19 in Delhi saw a huge shortage of oxygen. Delhi is not an industrial state and so it doesn’t have its own source of [medical] oxygen. Usually, Delhi needs a lesser share of oxygen for its hospitals, which is obtained from other states. But during the fourth wave, the demand increased manifold. Delhi needs 150-200 MT of medical oxygen for non-Covid purposes, apart from industrial purposes. This demand rose to 700 MT during the fourth wave because every patient needed oxygen,” Kejriwal said.“We didn’t have the ability to produce oxygen, nor did we have tankers to procure oxygen from states like Haryana and Uttar Pradesh on the directions of the central government. Now, we have to be fully prepared,” he said.In addition to oxygen plants and at least 6,000 oxygen cylinders, the government has also set up three storage plants of 57 MT each, and arranged oxygen tanks of 13.5 MT each.Roshni Nadar Malhotra, chairperson of HCL Technologies, said HCL is contributing 21 ready-to-install oxygen plants imported from France. “Seventeen of these have already been installed across seven hospitals in Delhi. The remaining four have also arrived and will be installed over the next few days,” she said.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said of the 22 PSA plants, 17 have been given by HCL, and the remaining five by Maruti Udyog. “HCL will be supplying four more plants, which will arrive soon. Similarly, five such plants have already been installed in hospitals like Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Satyawadi Raja Harishchandra, Ambedkar Nagar hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, and Burari Hospital. These plants have already been commissioned,” he said.Hospitals such as Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, Deep Chand Bandhu Hospital, Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital, Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital and Nirankari Field Hospital have got the plants installed recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/high-risk-of-third-covid-wave-preparing-on-war-footingcm-101623519092125.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Pre-monsoon showers likely in Delhi from Saturday night, says Met dept||Parts of Delhi are likely start receiving pre-monsoon showers from late Saturday night and early Sunday morning, coupled with dust storms, the India Meteorological Department said.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the showers will intensity over on Sunday.“From Sunday, we have a forecast of moderate rain across Delhi. Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR) will receive intermittent rain for the next three to four days, while temperatures will drop to around 34 degrees Celsius,” said Srivastava.On Saturday, the maximum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the entire city, was 35.8°C, four degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 28°C.At the Palam weather station, the maximum temperature was 38.6 degrees Celsius, two degrees below normal, the minimum temperature was 27.3 degrees Celsius, a notch below normal.The Met department on Friday said the south-west monsoon will reach Delhi and most of north-west India by June 15, almost a fortnight ahead of schedule, due to a low pressure system building up over the Bay of Bengal.The monsoon usually arrives in Delhi by June 27-28, but this year it is set to advance swiftly due to weather conditions in the northern Bay of Bengal, Met officials said.Scientists attributed the sudden advancement to the formation of a low-pressure system over the northern Bay of Bengal. When a low-pressure area is formed at the onset of monsoon, it creates conditions that conducive for the advancement of monsoon.IMD said that except for some parts of Rajasthan and Gujarat, the monsoon is likely to cover all of north-west India by June 15.HT reported on Friday that the monsoon was racing across the country after arriving two days late in Kerala, and was likely to cover the entire country a fortnight ahead of the usual July 8 date under favourable conditions.HT last month reported that Delhi since August 2020 has broken a historical weather record every month — either by being hotter, wetter, or colder than usual. This, for example, is likely to be the first June in Delhi to not get a single heat wave day as rain brings down the temperature further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/premonsoon-showers-likely-in-delhi-from-saturday-night-says-met-dept-101623519031396.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||Sisodia demands full-tax waiver on Covid items at GST meet||The Delhi government reiterated its demand for full tax waiver on all Covid-19 medical items till the end of the pandemic at the GST Council meeting on Saturday, said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who attended the meeting chaired by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman.“Today (Saturday), at the GST Council meeting, I recommended that it is necessary for us to make Covid-19 medical equipment such as vaccines, masks, sanitisers, thermometers, oximeters and so on tax free. Expenses related to masks, sanitisers, thermometers have now been added into the monthly budget of people. So, people are waiting to see whether their bill for a sanitiser or mask will remain at Rs.500 or go up to Rs.550 with tax. There should be no tax for such items till the pandemic at least,” said Sisodia, who is also the finance minister, in a statement on Saturday evening.In the advent of a possible third wave, the Delhi government also sought a clarification from the Centre. “Keeping in mind a possible third wave, central and state governments across the nation have already started ramping up medical facilities. Private sectors have also been asked to invest in public healthcare. If a state government asks a private company to invest ₹10 lakh in a hospital to increase its ICU capacity, does this mean that the hospital will get the full amount or will that hospital receive a deducted amount after tax?,” asked Sisodia.The deputy CM said ministers across several BJP-ruled states are against the suggestion of making Covid-19 medical equipment tax-free. “The BJP-led central government showed their discontent against state governments, which recommended making medical items tax free. The GST Council did not listen to any of us and did not accept our suggestions. I appeal to the central government to have an open heart, to think about the sufferings of the people and make these equipment tax-free. It is the need of the hour and will help people when they plan their monthly budget,” said Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-demands-full-tax-waiver-on-covid-items-at-gst-meet-101623519032130.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||‘Not viable to run jab centres with ₹150 cap on service fee’||Several private hospitals in the Capital have shut drive-through and outreach Covid-19 vaccinations in offices and colonies, arguing that the ₹150 cap on service charge imposed by the Centre does not allow them to adequately recover costs involved in the inoculation process.One of Delhi’s first drive-through vaccination centres, set up at a mall in Dwarka by Akash Healthcare, which provided free shots to the under-privileged, shut on Friday, after the hospital said it was no longer viable to run.“...We have decided to stop it now, owing to the new vaccination pricing, as running it has become non-viable now,” the hospital said in a statement.As he announced free vaccines for Indian states on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that private hospitals will be allowed to charge a maximum service charge of ₹150 on the fixed price of the jabs.Hospitals have, however, said this fee is too low to cover the cost of maintaining the cold chain, transporting consumables, medical staff, ambulances, and proper bio-medical waste disposal.Madhukar Rainbow hospital, which had set up outreach vaccination points in various colonies with the help of the local resident welfare organisations, said the centres are all incurring losses.“There is the cost of the vaccine, and many additional costs if we set up outreach camps. We need to pay for the ambulance, the nurse and doctors, dispose of the biomedical waste properly. There is a cost to all of this. We are planning to send a letter to the government asking them to review the prices for these outreach camps,” said Dinesh Vashishth, COO of the hospital.Earlier, Fortis Healthcare, in a statement also said the ₹150 cap was too little to run outreach centres.Also Read | Third Covid wave chances real, Delhi govt preparing on war-footing: Kejriwal“Unfortunately, the cap of service charge at ₹150 will not cover the additional costs incurred for such off-site vaccination camps which involve substantial costs like ambulance, transport, extra staff and doctor, plus TDS involved in many cases. We urge the government to consider a higher charge for off-site vaccination camps to enable expanded coverage,” the hospital had said in a statement the day the announcement was made by the prime minister.Others, such as BLK-Max hospital, which is running one of the biggest vaccination centres, have started operating on the lower costs.“The ₹150 is enough for hospitals to carry out vaccination at their premises but it is too less if they need to set up drive-throughs and outreach camps. The thing is, it is not clear whether the government will object to extra charges for such camps. The problem was that many hospitals had started charging an overhead cost of ₹300 to ₹400, which is why the government had to step in to regulate the prices. We need to rationalise this cost; we will pick this issue up in the next meeting,” said Girdhar Gyani, director general of Association of Healthcare Providers (India) – an organisation of over 10,000 healthcare providers from across India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/drivethrough-offsite-vaccination-sites-shut-as-hospitals-say-centre-s-service-fee-cap-not-viable-101623518971436.html
13-06-2021||Delhi||SDMC floats online facility for e-waste collection||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC ) has started an online facility to collect e-waste and ensure its scientific disposal. The civic agency has partnered with a private company to dispose of old and unserviceable IT equipment and other electronic items from offices, households, resident welfare associations (RWAs) and markets under the jurisdiction of the SDMC.Municipal officials said that as per the agreement, the private firm will purchase e-waste from the citizens through tenders and will ensure its safe disposal. The e-waste will be collected on the basis of requests received on the online system.“The ministry of environment, forest and climate change has notified the E-waste Management Rules, 2016, following which the SDMC has engaged a private firm RBH E-Waste Recycle Hub Pvt Ltd on the basis of open tender for disposal of e-waste collected through online facility. To ensure proper disposal, the corporation has launched an application https://ewaste.mcdservices.for submitting the online request for collecting e-waste. Citizens can raise the request on this portal and the vendor will collect the e-waste from their doorsteps as per approved rates of e-waste,” said an SDMC spokesperson.E-Waste is a general term given to electronic and electrical items like computer, transformer, switches, TV, etc. Civic officials said e-waste contains toxic chemicals and minerals like arsenic, cadmium, acid among others and hence, should be recycled in a scientific manner.“Currently, people sell e-waste to random scrap dealers, who either dispose them without any scientific procedure or sell them to other companies. If such item is not disposed of in a scientific manner, it can cause massive damage to the environment. So, the SDMC has introduced the online facility for e-waste collection,” the official said.Municipal authorities said the SDMC has also fixed rates for e-waste items which is available on the civic body’s website. They said that citizens will also be provided a certificate regarding safe disposal of their e-waste by the vendor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-floats-online-facility-for-e-waste-collection-101623518851375.html
13-06-2021||Pune||Probe report in Anil Parab case submitted to Nashik CP||Nashik Police have submitted the probe report in connection with allegations of corruption against Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab and six others to city police chief Deepak Pandey on Saturday, an officer involved in investigation confirmed. The inquiry officer however did not reveal contents of the report neither did Pandey respond to call and text message. The probe was conducted was deputy commissioner level officer with two other DCPs assisting the investigation. Pandey had earlier offered extension of two weeks for the probe after ordering inquiry on May 27 into the allegation of corruption in transfers and posting against Parab and others saying the probe will be completed soon. Barely few days after a suspended motor vehicle inspector of the Nashik Regional Transport Office (RTO) Gajendra Patil accused Parab and six officers of corruption in transfers and postings to the tune of crores in the RTO department, the probe was ordered. Patil had earlier alleged that there is rampant corruption in transfers and postings of officials and at border check posts while officials are involved in settlement of cases and illegal registration of BS-4 vehicles. Parab, 56, is a three-term Shiv Sena legislator in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, the upper house of the state legislature. An advocate by profession, Parab is also minister for Parliamentary Affairs in MVA government while enjoining clouts due to his proximity to Uddhav Thackeray. Parab has already refuted the charges saying the complaint filed against him, the state transport commissioner and five other officers is baseless, politically motivated, and aimed at defaming the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/probe-report-in-anil-parab-case-submitted-to-nashik-cp-101623516991304.html
13-06-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: The day a toddler called the shots, and stole the show!||Last week, I had fun while re-living the experiences of working with children in my first film. While I was re-reading the article, I realised that I have worked with them in almost all my projects henceforth! And they include children of all ages – from newborns to toddlers to pre-teens to children who feel they are old enough to understand everything! Working with them was not by design, but I am glad this happened. In all these I was left scratching my head and (eventually) with a smile on my face. I starkly remember working with two-year-old Raghav Joshi on the set of a film of mine – “Baapjanma”. I was fresh on the heels of directing “Dhappa”, after directing as many as 19 kids in a few scenes and I thought I would be able to pull it off, even though Raghav was remarkably younger. I had met him at a party just a month back and was pleasantly surprised with how easily he was socialising with the fifty people present there. When we had begun casting for that part, a friend of mine reminded me of him and he was finalised immediately. So, while Raghav’s character was in many scenes, there were two scenes where we needed specific reactions from him. Most of his scenes were lined up at the beginning of the schedule. When he came on set, his attitude was exactly how I remembered from the party. He got along with everyone and shooting with him was a breeze. Thankfully, he was supposed to be cheerful and happy in all of his scenes. Sharvari Lohakare, who was playing his onscreen mother, also got along with him behind the camera and that helped me get an amazing moment on camera. There was one more reaction left, but I was not worried about it now. Our lead actor – Sachin Khedekar – joined the set a few days after the shoot started. Raghav’s next important scene was with him. I was eagerly waiting to see the warm scene between a man and his grandson translate from paper to screen! The performers were a veteran actor and a young charmer. But the charmer had other plans! He just wouldn’t let Sachin dada near him. Maybe it was because we were shooting in a dimly-lit basement and he was not used to it. We tried many things, from playing games with him, to asking his mother to be in front of him, to offering chocolates to taking him out for some fresh air. But nothing seemed to be working for him. We thought it was just not our day and thankfully found something else to shoot. The next day though was no different! We started the shoot with that shot, but his mood was no different. So, we postponed it to later in the day and made sure that Sachin dada and Raghav interacted between shots and in breaks. He used to be ok then. But when we tried shooting that particular shot, his mood would change drastically. We tried till we had nothing left to shoot for the day, but were nowhere close to canning this shot! I guess the pressure of losing time was evident on my face, as I was being suggested various solutions by all team members – which ranged from taking their shots separately to using a large doll! But I wanted their combined shot because I believed that would create the desired impact. I racked my brain and tried to find any theatre exercise, any moment while watching the making of any other film, any book excerpt which will prove to be my “eureka” moment, but I was left witless. Sachin dada’s friend, a doctor, was visiting the set that day. He came up to me and said that if you want him in a good mood, feed him some sugar. I told him that we had offered him chocolates and it hadn’t worked. The doctor just told me to use it a preventive measure, not a curative one. He said that the sugar rush will open up a small window, but it will most likely work for the shot! With that in mind we kept everything else ready and rehearsed the shot before. We cleared the room and kept a minimal crew. We fed him some chocolate before the shot and got him in the basement immediately, where Sachin dada was waiting. Raghav seemed to be in a better mood. Without any formal calls of “action” we just started shooting whatever we could get. And it was good! Once we were satisfied with one angle, our cameraman immediately lifted the camera and ran to another spot, the camera attendants scrambling after him. Again, we just rolled the camera and let the two actors be! The whole exercise must have lasted for hardly fifteen minutes, but the shots that we got were better than the ones we had spent many hours on previously. I came outside and thanked the doctor. It was such a simple, but effective suggestion. Something that helped me in my next film too. The bar of chocolate that helped us through this also made the cut of the film and is visible in the scene!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/the-day-a-toddler-called-the-shots-101623511951053.html
13-06-2021||Pune||After backlash, minister suspends SPPU move to charge fee for stroll on campus||Following severe criticism from locals, Maharashtra’s minister for higher education, Uday Samant, has asked Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) administration to suspend its decision of charging ₹1,000 from those who visit the campus for morning and evening walks, the minister announced the same via Twitter. Samant in a tweet on Saturday morning said, “The decision to charge fees from those on morning and evening walk at SPPU’s oxygen park has been suspended. The plan will be revised soon and a notification on the same will be issued,” said Samant.The SPPU has created an oxygen park by planting various saplings where it had invited people to take a stroll and pay ₹1,000. Several locals, who take morning and evening stroll in the university campus, criticised the decision, forcing Samant to issue a clarification that the administration has been asked to revise its plan. On Saturday, Samant retracted the proposal of ‘Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) Oxy Park’ under which the university had decided to charge ₹1,000 from people from June 20.Ashish Deshpande, a regular visitor to the university campus, said that the decision to charge money from people who come to the university is not right.“It is a state university, and the campus is open for everyone. Due to the pandemic, more and more people are trying to remain fit. Visiting the campus for a morning and evening walk is a regular habit for me. Charging money from those who visit the campus is not correct at all. It is a good thing that the proposal was withdrawn,” said Deshpande.Another regular visitor, Anand Kulkarni, said that decision was not welcome at all.“People pay exorbitant amounts of money for a gym but such a natural campus for regular walks is a good place. Money should not be charged from visitors. The university campus is not private property and so such a fee is not acceptable,” said Kulkarni.As per the earlier notification issued by the SPPU, ₹1,000 was charged for a month. For children between the age group of nine years to 13 years, no fee was to be charged; only a registration fee of ₹500 was to be paid. The SPPU would provide an identity card to members. Family members of the Oxy park member would get 25 per cent off on their membership, as per the previous notification. Following Samant’s intervention, SPPU replaced the notification by afternoon after the backlash with new order stating that ‘SPPU Oxy Park’ will be inaugurated on International Yoga Day that is June 21. “The SPPU Oxy park scheme will be updated and relaunched with new sports and other facilities included in it. Meanwhile, the notification issued on June 11 is withdrawn,” stated officials from SPPU. Despite several attempts, registrar Prafulla Pawar was not available for a comment. SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said he cannot comment on the issue as he is in Nashik and not on campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-backlash-minister-suspends-sppu-move-to-charge-fee-for-stroll-on-campus-101623510811108.html
13-06-2021||Pune||Purandar airport proposal sent to Centre: Pawar||The Maharashtra government has put the ball in the Centre’s court regarding the progress of the proposed international airport to be built in Pune district.“We have completed the paperwork in terms of the proposed Purandar airport and have sent it to the Centre. The state government is positive about this project,” Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said in Pune on Friday. By saying this Pawar hinted that now it’s up to the Centre to give a green signal to the pending project.In February 2021, Pawar had said that a report had been submitted to the Central government regarding the new site for Purandar airport. The originally proposed site for the Pune International Airport was changed because of the opposition from the villagers in Purandar Tehsil. Then a revised proposal, with the change in the location site, was submitted to the Centre for approval.But opposition has emerged for the new site as well. Even if the Centre gives a go-ahead, the land acquisition process will not be a cakewalk for the administration.Speaking on the resistance from the locals during the land acquisition process for the developmental infrastructure projects, Pawar said that the rates of compensation money have been increased now and dialogue with the locals is essential.“Infrastructure projects, such as the construction of airports, ring roads, dams, face opposition from some locals. This phenomenon is not recent. Dialogue is the key in such situations. Earlier, the land compensation was very less. Now, the compensation is four times that of ready reckoner. If you get four times compensation for your land, you can buy land elsewhere,” said Pawar.A stiff resistance has also been encountered by the officials in the land acquisition process for the western part of Ring road to be constructed by Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC).Commenting on this Pawar said that the Ring Road is necessary considering the requirement of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad cities. “I personally believe that the Ring road is necessary for PMC, PCMC, and the district’s population. If we consider the traffic in Pune city and suburbs, then the Ring road is planned by thinking for the next 50 years. The benefits of this project have to be explained to the affected people. It will be discussed with them. If someone is losing the agricultural land, then more compensation can be given,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/purandar-airport-paperwork-complete-proposal-sent-to-centre-ajit-pawar-101623510690908.html
