14-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Wetland, park on landfill in Sec 54 to be ready by August||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Monday said that the ‘wasteland to wetland’ project in Sector 54, which includes the development of a park with an open air theatre, will be ready by the end of August this year. The work that was started in January this year was supposed to be completed by June, but it got affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said officials.The authority is spending ₹4.86 crore on the development of wetland and park on an area spanning around 22 acres of land. Once developed, it will be a beautiful attraction for nature lovers right in the heart of the city, said the officials.“We have expedited the work on this wetland and park project after easing of Covid-19 restrictions. The park will be opened for public in August,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty and in-charge of horticulture department of the Noida authority.In June, 2019, the authority had shifted the rotting mass of garbage from Sector 54 to another site in Sector 145 following protests from residents, who had approached the National Green Tribunal. The NGT had in 2019 directed the authority to stop dumping waste at the Sector 54 green belt. The authority then decided to convert the ‘wasteland’ into a wetland’, said the officials. “There is a low lying area in the Sector 54 green belt, which is being used to develop a wetland. Besides, a park will be developed around the wetland. The park will have several elevated pathways, a sit out area, an open air theatre with a capacity of 150 people, among other facilities,” said Singh.“The wetland will not only use rainwater to recharge water table, but will also be filled with treated water from a nearby sewage treatment plant,” Singh added.Residents are eagerly waiting for this project to be completed. “Noida hardly has any pond or a wetland, where families can hang out with children. Once this wetland and park is opened for public, it will be very beneficial for citizens,” said NP Singh, president of Gautam Budh Nagar district development residents’ welfare associations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-wetland-park-on-landfill-in-sec-54-to-be-ready-by-august-101623695385726.html
14-06-2021||Other||Registration of vehicle at dealer’s showroom begins in Pune||PUNE The state transport department along with the Pune regional transport office (RTO) registered the first vehicle in Pune at a dealer’s showroom. Earlier, customers had to get the vehicle registration number from the RTO. Now this can be done at the dealer’s showroom itself. The first two-wheeler was registered at the dealer’s showroom on Monday, at B U Bhandari, Sadhu Vaswani chowk. The first vehicle registration number was given to Ramesh Vaswani customer, with the number MH 12 TJ 7818. “Henceforth, the dealer point registration system has started in the state and it began from Pune city. This will be helpful for customers and documentation and paperwork will be reduced. On Monday, a total of three vehicles were registered through this system,” said Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/registration-of-vehicle-at-dealer-s-showroom-begins-in-pune-101623695326383.html
14-06-2021||Other||Sumitra Mahajan will address 118th convocation ceremony of SPPU on June 15||PUNE The 118th convocation ceremony of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is scheduled to be held on Tuesday, June 15, online. It was scheduled to be held on April 18, but due to the state wide lockdown it was postponed. The convocation will be presided over by governor of Maharashtra, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, and former Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan will deliver the convocation address as the chief guest. Uday Samant, state higher and technical education minister, will be a special guest. Usually, there are two convocations held every year at the SPPU. A total of 1,61,591 students who have graduated from various departments of the SPPU in the 2019-20 academic year and even before that, will be given graduation certificates. Of these, 465 students will be getting their PhD degrees from the university. “Due to the current Covid pandemic situation we are going to hold this convocation ceremony online for the safety of our students. Limited guests are invited for the ceremony and all students will get their certificates by post. No student is required to come down to the university campus to get a certificate,” said SPPU vice- chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sumitra-mahajan-will-address-118th-convocation-ceremony-of-sppu-on-june-15-101623695325754.html
14-06-2021||Noida||Gautam Budh Nagar has only three trees over 100 years old, says forest dept||Noida: It seems that the rapid urbanisation has taken its toll on the old tree cover in Gautam Budh Nagar, as the district is left with only three trees which are over 100 years old and qualify for ‘heritage’ tag, finds out the forest department in a year-long quest. The Uttar Pradesh government in May 2020 had ordered the forest department to recognise all trees which are 100 years or older to protect them as ‘heritage’ trees. Under this tag, the trees are to be notified, protected and not allowed to fell in any circumstances, forest department officials said.However, after searching the region since May last year, the officials said that only three trees could be found in the entire district — one in Noida’s Okhla Bird Sanctuary and two at Maripat railway station in Greater Noida.“Based on the old records and information from the local villagers, we found the three trees which are over 100 years old. Though we are still searching, it seems that a lot of developmental work through all these years has taken a toll on some of the rare trees in the region,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar.The three trees include a banyan tree (Ficus benghalensis) at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary that has a girth of 883.9 cm, the second is also a banyan tree at Maripat railway station near Achheja village in Greater Noida with a girth of 800 cm, and the third a peepal tree (Ficus religiosa) that has a circumference of 600 cm.The officials said that the three trees have been proposed to be titled as heritage trees. “We have initiated the process of declaring them as heritage trees for future protection. For that, there would be a sign board installed by the tree declaring it so, a sample bark to be kept as record and the tree shall be protected and never allowed to be felled,” Srivastava added.Of its total geographical area of 1,282 sq km, GB Nagar has 19.99 sq km (1.56%) under green cover. The district has a total of five moderate dense forests (70%-40% density), while 15 are open forests (39%-10% density), as per data from the district forest department. Environmentalists say that the forest department needs to look deeper, believing that there could be more. “Years back, I was told that there are only seven wetlands in the district. Later, I myself found 750 wetlands in the district. The forest department officials for some reason are not looking deeper, but they need to do more fieldwork as there are many old trees. The department should involve better research,” said Anand Arya, a city-based environmentalist.Vikrant Tongad, another environmentalist, said that there had been a lot of felling of trees in the district that had our greenery compromised. “However, I believe that there would be more heritage trees and perhaps forest department is not doing enough work to cover more area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gautam-budh-nagar-has-only-three-trees-over-100-years-old-says-forest-dept-101623695325189.html
14-06-2021||Other||Number of Covid tests in Kolhapur district to double; efforts on to break chain of infection||PUNE As most districts in Maharashtra have recorded a drop in the number of fresh Covid cases reported, curbs have been eased as per the state’s level-wise unlocking plan. Districts at level 5 have a positivity rate of less than 5%, like Pune for example. However, in Kolhapur district Covid-19 is far from under control. Between June 6 and June 12, Kolhapur district recorded the highest positivity rate in the state, at 15.2%. This has prompted the state government to issue a warning that even stricter curbs to contain the spread of the infection in the district are likely to be imposed. Kolhapur, currently, falls under level 4 of restrictions set by the state administration. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and state health minister Rajesh Tope held a Covid review meeting with people’s representatives and district authorities from Kolhapur on Monday. At a press address that followed the meeting, Ajit Pawar explained the reasons behind the high number of Covid cases, and then, the decisions that will be taken to break the chain of the infection in Kolhapur. He also warned that action will be taken against those in charge of the situation, if the scenario does not improve. Pawar cited low testing numbers in Kolhapur as the main reason behind the rapid spread of the virus and instructed the district administration to double the number of Covid tests being conducted, from the existing 9,500-10,000 per day. “Some positive cases are not getting identified because they are not tested, and they go roaming around with other people. Those people are getting infected. So the testing should be increased. If testing is increased then in the initial stage the number of positive cases will go up, but it is fine if for the first week cases go up. Afterwards, it will help to reduce the caseload,” said Pawar. He also emphasised putting a maximum number of Covid patients in institutional quarantines, rather than home quarantine. Pawar also noted the non-compliance of basic Covid norms, such as wearing of masks and social distancing, is also behind the high number of Covid cases in Kolhapur. He asked the administration to enforce strict measures to ensure norms are followed and warned of action if the Covid situation does not improve. “In the morning I noticed that many were not wearing masks. Some had used a handkerchief instead of the mask and if the police came into sight, then they would pull the handkerchief over the nose. From now onwards, if the situation doesn’t change then, unwillingly, we will have to take bitter decisions about those who are in charge; if they fail to deliver,” said Pawar. After the meeting, it was also made clear that no relaxations to curbs will be allowed in Kolhapur. “Kolhapur currently is at level 4. It currently, has the highest positivity rate in Maharashtra. No relaxations will be given here. If non-compliance to rules is observed then curbs will be made even stricter,” said Pawar. To contain the spread of the virus in the Kolhapur district, Pawar said that everyone resident will be tested in villages where Covid numbers are high. Pawar also hinted at changing the vaccine quota for districts. “It is right that vaccination is the only way to control the Covid wave. We have decided to distribute vaccines in proportion to the population of a district. In the upcoming cabinet meeting we will discuss giving 5%-10% more vaccines to the districts where positivity rate is higher,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/number-of-covid-tests-in-kolhapur-district-to-double-efforts-on-to-break-chain-of-infection-101623695267281.html
14-06-2021||Other||Less active weather systems responsible for little rainfall so far: IMD||PUNE Despite the southwest monsoon officially declared in Pune on June 5 by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), rainfall activity has since significantly reduced. As of June 14, Pune reported a total rainfall of 56.9 mm against its normal quota of 63.7 mm. On Monday, the city reported no rainfall. IMD reported a maximum temperature of 32.4 degree Celsius and a minimum temperature of 23.3 degrees Celsius. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting, IMD Pune, said that multiple weather systems over the city and Maharashtra have been less active than earlier.“The off-shore trough line which brought good rainfall to the city is now less marked. Today, it runs from Southern Maharashtra to North Kerala. The formation of a system over the Bay of Bengal, which was expected to intensify, has not. Its trough was expected to cover Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha and adjoining areas. However, this trough has moved north-Northwestwards, thus not reaching our state. The system is now over south Jharkhand,” said Kashyapi.“The westerlies are partially strengthened. Its strength also depends on the depth of westerlies. Even though there was a gradient over Arabian Sea, the strengthening of the westerlies did not materialise. All of these reasons contributed to less rainfall so far in June, despite the arrival of the monsoon earlier than its predicted date,” said Kashyapi.He added that in the next few days, Pune is on the leeward side of the Sahyadris. “This has affected the rainfall in Pune city and Pune district. On June 15 and June 16, rainfall is likely to get better due to strengthening westerlies. There is moisture in the air and so there are chances of thunder activity on these two days,” said Kashyapi.IMD has forecast that moderate rainfall in Pune city is likely. “Rainfall is likely to be heavy in isolated parts of the ghat areas around Pune. The day temperature will be around 31 degrees Celsius and the night temperature will be around 22 degrees Celsius in the coming few days,” said IMD officials.Along with Pune, Marathwada, Vidarbha and Madhya (central) Maharashtra will experience rainfall at isolated places with thunderstorms and lightning till June 16. “Konkan and Goa may receive heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places in the next few days,” said IMD Officials.Not a monsoon breakSpeaking about the monsoon, Kashyapi added that this dry spell cannot be termed as a “monsoon break”.“As the southwest monsoon is still settling in, this cannot be called a dry spell. Moreover, it is likely that rainfall activity may revive by the end of June and starting of July,” said Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/less-active-weather-systems-responsible-for-little-rainfall-so-far-imd-101623695208342.html
14-06-2021||Noida||61 booked for illegal pool party, Covid violations||Noida Police on Sunday night booked 61 people allegedly found partying in violation of Covid-19 health protocols at a farmhouse in Sector 135.This is the third property in the area that has been raided within a week over breaking Covid-19 protocol.According to police, they raided the property following a tip. Police found 46 men and 15 women there not wearing masks and using the swimming pool, which is banned. Most were university students from Delhi and the National Capital Region, they said.“Those without masks were challaned at the spot and ₹6,100 was collected in fines,” said a police spokesperson.The people were booked under sections 188 (disobeying public order) and 269 (negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at the Expressway police station. The people were let off on bail.“They had booked the farmhouse for four hours for ₹20,000. We also recovered 12 beer and two liquor bottles from them that had been bought from Haryana,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Rannvijay.Seven from the group were also booked under relevant sections of the excise act for illegally bringing liquor from another state.Police officials said that the caretaker, Dharamveer, had already been booked the previous day for a similar offence when another farmhouse was raided, while the owner has been traced.On the night of June 8, 16 people were apprehended for organising a birthday party in a high-rise. On Saturday night, 14 people from Delhi had been booked after they had rented a farmhouse for a night for ₹12,000.Farmhouses in the Noida floodplains are infamous for illegal gatherings and parties specially for people from Delhi.“Party goers feel that the area is secluded enough that they can get away with organizing such gatherings. They rent these places for nominal prices through online portals. We are planning on having a meeting with farmhouse owners in the area to discuss the problem with them and to aware them about the regulations specially regarding Covid-19. We will take serious action against them all in case of repeat offences,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/61-booked-for-illegal-pool-party-covid-violations-101623695207701.html
14-06-2021||Noida||Overseas travellers can apply to Noida health dept to fast-track Covishield 2nd dose||People travelling overseas can now get their second Covishield dose under the “exceptional circumstance” category after prior approval from the Gautam Budh Nagar health department.According to central government rules, the gap between two doses of Covishield should be at least 12 weeks. On June 7, it said those travelling outside the country - Tokyo Olympic athletes, students and job seekers or those employed overseas - will be allowed to get the vaccination after 28 days. The other vaccine, Covaxin, requires only a month’s gap but is yet to get approval from international bodies such as the World Health Organization.“But the Co-WIN portal is yet to be updated with this exception, leaving us no option to administer the second dose of Covishield to a person who has not completed 84 days,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, director of public relations at Sharda Hospital who confirmed that they had written to the district’s chief medical officer on Saturday for permission to administer second dose for international travellers based on the new rules.CMO Dr Deepak Ohri on Monday said that those looking to get vaccinated with Covishield after 28 days can submit a request for it.“Once we check the documents proving that they are travelling overseas and qualify for the ‘exceptional circumstances’, we will grant them permission that can be taken to any hospital in Gautam Budh Nagar and get their shot on a walk-in basis,” said Dr Ohri.The central government had advised that people wishing to avail of this exceptional facility present their passport as their ID proof, although this is not mandatory. The competent authority, it said, could issue another certificate that links the vaccination certificate with the passport. The facility is available only to those seeking to travel by August 31, 2021.Delhi began this service on Monday at Navyug School in Mandir Marg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/overseas-travellers-can-apply-to-noida-health-dept-to-fast-track-covishield-2nd-dose-101623695207049.html
14-06-2021||Noida||Black fungus drug available in Noida, Ghaziabad but supply not enough||Ghaziabad: Although Amphotericin B injections, the drug of choice for treating Mucormycosis or black fungus, are now available locally at the district-level, kin of patients in Ghaziabad say it is still in short supply as they were getting only half of their requirement.According to official records of the health department, the Meerut division, which includes Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts, has overall 507 cases of black fungus while 50 deaths due to it have taken place till June 13. The data also mentions that 345 patients were discharged, and the number of active cases stood at 112 in Meerut division, as of June 13. Ghaziabad, as per official records, recorded eight deaths and 43 active cases of black fungus, with a total of 94 cases till June 13. The 43 active cases are getting treatment at five hospitals. Permission to obtain the drug still rests with the divisional commissioner’s office in Meerut, which can be obtained online. The drug is then to be sourced from the office of the district chief medical officer.“My brother-in-law comes daily for treatment for black fungus at the black fungus at the Harsh ENT Hospital at the Raj Nagar District Centre. He requires four injections of Amphotericin B per day, but we are getting only two from the office of the Ghaziabad CMO. However, the drug being locally available has eased our woes as earlier, at least one member of the family had to spend the entire day at Meerut to get the injections while one used to accompany the patient,” said Vinod Kumar, from Pilkhuwa, said at the CMO’s office on Monday.“With drug’s availability at the district level, we are told beforehand when the injections will arrive each day. So, a lot of hassle is reduced. But short availability is still a cause of concern,” he added. Experts also echoed similar views. “Generally, patients need four injections each day, but we are getting only two from the district-level officer daily. In such a case, we have now resorted to use of another drug, Posaconazole, which is easily available in the market. At present, we are using both Amphotericin B and Posaconazole in combination and patients have responded positively. Of the 48 patients who have come for black fungus treatment to our hospital, four died due to severity of the infection while only three are presently admitted,” said Dr BP Tyagi, senior ENT specialist at Harsh ENT Hospital.The district health department said that during the past four days, since the Amphotericin B injections were made available locally, they received 60 doses (distributed among 26 patients) on June 11, 75 each on June 12 (to 32 patients) and 13 (to 34 patients) besides 125 on June 14.“We are getting regular stock but in limited numbers and are providing an average of two injections per patient, as per availability. We expect that we will be able to get more doses and will be able to provide them sufficient quantities as per requirement,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. Dr Deepak Ohri, the chief medical officer of GB Nagar, said that they were able to provide more Amphotericin B injections to patients as compared to Ghaziabad. “We are giving sufficient injections to our patients as per requirement. We are giving three-six injections per day to patients per day. We have 150 injections available with us,” Dr Ohri added. According to official records, GB Nagar till June 13 had 21 active cases of black fungus besides 11 deaths out of a total of 94 cases reported so far in the district. The 21 patients are getting treatment at five hospitals in Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/black-fungus-drug-available-in-noida-ghaziabad-but-supply-not-enough-101623695145189.html
14-06-2021||Noida||Low turnout at 24x7 vaccination centres in GB Nagar||Noida: The turnout at two 24x7 vaccination centres run by private hospitals in Gautam Budh Nagar has dropped significantly over the past one week. Authorities at one of the two hospitals said that they are mulling to close down the night vaccination facility.Started with an aim to provide the service to those who may not be able to book a slot between 10am and 5pm, the 24x7 vaccination centres are also offering drive-through and walk-in facilities.Felix Hospital in Noida Sector 137 had started the 24x7 vaccination centre on May 29. At that time, according to the hospital administration, the 24x7 facility was a hit among people as the hospital opened around 5,000 slots a day on Co-WIN portal. “By June 5, 10,000 beneficiaries were administered jabs at the centre,” said Dr DK Gupta, chairman of the hospital.However, the hospital vaccinated only around 5,000 people (on average about 600 daily) at the centre from June 6 to June 13 even though it still opens around 5,000 slots on the portal. “The turnout for the vaccinations has trickled down. People prefer to come in the morning or in the evening. There are no takers for vaccinations during the night. However, we will continue with the service as of now,” Gupta said.Greater Noida’s Sharda Hospital that started the 24x7 vaccination centre on June 6 on the Sharda University campus is mulling to stop the round-the-clock service. “The 24x7 vaccination centre was started with the aim of providing vaccination service for people who may not be able to come during the day. However, the response has not been good,” said Dr Ajeet Kumar, director (public relations) at Sharda Hospital. According to authorities, the hospital opens around 1,000 slots per day for vaccination, but on average, only about 370 vaccinations are being carried out daily. “It is a big loss to deploy staff and other equipment throughout the night for nothing. Hence, the hospital is thinking of stopping the 24x7 service, and will continue vaccinations at the general time of 10am to 5pm,” said Dr Kumar.Medical experts say the low turnout can be attributed to an increase in number of vaccination centres and special camps across the district.“Compared to last month, the situation regarding vaccination in GB Nagar has improved. Now, camps are being held in residential areas and workplaces. Besides, slots are comparatively easily available on Co-WIN. So, there may not be many people who would require to go to a 24x7 vaccination centres at odd hours,” said Dr NK Sharma, president, Indian Medical Association (Noida chapter).According to data from the Co-WIN portal, a total of 130 sites are currently conducting Covid-19 vaccinations in GB Nagar, of which 79 are government sites and 51 are private.The district health department is also running 10 drive-through vaccination centres in the district that are operational between 10am and 5pm. “While all slots at drive-through centres get booked within hours of opening up, only 80% people show up,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district Immunisation officer, GB Nagar.“It has often been found that some people book more than one slot using different identity cards on Co-WIN. That is why even though all slots are booked, lesser people turn up,” Tyagi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/low-turnout-at-24x7-vaccination-centres-in-gb-nagar-101623695085725.html
14-06-2021||Other||PCMC’s second Sero survey to include children||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has decided to conduct its second Sero survey, with sample size that will include children.This will be the first Sero survey in Pune district to attempt to identify anti-bodies among children, ahead of the third wave. Speaking to reporters via video conferencing, PCMC commissioner Rajesh Patil said that the civic body is planning to conduct its largest sero survey since the pandemic struck, which will include 10,000 samples. The Pune municipal corporation (PMC) has conducted one Sero survey with a nominal sample size of 1,664 across five sub-wards in Pune.The PMC survey found that 51.5% of the samples tested positive for antibodies. PCMC conducted its first Sero survey in October 2020 and had a sample size of 5,000. “In view of the much anticipated third wave, we will conduct a Sero survey and profile the antibodies. This will include all areas under the civic body. It will mainly include children and younger adults,” Patil said. No sero survey in PMC, but parents urged to not miss regular immunisations for childrenWhen asked if the PMC is also planning a survey, additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “We are not planning any such survey, but we had done a Sero survey along with NIV earlier, the results of which will be made public very soon.”While the 13-member paediatric task force in Pune has not suggested any survey, such sero surveys help understand the spread of infection and also future containment measures, said experts. Dr Aarti Kinikar, who heads the task force and is the head of the paediatric department at Sassoon General hospital, said, “From our observation, until now, we have found that very few children would need hospitalisation, medication or even ICU management. Most would probably need only home isolation. However, to ensure that we are well prepared, along with the beds and oxygen management, we are also working to make sure that the required medicines are stocked as children cannot be given the same medicine as adults.”“However, in case of multi-inflammatory syndrome (MISC) in children we do require expensive drugs like Intravenous immunoglobulin or Dexamethasone, in small quantities, as per the child’s weight. The central government has also made MISC a notifiable disease.” Experts on the panel also appealed to parents to ensure that children do not remain miss routine immunisations. Dr Sanjay Natu, president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP), Pune chapter, said, “All under the age of five must be vaccinated as per the state and central routine immunisation programme. Especially high risk children, which includes those suffering from malnutrition, congenital diseases, anaemia, obesity, heart disease, chronic ailments of kidney and liver, developmental problems, diabetes, blood pressure, blood related ailments, sickle cell anaemia, HIV and tuberculosis.”“While influenza is a seasonal vaccination programme which is mandatory for children under five, high-risk children aged above five can also get the seasonal flu vaccine. However, to be clear, influenza vaccine works only against the seasonal flu and cannot be correlated to the Covid19 infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcmcs-second-sero-survey-to-include-children-101623695086288.html
14-06-2021||Other||Covid samples from Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg under investigation for Delta-plus mutation||PUNE The Council Of Scientific and Industrial Research – National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), is studying Covid samples from Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, to investigate if there are any traces of the Delta-plus variant. The results will be out by Tuesday, a senior health official said.The new mutation is an addition to the already existing Delta variant (B.1.617.2), which was first discovered in India. However, officials also said that whether the new variant is different from the existing one in terms of symptoms is yet to be investigated. On Monday, during an online meeting, state surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate, said, “We have got reports of possible Delta-plus variants in samples from Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri. However, it is yet to be investigated and studied further.” Earlier reports had confirmed six cases that tested positive for the Delta=plus variant. Awate also said Delta-plus (B.1.617.2.1) is an addition to the Delta variant (B.1.617.2).While it is still under investigation as to whether the mutation is more infectious or different from the existing variant, the official also said that CSIR and BJ Medical College are working on the cases. Over the phone to Hindustan Times, Dr Awate further added that an MoU has been signed between the state and CSIR to investigate the same. He said, “It is part of the same variant and it is an addition to the Delta variant. The final report will come on Tuesday. The samples have been sent to the CSIR lab. As of now we have sent samples from three districts, of which two are Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. It is too premature to talk about it as it is under investigation.” As of now Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri are reporting a higher positivity rate and an increasing weekly growth rate of 13.06 and 9.03%, respectively, from June 7-13. These districts also account for the top two districts with the highest percentage of active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-samples-from-ratnagiri-sindhudurg-under-investigation-for-delta-plus-mutation-101623695085167.html
14-06-2021||Other||Delhi: Driving tests resume but fewer slots available||New Delhi The Delhi transport department on Monday resumed driving tests for the public but with fewer slots to ensure social distancing, said a senior government official.“The number of test applicants are likely to witness an increase in the coming days because the process was suspended for eight weeks. However, only 50% of the slots will be opened now and applicants who applied during the lockdown will be prioritised for appointments,” said a senior transport department official.The process was suspended for eight weeks due to the lockdown that was imposed on April 19 in the light of a severe surge in Covid-19 cases.As part of a new provision introduced in the light of the pandemic, officials said applicants can select any automated driving test track centre in the Capital for the test, irrespective of which Regional Transport Office (RTO) they got their learner’s license from.A standard operating procedure (SOP) for conducting the driving skill test has also been prepared for the safety of officials of the department and applicants in the light of the pandemic. “The department is not issuing any learner’s license currently and is working on tweaking the existing software to allow online tests for learners’ applicants. The system would be in place very soon,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-driving-tests-resume-but-fewer-slots-available-101623694365766.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Zero new Covid cases among Delhi Police for two days||For the past two days, not a single personnel of the Delhi Police has tested positive for Covid-19. From over 100 policepersons testing positive daily this April and May, during the fourth and deadliest wave of the pandemic in Delhi -- the number had climbed to a high of 275 cases on April 22-- it has finally dropped to zero, senior police officers said. With the overall cases decreasing in the national capital and the positivity rate remaining below the 1% mark for the past 11 days, in the last one week, fewer than five personnel were contracting the infection till Saturday, the police said. On Monday, Delhi reported 33 new Covid cases and a test positivity rate -- samples that return positive among the total tested -- of .22%. The daily death toll due to the disease was 16, according to the state health bulletin.Currently there are 130 active cases in the force of nearly 80,000 personnel. Almost 90% of police personnel have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while about 70% have received the second dose, officers said. Currently, four police personnel are admitted to hospitals, and 126 are in quarantine. Senior officers, who daily monitor the infection spike within the force, said in mid-April, the number of infections among the force was high because as front-line workers, policepersons were on the roads, outside hospitals and crematoriums, helping arrange oxygen supply for hospitals and ferrying the sick and the dead. A Covid-19 dashboard report of infections within the force shows that between April 1 and June 11, 40 police personnel died of the infection. Compared to that, only 37 police personnel had died in the first three waves of the infection in Delhi. The police’s Covid report shows that in March (before the fourth wave), only one or two personnel were contracting the infection daily. In fact, on March 13,14,15,17,18, and 29, there was not a single case in the force. The report shows that cases started to spike from April 2. By April 15, around 150 personnel were testing positive daily and it touched the 200-mark on April 19, and reached a peak of 275 on April 22. This was the week when the capital city was reporting a daily high of over 25,000 cases. The highest daily increase of 28,395 infections was reported on April 20, according to the state government’s health bulletin. Until April 28, the new cases reported from within the force remained above 200 a day after which it started declining gradually. But even until May third week, nearly 50 fresh cases were being reported daily, senior officers said. Between April 4 and May 31, a total of 6,058 police personnel contracted Covid-19. In comparison, only 7,725 personnel tested positive between March 2020 and March 31, 2021. “We did not have any fresh cases on Saturday and Sunday. Even in the last week of May, we were getting 20 to 30 new cases. This drop in cases is happening despite personnel being out on the roads, carrying out policing duties just like during the pre-Covid times. All of them have been directed to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Because of the high rate of infection, the police brass had also started three Covid Care Centres for the policepersons. Separately, a team of senior officers were also formed to track each case and ensure that every Covid-19 patient within the force received proper medical care,” a senior police officer, privy to the data of the police’s Covid-19 report, said, asking not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/zero-new-covid-cases-among-delhi-police-for-two-days-101623694307832.html
14-06-2021||Other||HC refuses to stay order restraining IMA chief from using his post to ‘propagate any religion’||New Delhi The Delhi high court on Monday refused to stay an order of the trial court which had asked Indian Medical Association (IMA) president Dr Johnrose Austin Jayalal to refrain from using the organisation’s platform “for propagating any religion”.Justice Asha Menon said that she will not pass any ex-parte order as nobody appeared on behalf of the person on whose complaint the trial court had passed the order on June 4. It said the high court will have to look into the order passed by the trial court and cannot take a superficial view.The court issued notice to Rohit Jha who had filed a suit contending that Jayalal was using the IMA’s platform to propagate Christianity and that he must be restrained from writing, speaking in media, or publishing any content which is defamatory to Hindu religion or ayurveda. The suit had alleged that Jayalal had started a defamatory campaign against the Hindu religion “by way of promoting Christianity, in the garb of proving superiority of allopathic medicines over ayurveda in treatment of Covid-19 patients”.On June 4, the trial court judge recorded in his order: “He shall not use the platform of IMA for propagating any religion and rather shall concentrate on welfare of the medical fraternity and progress in the medical field.” The court had held that there was no need to issue a judicial restraining order since Jayalal has undertaken not to indulge in activity offending any other religion. The order added that the IMA chief will not indulge in any activity contrary to the principles enshrined in the Constitution of India and shall maintain the dignity of the position chaired by him. Challenging the trial court’s order, advocate Tanmaya Mehta, representing Jayalal, claimed that the IMA chief never gave such an assurance to the trial court since he has not done anything wrong.He sought to stay the observations made against Jayalal in the trial court’s court order, saying they were affecting his reputation as he was heading a body which has 3.5 lakh doctors as its members.He contended that there was no television debate between Jayalal and yoga guru Ramdev and that he was not propagating any religion, including Christianity. He further said that the suit before the trial court was based on fake news.If anyone promotes allopathy, this does not mean that the person was asking for conversion into Christianity, the counsel said, adding that Jayalal was not against Ayurveda but against mixopathy. He said that Jayalal never uttered any remarks against Hinduism nor ever tried to forcefully convert any Indian of any religion into Christianity.“The act of appellant (Jayalal), if any, does not defame respondent/plaintiff (Jha) therein per se or cause any per se offence, causing per se injury. Accordingly, the suit claiming defamation against a class is not maintainable,” the appeal read.Warning Jayalal, the trial court had emphasised that any kind of unguarded or loose comment could not be expected from someone chairing a responsible post like his. “IMA is a prestigious institution...such a platform cannot be used to propagate an individual’s views on any religion,” it noted. The court cited a couplet by poet Mohd Iqbal - ‘Mazhab Nahi Sikhata Apas Mein Bair Rakhna; Hindi Hai Hum Watan Hai Hindustan Humara; Saare Jahan se Acha Hindustan Humara (Religion does not teach us to fight against each other. We are all Indians. Our India is the best.)’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-refuses-to-stay-order-restraining-ima-chief-from-using-his-post-to-propagate-any-religion-101623694305664.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Police, revenue dept to scale up enforcement of Delhi’s new lockdown norms||With the state government easing more lockdown curbs, the revenue department and police said they will scale enforcement up this week to not just ensure distancing and mask discipline, but also compliance with conditions imposed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) such as a 50% cap on restaurant capacity, prohibition on bars, restrictions on visitors at religious places and the 8pm deadline for shops to shut.There will also be special focus on weekly markets, which have been allowed to open on a trial basis. The state government on Sunday allowed one weekly market to open per day in each municipal zone. The national capital is divided into 12 municipal zones. “Weekly markets are prone to large crowds. They offer a wide range of products and the footfall comprises people across the demographic. These have to be put under strict surveillance,” said a senior official in the revenue department.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced that all shops will be allowed to operate through the week, restaurants may reopen for dine-in after nearly two months of closure, apart from allowing weekly markets to reopen.The revenue department has deployed 250 enforcement teams across all 11 districts in the city, said the official.Senior police officers also said the force has increased the number of personnel deployed on the ground, and will work closely with other agencies concerned, such as the local administrations and civic agencies to ensure the updated unlock norms and conditions are enforced properly.“Following the fresh guidelines, our primary focus will be on weekly markets, crowded markets, malls and restaurants. Personnel will visit these places to ensure shopkeepers and restaurant staff ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed and carry out instructions such as making provision for sanitisers, maintaining distancing and wearing masks. Shops and restaurants can stay open only for the designated timings. Action as per law will be taken against violators. We will continue with our awareness campaigns as well,” said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) RP Meena.Officers said they have held meetings with trader associations and the managements of religious places, which have been allowed to open, but without visitors. “The onus of implementing the guidelines will be on these associations, and the police will assist them however possible,” said DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-revenue-dept-to-scale-up-enforcement-of-delhi-s-new-lockdown-norms-101623694245137.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Around 1.37 million in 18-45 age group received at least one vaccine dose in Delhi, says govt||Around 1.37 million people in the 18-45 age group in Delhi have got at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine, said the government’s vaccine bulletin on Monday, which roughly translates to about 20% of the total population in the 18-45 age group in Delhi, the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said.“As of today, 20% of the youth of Delhi have been vaccinated. Their vaccination began on May 1, after which the vaccination drive remained suspended for several days. But even after the vaccination drive remaining open for such a limited time, 20% of the youth of Delhi have been vaccinated. This shows that the youth want to get vaccinated,” said AAP legislator Atishi in a press statement on Monday.She further said several government-run vaccine centres for the 18-45 age group are likely to remain suspended from Tuesday because of a shortage of Covishield vaccine.The health bulletin said government-run centres in the city have 11 days’ Covaxin stock and 24 days’ Covishield stock for the 45+ group, but only two days’ Covaxin stock and less than a day’s Covishield stock for the 18-45 age group.In the 18-45 group, around 1.37 million have got at least one dose of the vaccine and around 99,000 have got both doses of the vaccine (Covaxin). In the 45+ group, around 2.6 million have got at least one dose of the vaccine and 900,000 have got both doses, government records showed.VACCINATION DRIVEDelhi’s environment minister Gopal Rai on Monday inspected a vaccine centre in his assembly constituency Babarpur, endorsing the government’s “Jahan vote, wahan vaccination” drive which aims to boost vaccine coverage in the 45+ group by engaging booth level officers in door-to-door drives and setting up temporary vaccine centres in polling booths across the city.“The drive has so far been successful. Vaccine is the only way to protect the masses against Covid-19. We want to vaccinate a large number of people in the four-week drive,” said Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/around-1-37-million-in-18-45-age-group-received-at-least-one-vaccine-dose-in-delhi-says-govt-101623694185086.html
14-06-2021||Other||HC upholds order to lodge FIR over caste-based question in DSSSB exam||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Monday upheld a trial court’s order directing authorities to lodge FIR under the provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act over caste-based questions in the primary teachers’ recruitment exam conducted by the Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board (DSSSB) on October 13, 2018 and August 18, 2019.Justice Anu Malhotra said the questions were “undoubtedly prima facie fall within the domain of an intentional insult or intimidation with an intent to prima facie insult members of the SC/ST within public view”.The court said it was a fact that both these are Scheduled Castes and the DSSB should not have framed questions on them in terms of the spirit of the verdicts of the Supreme Court.The high court dismissed a petition by DSSSB, challenging a February 17 order of the trial court directing lodging of an FIR under the SC/ST Act on a complaint by advocate Satya Prakash Gautam.In his petition before the trial court, advocate Gautam had said that the DSSSB officials have offended the sentiments of the Scheduled Caste community by allegedly asking caste-based questions. The board had said it has sensitised all paper setters to ensure that the question paper does not have any question with casteist and religious undertones.The board had issued a notice after media reported about the alleged question in which it said that it was an “inadvertent error”.It had clarified that the procedure of paper setting was highly confidential and secretive in nature and the contents of the paper are not shared with the board officials and are revealed for the very first time before the candidates only.However, Gautam filed another complaint on August 19, 2019, against DSSSB chairman and other erring police officials alleging the incident was repeated again.In the second complaint, he claimed that a caste-based question was again asked in the exam conducted by the DSSSB for the primary teachers’ recruitment examination on August 18, 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-upholds-order-to-lodge-fir-over-caste-based-question-in-dsssb-exam-101623694126888.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Court seeks CCTV footage after under-trial alleges assault in Tihar jail||A Delhi court on Monday asked the Tihar jail authorities to produce the CCTV footage of the prison on an application by a man, accused of being a member of a jihadist terrorist group inspired by Islamic State (ISIS), who has claimed that he was beaten up by other inmates there and forced to chant “Jai Shri Ram”.The accused, Rashid Zafar, was arrested in 2018 on the suspicion of being a member of an ISIS-inspired group which was allegedly planning suicide attacks and serial blasts to target politicians and government installations in Delhi and other parts of north India.In his plea, filed through advocate MS Khan, Zafar he was beaten up and forced to chant religious slogans like “Jai Shri Ram” by his fellow inmates. The plea sought appropriate directions to the jail superintendent to look into the matter.On Monday, the prison authorities opposed the plea and said the injuries were self-inflicted, said Qausar Khan, appearing for Zafar. She said the court, in order to verify the stand, sought the CCTV footage from the jail.Zafar was arrested along with nine others in December 2018 after NIA carried out searches, in coordination with the special cell of Delhi Police and the anti-terrorism squad of Uttar Pradesh Police, at six places in Jafrabad and Seelampur in Delhi, and 11 places in Uttar Pradesh.The searches and the arrests came a month before the Republic Day celebrations on January 26.According to NIA, a locally made rocket launcher, materials for suicide vests and 112 alarm clocks to be used as timers were recovered from the searches. The agency also said it recovered 25kg of explosive material -- potassium nitrate, ammonium nitrate and sulphur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-seeks-cctv-footage-after-under-trial-alleges-assault-in-tihar-jail-101623694125681.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Court seeks police report on plea by 1984 riots case convict seeking 90-day parole||The Delhi high court on Monday called for a status report from the police regarding the health of a convict, serving a life sentence in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case, who has sought the interim suspension of his sentence for 90 days on medical grounds.A bench of justices Navin Chawla and Asha Menon directed the police to file the fresh status report regarding the medical condition of convict Naresh Sehrawat before the next date of hearing on July 5.Advocate Dharam Raj Ohlan, representing Sehrawat, told the court that he was seeking interim suspension of sentence or parole of 90 days in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the high powered committee (HPC) set up for decongesting jails to prevent the spread of Covid-19 among prisoners.Ohlan contended that his client was suffering from stage 4 kidney and liver ailments for which transplants were the only option and till he gets a transplant, he has to be on a special diet which would not be possible while in prison.The lawyer also told the bench that in view of Sehrawat’s medical condition, he was susceptible to Covid-19 infection.Opposing the plea, senior advocate RS Cheema, representing the special investigation team (SIT), told the bench that Sehrawat has already received two doses of Covid vaccine and he was being well looked after.Cheema also told the court that the convict was being provided all requisite medical treatment and there was no emergency as such right now for grant of any relief to Sehrawat.An SIT was earlier set up by the ministry of home affairs to reinvestigate the riot cases.The trial court had awarded death penalty to convict Yashpal Singh and life term to Naresh Sehrawat in the case relating to the killing of two men in New Delhi during the 1984 riots -- the first convictions in cases reopened by the SIT.Sherawat has also appealed against his conviction and the sentence before the high court, which is pending hearing. The death reference as well as appeal of Singh against the capital punishment awarded to him is also pending in the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-seeks-police-report-on-plea-by-1984-riots-case-convict-seeking-90-day-parole-101623694126264.html
14-06-2021||Other||Odisha urges Centre to change vaccine ratio for govt, pvt hospitals||Odisha government on Monday urged the Centre to revise the guidelines set for government and private vaccine procurement allocation ratio in the state from 75:25 to 95:5, Odisha additional chief secretary PK Mohapatra stated in a letter to ministry of health and family welfare secretary.Mohapatra urged the Centre to revise the allocation ratio as the presence of private hospitals is very low and limited to only about five per cent of the total healthcare sector in the State.“It has been mentioned that 25 per cent of monthly production of vaccines by domestic manufacturers can be directly procured by private hospitals. However, till date, only four private hospitals in Odisha have been able to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers,” said Mohapatra.“In Odisha, the presence of private hospitals is very low and limited to only about five per cent of the total health care sector in the state. Hence, it is apprehended that as per the existing guidelines, Odisha will lose out on its proportionate share of 25 per cent allocation of vaccines to the private sector.”Last week, PM Modi announced that from June 21, the Centre will provide Covid-19 vaccines to all states. Modi said the government will procure 75 per cent of all vaccines produced in India and supply them to adults free of cost while private hospitals can procure the rest 25 per cent and administer those at a price fixed by the Centre. The central government fixed the price of the Covishield vaccine at ₹780, Covaxin at ₹1,410, and Sputnik V at ₹1,145. It also capped the service charge of vaccines administered by private hospitals at ₹150.Till Monday evening, Odisha had administered 8.94 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines to beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-urges-centre-to-change-vaccine-ratio-for-govt-pvt-hospitals-101623693705708.html
14-06-2021||Gurugram||Ggm opens spl jab centre for international travellers||The district health department has set up a special Covid-19 vaccination site at Polyclinic in Sector 31, for people who have to travel abroad for educational purposes or job. Athletes, sportsmen, and staff accompanying the Indian contingent for the Olympics in Tokyo can also get themselves vaccinated at this centre.As per the government guidelines, the time gap between two vaccine doses for international travellers will be 28 days, instead of 84 days.“Students and citizens undertaking international travels for education, job, or the 2020 Summer Olympics till August 31, 2021, can visit the Sector 31 polyclinic for their second dose (after 28 days from the first dose only) of Covishield from Tuesday (June 14). There are 100 slots for the second dose of Covishield, on a first-come-first-serve basis,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer (DIO).The recommended time interval between the two doses of Covishield is 84 days.People who want to get themselves vaccinated at this centre will have to carry their passports, relevant travel documents, and provisional certificate of the first dose of vaccination. In cases, where the first dose was administered with an alternative ID proof, people will be given a separate annexure authorising the linkage of their passports and vaccination certificates.According to Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), the special vaccination camp has been set up to ease the vaccination process for international travellers, following the government guidelines.Dinesh Munjal, a resident of Essel Towers in Sector 28, said that his son needs the second dose before leaving for the USA on a work visa. “There hasn’t been any clarity on the time interval between the two doses. Since lockdown restrictions are being gradually lifted, my son has to go back to his office in the USA. It is not possible for him to wait for the next 84 days to get vaccinated.”Meanwhile, at least 14,959 doses — 5,472 doses in government health centres, and 9,487 in private facilities — were administered to people on Monday. Out of the overall coverage, over 12,269 were in the 18-45 age group, while 2,381 were above 45 years. Some 143 healthcare workers, and 166 frontline workers and their family members also took the jab.On Tuesday, the health department will inoculate 700 disabled and abandoned senior citizens of Anand Ashram at Bandhwari village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ggm-opens-spl-jab-centre-for-international-travellers-101623693346586.html
14-06-2021||Gurugram||Khori residents continue protests||Over a 100 women residents of Khori village in Faridabad’s Aravallis continued their protest on Monday, demanding rehabilitation before eviction from the area, as the administration prepares for a demolition drive. Residents said that demolishing their houses without rehabilitating them during the pandemic is “similar to a death sentence” for them. A protester, who did not wish to be named, said, “My husband works as a labourer, and he has not had steady income for the past one and half years. Because we all live together here, my family has been able to survive by taking help from each other, now if our houses are demolished, we don’t know how we will survive.” Nirmal Gorana, general secretary, Bandhu Mukti Morcha, an organisation that is taking up the cause of the residents, said, “The Supreme Court has ordered eviction, but the government should follow the order in a planned manner and not put the villagers on the clock, who are already standing on the last rung of the society. It will be an injustice if they are not provided proper rehabilitation.” On June 7, the Supreme Court ordered the eviction of thousands of slum dwellers encroaching on the Aravalli forest area in Faridabad district, holding that there cannot be a compromise or concession on forest land. The Faridabad police, in a statement released on Monday, said that they are fully prepared to conduct the demolition drive while maintaining law and order. According to the statement, Anshu Singla, the deputy commissioner of police (NIT), said, “The police administration is fully alert so that the law and order situation is not disturbed in any manner during removal of encroachment in Khori village.” Giving instructions to police personnel on Monday, Singla said that during the demolition drive, all police personnel will be deployed with anti-riot equipment to overcome any kind of situation and action will be taken against those creating chaos. Officials from the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad said that the demolition drive will be conducted within six weeks, as stipulated by the Supreme Court. Garima Mittal, commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Faridabad, said, “The district administration, police and MCF are working in coordination. The Supreme Court’s orders will be strictly followed, and encroachments will be removed within the six weeks given by the court. The final details of removing encroachments are being discussed internally and we will take action soon.” The MCF was scheduled to conduct the demolition drive from June 15-18. However, the commissioner did not confirm this on Monday. Last Wednesday, the MCF had requested the district administration to provide 2,000 constables, including 500 women constables, for the demolition drive from June 15-18. Meanwhile, environmentalists are demanding that all encroachment must be demolished, and not just houses in Khori village. Environmentalists said that the human cost per acre of reclaiming Aravalli land from commercial enterprises will be negligible (as the properties are not inhabited) compared to a village like Khori, where over 100,000 people will be displaced. Chetan Aggarwal, a city-based environmentalist said, “Khori has about 10,000 houses on 100-odd acres. If each house has six people, that means 600 people per acre. The human cost of reclaiming Aravalli land from real estate here is the displacement of about 600 people per acre. Whereas, other nearby villages, like Mewla, Ankhir and Anangpur, have more than a hundred farmhouses running commercial enterprises or religiopolitical enterprises. There are hardly any people living there and the human cost per acre of reclaiming Aravalli forests in these hill areas will be negligible.”“If encroachments are to be removed, then it should be done for the whole of Aravallis and not just one village where the poor people are trying to survive in small plots of land,” said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khori-residents-continue-protests-101623693346098.html
14-06-2021||Gurugram||7 Faridabad cops booked for allegedly assaulting 24-yr-old, who later died||The Nuh police booked seven Faridabad policemen on Sunday for allegedly assaulting a 24-year-old man, suspected to be involved in a fraud case, who later died.The family of the victim, identified as Junaid, alleged that no case was registered against him, but a cybercrime cell team of the Faridabad police kept him in custody overnight on May 31 and assaulted him, before he was released on June 1. Junaid, who was a resident of Nuh’s Bichhor, died on June 11.Following the incident, villagers and family members of Junaid protested on the road near Bichhor village on Saturday. Some protesters allegedly pelted stones at police personnel and torched a police vehicle, following which eight persons were arrested and 200 others were booked, said the Nuh police.Faridabad police commissioner OP Singh said on Monday that allegations that “a cyber police team killed Junaid in a fraud case were baseless”. Singh, however, said that the allegations were being investigated, and action will be taken against those found guilty.Junaid’s father, Hassan, alleged, “He had multiple injuries all over his body when he returned home after being released from police custody, and he had been complaining of acute pain since then. We took him to a local doctor, who had asked us to admit him to a private hospital. Junaid died while we were on the way to a Hodal hospital on June 11.”The victim’s family had approached the sub-divisional magistrate, and got a medical test done to ascertain the nature of his injuries. Hassan says they have “enough evidence and recordings of the policemen who had demanded money from them to release Junaid.“We had paid the police the amount demanded (which wasn’t disclosed) within a few hours, but they still assaulted and tortured him. They had called me, and I have a recording of the call where they could be heard threatening us,” Hassan added.A case under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 302 (murder), and 34 (common intention) has been registered against two sub-inspectors, two assistant sub-inspectors, two head constables, and Faridabad station house officer (SHO) at the Bichhor police station on Sunday.Narender Bijarnia, superintendent of police, Nuh, said that the post-mortem report is not clear, and they have sent the victim’s viscera to a laboratory to check the cause of death. “Junaid’s two brothers and other relatives were involved in multiple fraud cases. We have recorded their statements and an investigation is underway. The Faridabad police is yet to take any action against the police personnel who were booked,” Bijarnia said.Meanwhile, Basant Kumar, SHO of cybercrime police station in Faridabad, said that they had received a tip-off on May 31 about Junaid, his brothers Azad and Irshad, and others identified as Shahid, Parvej, Wasim, Asif, and Nadeem being involved in multiple fraud cases. Following this, the police picked up Junaid, Shahid, Parvej, Wasim, Asif, and Nadeem from Bichhor in Punahana, while they were returning from a wedding ceremony in Rajasthan.“Junaid, his two brothers, and other relatives were involved in multiple fraud cases. However, only Shahid was arrested. Junaid and others’ names were not mentioned in any of the FIRs, and we released five of them on June 1,” Kumar said, adding that the police could not be held responsible for a death that took place 10 days after the interrogation.Police found out during investigation that a man named Issar, also referred to as “chairman”, had allegedly taken money from Junaid’s father for police assistance. However, when it didn’t materialise, he started levelling allegations against the police. “He claimed that he has evidence, and will produce those before the police on Monday, but we didn’t receive any evidence yet. They planned all these to ensure that no raids are being conducted in their area,” said the Faridabad police commissioner.OP Singh added that they are investigating the matter, but the allegations seem to be baseless. “There are 412 cases registered against suspects from the Bichhor area, for duping people of ₹2.5 crore. We arrested two more persons, who were related to Junaid, in similar cases on June 3. They were involved in OLX and Paytm frauds,” he said, adding that they are taking legal opinion in the case registered against the policemen.“Junaid had kidney issues and was handed over to his relatives in presence of an assistant sub-inspector. On further investigation, Junaid’s brothers and Asgar were arrested two days later,” OP Singh said.There are CCTV cameras installed at the cyber police station, and police have scanned the footage. The police team had no physical contact with Junaid, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/7-faridabad-cops-booked-for-allegedly-assaulting-24-yr-old-who-later-died-101623693287492.html
14-06-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram crime: Six snatching incidents reported on Sunday||At least six incidents of snatching were reported from across the city on Sunday, with victims in all instances suffering injuries due to a sudden and forceful attack, the police said. Multiple gangs were responsible for the incidents as they took place between 6.45am and 11pm.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police, said that four teams have been formed to arrest the suspects who snatched gold chains and cash from six victims, five of whom were women. “We have arrested three suspects in the last two days involved in snatching cases and are questioning them to get more details. They had targeted more than 30 women this month,” he said. According to police data, at least 102 cases of chain snatching were reported across the city till June 13 this year. Despite the lockdown in May and June, the city has witnessed a rise in street crimes, the police said. In the first incident, around 6.50am on Sunday, a 40-year-old woman was walking with her husband on the footpath of Sispal Vihar’s Gate 2 in Sector 49. “A man came and attacked me and snatched my gold chain and ran towards the other side of the road where his friend was waiting for him on a motorbike. I didn’t notice the details of the motorbike as I was in shock,” the woman said. In the second incident, the chain snatchers fled with a gold chain belonging to a 33-year-old man, who registered a complaint at the Sector 56 police station. “I was walking near the W Pratiksha Hospital around 7.40am when one of the bike-borne robbers walked towards me and asked me for an address. He suddenly hit me, snatched my gold chain and fled with his partner towards the main road,” said Kapil Kumar a resident of Sector 56. In the third case, a woman was attacked by a man who snatched her purse and gold chain while she was waiting for her husband outside a bank around 11am on Sunday. “I had gone to withdraw money from an ATM in the main market. My wife had kept ₹10,000 in her bag and was wearing a gold chain with a pendant. A man came running towards her, hit on her head, snatched her gold chain and fled,” said Rajkumar Singh, a resident of Manesar who works with an automobile company. In the fourth incident, a resident of Sector 57 said that the incident took place around 8.30pm on Sunday when he, along with his wife and daughter, was visiting the Hongkong Mall in Sector 57 to buy stationery and crockery. “As we were returning home, I was a few feet ahead of my wife. A man in his 20s snatched my wife’s gold chain with force due to which she fell on the road. The man ran towards a motorbike and they fled the spot,” the husband of the victim said. In the fifth incident, a citizen was robbed of her gold mangalsutra chain near the Sector 57 market around 9pm. “I was waiting for my husband who had gone to get the car from the parking. A young man came and asked me for directions. Before I could say anything, he snatched my chain, pushed me on the road and fled. I suffered injuries to my neck and leg,” the 43-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 56, said. In the sixth incident, two chain snatchers on a motorcycle decamped with a gold chain belonging to a 34-year-old Sohna resident, during a visit to South City-2 with her family for dinner. Police said the family was walking towards their car outside Arcadia Market in Sector 49 when one of the snatchers hit on the head and forcefully snatched her gold chain. “We raised the alarm but they had fled towards the Golf Course Extension Road. My wife has suffered injuries to her neck and head,” the woman’s husband, requesting anonymity, said. Cases of chain snatching were lodged at Sector 50, 56 and Manesar police stations on Sunday under sections 379 A (snatching) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, the crime teams and police stations concerned have started an investigation into the cases and are examining footage from closed-circuit television (CCTV) to identify the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-crime-six-snatching-incidents-reported-on-sunday-101623693286835.html
14-06-2021||Gurugram||Lockdown eased: Gurugram markets receive moderate footfall||Markets across the city witnessed moderate footfall on Monday, a day after the Haryana government eased the lockdown restrictions, allowing all shops to open instead of operating on an odd-even basis. Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, on Sunday, issued an order on extending the Mahamari Alert Surakshit Haryana till June 21, with relaxations issued for various categories. While shops were allowed to open from 9am to 8pm, the state government has allowed gymnasiums to reopen as part of the unlocking process, albeit with a 50% capacity, from 6am to 8pm. Parks were also opened from 5am till 8pm. The Sadar market in old Gurugram witnessed moderate footfall on Monday, with the association members saying it will take a couple of months after lifting of restrictions for the situation to normalise. Bablu Gupta, the president of Sadar market association, said, “Footfall remained low as a large percentage of industrial workers and other staff have left for their home towns due to Covid-19 infection and lockdown. It will take at least two months for the entire market to resume its normal functioning, even as the administration has eased the lockdown restriction, allowing shops to open from 9am to 8pm. Other factors like a limitation on weddings and social gatherings will also affect the overall turnout in marketplaces.” Even shops at the Vyapar Kendra market witnessed a low turnout, according to the market association. “People were already coming to the market when shops were running on an odd-even basis. There has been no major change since then. There is still a fear among people due to Covid-19, therefore, the footfall has been low,” said Tej Singh, the president of Vyapar Kendra market association. Harinder Rana, the president of Palam Vihar market association, held a similar view. “It is during the evening hours when footfall is high, but due to Covid-19, people are visiting the market to get items of basic needs.” The footfall at shopping malls, however, increased in the last one week, according to mall associations. “Malls were permitted to open from May 31 onwards for a limited time duration of 10am to 3pm. Last week, the timeline was extended till 8pm. Since then, the turnout at the mall increased by almost 40% compared to the first week of June,” said Aman Bajaj, member, MGF Metropolitan Mall Association. Likewise, gymnasiums that opened on Monday noticed a heavy footfall. Aakash Bhati, the owner of Foxx Gym in Sector 10, said, “More than 60 people reached the centre during morning hours. In the evening hours, however, there were not many people. It is likely more people will come to the gym in the next few days.” Anand Maina, the owner of Zink fitness studio in Sector 28, said that they will reopen the facility only after complete sanitisation. “The gym will be operational from June 16 onwards, only after complete planning. Our customers will use the facility based on the appointments made by them a day before. It will help us in managing the crowd and maintaining social distancing norms.” To ensure the enforcement of the lockdown curbs, police barricades were placed at the entry and exit gates of popular markets, to manage traffic movement and law and order.Nitish Tripathi, 33, who stepped out of his Sector 56 residence almost after a month, said, “Covid-19 cases have declined but there is a fear of contracting the disease. Since it was important to take out my car for servicing along with buying other items of daily needs, I had to move out following all precautionary norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lockdown-eased-gurugram-markets-receive-moderate-footfall-101623693286345.html
14-06-2021||Gurugram||MCG trains lens on property tax defaulters||The commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, directed officials of the civic body’s taxation wing to expedite the recovery of property tax and recover dues from those who owe more than ₹5 lakh on priority. A special drive will be organised in this regard in August, a release issued by the civic body on Monday stated.Ahuja held separate review meetings with taxation officials, and planning and revenue officials at the MCG’s Sector 34 office. “The Zonal Taxation Officers (ZTOs) have been directed to issue notices to the property tax defaulters with outstanding dues amounting to ₹5 lakh or above in the first phase and seal their properties by running a special drive in the month of August in case of non-payment of property tax,” said Ahuja.Ahuja directed MCG officials that for the recovery of property tax, the cooperation of the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and social organisations can also be taken. During the meeting, taxation officials apprised Ahuja that work is being done to set up Citizen Facilitation Centres (CFCs) in each of MCG’s 35 wards to ensure residents have easy access to pay all municipal related bills or get their queries addressed. Planning and revenue branch meetingThe MCG commissioner also held a meeting with planning and revenue branch officials. In the meeting, MCG senior town planner Sanjeev Mann said that since April 2019 till now, around 400 building plans have been approved through online mode, but applications for occupancy certificate are low.On this, the MCG commissioner said that all the approved building plans should be checked by planning and revenue teams and notices should be sent to owners for seeking occupancy certificates. In the meeting, MCG joint commissioner Hariom Attri also apprised Ahuja that the civic body owns 6,577 acres of land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-trains-lens-on-property-tax-defaulters-101623693285072.html
14-06-2021||Kolkata||‘Where are your 25 MLAs?,’ TMC MP Banerjee asks BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari||Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Sudip Banerjee on Monday asked the leader of opposition in the West Bengal legislative assembly to focus on the missing 25 MLAs from his own party before thinking about introducing an anti-defection law.He said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power in Centre hence he can ask them to bring a new law since it is his own party. “Anti-defection law is not the subject of an individual. It has to pass through both the houses of the Parliament and then to the Assembly. If the opposition leader from the BJP wants to bring a new rule, he can ask the central government since they are in power,” Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, 50 MLAs of the BJP met West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and submitted a memorandum over the incidents of violence following the West Bengal elections. “Being the constitutional head of the state, let me make it clear that anti-defection law is applicable in full force in Bengal. It is as much applicable here as in other parts of the country,” Dhankar said. He also said that there is an atmosphere of fear in the state.Speculations arose after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) asked the BJP about the rest of the 24 MLAs who were not present at Adhikari’s meeting with the Bengal governor. Reports of other leaders who had left the TMC to join the BJP ahead of polls returning to TMC surfaced following Mukul Roy’s return to the TMC.“Where are the 25 missing MLAs? Let him first talk about issuing anti-defection laws against them. Suvendu Adhikari needs to take care of his own MLAs now after which he can talk about others,” Sudip Banerjee further added.“Todna-jodna is part of Trinamool Congress’ politics. They have been doing this for the past 10 years and it went unopposed, but it is being opposed now and action will be taken under the anti-defection law,” Suvendu said after his meeting with Dhankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/where-are-your-25-mlas-tmc-mp-banerjee-asks-bjp-s-suvendu-adhikari-101623692641542.html
14-06-2021||Other||Delhi govt bans soaps and detergents that pollute the Yamuna||New Delhi: Delhi government on Monday banned the sale, storage and marketing of soaps and detergents that do not conform to the latest BIS standards to curb pollution in the river Yamuna. In an order, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said civic and government agencies having control over markets, storage and marketing facilities of soaps and detergents will be tasked with ensuring that the order is thoroughly followed. The enforcement teams have also been asked to submit monthly action taken reports. “...Agencies shall ensure compliance of directions through strict vigil and surprise checks on such establishments...Non compliance will attract penal action under the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act,” the DPCC order read. In January, the National Green Tribunal accepted recommendations of a two-member expert panel that suggested that the Delhi government issue orders “prohibiting sale, storage and transportation and marketing of detergents that do not conform to the revised BIS standards”. The NGT had also directed to launch awareness campaigns about the harmful effect of using substandard soaps and detergents. “All the authorities concerned, including local bodies, civil supplies department and district administrations having control over shops and other establishments dealing with sale, storage, transportation and marketing facilities for soaps and detergents in Delhi should ensure the compliance of directions through strict vigil and surprise checks,” the DPCC said in the order. “Indiscriminate use of soaps and detergents not conforming to BIS standards has been identified as one of the contributors to the deteriorating water quality of River Yamuna. There is probability of use of non-permissible chemical substances in the manufacture of soaps and detergents not conforming to BIS standards, which may cause harm to aquatic life, river water quality, animals as well as human beings dependent on river water,” the order read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-bans-soaps-and-detergents-that-pollute-the-yamuna-101623692084997.html
14-06-2021||Other||Odisha govt announces free education to Covid-19 orphans||Odisha government on Monday announced that that it will provide free education to all children who have been lost their parents to the Covid-19 pandemic.Advisor to women and child development department Sulata Deo said that the orphaned children will be included in the ‘Green Passage’ scheme of the state government.“The entire educational expenses of such orphans studying in both schools and colleges and those who want to pursue medical, engineering and other courses will be taken care of by the state government. For higher education, there is the ‘Green Passage’ scheme implemented by the Odisha government. However, in the case of Covid-19 orphans, the scheme will be implemented to cover their education cost at all level. If the orphaned kid is studying at any private institution, the government will bear the costs as well,” said Deo.So far 35 children in Odisha have lost both their parents due to Covid-19. On Monday, a 14-month-old boy in Nalco township of Angul district joined the list of orphans after losing his parents and grandmother to Covid-19 in quick succession.Officials said the Green Passage scheme was earlier implemented to provide higher education free of cost to orphans in Odisha. However, now the entire expenses of education of Covid-19 orphaned children will be available through the scheme.The ‘Green Passage’ scheme covers the costs of admission, tuition, and examination fees of children who want to pursue higher studies in the field of engineering, medicine and technology. However, for Covid-19 orphans, the ambit of the scheme has been increased.At present, orphaned children are getting a pension of ₹2,000 per month. The same structure will be followed for Covid-19 orphaned children.State social security and empowerment of persons with disability minister Ashok Panda said children who have lost both parents due to Covid-19 will be included in the ‘Madhu Babu Pension’ scheme in which ₹300 is given. The beneficiaries will be given an advance pension for June, July and August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-govt-announces-free-education-to-covid-19-orphans-101623691905557.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||#MeToo case against Mumbai principal: Panel orders action against college, cops||The Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission (MSHRC) has held KJ Somaiya College of Science and Commerce and the Mumbai Police responsible for the “grave injustice” done to two professors allegedly sexually harassed by a former principal of the college.The MSHRC has granted compensation of ₹5 lakh each to both the survivors, ordering that the amount be recovered from the erring police officers of Tilak Nagar and Juhu police stations for blatant dereliction of duties. The commission has also ordered departmental inquiries against the police officers. MA Sayeed, judicial member and acting chairperson of MSHRC, passed the order on April 26, a day before his retirement. But a copy of the order was made available to the survivors only on Monday, June 14. The accused, Dr Rajpal Hande, died on September 3, 2020.The commission in its order recommended that the vice-chancellor of Mumbai University (MU) to consider initiating necessary action against the erring management of KJ Somaiya College for having committed serious lapses in turning a blind eye towards the grievances of the professors. One of the complainants, a Nagpur-based professor, who fought for justice for more than 14 long years, is a wildlife scientist with several national and international awards for wildlife and environment conservation. She had alleged in January 2004, the then principal of K J Somaiya College of Science and Commerce, Hande, showed her a cassette tape with a suggestive cover picture of Khajuraho temple. At one instance, Hande allegedly held the professor’s shoulder from behind and when she resisted, he told her “I am treating you like my girlfriend.” As per her complaint, Hande allegedly sexually harassed her on multiple occasions between 2004 and 2007, when he was principal of the college. She first complained about the harassment in 2007, but the Tilak Nagar police registered a first information report (FIR) only in 2018 after she wrote to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on September 23, 2017. She said that the police, however, took action in her case in January 2020, only after she approached the state human rights commission in March 2019.After the first FIR was registered on Hande, another professor, a psychologist, alleged that Hande misbehaved with her at a conference held by the Bombay Psychological Association in 2016 at Mithibai College. After no action was taken by the college, she filed a complaint against him at Juhu police station on February 10, 2019, alleging sexual harassment.The Nagpur-based professor said that she lost her job after she complained against Hande to various authorities, including the MU and the women’s rights commission. The college dismissed her on the charges of “defaming” the principal and the college.The commission in its order observed that neither the [college] management, nor the police rose to the occasion, to extend and protect dignity and honour of the ladies, holding important positions in the society and they had to virtually wage a war for vindication of their rights. No plausible justification or explanation came to be submitted on record by either the police, as to why no prompt and immediate action was taken by them on receipt of victim’s report of sexual exploitation by the alleged culprit. These are the grey areas, which has not been explained or attempted to be justified by cogent and plausibile material. The commission also observed that it was pertinent to note that despite the reports making out a cognisable case, the concerned police took their own sweet time in registering an offence against the culprit.The investigation wing of the commission found that the complainant professor had filed 103 oral and written complaints against Hande with the management of KJ Somaiya College, but no action was taken by the college. Instead, the college management supported Hande by issuing a warning to the professor. College in-charge Samir Somaiya, secretary V Ranganathan and female member Patricia Gokhale, had knowledge of the entire matter, but they did not take cognisance of it, it said.“If they would have acted on time, then the victim professor’s sexual, financial and mental harassment could have been averted; the investigation wing of the commission found facts in this claim of the victim and feels it is important that police inspector Savita Chavan, the investigation officer of the case, must thoroughly probe the case to ascertain the involvement of the college management in the matter,” the order read. The commission’s investigators also found that the MU tribunal in its 2014 verdict pointed out that Hande, Somaiya college and MP Sadekar, the inquiry officer appointed by the college, in connivance with each other, sacked the professor. But, the police failed to take note of this.It was also found that the KJ Somaiya college administration on being asked, responded to the police that in the college’s records they found no complaints of any irregularities against the professor.“The incident and later, the struggle to get justice, have shattered my life. For many years, I had gone through tremendous mental and financial stress. After the commission’s validation of my complaint, the police should now book the police on charges of abetment, conspiracy, common intention for helping Hande. I have now written to the charity commissioner requesting strict action on Somaiya Trust by cancelling the registration of Somaiya Trust under section of 12 D of Society Act 1860 where the Trustee supported the accused person and encouraged him for serious and heinous crime of sexual harassment,” the survivor told HT.The spokesperson for the Somaiya Group, said, “As we haven’t received any order or communication from the state human rights commission it would not be appropriate to comment on the matter. “When asked what action will be taken against the erring police officers, DCP (zone 6) Krishnakant Upadhyay and DCP (zone 9) Abhishekh Trimukhe, said they haven’t received the commission’s order yet and won’t be able to comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/metoo-case-against-mumbai-principal-panel-orders-action-against-college-cops-101623690644914.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 253 Covid deaths, 872 fresh cases||Pune: As the state continues its reconciliation process, Pune district saw 253 more deaths due to Covid-19 added to its death toll. The current death toll due to the infection rose to 15,643 in the district. Less than 1,000 new cases were reported in the district on Monday. With 872 new cases, the progressive count went up to 1.036 million cases of which 1.001 million have recovered. Currently, 19,047 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Pune rural reported 460 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 299,818, and with 13 more deaths the death toll stood at 5,433. Pune city reported 261 new cases which took the progressive count to 489,593 and with 11 more deaths the toll went up to 7,846 while PCMC reported 151 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 247,204. With zero deaths, the toll stood at 2,185. The state reported that 14,732 patients were discharged on Monday and totally 5,654,003 Covid patients were discharged after full recovery until Monday. The recovery rate in the state is 95.55%. Also, 8,129 new cases and 200 Covid deaths were reported in the state on Monday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.90%. Of 38,215,492 laboratory samples 5,917,121 have been tested positive (15.48%) for Covid until Monday. Currently, 949,251 people are in home quarantine and 5,997 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-253-covid-deaths-872-fresh-cases-101623690464981.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi bans certain soaps, detergents to curb pollution in Yamuna||The Delhi government on Monday banned the sale, storage, transportation, and marketing of soaps and detergents not conforming to the latest BIS standards to curb pollution in the Yamuna river.The National Green Tribunal had in January accepted recommendations of a two-member expert panel which had suggested directing the Delhi government to issue orders "prohibiting sale, storage and transportation and marketing of detergents which do not conform to the revised BIS standards".The NGT had also directed to launch awareness campaigns about the harmful effect of using substandard soaps and detergents.All the authorities concerned, including local bodies, civil supplies department and district administrations having control over shops and other establishments dealing with sale, storage, transportation and marketing facilities for soaps and detergents in Delhi should ensure the compliance of directions through strict vigil and surprise checks, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee said in an order issued on Monday.The pollution body has asked the authorities concerned to submit monthly action taken reports of inspections conducted and subsequent action taken without fail.Also Read: Yamuna pollution on top court radar againExperts have cited soaps and detergents as one of the major reasons behind the pollution in the Yamuna river.Many times, visuals of toxic froth floating on the surface of the river in Delhi also make their way to social media.The primary reason behind the formation of the toxic foam in the Yamuna high phosphate content in the wastewater because of detergents used in dyeing industries, dhobi ghats and households, according to an official of the Central Pollution Control Board."A large number of unbranded detergents are also used in households and dyeing industries. The wastewater containing high phosphate content reach the river through untapped drains," he said.These detergents and other organic matter gets deposited in the riverbed when the river is flowing normally.When water falls from a height on reaching a barrage, it leads to turbulence and churning which causes froth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-bans-certain-soaps-detergents-to-curb-pollution-in-yamuna-101623687195394.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Cong-NCP allege corruption in tendering process||Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) made allegations that the drainage line and sewage treatment work in merged 11 villages are going to be carried out in the interest of contractors only. NCP MLA Sunil Tingre and Congress leader Aba Bagul raised this issue, both Congress and NCP leaders blamed that though these villages are spread around the city and at different locations, under the pressure of the ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) the contract had been allocated to only one contractor. If the PMC would allow many contractors to participate in this work and do its decentralisation, there would be more competition and the PMC would be able to save some cost, but by keeping the contractor in mind, the terms and conditions are fixed for the tender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/congncp-allege-corruption-in-tendering-process-101623687824894.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Bhujbal: Farmers to get five times the value of land for Pune-Nashik railway||Chhagan Bhujbal, minister food, civil supplies of Maharashtra state government have assured farmers of getting five times the value of land acquired for Pune-Nashik railway. On Monday, farmers from the villages met Chhagan Bhujbal in Nashik. “Farmers will get five times the value of land acquired for Pune Nashik Railway,” said Bhujbal during his meeting with the farmers. Representatives of farmers from 17 villages from Sinnar Taluka discussed various issues like proposed construction plans on agricultural lands and the issue of low monetary returns in exchange for fertile agricultural land was also discussed. The land acquisition process for the Pune-Nashik semi- high-speed railway line began in Pune district from the last week of May. The proposed length of the semi-high-speed railway line is 235 km. There are 24 stations and 18 tunnels planned on the route.The speed of the train will be 200 kilometre per hour and the expected cost of the project is ₹16,039 crore. This railway line is expected to reduce travelling time between Pune and Nashik to two hours. The project is expected to finish by 2024. Dr Amol Kolhe, MP from Shirur constituency also met farmers and assured them that no injustice will be done on acquired land. “The proposed Pune-Nashik semi high-speed railway project will transform Shirur Lok Sabha constituency. We have reviewed the land acquisition process in Khed taluka,” Dr Kolhe said. “The study of acquired land is completed and we will make sure that no injustice will be done to farmers. I urge all the farmers not to protest. Few years back, the proposed airport was shifted out of Khed taluka which has hampered its development. Pune-Nashik semi high-speed railway project is required to bring the taluka on the track of development by compensating it to some extent. Opportunities should not be wasted by protesting,” said Dr Kolhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bhujbal-farmers-to-get-five-times-the-value-of-land-for-pune-nashik-railway-101623687704820.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Driver killed in a hit-and-run case||A man in his 40s was killed in a hit-and-run accident with a tempo in Chakan in the early hours of Sunday morning. The deceased man was identified as Tanaji Tukaram Sakore and the injured woman was identified as Sangeeta Sakore, his wife, both in their 40s and residents of Pimpri. The couple was driving in a Santro registered in Pimpri-Chinchwad while the tempo was registered in Pune. The tempo arrived from the opposite side of the road and rammed into the driver side of the car around 1:35am on Sunday. “The driver has fled so we have not been able to identify him yet,” said police sub inspector Somnath Zende of Chakan police station who is investigating the case. The couple was rushed by passers-by to a hospital, but the man had succumbed to the injuries. A case under Sections 279, 337, 338, 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 184 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/driver-killed-in-a-hit-and-run-case-101623687644843.html
14-06-2021||Other||Four of family found dead in Dhanbad||All four members of a family were found dead in a pool of blood at their rented house on Gandhi road under Dhansar police station in Dhanbad on Monday, police said. The deceased were identified as Munna Yadav (45), his wife Meena Devi (35), and their sons Rahul Yadav (20) and Rohit Yadav (14).Police suspect that Rahul, who was Munna’s stepson, killed the other three before committing suicide. Two sharp weapons were also found near his body, officials said. “Initial probe suggests family dispute as the reason behind the killings,” ASP Manoj Swargiyari said. As per available information, Rahul had recently started living with the family.The family’s neighbours informed police about the incident after seeing blood coming out from one of the rooms.“The bodies have been sent for autopsy. Investigation is on for further leads,” the ASP said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-of-family-found-dead-in-dhanbad-101623687528896.html
14-06-2021||Other||Six blood banks get blood component separation units||Chief minister (CM) Hemant Soren on Monday laid foundation of blood components separation units at blood banks in six districts, Palamu, Gumla, Dhanbad, Giridih, Ranchi and East Singhbhum, through video conferencing.The CM also attended a programme organised in Ranchi to mark World Blood Donor Day. Delivering an online address from the state capital, the CM said, “Our government is working towards ensuring that no patient suffers for want of blood in the state, and for this purpose we are equipping blood banks with the required infrastructure.”The blood component separation units can be used to meet medical prescriptions. Each blood components has its unique role and function and thus separating it is the crucial process of medical examination.The CM said, “We are trying to make arrangements so that the needy patients can get blood online. However, for blood to be available, healthy people need to come forward and donate blood. We have also released a blood donation calendar so that the steady supply of blood can be maintained in the state.”Health minister Banna Gupta also appealed to the masses to come forward and donate blood.The CM also launched a YouTube channel of the Jharkhand State Aids Control Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-blood-banks-get-blood-component-separation-units-101623687527758.html
14-06-2021||Ranchi||Hazaribagh SP injured in road accident, hospitalised||Hazaribagh superintendent of police (SP) sustained injuries along with five others in a road accident in Ramgarh on Monday, police said. SP Karthik S was admitted to Ranchi’s Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty for treatment, Hazaribag sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Mahesh Prajapati said. According to hospital authorities, the SP received an injury on his face. The five other injured included the SP’s bodyguard. Police were yet to give details about his condition. As per eye-witnesses, the SP’s car met with an accident on a four-lane road in Ramgarh after a two-wheeler suddenly came in front of the car. Four people riding on the two-wheeler, including two children were also injured, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/hazaribagh-sp-injured-in-road-accident-hospitalised-101623687528292.html
14-06-2021||Ranchi||‘Evidence’ of tiger’s presence found near PTR after 15 months||Strap: Forest officials came across pug mark of a tigress in Lohardaga district, close to Palamau Tiger Reserve Evidence of a big cat’s presence was recently found in Lohardaga district, adjacent to Palamau Tiger Reserve (PTR), for the first time in over 15 months after a tigress was found dead in the reserve in February last year, forest officials said on Monday. State chief wildlife warden Rajiv Ranjan said, “Pug mark of a tigress was found at Kisko block of Lohardaga district on May 25. Forest extension of this district touches the PTR forest. So, we are suspecting the tigress may have travelled to Lohardaga from PTR.”When asked if the pug mark will be sent to Dehradun’s Wildlife Institute of India (WII) for confirmation, Ranjan said, “There is no need to send it to WII, as we have the expertise to identify if it of a tiger’s or not. On the basis of our examination, we can certainly say it is a tigress.”In a bid to collect more concrete evidence, the forest department has provided 10 trap cameras to Lohardaga forest division and asked PTR officials to install cameras on possible routes. “We have also installed cameras at spots where cattle were killed in Lohardaga. However, no image has not been captured till now. We have also deputed teams to track pug marks of the tigress.”Residents of Salaiya Panchayat under Kisko block in Lohardaga found intermittent killing of their cattle in the last week of May. They claimed that around five cattle were killed in past one month by big cats. Following the complaints, the forest department sent a team to the village for inspection, which found the tigress’ pug mark, Lohardaga divisional forest officer (DFO) Arvind Kumar said.DFO (buffer area) of PTR, Mukesh Kumar, who led the team, said, “We interrogated the person, who claimed to have seen the tiger. According to his statement, it was understood that he knew the difference between a leopard and a tiger.”The pug mark was four inches long and rectangular in shape, indicating that it was of a tigress, the official said. “Size of a leopard’s pug mark is three inches,” Kumar said.The development has raised hopes among officials and wildlife lovers about presence of tigers in the “tiger-less” reserve.The All India Tiger Estimation (AITE) in its 2018 report did not record a single tiger in the reserve, spread over 1129.93 square kilometres. However, an elderly tigress was found dead in the reserve on February 15 last year reportedly following clash with a bison. “The reserve has presence of tigers for sure. It is our fault that we are not able to reach them because of many reasons including dense forest, vast spread and some limitations due to presence of left-wing extremists. The next tiger census is scheduled in 2022. We will try to cover the census properly this time,” said the chief wildlife warden.Meanwhile, the reserve authorities recently concluded an animal assessment drive in PTR. Officials said the details of the assessment are expected in a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/evidence-of-tiger-s-presence-found-near-ptr-after-15-months-101623687526455.html
14-06-2021||Other||SER to set up 201MW solar plant||South Eastern Railway (SER) has decided to set up 201MW solar power plant on 500 acres vacant land under its jurisdiction as part of its green energy initiatives, officials said on Monday. It has also started Head On Generation (HOG) technology in 38 trains, achieving saving of 4,256 litres of diesel per hour that translates into saving ₹3,40,480 per hour. “About 500 acres of vacant land along railway track as well as settlements under SER jurisdiction has been identified for installation of 201MW capacity solar plant. By consuming solar energy as alternative source of energy, SER has saved ₹33.6 lakh in 2019-20 and ₹39 lakh in 2020-21 from regular energy bill,” Manish Kumar Pathak, Chakradharpur senior divisional commercial manager (Sr DCM), said.Under HOG system in train operation, electrical power is fed to coaches directly from Over Head Equipment (OHE) through electric locomotive for functioning of Coach AC, fans, lights etc. “This is resulting in savings of 112 litres of diesel or ₹8,960 per train per hour. Under SER, a total of 38 trains are moving on HOG system, that has helped to reduce fuel cost amounting to ₹3, 40, 480 per hour and also reduction of huge amount of carbon emission,” said Pathak. Till now, SER has installed altogether 2.306 MW solar plants at its buildings and four railway divisions- Kharagpur, Adra, Chakradharpur and Ranchi.Work is also under process for installation of another 18.94 MW capacity roof top solar plant under SER jurisdiction, Pathak said, adding that SER has also replaced conventional light fittings by energy efficient LED lights in all its 363 stations and other railway establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ser-to-set-up-201mw-solar-plant-101623687527109.html
14-06-2021||Other||Private docs released from Covid duty in Dhanbad||The Dhanbad District Disaster Management (DDM) has ordered releasing all private doctors from Covid-19 duty from immediate effect. The move came owing to sharp fall in Covid-19 cases in the district, officials said on Monday. Around 30 private doctors were deployed at different Covid-19 care centres in the district when cases peaked this April. Dhanbad registered only four new cases in last 24 hours till Sunday night, while no death was registered in last three days, according to the health department’s Covid-19 bulletin.Deputy commissioner (DC) cum DDM chairman Umashankar Singh said, “It has been decided to release private doctors deployed at ICU and non-ICU of Sadar hospital, Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College (SNMMCH) PG Block Covid care centre and Dhanbad Railway station from Tuesday.”However, these private doctors can be called for their services again in the future if required, the DC said.Besides private doctors, it was also directed to release all private ambulances deployed at all 10 blocks, railway stations, and bus stations for taking positive patients to Covid care centres, the DC said. However, he has directed to deploy 108 ambulance at all blocks.Meanwhile, the DDM also disallowed home isolation facility and sent infected patients to Sadar Hospital for early recovery as all beds were vacant. “Eight private doctors were deployed here; their relieving will not impact services as the hospital has enough medical staff,” Sadar Hospital nodal officer Dr Rajkumar said.SNMMCH Covid care centre in-charge Dr ( Prof) DP Bhushan also said that since number of cases have reduced, there was no need of additional doctors at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/private-docs-released-from-covid-duty-in-dhanbad-101623687525719.html
14-06-2021||Ranchi||State bans home isolation for Covid-19 patients||In order to prevent further resurgence of Covid-19 cases, the state health department has banned home isolation of infected patients, directing all district administrations to compulsorily shift such cases to Covid-19 care centres.In a recent letter to deputy commissioners (DCs) concerned, additional chief health secretary Arun Kumar Singh has also directed to intensify contact tracing exercise and get people coming in direct or indirect contact of a positive patient tested within 24 hours.The move came amid easing of lockdown restrictions across the country as well as the state owing to a declining trend in positive cases. “Considering this, it is the right time to be extremely vigilant for any possible surge in Covid-19 cases. Most states in the country have relatively high weekly positivity rate and hence influx of passengers from other states may pose a risk of increase in Covid-19 infection in our state,” the acting health secretary said in his letter dated June 12.He, therefore, directed to shift all Covid-19 patients to Covid-19 care centres. “No home isolation shall be granted to them,” he said.However, the DCs can create exception for people depending upon the situation. “The DCs may take a decision for authorization of home isolation only on case to case basis after due application of mind, fully satisfying themselves about the justification for such permission and taking into account concerns for public health and infection control in the districts.”According to Singh, shifting patients from home isolation to facility isolation will most likely discourage many super spreaders from travel. It will also lead to better treatment of such patients and keep Covid-19 facilities ready as well as prepare for any eventuality in the near future, he saidPermanent RAT booths at airports, railway stations, bus terminalsIn yet another direction, the health department asked the DCs to set up permanent rapid antigen test (RAT) booths at all airports, railway stations and bus terminals. The booths should function round-the-clock to screen people arriving from other states, the department directed.It also asked the DCs to depute police force, along with a magistrate, at every booth for providing adequate assistance to testing teams, besides stressing on providing adequate RAT kits to these booths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-bans-home-isolation-for-covid-19-patients-101623687524760.html
14-06-2021||Pune||City improvement committee approves selling of PMC-owned flats||The City Improvement Committee (CIC) of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Monday allowed the sale of 1,512 flats which are given to rehabilitate various project affected people. City Improvement Committee president Anand Rithe said, “The PMC got various flats in different schemes which it has allocated to the project affected people. Mainly those who lost their homes in road widening and other PMC owned projects would be allocated these flats. PMC charges ₹450 nominal rent to them. This scheme started from 1991-92.” These flats have been used by these people for the last many years, but the PMC is not getting enough rent from them. Considering this, the civic body has decided to sell the flats to the renters of these 1,512 flats. Rithe said, “It is a win-win situation as these people would get ownership for their homes and PMC will receive onetime revenue. As per the PMC survey, the price of these flats is between Rs12 lakh to Rs15 lakh as per ready reckoner rates.” The city improvement committee approved this proposal and now it would get forward to the standing committee for approval. Once the standing would approve it, the final permission will be granted from the general body. PMC standing committee chief Hemant Rasne proposed this scheme to sell PMC owned flats to generate more revenue. There are different views on this proposal. Some people are of the view that PMC cannot sell out these flats. Now as the city improvement committee approved this proposal, again there would be discussion on this proposal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/city-improvement-committee-approves-selling-of-pmc-owned-flats-101623687464751.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Driver, cleaner abandon truck carrying 1,100 kg bovine meat||The driver and the cleaner of a pick-up truck abandoned the vehicle that they were driving to carry 1,100kg bovine meat in Chakan area after a man tried to flag down the vehicle on Saturday midnight. The two were driving a white Mahindra truck registered in Mumbai, according to the police. The man who tried to flag down the vehicle was identified as Santosh Vijay Salvi (40), a resident of Hutatma Chowk area of Bhosari and is also the complainant in the matter. The police suspect that the men did not have a permit to carry bovine meat. “We have sent the meat for chemical analysis at the government laboratory in Pune to determine if it is a cow or a buffalo. The complainant is a beat marshal and was on night patrol. He flagged down the vehicle for moving at that hour but the two took the keys and ran away before he could catch up,” said police sub inspector Somnath Zende of Chakan police station. The vehicle and the meat have been seized by police. A case under Section 429 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 5(c), 9(a), 9(b) of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/driver-cleaner-abandon-truck-carrying-1-100-kg-bovine-meat-101623687346596.html
14-06-2021||Other||10 get death penalty in 2018 murder case in Ara||A court Monday sentenced 10 persons to death for the murder of a local businessman for extortion in 2018.The court of additional district judge Manoj Kumar also fined each of the convicts ₹2.60 lakh, additional public prosecutor Nagendra Prasad Singh said.On December 6, 2018, businessman Imran Khan was shot dead and his brother Akil Ahmad injured in a shooting in Shobha market area in Ara town. A BSNL employee also sustained injuries. Imran had allegedly refused to pay ₹10 lakh in extortion allegedly demanded by the accused. Those sentenced to death are Khurshid Quraishi, his brother Abdullah Quraishi, Babli Miyan, Tausif Alam, Furchan Miyan, Ahmad Miyan, Anwar Quraishi, Guddu Miyan, Raju Khan and Shamsher Miyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-get-death-penalty-in-2018-murder-case-in-ara-101623687345920.html
14-06-2021||Other||₹25 L looted from courier company office in Purnia||Armed miscreants allegedly looted ₹25 lakh from the office of a courier company at Polytechnic College chowk under Maranga police station of Purnia district late on Sunday evening. Purnia superintendent of police (SP) Daya Shankar said, “The incident of loot took place at Insatakart courier service at Polytechnic Chowk. Investigation is on.” He added, “Under what circumstance the office was functioning at 10 pm when there was a night curfew.” He said, police have found that the CCTV camera was dysfunctional, raising serious doubt over the working of the company. Courier manager Abhishek Kumar said, “Seven armed criminals struck the office around 10 pm and looted ₹25 lakh, besides the mobile phones of the staff.” He alleged that they brutally assaulted one of the staff members when he resisted their bid.” Meanwhile, based on the written complaint of the cashier of the courier service Pankaj Kumar, Maranga police have lodged an FIR under Section 392 of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25-l-looted-from-courier-company-office-in-purnia-101623687345375.html
14-06-2021||Other||A year on, no charge sheet in Rajput’s death case||PATNAA year after the Bihar-born actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead at his Mumbai residence, the Central Bureau of Investigation, which has been probing the case, is yet to file a charge sheet in the special court in Patna that has been hearing the case.Rajput (34) was found dead at his residence on June 14, 2020, under mysterious circumstances. CBI sources said they had not closed the case even as kin rued no real progress had been made. “Neither have other agencies investigating his death, such as the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), arrived at any conclusion,” said Rajput’s sister Nilu Singh. Rajput’s father KK Singh had filed a case against the actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty the Rajiv Nagar police station in Patna, accusing her of taking his money and driving him to suicide. The investigations soon became mired in a series of controversies, including a stand-off between Bihar and Mumbai Police. Later, the Bihar government transferred the case to the CBI. On August 6, 2020, the CBI registered an FIR against Chakraborty and others and started a probe. “We are investigating all possible angles,” said a senior CBI officer, requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, Vikas Singh, the lawyer of Rajput’s father KK Singh, told PTI that he was not satisfied with the progress of the CBI probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-year-on-no-charge-sheet-in-rajput-s-death-case-101623687344780.html
14-06-2021||Patna||Bihar govt signs MoU for setting up state’s biggest hydroelectric plant||Moving ahead in its mission to generate green energy, the Bihar government signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation Limited (NHPC) for setting up the state’s biggest hydroelectric power generation plant, Dagmara multipurpose hydropower project, on Kosi river in Supaul district on Monday.The MoU was signed between Bihar State Hydroelectric Power Corporation (BSHPC) and NHPC through video-conferencing in the presence of Union Minister of State for Power and New and Renewable Energy RK Singh, state energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Union Energy Secretary Alok Kumar and chairman and managing director at NHPC AK Singh.Speaking on the occasion, RK Singh highlighted that the Dagmara project would contribute immensely to India’s mission for energy transition for lesser use of fossil fuel. He said, “About ₹2,500 crore investment will create immense opportunities for generating both direct and indirect employment in Bihar.”Giving details of the project, Secretary of Bihar’s energy department Sanjeev Hans said, “The total generation capacity of the project will be 130.1 MW, which will comprise two powerhouses, while the barrage length would be 753 metres and it would have 36 gates.”Hans claimed that the ambitious power generation plant is the state’s biggest hydroelectric project that will come up 31 km downstream on Kosi river under Bhaptiyahi block in Supaul district.State energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav believes that Kosi—which is known as the sorrow of Bihar—will convert into a river of opportunities after the commencement of the Dagmara project. Yadav attributed the project one-of-its-kind and unique from conventional projects.Meanwhile, Pratyaya Amrit, additional chief secretary of the health department, who played an instrumental role in taking off of the project, pointed that the Dagmara project would help in an uplift of the socio-economic condition through recreational facilities such as fisheries and eco-tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-signs-mou-for-setting-up-state-s-biggest-hydroelectric-plant-101623687284745.html
14-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: Death certificates mum on cause, ex gratia a far cry for kin of Covid dead||Death certificates of Covid-19 victims do not mention on it the cause of death, causing difficulty to family members in claiming government compensation. Bihar offers ₹4 lakh ex-gratia to the next of kin of a Covid-19 deceased through the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. To get this compensation, there is a lot of paper work involved, and irrefutable evidence of Covid-19 death being just the first prerequisite. With no mention about the cause of death on form 6 of the death certificate, issued by the department of planning and development, government of Bihar, relatives have to append Covid-19 positive test report along with the patient’s death summary in case of institutional death. “A mere mention in the remarks column of the death certificate that the deceased was Covid-19 positive would have sufficed and dispensed with the requirement of a Covid-19 report as well as patient’s death summary in case of hospital deaths,” said Rajeev Ranjan, a resident of Danapur. Rajeev had played a proactive role in helping his neighbour Shukla Sengupta get the government compensation of ₹4 lakh for her husband Sujit Krishna Sengupta, who died of Covid-19 last year. Sengupta has two daughters, one in Pune, and the other in Patna, who is suffering from a genetic disorder. Rajeev had to make several rounds of government offices before the septuagenarian widow could get the government cheque. “Sujit tested positive at Patna Medial College Hospital (PMCH) where he was initially admitted. He suffered a fall at the hospital and fractured his hip bone, after which the hospital referred him to a higher centre. His family then moved him to another hospital, which misplaced his Covid-19 test report. I had a tough time to convince the clerks in government offices that Sujit uncle died of Covid-19,” he recollects. This is not an isolated case. Ishani Lal (27), Stuti Lal (25), Aastha Lal (20), residents of Hanuman Nagar locality in Patna’s Kankerbagh, have lost their parents. While their father Anupam Kumar died a few years back, mother, Vibha Baxi, 49, succumbed to Covid-19 at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on April 27. The daughters are now struggling with paper work, as the death certificate issued by AIIMS does not mention Covid-19 as the cause of death. Worse, the institution has misspelt their mother’s name in the death summary. Correcting it is taking them some effort and time. “Neither has any of the three daughters nor I received any call from the government either to enquire about the delay in submission of claim or to guide us and facilitate the payment of compensation,” said Vishal Baxi, who got his elder sister admitted to AIIMS. Most government medical colleges, which are authorised to issue death certificates on form 6 to relatives, said there was no provision to mention the cause of death on it. “We do not write the cause of death on the death certificate issued to the relative, as the format is fixed by the government and there is no column to mention the cause of death on it,” said Dr Binod Kumar Singh, medical superintendent of the Nalanda Medical College Hospital. Additional professor, forensic medicine and toxicology department of AIIMS-Patna, Dr Amit Patil, said doctors were supposed to mention Covid-19 as a cause of death in form 4, which is the medical certificate for cause of death. “Doctors have to mention cause of death in the death certificate according to the international classification of disease. The WHO has given code U07.1 for Covid-19 disease. Relatives of patients have the right to access form 4 along with form 6, generally given to them as the death certificate,” said Dr Patil. Mahesh Prasad, additional district registrar of births and death in Patna, said death certificates given to relatives were not supposed to mention cause of death on it. “The format of death certificate is fixed and there is no provision to mention the cause of death in it. The data uploaded on the national portal of births and deaths, on the basis of information furnished by doctors in form 4, does mention the cause of death in it, but the certificate given to relatives does not capture it for confidentiality reasons. Any change in it has to be done as per the guidelines of the Registrar General of India,” Prasad said. Meanwhile, considering the issues in compensation, the state government has decided to take up the issue with the Centre. “We will take up the issue with the Centre and request it to mention the cause of death on the death certificate given to relatives,” said Pratyaya Amrit, Bihar’s additional chief secretary, health. Of the 9,429 Covid-19 deaths in Bihar, as on June 9, the state government had released ex gratia funds for 3,737 Covid-19 victims so far of which around 2,000 had been paid till then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-death-certificates-mum-on-cause-ex-gratia-a-far-cry-for-kin-of-covid-dead-101623687226827.html
14-06-2021||Other||Educational institutions likely to reopen in July: Minister||PATNABihar’s education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary has hinted at reopening schools and colleges in the state in July if Covid-19 situation remains under control. Chaudhary said educational institutions would be reopened in a phased manner, with resumption of secondary classes followed by higher and primary classes.“If Covid-19 situation improves in the state, educational institutions are likely to be reopened next month following Covid-19 safety protocols. Students, especially the younger lot, are facing academic loss due to closure of schools,” he said. Chaudhary also conceded there was a huge digital divide among students in the state. “Amid closure of schools, we resorted to online classes through various platforms including Doordarshan, e-lots application etc. However, online classes cannot replace traditional classroom teaching. A large number of students are deprived of online classes as they don’t have access to mobile and internet. We have urged the Centre to provide digital devices to students under Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan to minimise the gap,” he said. The education department is also set to introduce catch-up course for compensating the academic losses. Sanjay Kumar, additional chief secretary of education department, said the final decision regarding reopening of educational institutions would be taken after meeting with all stakeholders. “We have designed catch-up course for classes 2 to 10 to compensate the learning loss due after the pandemic triggered closure of schools last year. Earlier, we intended to launch the bridge course in April but we had to put off the plan owing to lockdown and shutdown of schools once again. The course will be introduced at all government schools before beginning of new academic session so that existing and newly enrolled students overcome learning gap,” he said. All government and private educational institutions have been shut in the state since April 5 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/educational-institutions-likely-to-reopen-in-july-minister-101623687225475.html
14-06-2021||Other||Women’s College waives fee for students who lost parents due to Covid-19||PATNAIn a bid to provide financial relief and prevent students from dropping out, Patna Women’s College (PWC) has decided to waive college fees of those students who have lost their parents due to Covid-19.College’s principal M Rashmi AC said the institute had decided to support those students who lost their parents in such tough times. “The college will provide financial support to those students who have lost the earning members of their families due to Covid-19. We have requested all heads to collect details of such students from their respective departments and submit to the list college by June 20. We are gathering details from all undergraduate and postgraduate courses. All such students will be exempted from college fee till they complete their course duration,” she said. Students and professors have welcomed the initiative taken by the college. “The fee waiver will help many students to continue their studies who else would have discontinued college due to financial crisis. We don’t have an exact figure of such students who have lost their parents but several students have individually informed about the sudden demise of their parents to Covid-19 infection during March- April,” a professor associated with computer department said. Meanwhile, AN college, a constituent college of Patliputra University, has also announced to waive college fees last week. SP Sahi, principal of the college, said, “The college has decided to waive fees of such students who have lost their parents or even one due to Covid-19. We have started collecting details but we are yet to finalise the list. A separate committee has been constituted for accepting applications of students and verifying their details.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/womens-college-waives-fee-for-students-who-lost-parents-due-to-covid19-101623687226040.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Maratha Kranti Morcha Pune office bearers to join protest||The office bearers of Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) from Pune extended their support to Yuvraj Sambhajuraje and announced that hundreds of thousands of people from Pune district will go to Kolhapur on June 16th to participate in the morcha. The Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) decided to launch the morcha again in the Maharashtra state as the Marathas have not received reservation yet. The Supreme Court on May 5, 2021, struck down the Maharashtra law that held the Maratha community as socially and economically backward, thereby ending the Maratha reservation in public education and employment.Later, the Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) decided to launch the morcha again and if necessary, carry out a long March between Pune and Mumbai. Pune district Maratha Kranti Morcha office bearer Rajendra Kunjir, Ragunath Patil and Sachin Adkar on Monday publicly supported the first Maratha morcha that will be launched from Kolhapur on June 16th. Kunjir said, “Many Maratha youths from Pune district will go at Kolhapur to participate in the morcha. The government must give permanent postings to all who were recruited from 2015 to 2021.” Even they appealed to the Central government to make necessary amendments as Marathas would be able to get reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maratha-kranti-morcha-pune-office-bearers-to-join-protest-101623687224794.html
14-06-2021||Other||Oppn targets CM for LJP troubles, JD(U) says Chirag reaped what he sowed||PATNAThe coup in Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) against party chief Chirag Paswan, in which five of its six MPs have joined hands against him, has predictably roiled the politics in Bihar, barely six months after Nitish Kumar returned as the chief minister after the assembly polls in October-November 2020.Main Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), whose chief and former chief minister Lalu Prasad was recently granted bail in fodder scam cases, blamed Kumar for the trouble in the LJP, saying it was his desperation to save his own party JD(U) from the imminent onslaught from the RJD chief.“Those torching others’ houses should not forget that the fire might engulf their houses too. Nitish Kumar just cannot wish away the troubles he faces after release of Lalu Prasad from the jail. The game is on,” said RJD MLA and chief spokesman Bhai Birendra. Congress MLC extended an offer to Chirag Paswan to join hands with Opposition’s grand alliance. “He (Kumar) was pursuing his political goals when people were grappling with the challenge to survive in the pandemic and the opposition parties were out to help those in distress,” Mishra said. State Congress spokesman Rajesh Rathore said JD(U)’s bid to disintegrate LJP and obliterate the legacy of its founder Ram Vilas Paswan would not succeed for long. “Paswan community would not spare Nitish Kumar for isolating Chirag Paswan in Bihar politics. Chirag will rise again. Paswans will not back Pashupati Paras,” he said. Former Patna University professor and political analyst Nawal Kishore Chaudhary said, “It’s an attempt by JD(U) to settle scores with LJP and regain its lost ground. Kumar is a power hungry politician.” Over the past few months, JD(U) has been able to poach lone MLAs of BSP and the LJP, besides an Independent. Now, it is said to be eyeing five MLAs of AIMIM. Besides, the party has poached four MLCs of RJD and an equal number of Congress MLCs over the past few years. Former Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) chief Ashok Choudhary, who was a Congress MLC, had switched his loyalty with three others and joined JD(U) in 2017. Meanwhille, JD(U) national president RCP Singh said Chirag Paswan has just reaped what he sowed. “Chirag was heading a party which was with the NDA. Yet, he adopted a stance that damaged it in the Assembly polls. This led to a sense of unease within his own party,” said Singh. Ashok Choudhary, who is now a minister, said JD(U) had nothing to do with the rift in the LJP, but added Chirag was destined for this fate owing to negative politics he played during the Bihar assembly elections. The BJP was cautious. State BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said Chirag was bearing the brunt of his habit of taking unilateral decision for his party without consulting other leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oppn-targets-cm-for-ljp-troubles-jd-u-says-chirag-reaped-what-he-sowed-101623687165482.html
14-06-2021||Pune||PMC law officer caught accepting bribe||A law officer of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) was found accepting a bribe of ₹50,000 from a person on Monday. The woman was found accepting a bribe without knowing that she was walking into a trap set by the Anti-corruption bureau (ACB) Pune unit. The accused was identified as Manjusha Satish Idhate (57) , a Class-1 officer at Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and is listed as a municipal prosecutor on the PMC website. The officer was allegedly demanding money for passing a file related to transferable development rights (TDR) on a piece of land. The woman demanded and was caught accepting ₹50,000 in cash on Monday. A case under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act was registered at the Shivajinagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-law-officer-caught-accepting-bribe-101623687164789.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Three minors among six held for murder||The Pune police have apprehended three minors and three adults for the murder of a 17-year-old boy in Parvati Paytha area of Pune on Sunday night. The deceased boy was identified as Swaraj Tanaji Waghmare, a resident of Janata Vasahat, while the arrested were identified as Rushabh Renuse, Ashok Navade, one other adult and three minors. “The deceased boy was accused and involved in the murder of another boy in April. Renuse is the uncle of the one who was killed in April. Waghmare had spent time in the juvenile observation home after the murder and recently released,” said police inspector (crime) Vijay Khomane of Dattawadi police station. One of the accused called the boy to Parvati Paytha area on Sunday night under the guise of giving him an old mobile phone for use, according to the complaint. Once Waghmare had reached there, the men surrounded him and started thrashing him - first with kicks and blows, and then using sharp weapons. The injuries on his body were seen on hands, head, and back. The spot where it happened was public and people walking around the area tried to interrupt. However, the assailants attacked those who tried to interrupt as well. However, one man tried to interrupt and was also injured on the back in the process. The man was identified as Dadasaheb Bansode (23), a resident of Lakshmi Colony in Hadapsar and he is the complainant in the case. After the incident, which happened around 8pm, the body was rushed to Sassoon General Hospital (SGH). A case under Section 302 (murder), rioting, 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code along with Section 4(25) of Arms Act; Section 37(1)135 of Maharashtra Police Act, and Section 7(1) of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Dattawadi police station. Attempted murder of 17-year-old In another attack on a teenage boy in the city, five people were arrested for attacking a 17-year-old boy over a scuffle in Maral chawl area in Kondhwa. The five were identified as Suraj Yadavrao Rasal (19), Swapnil alias Aniket Nitin Kanse (19), Omkar Sachin Shendge (19), Nitin Eknath Patil (20) and Kiran Namdev Jadhav (19) all residents of Undri and Kondhwa Budrukh area. Around 10:45am, Prem Yadav (17) and his friend Rohan Gaikwad (17) was passing Talab factory gate on a two-wheeler when the accused arrived in the area on another vehicle and splashed water from a pothole on the now-injured boy. As Yadav and Gaikwad raised an alarm, the assailants attacked them with sharp weapons, according to the complaint lodged by Yadav. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt using weapons), 427 (mischief causing damage worth over ₹50), rioting, of Indian Penal Code along with Section 7(1) of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-minors-among-six-held-for-murder-101623687044824.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar meets Shahu Chhatrapati in Kolhapur, shifts onus on Centre||Deputy Chief Minister and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar on Monday met Yuvraj Sambhajiraje Bhosale’s father Shahu Chhatrapati Maharaj and discussed the issue of Maratha reservation. Yuvraj Sambhajiraje has taken an aggressive stance on the Maratha reservation issue and is leading the Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) this time. The Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) has planned to carry out morchas from June 16 across Maharashtra. The first protest will be held in Kolhapur. Pawar was on a visit to Kolhapur on Monday to take the Covid-19 review of the district as its positivity rate is high in western Maharashtra. He also met Shahu Chhatrapati Maharaj at his residence and discussed various issues.On one side when Sambhajiraje and Udyanraje Bhosale planned their visit in Pune, Pawar met Shahu Maharaj in Kolhapur. Pawar said, “Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and I met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and briefed him about the Maratha reservation problem. We’ve also given information about the Supreme Court’s decision. We appealed to the Central government to amend the law as Maratha caste can be declared as a backward caste.” Pawar said, “If the Central government takes a positive stand and amends the act, the problem of giving reservation to Marathas is possible. Even the state government had appointed the committee for the same which is headed by former chief justice Dilip Bhosale. The committee had submitted the report to CM Uddhav Thackeray. The government will discuss the suggestions given in this report.” Pawar also took a review of the Covid-19 situation in Kolhapur city. As the Covid cases are more in comparison to neighbouring districts, Pawar clearly instructed to bring more restrictions in Kolhapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-meets-shahu-chhatrapati-in-kolhapur-shifts-onus-on-centre-101623686984760.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Udayanraje extends support to Sambhajiraje on Maratha reservation||Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s descendants Udayanraje Bhosale and Sambhajiraje Bhosale on Monday came together and expressed strong support for Maratha reservation in Pune. Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje has taken the lead this time and planned to carry out the Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) protests in each district from June 16, 2021. The first morcha will begin from Kolhapur. On Monday, Sambhajiraje met Udayanraje Bhosale in Pune. After the meeting both Sambhajiraje and Udyanraje addressed the press. Udayanraje Bhosale said, “I am with Sambhajiraje and have extended my full support to his efforts in getting reservation for the Marathas. We have only one demand and that is reservation for Marathas.” Udayanraje Bhosale dared politicians from all parties to hold a special assembly session on the issue of Maratha reservation as soon as possible. He said, “Maharashtra government should call a special session on the Maratha reservation. This session should be broadcasted live, and people should know who is speaking what. I don’t believe in the courts for getting reservation for the Marathas. The citizens must ask questions to all elected members. They need to raise questions with all MLAs irrespective of which political party they belong to.” Udayanraje Bhosale assured that if the state government clears all hurdles that exist currently, he will raise the issues with the Centre. “This issue is above party politics, I appeal to all leaders, including those of the BJP to solve the issue of Maratha reservation. I appeal to the media that you shouldn’t make this about party politics, people and Maratha youth are very angry and restless,” he said. In the previous Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM) protests, Udayanraje had taken charge and was aggressively seen leading silent protests. This time, Sambhajiraje of Kolhapur has taken the charge. Sambhajiraje recently visited Kopardi village in Ahmednagar district and later on Monday held a meeting with Udayanraje in Pune. “We are from the same family, there are no two families. There may be different paths, but our aim is the same, and that is reservation for Marathas,” Udayanraje Bhosale said. Sambhajiraje Bhosale said, “We have a very good meeting and there is no difference between us on any demand. We have the same view.” The Supreme Court on May 5, 2021, struck down the Maharashtra law that held the Maratha community as socially and economically backward, thereby ending the Maratha reservation in public education and employment. In doing so, the Supreme Court also quashed the Maratha reservation in so far it breaches the 50% ceiling of reservation. The top court, while nixing the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018, said that it violates equality as under Article 14 of the Constitution. The five-judge Supreme Court bench, comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta, and Ravindra Bhat, pronounced the verdict on May 5, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/udayanraje-extends-support-to-sambhajiraje-on-maratha-reservation-101623686864759.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Maharashtra board cancels HSC exams||Pune: The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) on Monday issued a notification on cancellation of Class 12 Higher Secondary School (HSC) examination for the academic year 2020-2021. The education department officials said that the assessment process will be declared within a week. Dinkar Temkar, director, Maharashtra State Council of Education, Research and Training (MSCERT), said, “The evaluation will be likely on the lines of Class 10 assessment and may include a few more details.” The state board had last week issued a detailed notification on Class 10 assessment process. Dinkar Patil, chairman, MSBSHSE, said, “Maharashtra SCERT is handling the Class 12 evaluation process and the results will be declared soon.” Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune district principals’ association, said, “This year, the Class 12 result may get delayed as the notification is not out yet. Unlike every year, Class 10 results will be declared before Class 12 this time.” Avinash Takwale, principal, Poona Night school, “Just like Class 10, students of Class 12 may be assessed based on their performance in Class 11 and Class 12.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-board-cancels-hsc-exams-101623685844681.html
14-06-2021||Kolkata||TMC urges Lok Sabha speaker to disqualify turncoat MPs including Sisir Adhikari||On Monday, Sudip Bandyopadhyay, leader of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in Lok Sabha, called up speaker Om Birla and urged him to take action on the petitions he had earlier filed seeking disqualification of Sunil Mondal and Sisir Adhikari who joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) before the recent Bengal assembly polls, HT has learnt.“The speaker told me that he will form a committee to review the petitions for disqualification and ask the two MPs to appear before it. He asked me when I will be able to travel to Delhi as I have to appear before the committee as well,” Bandyopadhyay told HT. Bandyopadhyay had called up the speaker on the same issue on June 3. The second call was made on a day when 50 BJP legislators in Bengal met governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and demanded that any MLA who joins the TMC should face action under the anti-defection law passed by the Parliament. The team was led by Shishir Adhikari’s son Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the legislative assembly. “The anti-defection law applies to all states and Bengal is not an exception. As the Constitutional head of the state, I will ensure that it is enforced,” Dhankhar told the media after the meeting. Sunil Mondal, TMC Lok Sabha member from the East Burdwan seat, joined the BJP in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah in December last year. Sisir Adhikari, who did not formally pick up the BJP flag but shared dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the campaign, is the MP from Contai in East Midnapore district. His eldest son Suvendu defeated Mamata Banerjee from the district’s Nandigram seat by 1958 votes. She has to face the election again to continue as chief minister.Bandyopadhyay wrote to the speaker on January 4 and May 12, seeking Mondal’s disqualification. The petition regarding Sisir Adhikari was sent on May 17. On June 3, Bandyopadhyay told Om Birla that the two TMC MPs joined another party in public programmes and there are no doubts about their defection. The TMC has 22 Lok Sabha MPs since the BJP won 18 seats in 2019. Bengal has 42 seats. Till 2019, the TMC had 34 MPs in the Lower House. In the assembly polls, the TMC bagged 213 of the state’s 294 seats. The BJP, which had sworn to oust the TMC by winning more than 200 seats, won only 77. However, two BJP MLAs resigned from the assembly to retain their Lok Sabha seats. On Friday, BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy, who won the Krishnanagar North assembly seat, joined the TMC. On Monday, Suvendu Adhikari said Roy would face action under anti-defection law if he did not resign from the assembly within 24 hours. When asked about the TMC’s demand for disqualification of his father, Adhikari said, “I will not comment on this.” Sisir Adhikari’s second son, Dibyendu, is the Lok Sabha member from East Midnapore’s Tamluk seat. Though he spoke in support of Suvendu Adhikari on a few occasions he has not joined the BJP. Sisir Adhikari and Sunil Mondal did not give any reaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-urges-lok-sabha-speaker-to-disqualify-turncoat-mps-including-sisir-adhikari-101623685187921.html
14-06-2021||Other||Bajwa writes to CM on medical college in Gurdaspur||Chandigarh Congress Member of Parliament (MP) Partap Singh Bajwa on Monday urged Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to establish a medical college in Gurdaspur without further delay. In a letter to the CM, Bajwa drew his attention to the promise he made in April 2018, on setting up a medical college in Gurdaspur parliamentary constituency. “A promise made by the CM cannot be broken as it is the promise of the government of the day. Anything less would be disastrous for the Congress in the region,” he said, referring to the state government’s June 10 announcement regarding four new medical colleges in Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Malerkotla. The Rajya Sabha member urged the CM to move forward with the plans to establish the medical college in Batala in the name of Mata Sulakhni and dedicate it to the celebrations of the 550th Parkash Purb of Guru Nanak, whose marriage was solemnised there. “A medical college and hospital has been a long-standing demand of the people of Gurdaspur, as otherwise they have to travel to Amritsar for treatment of serious illnesses,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bajwa-writes-to-cm-on-medical-college-in-gurdaspur-101623685185300.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||With 8,129 fresh Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra's infection tally soars to 5,917,121; death toll at 112,696||Maharashtra on Monday reported 8,129 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 200 more fatalities in the last 24 hours. Apart from the 200 new fatalities, the state has also reconciled 1,392 additional deaths to the cumulative toll. With this, the state’s tally reached 5,917,121 cases and the death toll climbed to 112,696, the latest data showed.The capital city of Mumbai saw 530 new Covid-19 cases and 19 new deaths in the day, taking its tally to 716,190 cases and cumulative fatalities to 15,202 so far.As many as 14,732 patients were discharged on the day, taking the overall recoveries to 5,654,003 in the state, the data showed.Meanwhile, medical workers in the state tested 168,902 samples for Covid-19 on the day and so far, 38,215,492 samples have been tested in Maharashtra. The daily positivity rate stood at 4.82% and the cumulative positivity rate was recorded at 15.38%, the data showed.Also read | Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases fall to 131, positivity rate at 0.22%Pune reported 261 new Covid-19 cases, while 71 new cases were detected in both Navi Mumbai and Thane. In Nagpur 22 more people tested positive for the disease on the day, while the same count in Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) was 41.Active caseload in Maharashtra continued to decline and stands at 147,354, a bulletin from the state health department showed. It is a decline of 8,234 cases from the 155,588 active cases reported previously on Sunday. The state is only behind Karnataka in terms of the active caseload and contributes the second highest to the national tally.Among the districts, Pune with 19,047 active cases followed by Mumbai (18,205 cases), Thane (15,686 cases), Kolhapur (15,156 cases) and Sangli (10,077 cases) remain the worst affected in the state.Earlier in the day, state deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar ordered the Kolhapur district administration to double the number of Covid-19 tests as the positivity rate remained higher in the district. He held a review meeting of the pandemic situation in the district along with state health minister Rajesh Tope, news agency PTI reported. Also, Mumbai’s Dharavi reported no new Covid-19 cases on Monday for the first time since the pandemic hit the state in February 2021, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had said, earlier on the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-8-129-fresh-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-s-infection-tally-soars-to-5-917-121-death-toll-at-112696-101623678505347.html
14-06-2021||Other||HC stays probe of FIR lodged against Raman Singh, Sambit Patra in alleged toolkit case||The Chhattisgarh High Court on Monday stayed the investigation of the FIR lodged against former chief minister Raman Singh and BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra by Raipur police in the alleged ‘fake toolkit case’ and sought a reply from the state government in the next three weeks, HT has learnt.The HC in its separate orders said, “If we see the face value of the FIR no offence under Sections 504, 505(1)(b) and 505(1)(c) of IPC is made out as the averments of the FIR reflect that by the Tweet of the petitioner, Congressmen are aggravated which clearly indicates that no public peace or tranquillity is being adversely affected and it is purely political rivalry between two political parties”.“This, prima facie, establishes that present FIR has been registered with political motives,” the orders said.“..Considering the facts of the case and from perusal of FIR, prima facie, no case is made out against the petitioner and criminal proceedings is manifestly attended against the petitioner with malafides or with political grudge. Considering overall the facts and circumstances of the case, I am of the view that the petitioner has made out strong case for grant of stay, as continuation of investigation on basis of FIR will be nothing but an abuse of process of law,” the HC order stated.Singh and Patra filed a writ petition with the Chhattisgarh High Court against the FIR seeking relief over the FIR lodged against them.On May 19, an FIR was registered at Civil Lines station of the state capital against ex-CM Raman Singh, BJP’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra and others for allegedly spreading fake news and “promoting enmity between classes”, in the toolkit row. The complaint filed by National Students’ Union of India (NSUI) Chhattisgarh chief, Akash Sharma, had registered a case under sections 504, 505 (1) b, c, 469 and 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Later, notices were severed to both the leaders after which Singh had submitted his written reply to the Raipur police. During the hearing on the petition on June 11, senior lawyers Mahesh Jethmalani, Ajay Burman and other counsels appeared for Singh and Patra while senior lawyer Abhishek Manu Singhvi and state’s Advocate General Satish Chandra Verma argued for the state.After hearing, the HC on June 11 sought a reply on the issue from the state government within three weeks and reserved its order over grant of interim relief. The order was delivered on Monday.The HC said further investigation on the FIR shall remain stayed till the next hearing||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-stays-probe-of-fir-lodged-against-raman-singh-sambit-patra-in-alleged-toolkit-case-101623683205226.html
14-06-2021||Kolkata||Govt, private offices in Bengal can operate with 25% staff from June 16 to July 1||All government offices in West Bengal will operate with 25% staff from June 16 while private companies can also operate with 25% staff but not beyond 11 am and 4 pm, chief secretary HK Dwivedi announced on Monday afternoon in the presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee.“These relaxations will be in force from June 16 to July 1,” Banerjee said at the state secretariat.Private companies will have to provide transport for their employees and ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed in all offices. Intra-state bus, trains, ferry service and the Kolkata Metro will not be allowed to operate. Taxis and auto-rickshaws can ply but only for medical emergencies or to carry media personnel or airport-bound passengers. “Information technology companies and production units can operate with 50% staff provided all employees attending work have been vaccinated,” Dwidevi announced. Restaurants and bars can operate from 12 noon to 8 pm provided no more than 60% of the sitting capacity is occupied. Markets will remain open from 7 to 11 am. Retail shops can remain open from 11 am to 6 pm. Shops in shopping malls and markets can remain open from 11 am to 6 pm with 25% employees as long as the malls and markets do not allow more than 30% customers they can accommodate at a time, said the chief minister. The state government will also allow parks to open for walkers and joggers from 6 to 9 am provided those entering these spaces are vaccinated. Tea auction centres will be allowed to operate with 25% staff, Dwivedi announced. Sports clubs can hold games and stadiums can open but spectators will not be allowed. Shooting of movies can resume with 50% technicians and artists as long as they wear masks and maintain physical distance. “Schools and colleges will remain closed. The secondary and high secondary boards will announce very soon how examinees will be graded,” said the chief minister. She said the government will soon start providing ration at the doorsteps of beneficiaries of the public distribution system. “The state government will comply with the Supreme Court’s recent order on one-nation-one-ration card policy. We will complete the process in three months,” she said.Movement of private vehicles will be prohibited except in case of a medical emergency, movement of media personnel and airport-bound passengers.Cultural and social activities and gatherings relating to entertainment will be prohibited as before. Beauty parlours, cinema halls, spas, gyms and swimming pools will remain closed.The number of people to be allowed in marriages and funerals will be 50 and 20 respectively.Banks and financial institutions will remain open from 10 am to 2 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/govt-private-offices-in-bengal-can-operate-with-25-staff-from-june-16-to-july-1-101623683145152.html
14-06-2021||Other||Gang of robbers busted in Patiala; lured victims using fake currency||Patiala Police have busted an interstate gang of robbers operating in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Delhi on Monday with the arrest of five of its members, including the kingpin. The district police had launched a hunt for them in a ₹3 lakh robbery in Patran area on May 9.The arrested accused are from Jind district in Haryana and have been identified as kingpin Vijay Kumar, 43; Sanjeev, 26; Satinder Singh, 35; Sunny Sharma, 34, and Sunny Kanari, 24. Patiala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Kumar Garg said the kingpin Vijay had 53 cases of murder, dacoity, cheating and kidnapping registered against him across the four states. He added that the accused lured their targets after offering them fake currency that they could try and circulate as genuine. Once their target became convinced that the fake currency would work, the gang members lured him/her into buying fake currency from them by paying just half the amount. “The gang called their victim to a secluded place for the supposed transaction and robbed them of their money. The accused donned police uniforms during the crime,” the SSP said, adding that the same modus operandi was used in the Patran case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-of-robbers-busted-in-patiala-lured-victims-using-fake-currency-101623681765435.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||'No provision for door-to-door vaccination campaign’: Centre to Bombay HC||The Union government on Monday told the Bombay high court that its national guidelines at present do not allow for a door-to-door drive to vaccinate people against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The Centre’s counsel, additional solicitor General Anil Singh pointed out that some state governments and civic bodies decided to ignore the advisories and conducted door-to-door vaccination for citizens who belong to special categories. It said that these drives cannot be made a part of the national vaccination policy at this moment.The government was responding to a previous query posed by a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice GS Kulkarni on what it thought about the Brihanmumbai Municipal Commission’s request for door-to-door vaccination of the elderly, bedridden and other citizens who fall in the special category.“On the BMC's permission letter to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the ministry says its current advisory against such drives has been formulated based on recommendations of experts,” the counsel for the government said.The Centre, however, pointed out that it had not asked the states Kerala, Odisha and Jharkhand, who were conducting such drives, to roll them back. The court also asked the civic body if it would conduct a door-to-door drive in case Maharashtra decides to start it for its citizens who fall under special categories.“We will follow the state's guidelines. The state is thinking about the drive but issues like lack of manpower, since three persons will be needed to visit each person getting vaccinated, requirement of ambulance, and ensuring no wastage of vaccine, have to be considered,” BMC’s counsel Anil Sakhare said, according to a PTI report.The Maharashtra government earlier said that it wanted to launch a Covid-19 door-to-door vaccination campaign. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by two advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari. The high court will hear the plea further on June 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-provision-for-door-to-door-vaccination-campaign-centre-to-bombay-hc-101623681041096.html
14-06-2021||Other||Punjabi University fails to recover ₹2.7 crore it overpaid contractor||Patiala Punjabi University has failed to recover the excess ₹2.7 crore it paid to a contractor for construction of its buildings in 2010, six months after the Punjab higher education department directed it to do so in December 2020. The payments were made for the construction of the Masters of Business Administration (MBA) building, the University College of Engineering, renovation of hostels and the teaching block. The varsity is yet to start the recovery process.Officials of the civil engineering branch made these payments during the tenure of the then vice-chancellor (V-C) Jaspal Singh. A state vigilance bureau report names top officials of the civil engineering branch in making these payments and causing financial loss to the varsity of ₹2.7 crore.”A senior university official said the vigilance department had acted on an anonymous complaint filed with it in 2017. An audit report, prepared separately, had also expressed concern over siphoning of sand worth ₹36 lakh. The sand had been excavated during the construction of the basement of the engineering department.“The varsity failed to produce any record related to trucks used to ferry sand from the construction site to outside the varsity premises,” another official said.Registrar Varinder Kaushik said he had joined just two months ago and the matter had not been brought to his notice. “I am yet to look into the matter,” the registrar added. VARSITY YET TO ACT ON 13 OTHER PROBE REPORTSThe university is yet to take action and fix responsibility in 13 internal inquiry reports that probed allegations of corruption, nepotism and misuse of funds from 2007-2017, during the tenure of former V-C Jaspal Singh.These inquiry reports deal with the purchase of fire extinguishers of ₹80 lakh; faulty recruitment of 62 assistant professors; giving priority to wait-listed candidates in teaching and non-teaching departments; recruitment of outsourced employees; recruitment of teachers on fake Scheduled Caste/Backward Class certificates; purchase of paper and answer book case at exorbitant rates; undue promotions; purchase of faulty software for the distance education department and the examination branch; incorrect pay fixation and allowing service extension to retiring employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjabi-university-fails-to-recover-rs-2-7-crore-it-overpaid-contractor-101623681465215.html
14-06-2021||Lucknow||Pride month: The closet unlocks online||Looks like the pandemic has helped some members of the LGBTQ community in Lucknow come out of the closet and connect with other members in safe online space.“Since the lockdown last year, the members of online groups have grown three-fold as closed meetings are happening online which are safe, more interactive and helps keep anonymity for those who are not ‘open’ to family and friends,” says Yadavendra Singh Darvesh, founder-member of Awadh Queer Pride Committee.Offline meetings saw low turnouts as logistically it was inconvenient and then many members wanted to share about themselves but did not want to be identified, says Yadavendra.The virtual session has enabled them to open up to the needs of the community.“Many of them did not turn out and we barely had 20-odd members attending but it reached to somewhere over 60-70 members attending the online sessions which has never happened before. Online they discuss about problems, sexuality, family acceptance issues, seek guidance and suggestions without disclosing their identity. With closed cameras they feel safe and share about themselves on the forum and get benefitted with each other,” he says. Suyash Srivastava, an apparel designer in Lucknow, became a part of this queer support group last October. “I evolved a lot since then. I came out about my queer identity to my sisters, cousins and friends. I am yet to open to my parents but am now vocal about speaking my mind. Close-door physical meetings are also fine but in larger picture online meets have been more successful,” he says.Active member Megha Nandi, a graphic designer, says, “As every member problems are different, so we understand each other and provide psychological support from experts who are also from the community.”Youngster Aditya was working down South but came to his hometown after work-from-home scenario and joined the community.“You can’t be visible as a queer person in place like Lucknow. In big cities, you are practically anonymous. Besides sharing about self and discussing I was also part of story-telling session. It has become a big support system and best part is you can invite guests from anywhere in the world,” he says.An anonymous transwoman says, “Online support group is fine but personally I prefer meeting people in person. It has benefitted me a lot in finding people of my community with common mindset and I can be myself without I am being judged.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pride-month-the-closet-unlocks-online-101623679605083.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Nirmal Milkha Singh, an unmatched administrator who transformed Chandigarh sports||Mrs Nirmal Milkha Singh, who passed away on Sunday after battling Covid-19, was the most dynamic sports administrator Chandigarh ever had. I can say that with authority as I was the finance secretary and sports secretary in Chandigarh Administration when she was posted as joint director, sports, in 1984. Memories came flooding back on hearing the sad news. Nirmal, as we all knew her, was a sportsperson of national fame herself, but not many know that her knowledge, initiative and enthusiasm as a sports administrator were unmatched. The two years that saw a transformation of the Chandigarh sports department was much due to her personality and the new ideas that came to her naturally. After more than 35 years, I may not be able to recall all her contributions, but I do remember how the Sector 42 sports complex, Sector 7 sports stadium and many others, are the result of her initiatives. We worked in a small group headed by K Banerjee, the then chief commissioner and administrator whose decision-making was sharp and quick. That being the easy task, the difficult part of implementation was left mostly to Nirmal and her team. I remember how we could all leave the details of organising events such as the first National Women’s Athletic Championship at the Sector 7 stadium to her and were pleasantly surprised with the Pinjore Flying Club plane dropping flowers at the inauguration, all due to her initiative. Always part of the solution Her contribution to build the sports infrastructure continued much after I left the Chandigarh Administration in 1986. I remember how she was always a part of the solution and came out with brilliant ideas. In 1985, we were given an opportunity to host the first-ever international cricket match in Chandigarh. This was the One-Day match between England and India. We accepted the challenge but ran into problems when the requirement of constructing new stands with seating capacity for 25,000 in the Sector 16 stadium was not allowed as per the bylaws and master plan. Nirmal came out with brilliant idea of wooden stands. That’s how even today one can see the dark green wooden stands in the stadium, blending beautifully with the environment. The first One-Day International was watched by a capacity crowd of 25,000, and I remember David Fowler, the then England team captain telling me that he found the stadium to be one of the most picturesque. Endearing nature, always cheerful Nirmal was not only an able administrator, but also a fine human being. My wife, Rupan Deol Bajaj, herself an administrator, admired her initiative. Now for a woman’s take. Rupan admired her flawless complexion, and the way she carried herself in a sari with her well-earned India blazer. Nirmal’s cream salad, the recipe of which she so generously shared with my wife (with her secret ingredient of coconut) became a signature dish at our home. Till a few months ago, when we used to run into each other at the Chandigarh Golf Club course, Nirmal would fondly recollect the days she spent working in Chandigarh administration. We are going to remember Mrs Nirmal Milkha Singh for her endearing nature, always cheerful and happy. May God bless her soul. brbajaj@gmail.com The writer is a retired Punjab-cadre IAS officer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nirmal-milkha-singh-an-unmatched-administrator-who-transformed-chandigarh-sports-101623674324704.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Renewed beliefs, power of positivity in testing times||A warm embrace, the human touch, and the presence of loved ones around – these were the things I longed for the most during my quarantine. Yes, I’ve also been witness to the invisible notorious guest that has engulfed the world. Setting aside negative vibes, which are endless and omnipresent, I’d like to share lessons learnt from this new experience. It was for the first time in years that my husband (who was in isolation as he had also contracted the virus) and I celebrated our wedding anniversary on a video call, being in the same house but distant. The cake was there but we couldn’t even see it, let alone the thought of cutting it. When we got the piece of cake to eat, our taste buds deceived us. The days of my quarantine took along a few more missed anniversaries and birthdays, leaving me with the thought that surviving is more important than celebrating. We should celebrate each moment we live. Also read: AIIMS Delhi to begin screening children between 6 and 12 yrs for Covaxin trialsBlessed that I was in home isolation, which makes it a little comfortable, yet something was amiss. I was there yet not there as I couldn’t step out of the room, interact face to face with anybody, couldn’t be privy to whatever happened outside of that room, and could only see the days go by. The most challenging thing was to maintain a healthy state of mind in an enclosed space and just soak in the silence. It’s as much a mental battle as it is physical. Donning a combatting role and staying resilient help. This one-of-a-kind experience further strengthened my belief that family and friends are our saviours no matter what. We should thank God for having sent these angels in our life. My first saviour turned out to be one of my old friends, a doctor, who had undergone Covid-19 treatment herself. She immediately came to my rescue and asked me to get the medicines and equipment required. I acted as instructed. It helped in putting things under control quite early. At home, my father-in-law took good care of us despite his own health limitations. He managed it all like a lone soldier in the battlefield. All the loved ones played a major role in making things comfortable by contributing their bit and doing more than asked for. Another lesson learnt was that kids have a better coping mechanism, and it makes me proud to think how my daughter handled the chaos. Isolation doesn’t come easy. It can have a dismaying effect on the mind, body, and soul. What kept me going was will power and a calm mind. I made sure to read books, write my thoughts, no TV or social media exposure, and meditate. Messages from friends which suggested, “Stay positive to be negative”, made me realise the power of positivity. My recommendation: Carry a positive attitude to remain healthy and fit, even in testing times. Take it as an experience and move on with an enriched perspective. vepreeti@gmail.com The author is a Chandigarh-based freelance writer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/renewed-beliefs-power-of-positivity-in-testing-times-101623672224485.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: Pune’s latest fire incident exposes unpreparedness||Last week, when 17 workers were charred to death in a blaze at a mid-sized firm in Pirangut near Pune, it hit the headlines before becoming part of history as yet another tragic incident. Scores of people have lost their lives in similar incidents in the past; another recent incident being a fire engulfing the entire floor of a newly developed facility at the Serum Institute of India in January this year, when five workers lost their lives. Saving lives – and property too – has always been at the heart of fire fighter’s job. The significance of emergency response in fire incidents is the most crucial element if lives are to be saved. This was underlined when the fire broke out inside SVS Aqua Technologies, a chemical unit in Pirangut, and spread rapidly. The tragedy exposed negligence on the part of those running the unit, as several norms were found to be violated, including storage of inflammable material like sanitisers without permission, a lack of space and poor entry-exit points. At the same time, a severe lack of fire safety measures in the industrial zone of Pirangut, where more than 200 industries including 10 chemical units are located, was also brought to fore. Despite being a key industrial estate, the area does not have its own fire station. According to locals, fire tenders had to be called in from other stations in the absence of a locally situated one. This, according to relatives of victims and others, delayed the dousing exercise. As reported in HT Pune in its June 9 edition, six fire brigade vehicles helped in the rescue operation, including units sourced from Hinjewadi Phase 3, Wagholi, Marunji, and MIDC. Around 50 officials were involved in the four-hour operation to douse the fire. Yet, the blaze could have been controlled after only two hours. The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), a state government agency responsible for planning and development of the region, has its own fire station, but in other locations. The PMRDA depends on three fire stations, with the latest one being Wagholi, and two others at Marunji and Nanded City. The PMRDA fire station nearest to the Pirangut-located SVS Aqua Technologies is the Life Republic fire station in Marunji. However, geographically, the nearest fire station is the one at Hinjewadi Phase 3, under the Pimpri-Chinchwad fire department. Since every moment counts in a fire-fighting exercise, the time of over 45 minutes for fire tenders to reach the spot was not short of an immense delay. As recounted by one of the survivors, on that fateful day of June 7, the fire broke out at around 3:30pm, while fire fighters reached by 4:15pm. The National Disaster Management Authority under the Ministry of Home Affairs, in its 2012 report, has stated that as per norms set by Standing Fire Advisory Committee, the standard response time for fire fighting in urban parts should be three-five minutes, while for the rural parts it is 20 minutes. India is vast country with resources often in short supply, while roads in big cities are crowded and structures catching fire are cramped in bylanes, where access is a major problem. This often delays the response time, leading to a loss of lives. The Pirangut incident has once again underlined this. This isn’t the only issue Pune’s fire-fighting mechanism is grappling with. The fire department has seen over 750 small and big fires and natural hazard incidents in 2020, as against 650 during the previous year. Despite growing incidents, its capacity hasn’t been increased. The department is facing a shortage of over 510 men and requires 12 more fire stations to provide better services to citizens, as highlighted by Vivek Velankar through an RTI query. During a recent fire incident at Lohiyanagar in the Bhavani peth slums on November 23, the response time was delayed by more than 25 minutes as trained drivers were unavailable. The shortage of firemen delayed the control of fire by men on the ground. If the loss of lives is to be prevented, there is a strong need to increase fire stations and manpower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-pune-s-latest-fire-incident-exposes-unpreparedness-101623671024847.html
14-06-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal extends Covid-19 restrictions till July 1||The Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal on Monday extended the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions in the state till July 1. However, various relaxations to the previous guidelines were announced in order to facilitate the resumption of economic activities in the state."All government offices will function with 25% strength. Private and corporate offices can remain open from 10am to 4pm with not more than 25% strength," Mamata Banerjee said.CM Mamata Banerjee announced the relaxations in view of the declining Covid-19 positivity rate and active caseload in the state.West Bengal's Covid-19 tally rose to 14,61,257 on Sunday with 3,984 more people testing positive for the infection, while 84 fresh fatalities pushed the state's death toll to 16,896, according to a state health bulletin. With this, the Covid-19 recovery rate in the state stood at 97.64%, the bulletin added.Here is all you need to know about the fresh guidelines:-Shops within shopping malls and shopping complexes will be allowed to open between 11am and 6pm with 50% work force, the CM said.-Sports activities can resume, but without spectators.-All education institutes and waterways will remain closed.-The movement of private vehicles will remain suspended other than in cases of emergency.-Restaurants with bars can open between 12 noon and 8pm with 50% seating capacity.-All markets to remain open between 7am and 11am.-Movement of people will be restricted between 9pm and 5am.-Parks can stay open between 6am and 9am for morning walkers. However, only those who have taken a vaccine for Covid-19 will be allowed entry.-Movement of intra-state buses to remain closed till the state government reviews the situation further.-Gyms, beauty parlours, salons, spas and cinema halls will remain closed.Covid-19 restrictions have been imposed in West Bengal since May 16, the day on which the state recorded 19,117 new cases and 147 fatalities. The number of cases recorded daily has seen a downward trend after the restrictions were imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-july-1-101623663941663.html
14-06-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP leader arrested for capturing house after owners died to Covid||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Mahila Morcha (women’s wing) general secretary in Uttarakhand was arrested on Sunday along with her two sons and an aide for attempting to capture a prime property owned by an elderly couple, who succumbed to Covid-19 in Clement Town area of Dehradun, leaving no heir behind. The BJP later expelled the leader for an indefinite period.Reena Goyal, her two sons- Lavya and Rishabh Goyal, and aide Anuj Saini were arrested after they were found to have broken into the property, sealed by the police. The police were alerted by an email from the US-based brother of the deceased woman on Sunday. In his complaint, he alleged that the BJP leader had captured his sister’s property in Dehradun.Dehradun’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Yogendra Singh Rawat said the deceased couple identified as DK Mittal and his wife Sushila Mittal, both aged above 80, lived in a house worth crores in Clement Town area of the city. After Sushila Mittal passed away on May 2 due to coronavirus, her husband too got infected and succumbed on June 6. Police said their only son had died about two years ago, leaving them with no heir.“As both had no one to look after the property, Sushila’s brother and complainant Suresh Mahajan who is settled in the United States (US), informed the local Clement Town police, who sealed the property to prevent any illegal occupation,” said Rawat.The matter didn’t end there, on June 13; Mahajan lodged a complaint in an e-mail to Clement Town police alleging Reena Goyal had formed a trust in the name of the Mittals and captured the property along with her sons and an associate a day earlier. Based on this, police went to the spot and stopped the four, but they tried to indulge in violence... following which all the four were arrested,” said Rawat.State Congress said BJP leaders were indulging in “inhumane” activities when people were suffering during the pandemic.“...In these dire times, when people are helping each other to cope with the loss, BJP leaders like Goyal are capturing properties of people who died of Covid-19, which is just despicable. She has no right to live in a civilised society,” said Congress state spokesperson Garima Dasauni.BJP state media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan said BJP has zero tolerance for such behaviour. “Hence, Goyal has been expelled from the party and removed from all the positions she was holding, for an indefinite period,” Chauhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-bjp-leader-arrested-for-capturing-house-after-owners-died-to-covid-101623666524262.html
14-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: 7,300 cusecs water released from Tunga dam||Following increase in water levels due to heavy rainfall, 7,300 cusecs of excess water was released on Monday from Tunga dam in Gajanuru village of Shivamogga, informed Harish, an engineer of Upper Tunga project."Through crest gates, 1,500 cusecs and through powerhouse, 5,800 cusec water has been released. 21 gates were opened to remove the excess water," said Harish, an engineer of Upper Tunga project.He further said, "Tunga dam which is built across river Tunga in Gajanuru village of Shivamogga had filled up to the brim. The dam was overbrimming due to downpour in its catchments areas in Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga."Comparatively, the Tunga dam is a small one, constructed to provide drinking water to Shivamogga and for canal irrigation of paddy and areca nuts in the region, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-7-300-cusecs-water-released-from-tunga-dam-101623666271033.html
14-06-2021||Noida||Police arrest 61 people from pool party in Noida for violation of Covid-19 norms||The Noida Police has arrested 61 people, including 15 women, for allegedly partying at a farmhouse here in violation of restrictions imposed to combat Covid-19, officials said on Monday.The arrests were made following a raid on the property in Sector 135, under the Expressway police station limits, on Sunday night, they said.“A pool party was being held at the Green Beauty farmhouse in the Yamuna floodplains area in Sector 135 in violation of the Covid-19 protocols. A total of 46 men and 15 women were arrested,” a police spokesperson said.“All accused were bathing in the swimming pool in violation of the pandemic protocols. They were without face masks and some of them were even spitting at various places in the open premises of the farmhouse,” the spokesperson said.The police said they have recovered 12 bottles of beer and two bottles of whiskey, which were meant for sale in Haryana, from the venue.Several of the arrestees are residents of Delhi, while some are from Ghaziabad and other towns of the NCR, the police said.An FIR was lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life), and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-arrest-61-people-from-pool-party-in-noida-for-violation-of-covid-19-norms-101623665366208.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||‘For everyone it is matter of faith’: Sena's Sanjay Raut demands clarification on Ram temple land purchase in Ayodhya||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday demanded clarification from the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust and other leaders amid charges of corruption being raised regarding the purchase of the land for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya.Raut said that the Ram Mandir is a matter of faith for the Shiv Sena and the common people of the country. “Lord Ram and the fight for the Ram Mandir is a matter of faith for us. For some, it is a political matter. The Trust formed for the construction of the temple should clarify if the allegations are true or false,” Raut was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“The temple's 'bhoomipujan' ceremony was also attended by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat. They should also speak out. Ram temple is a matter of faith. People have made donations out of faith. Even Shiv Sena had contributed ₹1 crore to the Trust,” he further added.He said that there is no use of having faith if the money taken for building the temple has been misused and demanded that it should be investigated if the allegations are right or wrong. It was Aam Aadmi party MP Sanjay Singh who had claimed that the Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai had purchased a piece of land worth ₹2 crore at an inflated price of ₹18.5 crore for the Ram Temple and was aided by Trust’s member Anil Mishra.AAP’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and a former minister in the Samajwadi government, Pawan Pandey who also demanded that the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate initiate a probe into the land purchase. Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai dismissed the claims and said that the allegations were being motivated by political hatred.Raut said that spoke to Sanjay Singh and was ‘shocked by the evidence’ provided by Singh. Raut also pointed out that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) appointed the members of the Trust. He said that the Shiv Sena should be included in the members’ body as they were also an important part of the Ram Mandir agitation. “Representatives of organizations like the Shiv Sena should have been included in the body as the Sena had participated in the agitation for the construction of the Lord Ram's temple… That was our earlier demand,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/raut-demands-clarification-on-ram-temple-land-purchase-in-ayodhya-101623664513580.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi's daily Covid-19 cases fall to 131, positivity rate at 0.22%||The daily case count of Covid-19 cases in Delhi fell further to 131 on Monday. According to state government data, there were 16 related fatalities and 355 recoveries in the last 24 hours.With this, the total recoveries reached 14,03,205, while the death toll stood at 24,839.The positivity rate stood at 0.22 per cent, the government data showed.The number of active cases in the national capital were recorded to be 3,226, the government data further showed.As many as 59,556 samples were tested for Covid-19 in 24 hours, out of which 47,357 were RT-PCR tests and 12,199 rapid antigen. On Sunday, 72,751 samples were tested for Covid-19. The total tests conducted so far amount to 20,323,110, as per the bulletin.Monday's figures are lower than Sunday's tally of 255 cases and 23 deaths.The number of Covid-19 cases have been falling in the national capital, prompting Delhi government to permit more activities from Monday.Restaurants with 50 per cent capacity, weekly markets and religious places have been allowed to reopen in Delhi from today, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Sunday, saying the Covid-19 situation has significantly come under control in the city.Salons, beauty parlours and barbershops closed since the imposition of lockdown on April 19, will reopen. Markets and malls, which were earlier allowed to reopen on an odd-even basis, will now open on all days, from 10 AM to 8 PM. Only one weekly market per municipal zone per day will be allowed, he said.However, schools, colleges, educational and coaching institutes, cinema halls, multiplexes, theatres, gyms, spas, yoga institutes, swimming pools, auditoriums, banquet halls, amusement and water parks, and public parks and gardens, will continue to be closed till 5am on June 21, according to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order issued on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-to-131-positivity-rate-at-022-101623664659011.html
14-06-2021||Patna||Black fungus in Bihar: More than 500 cases, 76 deaths reported so far||Bihar, which has been successful in arresting the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has now shifted its focus to treating mucormycosis, also known as black fungus, according to state health department. The disease, usually found in those recovering from Covid-19, has emerged as a new challenge in the state, it said.As many as 562 cases of mucormycosis were reported in the state till date, out of which 76 lost their lives and only 153 were cured fully, the state health department said. The post-Covid complicated was notified as an epidemic in the state last month.Also Read: Cricket ball-sized mucormycosis removed from man's brain in PatnaAll India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Patna and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) are the two hospitals where a majority of the black fungus patients are being treated, news agency PTI reported.In AIIMS Patna, 102 patients of black fungus are currently being treated and in IGIMS, 114 are undergoing treatment. In total, AIIMS has admitted 148 patients of the disease and IGIMS has taken in 187 patients till date.On Friday, team of neurosurgeons successfully removed mucormycosis or black fungus from the brain of a 60-year-old patient. It was larger that in size than an average cricket ball."The patient, Anil Kumar, is a resident of Jamui, who was rushed here after he suffered fits a number of times. The surgery continued for three hours and nearly 100 ml of pus was also removed from the brain," IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal told PTI."Performing the surgery without causing any damage to the eyes was a big challenge. We take satisfaction in the fact that after the operation, the patient can see normally," he added.Meanwhile, Bihar's count of Covid-19 cases has reached 7,17,215, out of which 7,02,411 have recovered and 9,492 people have lost their lives. The number of active cases stands at 5,312 and the recovery rate is 97.94%, the state health department said.More than 1.21 crore people out of the total 13 crore in state have been vaccinated, the department further informed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/black-fungus-in-bihar-more-than-500-cases-76-deaths-reported-so-far-101623660580677.html
14-06-2021||Kolkata||BJP delegation to meet West Bengal Jagdeep Dhankhar governor over law and order situation||BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Monday informed that a delegation of party MLAs will meet West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar today to discuss the law and order situation in the state.Taking to Twitter, Adhikari wrote, "A big delegation of BJP MLAs will meet the Honourable Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar today to apprise him of the several inappropriate incidents happening in Bengal and discuss other important matters at 4 pm in Raj Bhavan, Kolkata."Informing about the meeting, the Governor wrote, "Opposition delegation led by Sri Suvendu Adhikari, Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal Legislative Assembly will be calling on the Governor of West Bengal at 4 p.m. today as regards the grave law and order situation @MamataOfficial in the State of West Bengal."Adhikari will be meeting the governor for the second time this month.Earlier he met the governor and submitted a representation about unabated post-poll retributive violence.Amidst all, Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Mahua Moitra had accused the Governor of being a "puppet" of the Centre and alleged he had appointed relatives as officers on special duty in his personal staff.Moitra said the Governor appointed six of his relatives in the Raj Bhawan through "Jugaad". Taking names, the TMC MP said Raj Bhawan's website listed them as OSDs in his personal staff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-delegation-to-meet-west-bengal-jagdeep-dhankhar-governor-over-law-and-order-situation-101623659063255.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Metro riders flout rules, young denizens despise unruly attitude||The Delhi Metro resumed operations on June 7, after being shut as per strict guidelines during the recent lockdown. And on day one itself, an approximate 4.5 lakh passengers journeyed till 8pm, out of which 84 passengers were advised to get down from coach for travelling in standing position, 73 were penalised for not wearing mask and 106 were counselled to follow social distancing and wearing mask properly! As late as June 8, 136 passengers were fined for not wearing mask during random checks inside trains by flaying squads, and 70 passengers were advised to get down from coach for travelling in standing position. In addition to this, 126 passengers were counselled to adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour inside metro premises. Is the lacks towards Metro travel going to change? Well, many Delhiites are miffed at this carelessness that seems to be sending an open invitation to the third wave of Covid-19. Kunal Vats, a second year student pursuing Bachelor of Management Studies at Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies in Delhi University, says: “Delhi Metro has been the go-to mode of transport for me during my days in Delhi, and it pains me to see people not adhering to its rules. Considering that a vaccine shortage is always round the corner and that the second wave was so dangerous, we should be more careful than ever. A third wave is imminent if people continue to not observe Covid appropriate behaviour in public places such as the Delhi Metro. I hope the authorities enforce the rules more strictly. Metro operating hours could be limited and/or the number of people at any given time at stations should be restricted.”“Looking at the pictures of the crowd, I feel: Yeh nahi sudhrenge! According to me, we as responsible citizens should be patient and respect the facility provided for our benefit rather than putting precious lives in danger,” says Aayush Jain, another DU student, and Ronak Singh, a Gurugram resident opines, “As a country we’ve been trying very hard recover from this crisis, and we usually lose months of progress the moment we become negligent. This has the potential to cause an endless loop and therefore it is critical to take things slowly, apply wisdom, and comply with government issued guidelines. In the end it comes down to individual accountability and being responsible citizens who show concern for ourselves and those that are around us.” Jayani Shah, a second year BA (Hons) Economics student at DU’s Shri Ram College of Commerce, echoes a similar sentiment: “It’s important that people follow the guidelines issues by the government to ensure social distancing is maintained. The main lesson we took from the second wave is that we have to be extremely careful about opening up the cities. Our battle with Covid-19 has not ended and we need to be vigilant. However, to ease the process for Delhiites, strict steps need to be taken by the authorities. May be an increase in the frequency of the trains can ensure that the commuters are not left stranded to crowd at the platforms.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-riders-flout-rules-young-denizens-despise-unruly-attitude-101623656770568.html
14-06-2021||Lucknow||'Misuse of donation an insult to faith': Priyanka Gandhi on Ayodhya charges||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, on Monday, reacted to the recent allegations regarding the Ram temple trust buying a piece of land in Ayodhya at an inflated price. Without naming anyone, the Congress leader remarked that misusing religious donation is an insult to the faith of the crores of people who had "made offerings at the feet of God."Also Read: Ram Mandir: Opposition alleges 'major' land scam; Won't comment now, says TrustPriyanka Gandhi tweeted from her official handle, "Crores of people made offerings at the feet of God because of their faith and devotion. Misuse of that donation is unrighteousness, a sin, an insult to their faith." Her post on Twitter was in Hindi and has been roughly translated into the aforementioned extract.करोड़ों लोगों ने आस्था और भक्ति के चलते भगवान के चरणों में चढ़ावा चढ़ाया। उस चंदे का दुरुपयोग अधर्म है, पाप है, उनकी आस्था का अपमान है।Although Priyanka Gandhi Vadra refrained from naming anyone in her post, her reaction can be placed in context with the recent developments surrounding a set of allegations levelled by opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh against the Ram temple trust. The Samajwadi Party and the Aam Aadmi Party alleged on Sunday that the price of a piece of land bought by the Ram temple trust changed from ₹2 crore to ₹18.5 crore within minutes.Also Read: Charges misleading, motivated by political hatred: Ram temple trust's Champat RaiCongress had taken up the opportunity to lambaste the Ram temple trust over the allegations. "Lord Ram, what kind of days are these? Scams are taking place as people seek donations in your name. Shameless robbers are intoxicated with arrogance like Ravana and are selling faith," Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Ram temple trust's general secretary Champat Rai refuted the allegations raised by the opposition and that all land that the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra has bought so far has been purchased at a price much less than market rates. "Some political leaders are misleading people. It is meant to mislead society, the people concerned are political and hence motivated by political hatred," Rai said in the release on Sunday, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/misuse-of-donation-an-insult-to-faith-priyanka-gandhi-on-ayodhya-charges-101623651916411.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt sets up vaccine centre for people travelling abroad for studies, work||The Delhi government on Monday launched a dedicated vaccine centre for students and individuals who would be travelling abroad for studies and work, and athletes participating in international sports events such as Olympic Games in Tokyo before August 31, the government said.The government said in a press statement: “Delhi government begins its special vaccination centre for citizens leaving for foreign nations for studies or jobs. Students leaving to study abroad, people who have taken up jobs in foreign nations and sportspersons for Tokyo Olympic Games can get themselves inoculated at Delhi’s special vaccination centre. This is our way to wish them good luck.”The dedicated vaccine centre -- which offers Covishield -- is located in New Delhi district’s Mandir Marg. Anyone approaching this centre will have to use their passport as an identity document and carry documents to prove their reason for travel.Also Read | Delhi Metro to continue with 50% capacity, standing travel bannedUnder special provisions by the Union government, such candidates can take two doses of Covishield between 28 and 84 days -- instead of 12 to 16 weeks applicable in general cases.“Vaccination for Admission.... Best wishes for those students who need to travel abroad for studies. A dedicated vaccination centre has been started for you at Govt School near Mandir Marg by the Arvind Kejriwal government,” said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in a tweet on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dedicated-vaccine-centre-in-delhi-for-travellers-going-abroad-for-studies-work-101623653503594.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||World Blood Donor Day: How Delhi cops are leading the way amid pandemic||A lifesaving act – blood donation has found new meaning during the pandemic. And World Blood Donor Day, which is celebrated every year on June 14, reiterates the significance of the need to donate blood. During Covid-19, many donors were needed to save lives, especially at a time when citizens were afraid to step out of their houses. That’s when some police officers stepped up, and till date they have been donating blood, only to celebrate almost every day as blood donation day!“I had never donated blood before, but amid the pandemic I received SOS messages from people and was inspired to go in for donation during the first lockdown last year. Since then, I’ve made it a point to donate blood every 90 days,” says Pooja Junjadiya, a constable with Delhi Police. She feels more people need to make this essential contribution in saving lives, keeping in line with this year’s theme for the day: Give blood and keep the world beating. “I always wanted to donate blood, just did not know where to start. But we need to make more people aware of how safe and necessary it is to do so,” she adds.Trying his best to raise awareness about blood donation is constable Arjun, who has donated blood over two dozen times since 2010. “There is a demand for blood, platelets from patients who have thalassemia, cancer, or are in emergency situations. We try to take all the requests and have an active Facebook group of police officers in the city, where we list all messages and respond to requests depending on who’s the closest to the given location. I try to tell people to not just donate when there is need, but also donate regularly to the blood banks that receive a barrage of requests on a daily basis,” says the officer, who is posted in outer district’s Sultanpuri Station. And having donated blood, these donors feel elated to help those in grave need and see their families heave a sigh of relief. All this for the sake of humanity! “More often than not, we don’t know the patients. We simply respond to any urgent message that we get,” says Sub Inspector Satwant Singh, posted in Delhi’s Northwest District, and recalls: “I remember last year I had just finished my night duty and was about to head home when a colleague asked me to respond to a request for blood at a hospital nearby. I immediately went and donated blood, and the family of the patient could not stop thanking me. These are the small moments that remind us why we do this.” Having donated blood 14 times, Singh says it’s imperative to educate everyone about the need for blood donation. He adds, “I started donating blood as part of my college’s NSS program, and have been doing it since then. More so because I have a rare blood group. We should teach youngsters about blood donation because every drop of blood can save a life!” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/world-blood-donor-day-how-delhi-cops-are-leading-the-way-amid-pandemic-101623653204313.html
14-06-2021||Bhopal||BJP Yuva Morcha leader in Madhya Pradesh fined for flouting Covid norms||The Katni administration on Sunday imposed a fine of ₹10,000 on Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Yuva Morcha district president Mridul Dwivedi for flouting Covid-19 norms during his birthday celebration here.According to Katni's Tehsildar, the action was taken after a video went viral of Dwivedi celebrating his birthday flouting Covid-19 norms and many people were seen in the viral video."A video went viral on social media where a public representative was seen celebrating his birthday flouting Covid-19 norms. We took cognizance of the matter and a team was set up. The public representative was sent notice. He also submitted the fine of ₹10,000 over the matter," Katni's Tehsildar Sandeep Srivastava said.Srivastava also said that the people present at the event have been instructed to stay in home isolation for 7 days.In the viral video, BJP Yuva Morcha district president Mridul Dwivedi along with his guests were seen without masks in public and was not following the social distancing norms.According to the official data, there are 4251 active cases of Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh, while the death toll due to Covid has reached 8552.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bjp-yuva-morcha-leader-in-madhya-pradesh-fined-for-flouting-covid-norms-101623652443213.html
14-06-2021||Other||Vatican rejected 3rd plea challenging expulsion, says Kerala nun||The Vatican has turned down the third plea of expelled nun, Sister Lucy Kalapura, to revoke her expulsion, said the nun on Monday. Kalapura was expelled from the Franciscan Clarist Congregation (FCC) two years ago for “serious indiscipline and flouting orders of superiors” . She said she got a fresh communiqué from Vatican on Saturday in this regard and later, the Mother Superior of the FCC sent a fresh notice to her to vacate her room in the convent. Kalapura is still staying at the convent and was granted police protection by the high court two years ago. Later, a local court in Wayanad (north Kerala) stayed her eviction from the convent. Kalapura, 55, has claimed she was victimised for supporting the agitation seeking the arrest of Franco Mulakkal, a bishop from Jalandhar who was slapped with rape charges by a nun in 2018. She had also participated in a protest against the alleged delay in Mulakkal’s arrest.Also Read | 3 men arrested in UP’s Jhansi for demanding action against Kerala nuns“The letter is in Latin but the covering letter spells out the decision. The details will be available only after the letter is translated but it is dated 2020,” she said over the phone from Manathawady in Wayanad. “The recent revision of church laws regarding abuse of minors, vulnerable adults, and fraud gave us hope. But it seems the papal head is not getting a clear picture,” she said, adding that she will continue her fight against the “corrupt practices” of the Church. An FCC spokesperson refused to comment on the issue. Kalapura has written an autobiography, ‘Karthavinte Namathil’ (In the name of Christ), in which she alleged that sexual abuse and assaults happen in convents and seminaries frequently. She also alleged that she faced sexual assault attempts at least four times during her convent life and many nuns succumb to such intimidation. Save our Sisters, a reformist body formed in the wake of protests against Mulakkal, pledged support to Kalapura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vatican-rejected-3rd-plea-challenging-expulsion-says-kerala-nun-101623652063393.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal forms mitigation panel for third Covid wave||The Himachal Pradesh government has set up a committee for planning and impact mitigation to counter the third wave of Covid-19. Led by the state medical education director, the panel will analyse data trends, experiences of other states/UTs and conduct modelling exercises to foresee and advise on the onset of the next wave and the mutating character of coronavirus. Also read: Parwanoo choked as tourists throng Himachal after Covid curbs easedState director, National Health Mission, Dr Nipun Jindal said on Monday that the panel will assess the present status and projected requirement of different health infrastructure verticals, such as hospitals and equipment besides supplies of oxygen and medicines. “The committee shall submit an action plan for the third wave soon, keeping in mind the specialised needs of children,” Dr Jindal said. Graded action plan to be prepared A graded action plan for increasing and activating hospital infrastructure, including isolation beds, oxygen beds, ICU beds and ventilators, oxygen supply, medicines and other crucial items based on the positivity rate indicator will be made. It will formulate guidelines on when to announce a lockdown and to what extent. Vaccination sessions to be published day before Dr Jindal said Himachal Pradesh has received 1.17 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine from the Serum Institute of India, Pune, for the 18-44 years age group. The doses are to be used before June 21 so vaccination will be organised across the state throughout the week. The slots will be published a day ahead of the session. Onsite registration has been allowed in remote areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-forms-mitigation-panel-for-third-covid-wave-101623649903298.html
14-06-2021||Bangalore||Traffic snarls return to Bengaluru after easing of lockdown restrictions||Bengaluru’s infamous traffic snarls began again on Monday morning as commuters poured onto the streets after Covid-19-induced lockdown restrictions were eased. There was a massive traffic jam on Old Airport Road, which connects central Bengaluru to the IT corridors of Whitefield and Outer Ring Road, as motorist began travelling again after over a month of restrictions. The BS Yediyurappa-led Karnataka government announced easing of restrictions in Bengaluru and 18 other districts of the state on account of a decline in the number of new Covid-19 infections. Also Read | Orange alert for Karnataka’s coastal districts till June 17, says IMDThe city recorded 1,348 new Covid-19 infections on Sunday, the state government. There were 4,125 recoveries that brought down the active caseload to 85,995. The positivity rate in Bengaluru declined to 3.11%, according to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Sunday. There were 23 more deaths in Bengaluru that took the toll to 15,307, data showed. “Our ability to stay focussed and disciplined will ensure cases do not rise again. Stay safe. Get tested if you experience any Covid symptoms. Avoid public gatherings. Follow Covid-appropriate behaviour. Take the vaccine when it’s your turn,” Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of BBMP, the city’s civic body, said in a post on Twitter. The state government has retained restrictions in 11 out of 30 districts, which are still witnessing a high positivity rate and will remain under lockdown till at least June 21. The Yediyurappa-led government has decided to lift curbs phase-wise to restrict the sudden rush of people.The new guidelines came into force from 6am on Monday.Karnataka has extended the timings for shops selling essential items such as groceries, meat, vegetables, liquor from 6-10am to 6am-2pm. Yediyurappa also announced a night curfew on all days from 7pm to 5am and a weekend curfew to restrict movement in the state at least till June 21. The government stated that it will review the Covid-19 situation and then take appropriate decisions on further relaxations, if any. Industries and other production facilities have been allowed to operate with 50% strength while garment units have been restricted to 30% due to their labour-intensive process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/traffic-snarls-return-to-bengaluru-after-easing-of-lockdown-restrictions-101623649843628.html
14-06-2021||Lucknow||Ganga being cleared of algal bloom near famous Varanasi ghats||River Ganga’s stretch between famous Dashashwamedh and Assi ghats in Varanasi was sprayed with chemicals on Sunday to clear it of algal bloom, which was discharged from a sewage treatment plant in Mirzapur and spread rapidly due to presence of nitrogen and phosphorus in river waters, traced to untapped drains in the Varanasi district, officials said.The algal bloom was removed using 3000 liters of bioremediation solution made with 7.5 kg chemical powder. Another 3000 liters will be sprayed in the affected stretches on Monday and the efficacy of the exercise will be assessed on Tuesday by carrying out spot inspection, the team involved in the cleaning exercise said. The team was headed by Neeraj Gahlawat, project officer-technical, National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG), NMCG Varanasi convener Rajesh Shukla and city health officer Dr NP Singh.Shukla said the spray solution helped clear algal deposits from the stretch within hours by Sunday afternoon.Varanasi district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said the algal bloom was first detected in Ganga over 20 days ago but it disappeared briefly around a week ago. A team of experts, constituted on June 7 after its reappearance, collected water samples, which were tested by UP pollution control board’s laboratory. It was found that the algae strains came from a STP in Mirzapur. “The algae strains drained into the river Ganga from Mirzapur district’s Chunar oxidation pond and STP. This algae flourished in Varanasi stretch of River Ganga due to presence of nitrogen and phosphorous (though mild) which mainly come in the river water from untapped drains,” UPPCB scientific officer Dr TN Singh said, referring to two untapped drains supplying nitrogen and phosphorous for the algae to bloom. One of these drains with 50 MLD capacity discharges into the river in Asi area, while the second one with 10 MLD capacity drains into the river in Ramnagar area of the district, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ganga-being-cleared-of-algal-bloom-near-famous-varanasi-ghats-101623648943260.html
14-06-2021||Bangalore||Orange alert for Karnataka's coastal districts till June 17, says IMD||Orange alert has been announced for the coastal districts of Karnataka till June 17 as the entire state is very likely to experience widespread rainfall, the director of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) unit of Bengaluru CS Patil said.According to Patil, the coastal Karnataka and South-interior Karnataka experienced widespread rainfall on Sunday."Entire Karnataka state is very likely to experience widespread rainfall from June 13 to 17. Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshin Kannada, Shivamogga and Chikmagalur are likely to experience heavy to very heavy rainfall for which orange alert is announced from June 13 to 17," Patil said.The Bengaluru IMD director said, "Bengaluru is very likely to experience light to moderate rainfall during the next two days."On Sunday, the IMD said, "Isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall very likely over parts of Northwest India during next 3 days, over parts of East, Central and West India during next 3-4 days, over parts of Northeast India during next 5 days and over parts of south Peninsular India during next 4-5 days. Isolated extremely heavy falls also very likely over Konkan and Goa on June 14 and 15 and over Coastal Karnataka and Madhya Maharashtra on June 15."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/orange-alert-for-karnataka-s-coastal-districts-till-june-17-says-imd-101623646198054.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro to continue with 50% capacity, standing travel banned||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has said its services in the national capital will continue with 50 per cent seating in accordance with guidelines in order to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Passengers will be allowed to travel by seating only on alternate seats with no provision for standing travel till further directions,” DMRC tweeted on Sunday.Metro services resumed on June 7 after nearly a month as the daily cases and deaths started ebbing in Delhi. The Delhi government on June 5 urged commuters to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour inside the stations and the compartments when travelling. The government also announced that the number of trains will be increased to full strength in a graded manner from June 9 following which services will operate at normal frequency.However, a top doctor in Delhi suggested the government should not start Metro services immediately. “For one to two weeks, we must experiment with 33-50% (occupancy). We should go slow otherwise the lid will open up and we will not be able to suppress it. We can’t eradicate this virus,” Dr Naveet Wig, chairperson of AIIMS Covid Taskforce, told news agency ANI on June 6.Delhi has so far recorded 1,431,139 cases, 24,823 deaths and over 1.4 million recoveries due to the Covid-19 disease. On Sunday, the national capital saw another low of 255 cases and 23 deaths, according to the health department’s bulletin.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced relaxations under the third phase of unlock in Delhi. Kejriwal said shops and malls, which were earlier open on an odd-even basis, can now open daily from 8am to 10pm. Restaurants can function with 50 per cent seating capacity. Marriages will only be allowed at court or homes with not more than 20 people while only 20 will be allowed to attend funerals.All kinds of public gatherings - social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious - remain prohibited. Schools, colleges and all other educational institutions including coaching centres will also remain closed. Swimming pools, stadiums, sports complexes, cinema theaters, multiplexes are also closed until further notice.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-continue-with-50-capacity-standing-travel-banned-101623641517880.html
14-06-2021||Kolkata||Daily count of Covid-19 cases drops below last year’s peak in West Bengal||The daily count of Covid-19 cases in West Bengal, which had shot up to 20,000 in mid-May, has now dropped below last year’s peak of 4,157. On Sunday, West Bengal reported 3,984 new cases. This is less than the highest number of cases reported on October 22, the peak of the pandemic in 2020. West Bengal registered its highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases on May 14 this year, when the daily count shot up to 20,846. “The number of cases has declined, and situation is now under control. We expect to touch the base level of 100 – 150 cases per days across the state by the end of June or early July. But we need to be on guard and follow all Covid protocols,” said a senior official of the state health department. Also Read | West Bengal: 95-year-old woman beats Covid-19The number of deaths reported every day has also declined to less than 100. On June 13, the state reported 84 deaths compared to 136 deaths on May 14, when the highest number of Covid-19 cases were reported. Experts had said that the West Bengal assembly election was one of the main reasons of the sharp rise of Covid-19 cases in the state in April and May this year. While elections were declared in February-end, the eight phase polls took off on March 27 and continued for over a month. Results were declared on May 2. “The number of active cases had shot up from 3,343 on February 26, when elections were announced, to118,495 on May 2, when the results were declared. The positivity rate had also shot up from 1% to 31% during the same period,” said the official. After the new government came to power, the Mamata Banerjee administration imposed several restrictions from May 16 to check the spread of the virus and the state entered a near lockdown phase. “Public transport was shut down, government and private offices were closed, timings of markets and shops were restricted and people’s movement at night was stopped. This helped and cases reduce,” said a senior official. The state government has now relaxed some of the restrictions, allowing more shops to remain open longer. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has announced that eateries will reopen from June 16for some hours in the evening and shopping malls will also open with limited number of people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/daily-count-of-covid-19-cases-drops-below-last-year-s-peak-in-west-bengal-101623643782772.html
14-06-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru Covid-19 restrictions to be eased from today. Details here||Bengaluru Covid-19 restrictions have been eased from Monday after the Karnataka government said cases of the coronavirus disease have been on the decline in the capital city. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s office has said that Covid-19 cases have come down due to the stringent measures adopted by the state government during the lockdown.The night curfew has not been lifted and the weekend curfew, which starts from 7pm on Fridays and continues till 5am on Mondays, will remain in till June 21 in Bengaluru.A 14-day 'close-down' was imposed from April 27 but subsequently, a complete lockdown was put in place from May 10 to May 24 as the Covid-19 cases continued to spike.Here is what is allowed and what is not in Bengaluru:1. Bengaluru shops selling essential goods have been permitted to operate till 2pm.2. Parks will be opened from 5am to 10am for walkers.3. Street vendors in Bengaluru can do their business from 6am to 2pm.4. Auto-rickshaws and taxis will be allowed to ply with a maximum of two passengers.5. Bengaluru hotels and restaurants can continue delivery service and bars will be open for takeaways till 2pm.6. All industries have been permitted to operate with 50 per cent staff strength, but garment industries can operate with 30 per cent staff strength.7. All construction activities will be permitted, and shops needed for construction activities like cement, steel among others have also been allowed to open. 8. Important departments of the government can operate with 50 per cent staff in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-covid-19-restrictions-to-be-eased-from-today-details-here-101623642450242.html
14-06-2021||Lucknow||Covid trots out hard times for Lucknow’s horsemen||On Saturday morning, Juggan Khan, a man in his early sixties, stands with his horse Abdullah in one corner of Rumi Darwaza, offering a horse ride to visitors.“Sir, the ride will cost you just ₹50. Believe me sir, in this fascinating city of nawabs, nothing is more exciting than experiencing a horse ride, amidst beautiful skyline dotted with so many nawabi-era heritage structures,” Khan says, trying to convince a family to take a horse ride through the Old City, but even his best pitch fails to convince the family, which prefers to proceed on foot, leaving Khan and his dear friend Abdullah dejected.Juggan, a traditional horseman is one of about 50 horsemen, struggling to make a living even after switching to horse riding business in Lucknow’s Old City after their previous business of running horse carts completely collapsed, making it impossible to buy even horse feed.“Sahab khud bhooke so lenge par bezubaan janwar to kaise bhooka maar de. Iska pet to palna hi hain, chahe lockdown ho ya fir Covid (We can stay hungry, but how can I leave a speechless animal empty stomach? I have to manage his meals somehow, be it in the lockdown or Covid scare),” Juggan says.Khan said the situation was still manageable until March 2020- the time when the first Covid wave hit the country, resulting in imposition of a nationwide lockdown. “Until March 2020, we were able to earn at least ₹200 to ₹350 a day, but the lockdown and other government-imposed restrictions squeezed the income, leaving us hand to mouth.”Mohammed Azeez, who owns a horse named Kajal, says the loss of business due to the pandemic has affected them the most. “Unlike other trade, once the shop is closed, the expense also reduces. But in our case, we have to feed our horses, even if there is no business. On an average, a horse needs fodder worth ₹250 to 300 a day. Hence to meet up the expenses we thought of starting horse rides in the Old City,” said Azeez.Horsemen like Azeez and Juggan recall the good old days when horse-driven carts like Bagghi, Ikka or tonga used to be the only means of transport in the city of nawabs. Now, Bagghis are only restricted to museums, while a handful of ikka, tonga and other horse driven carts left are mostly used for marriages and religious processions, which have been banned due to the pandemic.The city has around 50 ikka, tonga owners at present, and they are asking the state government to help them tide over the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-trots-out-hard-times-for-lucknow-s-horsemen-101623639042727.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi likely to witness thunderstorm today: IMD||Due to the early arrival of monsoon in the national capital this week, Delhi is likely to witness thunderstorm with rain on Monday with maximum and minimum temperatures likely lower than normal, as per an India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 25 degree Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 34 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature on Sunday was 23.8 degree Celsius – four degrees below normal – and the maximum temperature was 35.2 degree Celsius – four degrees below normal.IMD officials said the monsoon is on course to cover most areas of northwest India by Tuesday. “Conditions are favourable for further advancement of southwest monsoon into most parts of Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts of east Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, more parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab during the next 48 hours,” Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre said on Sunday.Also Read | Heavy rainfall predicted in Punjab, Haryana from Tuesday. All details hereOn Saturday, HT had reported that the monsoon was around two weeks ahead of schedule due to a low-pressure system building up over the Bay of Bengal and was set to advance over Delhi and most parts of northwest India by June 15. The southwest monsoon generally arrives in Delhi by June 27-28.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 100. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 83, which is also in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".Due to the rain, air quality in the national capital is also expected to stay in the "satisfactory" category this week. On Sunday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “Rainfall observed yesterday [Saturday] has led to air quality improvement. The wind speed is forecasted to stay high for the next three days and isolated rainfall is likely in Delhi. AQI is likely to improve and stay in the satisfactory category for the next three days.”The bulletin also added, “...The contribution of bigger particles is still significantly high in Delhi’s air with a coarser versus finer particle ratio as 3:1, which normally remains around 1:1 in the Delhi-NCR region. This tends to suggest that fossil fuel emission-generated particles are lesser and quickly dispersing but dust-laden bigger particles are prevailing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-likely-to-witness-thunderstorm-today-imd-101623638502728.html
14-06-2021||Kolkata||'Teach your father first': TMC's Kunal Ghosh hits back at Suvendu Adhikari over 'anti-defection' remark||Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Kunal Ghosh on Sunday hit back at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari over the latter's "anti-defection law" comment vis-à-vis Mukul Roy's switch to his former party. "If Suvendu Adhikari has thorough knowledge about anti-defection law.... he should first teach his father Sisir Da (Sisir Adhikari) because he was a TMC MP who joined BJP before the election...", said Kunal Ghosh, while responding to Suvendu Adhikari's comment regarding former BJP national general secretary Mukul Roy's defection to the Trinamool.Suvendu's comment on anti-defection law came after Mukul Roy, former BJP national vice president, and his son Subhranshu Roy rejoined the TMC in Kolkata on Friday in the presence of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, a month after the party's landslide victory in the state Assembly elections. Responding to this Roy's exit from BJP to rejoin TMC, Suvendu had said: "We are not moved or worried about Mukul Roy leaving the party. Since BJP is the only opposition party in the state, TMC will target us now. Anti-defection law has never been implemented in West Bengal before, but as the Leader of Opposition, I will take the charge to implement the laws in the state. It will take two to three months."Trinamool Congress (TMC) senior leader Kunal Ghosh on Sunday hit back at BJP's Suvendu Adhikari for his 'anti-defection law' comment and asked him to teach the law to his father Sisir Adhikari as he was a TMC MP, who joined the BJP before the elections while he was still holding the post."If (LoP) Suvendu Adhikari has thorough knowledge about anti-defection law, he should not try to teach TMC. He should first teach his father Sisir Da because he is a TMC MP and has joined BJP before the election while he was still holding the post," Ghosh told ANI.He claimed that proper protocol to quit the party and the post was not followed by Mukul Roy.Roy had contested the Assembly election from Krishnanagar Uttar constituency and defeated TMC candidate actor Koushani Mukherjee.Mukul Roy, a founding member of the TMC, had changed camps and joined BJP in November 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/teach-your-father-first-tmc-s-kunal-ghosh-hits-back-at-suvendu-adhikari-over-anti-defection-remark-101623633990519.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Heavy rainfall predicted in Punjab, Haryana from Tuesday. All details here||Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh are likely to receive heavy rains throughout Tuesday (June 15) and Wednesday (June 16), according to predictions by the Met department. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted heavy rainfall activity, accompanied by thunderstorms and lightning, over Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh from the early morning hours of June 15 to June 16. As per the weather forecast, light to moderate rain (1-3 cm) at many places with isolated heavy rain (6-7cm) may continue over Punjab, Haryana including Chandigarh during the next 48 hours. "Isolated thunderstorms with lightning and gusty winds (30-50 kmph) likely during this period," as per the weather agency."Rainfall and thunderstorm activity is likely to further increase from the early morning hours of June 15 to June 16, light to moderate rainfall (1-5 cm) at most places with heavy to very heavy rainfall (7-12 cm) at isolated places likely during this period," as per IMD Chandigarh.On Sunday, a thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain and gusty winds lashed the adjoining areas of Yamunanagar, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Karnal, Panipat, Gannaur, Fatehabad, Barwala, Narwana, Rajaund, Assandh, Safidon, Jind, Gohana, Hissar, Hansi, and Meham.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/heavy-rainfall-predicted-in-punjab-haryana-from-tuesday-all-details-here-101623633334586.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi unlock 3.0: All shops in markets, restaurants open today||With Covid-19 numbers in Delhi dropping to a three-month low, all market activities have been allowed from Monday, but with certain restrictions as part of the phased unlock plan of the Delhi government.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday announced that all activities will be allowed in the national capital after 5am on Monday except for some activities that will be prohibited and some activities that will be done in a restricted manner.The Delhi government imposed a lockdown in the national capital from April 19 at the peak of the second wave of Covid-19. The lockdown has been extended a few times since then. After a continuous decline in daily coronavirus cases for several days, Kejriwal had announced the unlocking process from May 31 in a phased manner.Delhi on Sunday recorded 255 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The national capital's Covid-19 caseload has increased to 14,31,139 so far, according to the daily health bulletin. The death toll increased to 24,823 after 23 virus-related fatalities were reported in the last 24 hours.Here's a list of what's allowed and what's not in Delhi unlock 3.0:1. All market complexes can open between 10am and 8pm.2. Restaurants can reopen with 50% capacity.3. Salons and weekly markets in Delhi will open. Only one market will be allowed in each municipal zone.4. Religious places in the city will also reopen but no visitors will be allowed.5. Schools, colleges and educational institutions will remain closed.6. Ban on political and cultural gatherings will continue.7. Swimming pools, gyms, spas and public parks and gardens will remain closed.8. Weddings cannot be held in public halls and only 20 people will be allowed to attend.9. Public transport, including the Delhi Metro will operate at 50% capacity. Only two passengers will be allowed in autorickshaws and taxis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-unlock-3-0-all-shops-in-markets-restaurants-open-today-101623630059915.html
14-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to unlock in phases from today; curbs to continue in 11 districts||Karnataka will from Monday relax its Covid-19 lockdown, in effect since April 27, and start a phased unlocking process all across the states, barring 11 districts where the infection rate has not come down. The relaxation in lockdown measures will be in place from 6am on Monday to 6am on June 21. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said last Thursday that the decisions have been taken based on suggestions made by the Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee. Yediyurappa said if the situation comes under control it will help the government to announce further relaxations and sought people’s cooperation in this regard. The Karnataka government announced a 14-day 'close-down' from April 27 and subsequently imposed a complete lockdown from May 10 to May 24 amid rising Covid-19 cases. It was further extended till June 7 and then again till June 14 as experts said the lockdown was yielding results and coronavirus disease cases were coming down.Also read | Karnataka issues unlock guidelinesThe existing lockdown rules will continue for Chikkamagaluru, Davangere, Mysuru, Hassan, Chamarajanagara, Mandya, Dakshina Kannada, Bengaluru Rural, Shivamogga, Belagavi and Kodagu with high test positivity rate (TPR). The government has given powers to district commissioners to implement stringent measures in consultation with the in-charge ministers for the 11 districts.Night curfew, however, will be in effect from 7pm to 5am in all other districts, including Bengaluru City. The weekend curfew will also be in effect from 7pm on Friday till 5am on Monday starting from June 14.Shops selling essentials can open from 6am to 2pm, parks open from 5am to 10am and street vendors can operate from 6am to 2pm. Auto-rickshaws and taxis with only 2 people at a time can ply. The garment industry can function with 30 per cent capacity and factories will be allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity. According to the government, important departments can operate with 50 per cent staff. Also read | What went wrong in K’taka Covid management strategy?Hotels and restaurants can continue to deliver food and bars will be open for takeaways till 2pm. All construction activities have been allowed to start and all shops pertaining to construction activities, like those selling cement and steel, are allowed to open.However, malls, cinema halls, gyms and swimming pools will remain shut and existing restrictions on weddings, funerals and public gatherings will continue. Metro trains and bus services cannot operate during this unlock phase but the government has allowed inter-state and intra-state movement of passenger vehicles.Karnataka logged 7810 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 125 related deaths on Sunday, according to official data. There are 180,835 active cases of Covid-19 and there have been 25,51,365 recoveries in the southern state. Its tally has risen to 2.76 million and there have been 32,913 deaths so far, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-unlock-in-phases-from-today-curbs-to-continue-in-11-districts-101623629985079.html
14-06-2021||Patna||Jolt to Chirag Paswan: LJP MPs seek new parliamentary leader, write to speaker||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), led by Chirag Paswan in Bihar, is now set to suffer another setback following its weighty defeat in the Bihar legislative assembly elections last year. As many as five of the party's six MPs in Lok Sabha have decided to remove Chirag Paswan as the leader of the Parliamentary party in the lower House, according to news agency ANI. Citing people familiar with the development, the news agency reported that the majority of Lok Sabha MPs in Chirag's own party intend to replace him with Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras as the new leader of the LJP in Lok Sabha. To this end, the LJP MPs have already met Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla and handed him a letter regarding these new developments, the agency added.Also Read: Lone Lok Janshakti Party MLA Raj Kumar Singh joins JD(U) in Bihar"LJP MPs met Lok Speaker Om Birla on Sunday and handed over a letter to him about new developments in the party. They request him to consider Pashupati Kumar Paras as new leader of the LJP in Lok Sabha," ANI reported, citing its sources.Chirag Paswan, the son of late party supremo Ram Vilas Paswan, had been having a tumultuous time managing the party ever since his father's death one year ago, HT's sister site Hindustan reports, adding that factionalism became one of the primary concerns for the LJP after its founder's demise. The party MPs who have now rebelled against Chirag Paswan's leadership in the Lok Sabha are not happy with the working style of Chirag Paswan following the demise of his father, former Union minister and patron of LJP.Also Read: Covid-19 lockdown in Bihar again? Here's what CM Nitish Kumar saidPashupati Kumar Paras, who the MPs feel can better represent the party as its new leader in Lok Sabha, is currently representing the Hajipur Lok Sabha seat in Bihar. The LJP, which is a part of the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at the Centre, has a total of six MPs in Lok Sabha, of which five have now rebelled against Chirag Paswan's leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jolt-to-chirag-paswan-ljp-mps-seek-new-parliamentary-leader-write-to-speaker-101623628113595.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Notes from a post-lockdown walk||Two masked men are sitting on the dusty footpath, by the traffic light, with sketch pads on their laps. They are drawing Safdarjung’s Tomb, standing just across the road.It is a hot evening in the early post-lockdown, and traffic is still scarce. One has grown so used to seeing Delhi roads mostly empty, only peopled with those who really need to be out, that it is surreal to come across these sketchers.These days, a walk through Lodhi Road seamlessly marries the extraordinary beauty of the long tree-lined avenue with the eerie ambiance of Delhi’s currently absent outdoor life, and produces something truly haunting. Further ahead, three fat buffaloes (where did they come from?!) are chomping off leaves from the untrimmed foliage planted on the road divider.As the address of high-status institutions, Lodhi Road used to be traffic-heavy. Despite being in the heart of one of the most privileged portions of the city whose inhabitants emerge out of their houses only in chauffeur-driven cars, it used to teem with street hawkers. Dozens of ice cream carts would be parked outside Lodhi Gardens, which is still closed to visitors. How are those sellers coping, one wonders. (And what must have happened to Naresh Chandra, the stern ram laddoo seller who would walk up and down the road all day long with a snack basket on his head?)A right turning leads to the quiet Jor Bagh Market. Nini KD Singh, the elderly owner of the bookstore there hasn’t entered her establishment for more than a year due to the coronavirus scare, though she would occasionally venture out to Lodhi Gardens before the second surge.Some steps ahead, on the right, the gigantic India Habitat Centre overwhelms the senses like a monolithic vision from a mythical past. Here Delhi would go for music concerts, theatre plays, book launches and Tinder dates. Some years ago an unprecedented super-long queue had come up one evening to hear novelist Margaret Atwood talk with author Patrick French. The building is now marooned in desolation.As Lodhi Road ends at Mathura Road, the sidewalk on the right has an anonymous grave screened off within a dense shield of trees. The evening light is streaming in through the leaves and falling decorously over the grave, making it look disconcertingly alive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-notes-from-a-post-lockdown-walk-101623623899163.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Tap alumni achievements to boost enrolment: Punjab education secretary||Punjab education secretary Krishan Kumar shared recommendations for boosting enrolment in government schools with school heads and district education officers on Sunday . In a letter issued in this regard, Kumar has asked school authorities to launch an “each one brings one” programme and issue e-certificates to students who refer a student to the school. He also suggested sharing alumni achievements with students. “Students should be asked to interact in English as well as their mother tongue at school,” reads the letter. “The head girl, head boy, and class monitor should be made part of the enrolment process and must be briefed about the available facilities,” it says. Students can be asked to share class-wise data and videos available on the Educare application with their friends, the letter said. District education officers (elementary and secondary) Jaswinder Kaur and Lakhvir Singh said, “Most primary schools are English medium. Their students confidently participate in competitions that require interacting in English at district and block levels. Booster clubs have helped increase students familiarity with the language.” Over the last two months, 29,597 students have been enrolled in classes from pre-primary to Class 5 in Ludhiana, of which 14,372 students have been admitted to lower and upper kindergarten; 4,366 to Class 1; 3,230 to Class 2; 6,352 to Class 3 and 2,291 to Class 4; and 3,882 to Class 5. Deputy district education officer (elementary) Kuldeep Singh said, “We will continue admissions till September as we hope to achieve our target of 30% enrolment in government schools. Last year, many schools had received funds for construction of new classrooms. This year, too, the government has sanctioned funds for the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tap-alumni-achievements-to-boost-enrolment-punjab-education-secretary-101623617739340.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Villagers still wary of vaccine in Ludhiana||With the virus making inroads into rural areas, the state government and local administrations have stepped up awareness and vaccination drives in villages under ‘Mission Fateh 2.0’. However, a sizeable chunk of the rural population remains sceptical about the efficacy of the vaccine.With the rumour mill working overtime, several villagers are refusing to get the jab despite the second wave of the pandemic exacting a terrible toll in rural areas as well. Sarpanch of Pakhowal’s Pamal village,Jagdish Singh Grewal, says, “The villagers are resisting vaccination because of rumours about alleged side effects of the vaccine. There are around 4,000 people in our village. However, only 10% of them have got the shot. Though special vaccination drives, and awareness drives have been launched and efforts are being made to reach out to people on social networking sites, the turnout remains low. After all, we cannot force anybody to get the jab!” “Most of the people who have got themselves vaccinated are those who plan to travel abroad and thus are out of options,” says Sudhar village sarpanch Harminder Gill, adding that a large section of villagers was neither following coronavirus protocols nor getting themselves vaccinated.Turn of the tideNonetheless, the situation is not all doom and gloom as the government’s intensive awareness drives and special grants for fully vaccinated villages have borne fruit. On June 12, Bhikhi village of Payal constituency became the first village in the state to have vaccinated all residents above the age of 18.MLA Lakhvir Lakha said the village has a strength of 1,700, of which 947 residents are above 18 years of age. Barring 18 pregnant women and a few others unfit for vaccination due to health issues, all the eligible 905 residents have been administered at least one dose of the vaccine.“May residents who were in double minds about the vaccine are coming forward to get the jab after villagers who got themselves inoculated did not report any side effects,” Mohie village sarpanch Gagandeep Singh said.District immunisation officer, Dr Puneet Juneja said the rural population had started getting themselves vaccinated and the situation was improving with every passing day. A certain number of residents have been vaccinated in almost every village. “Teams of the health department are regularly raising awareness in the villages and are clearing people’s doubts,” said Juneja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/villagers-still-wary-of-vaccine-in-ludhiana-101623617499344.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||2,700 minors contracted Covid in 2nd wave in Ludhiana||With some experts saying that children are likely to be more susceptible to contracting the coronavirus disease in the third wave of the pandemic, it has emerged that 2,702 children below the age of 18 were infected in the district between January 1 and June 4 this year.With 1,203 cases, the highest infections were reported in the 15-18 age group, followed by 630 in the 11-14 group, 539 in the 6-10 group and 330 in the 1-5 bracket, as per data compiled by the district health department. Health department officials have said that though it has been predicted that the third wave will affect more children, nothing is certain. However, preparations are being made to deal with every exigency.District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Kumar said, “Children may contract the infection from their parents or some other source.However, there is no scientific proof to indicate that children will be more susceptible to the third wave. The mortality rate among children is low because of their strong immunity.” Meanwhile, experts have said that children have largely been asymptomatic or exhibited mild symptoms. However, post-Covid complications remain a pressing concern. Dayanand Medical College And Hospital associate professor, department of paediatrics Gurdeep Singh Dhooria said, “Though children have strong immune symptoms, it has been seen in some cases that after two to three weeks of catching the infection, their immune system goes into a hyper-inflammatory response. Children may exhibit symptoms such as fever, redness in eyes, rashes, swelling in the face and in serious cases heart problems. If parents witness any of these symptoms, they should immediately consult a paediatrician.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2700-minors-contracted-covid-in-2nd-wave-in-ludhiana-101623616900472.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Hearing-impaired teen girl run over by train in Zirakpur||A 16-year-old hearing-impaired girl was run over by the Chandigarh-Lucknow Sadbhavna Express near Dhakoli, Zirakpur, on Saturday night. The deceased, Shivangi, had arrived in Dhakoli from Hardoi, Uttar Pradesh, last week in search of work. Government Railway Police assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Rajinder Singh Dhillon said the deceased’s family was staying at a slum near Golden Sand Society in Zirakpur. According to them, the girl had hearing issues and therefore failed to hear the approaching train. As she was hit, she died on the spot. The GRP sent the body to the Dera Bassi civil hospital for autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hearingimpaired-teen-girl-run-over-by-train-in-zirakpur-101623616779137.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Amid piling losses, wholesale dealers rue Sunday lockdown in Ludhiana||With markets still closed on Sunday, wholesale dealers in the district say they have yet again got the short end of the stick as 80% of their clientele prefers to make purchases on that day. With most of their summer purchases still in stock, the wholesale dealers say ease in restrictions have not boosted their business. They have requested the Ludhiana deputy commissioner to allow them to open their shops on Sunday, even as they agreed to keep the shops closed on any other day of the week. Wholesale dealers at Chaura Bazaar, Akalgarh Market, and Gandhinagar Market say they witness more footfall on Sunday than any other day of the week. Amid a surge in cases, the administration had, on May 2, closed all shops selling non-essential items and imposed curfew on weekends as well. Sellers of non-essential items got some relief on May 7, as authorities provided them a window from 5am to noon. When the cases began to ebb, the administration increased the timings till 3pm on May 26, and then further increased it to 5pm on May 26 on May 31. As per the latest orders, all the shops are allowed to operate from 5am to 6pm. Proprietors of wholesale stores say it is not just local people who buy from them but a considerable chunk of the sales comes from people of other districts such as Patiala, Hoshiarpur, Mansa, and Moga. Akalgarh Market, one of the wholesale garment markets of the city, has around 795 such shops. Akalgarh Market Readymade Garment Association president Manpreet Singh Bunty says, “Last year, our summer wear stock remained shelved because of the nationwide lockdown. This year, too, we are in the same boat. We will not be able to survive unless the market is opened on Sunday.” A wholesale dealer at Gandhi Nagar market, which has 700 wholesale shops, Sukwinder Singh, says, “I have been in the garment business for 20 years. However, the pandemic has ruined the business. Few customers turn up on weekdays,” he said. In normal circumstances, special markets were setup by shopkeepers on Sunday, which were visited by around 10,000 customers. However, the once vibrant markets now wear a deserted look on weekends. Sanjeev Chaudhary, president of Arora Market Chaura Bazaar Association, said, “The Sunday lockdown has definitely affected my ready-made garment business. Hopefully, the government will make more concessions from next week.” PPBM wants shops to stay open till 8pm, on Sunday The Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) slammed the state government for not providing any relief package to boost business in the time of pandemic. “Industrialists and traders are leaving the state because of the anti-trade policies of the government,” representatives said during a press conference. The lockdown and curfew have caused considerable financial loss to both traders and industrialists, they said, adding that if Sunday lockdown was not withdrawn and timing of shops not increased till 8pm within the next three days,they will be forced to start an agitation across Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-piling-losses-wholesale-dealers-rue-sunday-lockdown-in-ludhiana-101623616540140.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cash-strapped Mohali MC’s budget cut by ₹31 crore||In a major setback to the fund-starved Mohali municipal corporation, the Punjab local bodies department has imposed a ₹31-crore cut in its budget for 2021-22.Against the proposed budget of ₹148 crore, forwarded in March this year, the department has approved only ₹117 crore.Notably, no funds have been allocated for solid waste management, Swachh Bharat Mission, and water supply and sewerage maintenance, despite Mohali slipping to the 157th rank out of 382 cities in the 2020 Swachh Survekshan ranking.The rank had also pushed Mohali to the seventh position in Punjab from the fifth position in 2019 when its nationwide rank was 153.The city continues to fare poorly in the annual cleanliness survey primarily due to its failure to get garbage-processing projects off the ground, including its solid-waste management project at Samgoli village.In 2020-2021 as well, the local bodies department had trimmed down the proposed budget of ₹268 crore to ₹127 crore, by slashing ₹141 crore. “We are passing through severe financial straits. The state government has not approved budget for water supply and sewerage maintenance, and for solid waste management. We are totally clueless about how to tackle the situation,” said a senior civic body official.MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said they will write to the local bodies department for more funds for 2021-22, so that the development works did not suffer.After taking charge on April 12, city mayor Amarjeet Singh Sidhu had assured that MC will face no dearth of funds. “We will get more grants from the state government as needed. Development works will not stop in the city,” said deputy mayor Kuljeet Singh Bedi.Revenue losses last yearWhile MC had expected to earn ₹28 crore from property tax in 2020-21, only ₹17 crore was paid by residents. Even the excise duty provided by the state government was just ₹12.5 crore against the expected ₹30 crore.The corporation couldn’t even earn its revenue from unipole advertisements after the state government waived the ₹5-crore fee for six months after six companies cited revenue losses amid the Covid pandemic.As a result, though the civic body was to earn ₹11 crore, it got only ₹1.42 crore from advertisers, with most not even paying their dues.On the account of tehbazari fee, MC was to collect ₹60 lakh but earned only ₹32 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cashstrapped-mohali-mc-s-budget-cut-by-31-crore-101623616300485.html
14-06-2021||Bangalore||Amid rumblings, BJP state in-charge to meet partymen||Bengaluru Three days after announcing that BS Yediyurappa will remain chief minister and there had been no discussions on replacing him, Arun Singh, the general secretary of the BJP in-charge of the state, is expected to arrive in Bengaluru on Wednesday. “Arun Singh would be in Karnataka for two to three days. It is his duty to hold meetings and take stock of the situation, for which he is coming here,” Yediyurappa told reporters in Bengaluru. According to people aware of the development, Singh is likely to hold meetings with ministers, MLAs and the party’s core committee members during his visit. Singh’s visit comes at a time when simmering dissent in Karnataka’s BJP unit has threatened to boil over as legislators and others have been rushing to Delhi to seek the ouster of the 78-year-old chief minister. Yediyurappa said that he would also be there and cooperate with Singh. Several legislators from within the BJP have met the central leadership, seeking the ouster of Yediyurappa who they believe has mishandled the Covid-19 health crisis, indulged in corruption and whose son, BY Vijayendra, is alleged to be running a parallel administration under the aegis of his father. The statements by Singh on June 10 backing the CM had infused new found confidence in Yediyurappa, who, a day later, claimed that he will be the chief minister for the remainder of the two years. “Yediyurappa is the chief minister, he is doing a good job and will remain the chief minister. He has done a good job during the Covid situation, all the ministers and the party- everyone has done a good job”, he was quoted saying by PTI. Singh had also said that it was wrong to publicly air grievances against anyone and that he would speak to those legislators and ministers making such statements in front of the media. The state unit of the party has issued gag orders, restricting its ministers, legislators and party workers from speaking out against the chief minister. However, the party is yet to take any action against Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand legislator from Bijapur City, who has time and again levelled charges of corruption against Yediyurappa and his family for at least six months now. The central leadership of the BJP are wary of making any decisions in haste with regards to Yediyurappa, who holds significant clout over the party and the Lingayat community, believed to be the single largest caste group in the state and who have stood behind for over a decade now. “There is a section on one side that believes that Yediyurappa is the leader. There is no dissent among any of the legislators. No one should do anything of this sort at a time like this,” Basavaraj Dadesugur, the BJP’s legislator from Kanakagiri said on Sunday. He added that there is no change of leadership and also that the BJP will face the elections in 2023 “under the leadership of Yediyurappa”. A section of the legislators have trained their guns on Arvind Bellad and minister CP Yogeshwara, who are among those seeking the removal of Yediyurappa. Bellad had visited Delhi on more than one occasion and has come under fire for his actions. Bellad on Saturday, however, defended his Delhi visit claiming it to be personal. Dadesugur on Sunday said that Bellad was just a two-time MLA and was not even a minister and should not aspire to be the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/amid-rumblings-bjp-state-in-charge-to-meet-partymen-101623616178490.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid complications: Milkha’s wife Nirmal Kaur passes away at 85||Even as legendary Milkha Singh battles for life in the intensive care unit (ICU) at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, his wife Nirmal Kaur, 85, lost battle to Covid-19 almost three weeks after contracting the virus. Nirmal breathed her last at Fortis hospital in Mohali on Sunday. The cremation took place in the evening. Former captain of the Indian women’s volleyball team, Nirmal’s health deteriorated a few days after she was admitted to the hospital. There was a drop in her oxygen level, and she was put on HFNC (high flow nasal cannula) and NIV (non-invasive ventilator) intermittently since then. Milkha family released a statement on Sunday: “We are deeply saddened to inform you that Mrs Nirmal Milkha Singh passed away at 4pm today after fighting a valiant battle against Covid-19. Former director of sports for women in the Punjab government, Nirmal ji was the backbone of the family. It is tragic that Milkha Singh ji could not attend the cremation as he is still in the ICU.” Milkha and Nirmal’s love-story goes way back to 1960s. In 1955, Nirmal went to Sri Lanka as part of the India volleyball team where she met Milkha for the first time. Their friendship blossomed into a love affair when both were deputed as sports administrators in Chandigarh in 1960-61. While Milkha joined Punjab administration in Chandigarh as deputy director of sports, Nirmal was state’s director sports for women. Milkha married Nirmal in 1962. She bagged her master’s degree in political science in 1958 from Punjab University. She is known to have worn ‘salwar kameez’ instead of shorts or skirts while playing national as well as international volleyball tournaments. She retired from service in the early 90s. “Madam has played a big role in building Chandigarh’s sports infrastructure. The Sector 42, Sector 7 and Sector 46 sports complexes were built during her tenure. She made sure Chandigarh had the best sports facilities. She had a heart of gold. Always very kind towards poor athletes,” said Vijaypal Singh, secretary Volleyball Federation of India, who is also secretary of Chandigarh Volleyball Association. Meanwhile, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh condoled the death of Nirmal Milkha Singh. In his condolence message, the CM said, “I am saddened to learn about the death of one of the iconic volleyball players who brought several laurels for the country,” adding, she had rendered remarkable services as director of sports for women. Punjab sports minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi also condoled the death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-complications-milkha-s-wife-nirmal-kaur-passes-away-at-85-101623615939291.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn owes MC ₹24 crore in property tax||The Chandigarh municipal corporation is yet to recover around ₹24 crore in outstanding property tax from the UT administration. For the 2020-21 fiscal, the civic body had collected more than ₹61 crore against the target of ₹48 crore, which is the highest in its history. For the current fiscal, it has already collected ₹27 crore. “Revenue from property tax could have been higher if government offices had deposited the full outstanding amount of ₹27 crore. But, the tax reconciliation process with the UT administration helped us recover an additional ₹3.6 crore. We expect the administration to deposit more of its outstanding dues in this fiscal,” an MC official said. For the recovery of dues, the MC had had issued notices to the estate office, UT Press Trust, State Transport Authority (STA), Sector 18 hockey stadium, Sector 23 swimming pool, Sector 29 Traffic Police Lines, Sector 35 and 37 civil dispensaries, Sector 38 Government Model High School, Sector 42 sports complex, Lake Club, CLTA Tennis Stadium, roller skating rink, Karuna Sadan, Sector 11 and 19 police stations, Bal Niketan, Old Age Home, Kendriya Pustakalay, football stadium and Sector 17 bus stand among others. The departments managing these buildings have defaulted on property tax payments. MC had also served notices to its own departments, which owed around ₹8 crore. But, after reconciliation, it was reduced to ₹3 crore, which the MC recovered. For the cash-strapped MC, property tax is one of the two major sources of revenue, the other being the collections from charges on water supply. There are 1.40 lakh properties under the jurisdiction of the MC, of which more than 1.2 lakh are taxable. For the 2021-22 fiscal, MC had extended the deadline to avail rebate on the payment of property tax from May 31 to June 30 amid the Covid-induced lockdown. Residential property taxpayers will get rebate of 20% and commercial property taxpayers 10%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-owes-mc-24-crore-in-property-tax-101623615885039.html
14-06-2021||Other||Farmers protest outside old-age home, allege harassment of inmate||The members of Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta) Sidhupur staged a protest outside Heavenly Palace, an old-age home in Doraha, on Sunday after the home management asked an elderly man to vacate his room for hoisting a black flag outside his room in support of the farmers’ cause.The farmers alleged that elderly inmate Harinderpal was being harassed by the management for the past 15 days.Harinderpal had hoisted a black flag in the balcony of his room at the home on May 26 — being observed as ‘black day’ by farmers on completion of six months of their protest against the Centre’s agriculture laws.Supinder Singh Bagga, a farmer union member, said the elderly man was issued a notice by the management to vacate his room in two days for “not following” the rules of the palace and installing a black flag in the balcony.Bagga said that they have assured Harinderpal of support and will not let the management harass him for backing their cause. The management of the old-age home could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-protest-outside-old-age-home-allege-harassment-of-inmate-101623615879598.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Traffic gridlock on Kalka-Shimla Highway as tourists make beeline for hills||Amid the Sunday curfew in Chandigarh and Mohali, tourists made a beeline for the hills via Panchkula, resulting in massive traffic jams on the Kalka-Shimla National Highway, near Parwanoo.Notably, the Himachal Pradesh government had on Friday allowed entry of tourists into the state without a negative Covid test. A Covid e-pass is still required. There was no weekend curfew in Panchkula, while Chandigarh and Mohali had imposed it on Sunday only. Parwanoo deputy superintendent of police Yogesh Rolta, said, “The number of vehicles has increased since Friday, as tourists from places like Punjab, Chandigarh and Delhi are visiting the hills. There was an unexpected rush on Saturday, which led to an hour-long jam.”He said a video of the serpentine queues, which went viral on social media, was from Saturday. “On Saturday, there were over 5,000 vehicles and on Sunday, their number was around 3,000. In pre-Covid times, the number used to be much higher.”“There was traffic because we have to ensure that everyone had an e-pass. It takes time, as many people have not registered themselves and we have to guide them. This delays the process, leading to traffic jams,” Rolta said.Dinesh Kumar, an advocate, said he was stuck in traffic for over an hour. ₹64,500 collected in fine for Sunday curfew violationsChandigarh Police collected ₹64,500 in fine from challans issued for violating the Sunday curfew in Chandigarh. Seven challans were issued for not wearing masks in public, 76 for not following social distancing and 40 for spitting in public. Police also rounded up 207 people. The traffic police issued 28 challans and impounded two vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traffic-gridlock-on-kalka-shimla-highway-as-tourists-make-beeline-for-hills-101623615702569.html
14-06-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru set to unlock from today as Covid cases dip||Bengaluru India’s IT capital, Bengaluru, will be among the first in Karnataka to see the easing of restrictions as the city recorded 1,348 new Covid-19 infections in a 24 hour period, the state government said on Sunday. There were 4,125 recoveries that brought down the active caseload to 85,995. The positivity rate in Bengaluru declined to 3.11%, according to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Sunday. There were 23 more deaths in Bengaluru that took the toll to 15,307, data showed. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has announced that Bengaluru and 18 other districts in the state will see some relaxations of restrictions while 11 others, who are still witnessing a high positivity rate, will remain under lockdown till at least June 21. Karnataka recorded 7,810 new Covid-19 infections in a 24 hour period, the state government said on Sunday. “Though Karnataka is witnessing a decline of active caseload & new cases of #COVID19, it doesn’t mean that we stop taking precautions. We have to follow #COVID appropriate behaviour at all times to stay safe and defeat this virus,” Dr Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and professor at the Public Health Foundation of India and member of Karnataka’s covid-19 task force said on Sunday. There were 18,648 recoveries that brought down the caseload to 180,835, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Sunday. The positivity rate was 6.02%. “With 1,29,617 tests and 7,810 new cases in the last 24 hours Karnataka’s positivity rate stands at 6.02%. 18,648 recoveries were reported in the stage today including 4,125 in Bengaluru. With 41,618 tests and 1,348 new cases Bengaluru’s positivity rate stands at 3.23%,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a post on Twitter. The Yediyurappa-led government has decided to go in for a phase-wise lifting of curbs to restrict the sudden rush of people coming out of their homes and adding to the risk all over again. The new guidelines will come to force after 6 am on June 14. Karnataka has extended the timings for essential services like grocery, meat, vegetables, liquor and other shops from 6 am to 2 pm, extending it beyond the 10am deadline till June 14.“Do not come out on the streets at once on June 14. Some people are already running around as though they have permission from now itself,” Basavaraj Bommai, Karnataka’s minister for home, law and parliamentary affairs. Yediyurappa has also announced a night curfew on all days from 7pm to 5 am and a weekend curfew to restrict movement in the state at least till June 21. The government has stated that it will review the covid-19 situation closer to closer to June 21 and then take appropriate decisions on further relaxations, if any. Industries and other production facilities have been allowed to operate with 50% strength while garment units have been restricted to 30% due to its labour-intensive process. Meanwhile, the positivity rate in the majority of the 30 districts in the state remain higher than the state’s average of 6.92%, data shows. The coffee growing regions of Chikmagalur and Kodagu have a seven day positivity average of 17.12% and 11.41% (as at 5pm on Saturday), data from the state Covid-19 war room shows. The positivity rate in Uttara Kannada is 15.67%, 14.62% in Mysuru, 13.52% in Hassan, 13.31% in Chamarajanagar, 12.30% in Davangere and 11.95% in Bengaluru Rural, data shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-set-to-unlock-from-today-as-covid-cases-dip-101623615519463.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh admn again invites interest for noise mapping study||The Chandigarh administration is going to carry out a noise pollution mapping study to understand how the city’s high decibel levels are affecting the environment and residents.“An effort will be made to identify which areas of the city have more noise pollution and what are the reasons for it. Based on the results of the study, appropriate steps will be taken by the administration to prevent noise pollution,” said a UT official on Sunday.The administration has sought expressions of interest from educational institutions and organisations recognised by the central and state governments for carrying out “Study on source identification and mitigation actions for noise pollution using noise mapping and prediction techniques”.“Like air pollution, noise pollution is also an area of concern for the city. The main focus of the study will be to narrow down its causes so that remedial steps can be taken. Depending up on the findings, we can tailor-make solutions for the city,” the official said.The National Green Tribunal had also directed the UT administration to complete this study expeditiously. In response, the UT administration told the green court that equipment have been purchased to monitor noise pollution in Chandigarh.Last year, the administration had sought applications from eligible agencies for conducting the study, but no company had applied. Due to this, the study could not be conducted and now the department concerned has again invited interested educational institutions and other agencies in this regard.Adverse effects of noise pollutionNoise pollution can cause physical and psychological harm to humans as well as animals. Vehicles are considered the main cause of noise pollution. Apart from this, loud music and other types of noise at wedding functions and ceremonies also cause noise pollution. Pollution has an effect on health as well as on human behaviour. Noise pollution can cause problems such as irritation, aggression, high blood pressure, high stress levels, sleep disturbance and hearing problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-admn-again-invites-interest-for-noise-mapping-study-101623615518907.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||As lockdown restrictions ease in Ludhiana, so does police action||The tapering coronavirus curve seems to have lulled the district police into a dangerous sense of complacency so much so that no lockdown violations have been registered against defaulters since June 7, which was when the government had eased curbs after a period of strict lockdown. That no lockdown violations took place after shops were allowed to operate till 6pm on weekdays beggars belief, especially as a large number of people can be seen roaming without masks in markets! While police can be seen issuing challans to those venturing out without a mask, there has been a marked decline in the number of challans issued. Police had lodged 208 FIRs against shopkeepers for keeping their shops open after permissible hours between May 10 and June 6 and had issued 9,200 challans to those caught without a face mask in the same period.Shopkeepers, who have suffered extensive losses due to the coronavirus curfew, continue to clandestinely operate after curfew comes into effect to earn a few extra bucks. Partially open shops can be seen during the Sunday lockdown. To evade penalty, they post an aide outside the shop who lets in customers after raising the shutter and keeps a look out for cops. Violations remain rampant, especially in Chaura Bazaar, Ghumar Mandi, Jawahar Nagar Camp, Model Town and Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar.The police’s leniency appears to be directly proportional to the ease in curbs. They had manned the city like fortress till May 26, after which they started giving a little leeway after shops were allowed to open till 3pm. This is evidenced from the 46 FIRs registered between May 26 to June 6 (12 days) against the 161 FIRs registered between May 10 to May 25 (16 days). With the situation normalising, Jagjit Singh, an eatery owner, says, “Though permitting home delivery has brought relief to our business, the government should also allow dine-in option.” Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal says the police are not allowing shops and eateries to operate after permissible hours. “We make sure all shops close at 6pm,” he said.Virus claims three, 112 more test +ve 
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Even Ambedkar would have been slandered as pro-Pakistan by BJP: Mehbooba||The BJP would have slandered even BR Ambedkar, the father of Indian Constitution, as pro-Pakistan had he been alive, PDP president Mehbooba Mufti said Sunday, amidst criticism of Congress leader Digvijaya Singh over his remarks on Article 370.Mehbooba said Article 370 -- which gave special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir before its operative provisions were nullified by the Centre in 2019 -- was granted by the Constitution drafted by Ambedkar, but it has been “subverted” by the Centre. Her remarks came amidst growing criticism of the Congress and Singh over his purported comments in an audio chat on social media that his party will have a “relook” at Article 370 revocation and Jammu and Kashmir’s lost statehood if it returns to power.The BJP has said that Singh’s remarks were part of a larger pattern of the party being “hand in glove” with Pakistan.PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, who was a BJP ally for some time in Jammu and Kashmir, criticised the saffron party. “Thank god Ambedkar ji isn’t alive or else he too would be slandered as pro- Pakistan by BJP,” she said on Twitter.Singh had purportedly made the remark during a clubhouse conversation with a person, who the BJP said was a journalist of Pakistani origin.“The decision of revoking Article 370 and reducing the statehood of J&K is extremely, I would say, sad decision, and the Congress party would certainly have a relook on the issue,” Singh had said, according to excerpts of the clubhouse conversation available on social media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/even-ambedkar-would-have-been-slandered-as-pro-pakistan-by-bjp-mehbooba-101623615340864.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||J&K records lowest Covid infections in 68 days||Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday recorded lowest Covid infections in 68 days with 774 cases taking the overall total to 3,07,412.The last time UT had witnessed infections less than 800 was on April 6.As many as 12 persons also lost their lives to coronavirus in the UT taking the overall deaths to 4,186.There were 545 cases and five deaths in Kashmir valley. The Jammu division saw 229 infections and seven fatalities.From Monday, UT has mostly recorded below-20 daily fatalities. The second Covid wave peaked in May in the UT with the highest daily cases of 5,443 on May 7 and the highest daily deaths of 73 on May 17.The number of patients who recovered in the UT on Sunday was 2,153, including 1,267 from Kashmir and 698 from Jammu. The active positive cases dropped to 15,081 from the highest-ever of 52,848 on May 13. The overall number of people who recovered reached 2,88,145 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 93.73%.Officials said that 43,130 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests crossing 9.17 million. Officials said with 149 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections. All other 19 districts had below 100 cases with single-digit cases in five districts. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.20 lakh cases and 1,930 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,116 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 814 deaths. The month of May was most devastating for Jammu and Kashmir recording the highest 1,14,382 Covid-19 cases and 1,625 deaths related to the disease. Covid restrictions relaxed further in 8 J&K districtsThe Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday announced further easing of restrictions in eight districts showing significant improvement in the Covid situation. The decision to grant relaxations in Shopian, Kulgam, Ganderbal and Bandipora in Kashmir division and Poonch, Reasi, Ramban and Doda in Jammu division was taken at a meeting which focussed on total weekly new cases (per million), positivity rate, bed occupancy, case fatality rate and vaccination coverage of the targeted population, an official order said.It said government and private offices can function in the eight districts without any restrictions subject to strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour, while barber shops, salons are permitted to open on all days of a week, except on Saturday and Sundays. Similarly, standalone shops, outdoor bazaars and shopping complexes are also permitted to open on all days except the weekends, the order said.The order said the wholesale trade of liquor would continue to be permitted to operate on five days in a week in the entire Union Territory, where a weekend corona curfew remains in force on Saturday and Sunday. However, the educational institutions, including private coaching centres are closed till June 15, while all cinemas, multiplexes, clubs, gyms, spas, message centres and paid parks have been directed to remain closed till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-records-lowest-covid-infections-in-68-days-101623615339387.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal gets 1.17 lakh doses, vaccination drive for 18-45 group resumes today||Vaccination of people in age group of 18-45 years will resume on Monday in Himachal Pradesh as the hill state has received new batch of 1,17,830 doses.The state-procured doses of Covishield were slated for phased delivery on June 16, 26 and July 2. However, the Centre later decided to deliver the full batch on a single day.The consignment was received on Saturday. Director, National Health Mission, Dr Nipun Jindal said the vaccine is to be utilised by June 21 and hence the vaccination of 18-45 age group will be carried out throughout the week.Vaccination sessions would be held on June 14-18 and a mop up round will be held on June 19 for the left out doses. “The state plans to use all the vaccine which has been procured by June 19 as the Centre’s new policy of free vaccination for all shall be applicable from June 21 onwards,” he said.In total, around 1,706 sessions are expected for the 18-45 years of age group in the coming week and 1.7 lakh persons would likely be given the shot in this age group. For proper implementation, district authorities have been directed to publish sessions in on-site registration mode/facilitated cohort mobilisation mode in tribal/hard areas. In other areas sessions will be booked online.Slots would be published one day prior to the vaccination to the sessions. For June 14, session day slots have already been booked. Each session would have 100 slots. The vaccination of the other prioritised age groups will be avoided on the same date and site, to avoid confusion. However, districts can plan sessions for 45 years and above age group/prioritised groups with centre allocated vaccine at sites where vaccination of 18-45 age group is not planned.Vaccination of 18-44 age group started in Himachal on May 19. However, the drive was put on hold in June due to the shortage of doses for the particular age group.The hill state has vaccinated more than 25.16 lakh people — 34% of the total population. Of these, 4.38 lakh people have been given second jab as well. Over 3.21 lakh people of age group 18-45 years have received the first shot. At 189, Himachal logs lowest Covid cases since MarchHimachal Pradesh recorded 189 fresh infections on Sunday — lowest since March 21 when 141 cases were reported in the state, taking the state’s Covid caseload to 1,98,550. The death toll mounted to 3,375 after seven patients succumbed to the contagion — also, the lowest number of fatalities in over two months. Meanwhile, =71 infections were reported in Kangra, 30 in Shimla, 27 in Una, as many in Mandi, 23 in Chamba, 16 in Solan, 15 in Bilaspur, 14 in Sirmaur, seven in Hamirpur, five in Lahaul-Spiti and three in Kullu. No infection was reported in Kinnaur. Five fatalities were reported in Kangra and one each in Hamirpur and Mandi. The overall recoveries stood at 1,90,377 after 855 people recuperated while the active cases whittled down to 4,777. Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 45,213 infections, followed by Mandi with 26,630 cases and Shimla with 24,703 cases. Solan has 22,050 cases, Sirmaur 15,134, Hamirpur 14,093 , Una 13,095, Bilaspur 12,429, Chamba 10,709 , Kullu 8,667, Kinnaur 3,155 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,672 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-gets-1-17-lakh-doses-vaccination-drive-for-18-45-group-resumes-today-101623615279414.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily cases slip to 110, a first in 110 days||Keeping up the declining trend of daily Covid-19 cases, the tricity recorded 110 infections on Sunday, lowest in the past 110 days. On February 24, a total of 82 people had tested positive across the tricity and since then the number had only risen, shooting up to the peak of 2,612 on May 10. A steady downturn began thereon and since the advent of June, the tricity has logged less than 200 cases on seven days, including five straight days till Sunday.Panchkula was the biggest contributor to the slide on Sunday, as it reported only seven cases, a first since the same number of cases were recorded on February 17, 116 days ago.For the second time in the past four days, Mohali recorded 49 cases and Chandigarh had 54 fresh infections.Also, for the fifth day in a row, tricity’s daily deaths remained below 10, as four people died in Mohali, three in Chandigarh and one in Panchkula, which had recorded no fatality for the past two days.In the first 13 days of June, 2,852 people have tested positive across the tricity – a 90% drop from the 28,649 cases in the same period in May. Similarly, the number of deaths has decreased by 68% – from 331 to 106. Panchkula’s recovery rate stands at 98%, ahead of 97% in Chandigarh and Mohali. At 0.8%, it also had the lowest daily positivity rate, followed by 2.4% in Mohali and 3.4% in Chandigarh.Active cases drop below 1,500The constant decline in active cases also continued on Sunday with the number dropping to 1,463 after 102 days. At 1,402, the tricity last had less than 1,500 active cases on March 3, following which the figure climbed steadily, reaching the record high of 24,201 on May 12. Since then the active cases have decreased by 94%, providing a huge sigh of relief to the health infrastructure.At 789, Mohali has the most patients under treatment. Another 520 are recuperating in Chandigarh and 154 are still infected in Panchkula.Those who died in Chandigarh were a 69-year-old man from Sector 45, a 60-year-old man from Sector 12 and a 59-year-old man from Sector 23.The city’s case tally stands at 61,110, while 792 people have died and 59,798 have been cured till date.With 175 people getting discharged in Mohali on Sunday, the district’s recoveries reached 65,977. Of the total 67,788 cases, 1,022 patients have succumbed to the virus here, highest in the tricity. The only fatality in Panchkula on Sunday was a 44-year-old man from Kalka, which pushed the toll to 363. There are 30,459 total cases in Panchkula, of which 29,942 have beaten the virus and 363 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-cases-slip-to-110-a-first-in-110-days-101623615220055.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon arrives in Chandigarh, road gullies yet to be cleaned||City residents can expect waterlogged roads this year too, with early onset of monsoon catching the UT administration and municipal corporation off-guard. The cleaning of the road gullies and seasonal rivulets flowing through the city has yet to be completed even as monsoon arrived in the city on Sunday.MC officials claimed that nearly 85% of the cleaning work was done and UT officials assured it will be completed in a week’s time, though the tender was floated recently in June. The civic body has around 35,000 road gullies under its purview, while the UT engineering department cleans gullies on other roads under its jurisdiction, like Madhya Marg and Dakshin Marg. It is also responsible for cleaning of seasonal rivulets - Sukhna Choe, N-Choe and Patiala Ki Rao - which is also underway.Last monsoon, several internal sector roads and major roundabouts were flooded, resulting in traffic jams. Due to the laxity in cleaning of rivulets, some areas were also inundated. A flash flood in the Patiala Ki Rao rivulet had flooded New Colony in Khuda Lahora.PC Rana, general secretary of the RWA, Khuda Lahora, New Colony, said, “The floor level of the rivulet has risen, and during the rainy season, it often overflows. Last year was one of the worst as several houses gave away, and internal roads were clogged with garbage and soil brought in by the flash flood.”Fearing a repeat this year, residents had even staged a protest against the administration, demanding immediate cleaning of the rivulet. “The fate of more than 400 houses and around 1,200 families is at stake as the colony is adjacent to the rivulet,” said Rana.In sectors also, residents contended they haven’t seen much work on the ground. Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations, said, “I doubt the authorities are prepared for the monsoon this year too. There was some work being done by MC around two months back, particularly for Safaimitra Suraksha Challenge. But since then we have only seen road gullies getting clogged with garbage. Heavy rain will leave the roads inundated in no time.”Industrial areas are among the worst-affected locations during the rainy season, with both internal and major roads witnessing water logging. “The road gully cleaning work should be taken up much before monsoon, so the city is prepared for its early onset. We request the MC and administration to complete the work in industrial area as soon as possible,” said Pankaj Khanna, president of the Industries Association, Chandigarh.‘We are prepared’On their part, MC and UT officials claimed that they were prepared for the monsoon. UT chief engineer CB Ojha said, “We have set up a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the cleaning of drains and rivulets. We will complete it in a week’s time, even though we have already done it once. Similarly, we will take another week to clean the Sukhna Choe. It was already cleaned once last month, but as there is time, crucial locations are being covered again. All blocked passages of the Patiala Ki Rao have also been cleaned.”MC executive officer Vijay Premi, who is in-charge of storm water drainage, assured, “We have completed most of the drain cleaning work. Special steps have been taken to clean up points that get choked routinely. Even in the past few weeks, when the city witnessed heavy rain, there was no water logging on the roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoon-arrives-in-chandigarh-road-gullies-yet-to-be-cleaned-101623614800501.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: Nominating live-in partner for financial products||MUMBAIEven as banks and investment companies have revamped financial products to suit the needs of millennials in our digital age, the restrictions on whether they can nominate a live-in partner, whether same sex or opposite sex, remains a gray area. Bank accounts A nominee has the right to access the account holder’s bank accounts and is entitled to the money deposited in the savings accounts, deposits (both fixed and recurring) and bank lockers (even while the account holder is alive). All banks allow the account holder’s parents, spouse, children or siblings to be nominees, but only a handful permit live-in partners to be nominees. Praveen Bhatt, EVP and head, retail liabilities and direct banking channel, Axis Bank said, “Axis Bank does not restrict any relationship to be eligible for being a nominee in its individual liability accounts, i.e., current accounts, savings accounts, term deposits, etc. Live-in-partner can be a nominee in such accounts.” However, this is more exception than norm. Banks insist on granting joint home loans to married couples or blood relatives. Live-in partners do not hold much ground while applying for loans. Insurance policies Besides parents, spouse, and children, some insurance companies also allow their clients to choose cousins and siblings as nominees. However, live-in partners cannot be nominated in life insurance policies. Adhil Shetty, CEO, BankBazaar, an online marketplace for financial products and check the credit score explained why this is so. “In case a live-in partner is made a nominee, there is no way the insurance company can confirm the relationship between the insurer and the nominee, so there is no way of assigning a beneficial nominee to the policy. This leaves the field wide open for legal disputes between the nominee and the legal heirs especially if the policyholder dies intestate. So, to avoid such complications, the insurers prefer not to have live-in partners as nominees.” Health insurance Let us first talk about corporate health insurance that employers extend to their employees. Also called group mediclaim policies, these plans are extended to protect both the employees and their families keeping in mind the rising costs of medical expenses. Many IT and financial services companies allow their employees to include their live-in partners to avail health insurance benefits. Family floater policies cover legally recognised relationships. Though live-in relationships are not deemed illegal, no health policy covers live-in relationships thus necessitating partners to go for individual health plans. Mutual funds Live-in partners can be made nominees to mutual fund schemes subject to the submission of certain documents. “A live-in couple needs to provide proof of cohabitation and submit a declaration of relationship for making the partner a nominee for the financial product. The same may apply to LGBTQ persons as well, but they can’t provide proof of marriage as same-sex marriages are not legal in our country. There always is a risk of biological family members challenging the rights of the nominee after the demise of the person (the will must make it clear that the nominee is the beneficiary). In the absence of clear rules protecting beneficial nominee rights, same sex partners may choose to enter a business relationship and hold joint accounts legally. Specialized professional advice is recommended,” said Raj Khosla, founder and managing director, MyMoneyMantra. Considering there is no formal statute regarding the financial rights of live-in couples, there is a need to have a law in place that can ensure nomination rights to live-in couples like legally married couples. Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-nominating-live-in-partner-for-financial-products-101623614558856.html
14-06-2021||Lucknow||Allahabad HC asks UP govt to implement policy to compensate illegal detention victim||The Allahabad high court has directed the state government to strictly implement its policy of granting compensation of ₹25,000 to a victim of “illegal detention by state government officer”.A bench of justice SP Kesarwani and justice Shamim Ahmed passed the order on June 11 on a petition filed by one Shiv Kumar Verma, who was allegedly illegally detained by the police on the apprehension of breach of the public peace. The petitioner had a dispute with some of his relatives regarding ancestral property.Verma was arrested by the Varanasi police on October 8. On October 12, he filed relevant papers seeking his release, but for verification of papers, the case was adjourned till October 21.According to the petitioner, he was illegally detained from October 12 to 21. He demanded compensation for the period.The court observed: “Public authorities acting in violation of constitutional or statutory provisions oppressively are accountable for their behaviour before authorities created under the statute like the commission or the courts entrusted with the responsibility of maintaining the rule of law.”Referring to the ruling of the Supreme Court in the case of Lucknow Development Authority Vs MK Gupta, the Allahabad high court observed: “Once it is found by the competent authority that a complainant is entitled to compensation for the inaction of those who are entrusted under the Act to discharge their duties in accordance with law, then payment of the amount may be made to the complainant from the public fund immediately but it may be recovered from those who are found responsible for such unpardonable behaviour.”The court also observed that the harassment of a common man by public authorities is socially abhorring and legally impermissible and it may harm him personally but the injury to the society is far more grievous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/allahabad-hc-asks-up-govt-to-implement-policy-to-compensate-illegal-detention-victim-101623614500066.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Monsoon is here, brace for heavy rain on Monday||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) declared the onset of monsoon in Chandigarh on Sunday after 22.6mm rain through the day.Monsoon has been also declared in northern parts of Haryana and Punjab, though it was expected around June 26.According to IMD, since 2000 it was only in 2008 and now that monsoon arrived in the city as early as June 13. Last year, it was declared on June 24.“The system advanced faster this year due to a low pressure area forming over the Bay of Bengal and an east-west trough forming over Punjab at lower tropospheric levels, along with strong south-westerly winds,” said Shivinder Singh, scientist, IMD.He added that monsoon hadn’t covered all of Haryana and Punjab yet, and had only reached Ambala and Amritsar in the northern areas of both states. But it is likely to spread across the rest of Punjab and Haryana within 48 hours. More than average rainfall likely this yearTalking about the significance of an early monsoon, former IMD Chandigarh director Surender Paul said, “There is a correlation between early onset of monsoon and above average rainfall in the previous years’ data. It is likely that Chandigarh will get more than average rainfall this year. However, weather conditions in the second half of monsoon in August and September must be analysed to determine the excess rain.”According to IMD, monsoon months comprise June, July, August and September and normally 845.7mm rain is received in Chandigarh in this duration.Light rain to continue after MondaySingh said moderate to heavy rain (up to 70mm) was likely in Chandigarh between Monday night and Tuesday morning. Due to high humidity and temperatures, chances of light rain up to 20mm will continue in the following days as well.After the rain subsided on Sunday, the maximum temperature rose to 33.9°C, but was lower than Saturday’s 34.3°C. The night temperature saw a slight rise from 21.2°C to 21.7°C.With more showers expected, the day temperature will remain around 33°C, but night temperature may reach 23°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhmonsoon-is-here-brace-for-heavy-rain-on-monday-101623614440363.html
14-06-2021||Lucknow||UP poised to exceed June’s 10 million Covid vaccine dose target: Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said Uttar Pradesh, at the current pace, was poised to overshoot the target of administering one crore (10 million) Covid vaccine doses in June.“The state has administered a total of 46 lakh (4.6 million) Covid vaccine doses this month (till Saturday). At this pace, the state would be able to overshoot the target of administering one crore doses in June,” he said while reviewing the Covid-19 situation.“All vaccination centres should function regularly, and they must get the supply of vaccines continuously,” he said. Observing that the vaccination drive was going on effectively in the state, he said it should continue like this. “From July, the state aims to administer 10 lakh vaccines per day,” the chief minister said, asking officials to ensure effective preparation for accomplishing the target. “Do all the planning in advance,” he said, asking them to ensure proper arrangements were made for cold chain points and vaccination centres. About the current Covid situation, Yogi said: “In the past 24 hours, the state recorded less than 500 fresh Covid cases, 468 cases to be precise. And in the same period, a total of 1221 people recovered and were discharged from hospitals. The total number of active cases in the entire state is 8,986. The (daily) positivity rate is 0.2% and the recovery rate is 98.2%.”The door-to-door distribution of medicine kits for children (for the treatment of viral fever and other such ailments) will begin on June 15, the chief minister said. The kits will be distributed through the Nigrani Samitis (monitoring committees), he added. About wheat purchase from farmers, the chief minister said 52.25 lakh metric tonnes of wheat had been procured at the MSP (minimum support price).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-poised-to-exceed-june-s-10-million-covid-vaccine-dose-target-yogi-adityanath-101623613659128.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Congress panel to resolve Punjab crisis meets Rahul||ChandigarhA three-member Congress committee headed by leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge met former president and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi on Sunday to discuss the recommendations given to resolve factionalism in the party’s Punjab unit. The panel, which has All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal as members, met Rahul at his residence. At the one-hour meeting, the committee’s key recommendations, including revamping of the party’s organisational set-up in Punjab, accommodating Sidhu either in the party or in the state cabinet, reaching out to marginalised castes, were discussed. “The committee discussed the report and he (Rahul) had lots of queries which were answered,” a panel member said. Besides the suggestion regarding fair representation to the Dalits and Hindus, continued statements of party leaders, including Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh, also came up for specific discussion. The meeting, according to a party leader, underlines the urgency being shown by the central leadership. The SAD-BSP electoral alliance and the seat-sharing announced by the two parties on Saturday have set alarm bells ringing in the ruling Congress. The Akalis are said to be in talks with the Left parties as well. Meanwhile, the dissenting leaders, who were indicated that the party high command would take a call on the committee’s suggestions by June 15, have decided to wait for its decision. “We put forth our viewpoint without mincing words, telling the high command the problems and why it needs to intervene urgently. Now, it is for them to act,” one of them said. The committee had submitted its report to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi on Thursday after holding one-to-one discussions with close to 150 party lawmakers and functionaries from the state. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa were among the prominent state leaders who met the central panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-panel-to-resolve-punjab-crisis-meets-rahul-101623613298397.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||28 booked for circulating porn on social media in Punjab||AMRITSARTwenty eight persons have been booked for allegedly circulating porn on social media. The cases were registered after the cyber crime wing of Punjab Police investigated complaints lodged on March 16 and 20 this year. Ten cases have been registered at various police stations of the city, considering the nearest residential address of the accused.Some of the cases were lodged on the basis of the complaints filed to the state-level Cyber Crime Investigation Cell at Mohali, while the others were registered on the basis of tip-off.Police have identified the accused as Sagarpreet Singh, Pargat Singh, Steefan, Gurpreet, Jaspreet Singh, Parminder Singh, Jasbir Singh, Raj Kumar, Deepak Kumar, Amit Arora, Minakshi Gupta, Rahul Kumar, Ravi Kant, Raman Nandan, Pankaj Mahajan, Ajay Sharma, Shiv Darshan Singh, Ranjit Singh, Kuljit Singh, Manpreet Singh, Fakir Chand, Jagjit Singh, Khush Sharma, Satpal Singh, Amritpal, Manmohan Singh, Minakshi and Gurpreet Singh.Police said porn clips were shared on the social media through mobile phones and computers registered in the names of the accused. The police have not made any arrest so far, citing that the investigation into the cases was still on.“Our teams will now investigate if the accused were really using their devices for circulating the sexual material or their devices were being used by some other people. They will be arrested if they are found to be involved in the crime,” said commissioner of police (CP), Amritsar, Sukhchain Singh Gill.All the accused were booked under Section 67-B of the Information Technology (IT) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/28-booked-for-circulating-porn-on-social-media-in-punjab-101623613178668.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||SIT summons Badal in Kotkapura firing case||The Punjab Police newly formed special investigation team (SIT) has summoned Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on June 16 in connection with 2015 Kotkapura firing case.Confirming the development, a lawyer, who was part of the defence team, said Badal has been asked to appear in person with relevant records before the SIT on June 16 at 10am at the PSPCL rest house, Phase-8, Mohali.The SIT headed by additional director general of police (vigilance bureau) LK Yadav, along with other two members --- Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal and Faridkot range DIG Surjit Singh --- has recently questioned a number of persons, including former director general of police Sumedh Singh Saini and former Akali MLA from Kotkapura Mantar Singh Brar.The SIT has also moved court seeking permission to conduct narco, lie-detector tests and brain mapping on Saini, suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal and then Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Charanjit Singh Sharma.The Punjab and Haryana high court had on April 9 quashed all reports filed by the previous SIT headed by the inspector general of police (now retired) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in the case. The state government constituted the new three-member SIT that has been directed to complete the investigation within six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-summons-badal-in-kotkapura-firing-case-101623612998868.html
14-06-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi praises Yogi over project for senior citizens||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has praised the Yogi Adityanath government’s implementation of the “Elderline” initiative, a toll-free helpline for senior citizens functional since May 14, in Uttar Pradesh.“Very good initiative! @myogiadityanath,” the PM tweeted after tagging a news report on the success of the “Elderline” project with his tweet. The PM’s praise for the implementation of the central government initiative by the Adityanath government came two days after the UP CM returned after a Delhi visit during which he met President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP chief JP Nadda. Adityanath was quick to respond to PM’s tweet, acknowledging the praise.“It’s by following your all-inclusive mantra of sabka saath, sabka vikas and sabka vishwas that the state government has been able to extend help and emotional support to the elderly,” he responded.“On behalf of the people of the state, I heartily thank you for your wholesome praise,” Adityanath tweeted.UP was among the first few states to operationalise the helpline 14567 initiative for the elderly launched by the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment. Officials said the helpline remains functional from 8am to 8pm, addressing queries of the elders ranging from old age homes, health and mental health related issues, availability of physiotherapy units.Several BJP leaders in Uttar Pradesh, especially those considered close to the chief minister, were seen sharing the PM’s praise for Yogi Adityanath’s implementation of the central government initiative.“After BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh’s praise of the Yogi Adityanath government’s handling of the Covid situation, now Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself has praised the UP government on yet another project. It shows that the government is working with the right intent,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-modi-praises-yogi-over-project-for-senior-citizens-101623612940447.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 49 Covid deaths, 958 more cases||Punjab on Sunday registered 49 more Covid-related fatalities, which took the toll to 15,562, while 958 fresh cases pushed the tally to 5,87,903, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases dropped to 12,981 from 14,064 on Saturday.Seven deaths were reported from Amritsar, five from Patiala and four each from Gurdaspur, Jalandhar and Mansa, among fatalities which took place in the last 24-hours, the bulletin said.Ludhiana reported 112 fresh cases, followed by 106 in Jalandhar and 85 in Hoshiarpur.The state’s positivity rate stands at 1.78 per cent, according to the bulletin.With 1,980 recoveries, the number of cured persons has increased to 5,59,360, it said.There are 191 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 582 other critical patients and 2,567 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.It said a total of 1,00,51,022 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-49-covid-deaths-958-more-cases-101623612878437.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||PPCB nails 15 Ludhiana steel units for violations||The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has found glaring anomalies in the working of 15 of the 24 units dealing with electroplating, surface finishing and pickling of raw material in Ludhiana. The role of the common effluent treatment plant (CETP), which is operated by a private company, JBR Technologies, is also questionable as per the PPCB report for lifting effluent from hydrochloric acid (HCL) consuming units without having the requisite methodology to treat the same. The 15 firms, engaged in wire drawing process, are in the dock regarding the use of HCL for the pickling process and further lifting of the spent acid to re-processors, which have no methodology to treat the spent effluent generated from the use of HCL. Principal secretary, science, technology and environment, Punjab, Anurag Verma said these industries have entered agreements for lifting of effluent with M/S JBR Technologies, Kohara Macchiwara Road, Ludhiana, which is a spent sulphuric acid processing unit (common effluent treatment plant). Verma added that after complaints, scientific and technical teams of the PPCB collected samples from the pickling tanks installed by the industries. Of the 24 units inspected, 12 were found using HCL in the pickling process, nine units were found to be H2SO4 consuming and three units were consuming both HCL as well as H2SO4 for the acid pickling process. Firms found using HCL against the norms were identified as Abhay Steel Pvt Limited, Vishnu Wires, United Marathan Engineers, Aggarson Fasteners, Ashish International, Kiscon industries, BD wires and allied industries, Ravindera Alloys Industries, Bansal Industries, Sond Impex, Vallabh Steel and Ganpati Fasteners, Sua Road. “An inquiry was also initiated regarding the supply of HCL in Ludhiana from stockists. The investigation of the industries, which are the bulk consumers, is underway,” said Verma. The inquiry revealed that sulphuric acid is used for better quality, but the process is time consuming and comes at higher costs. As small and marginal industries are always cost conscious, they tend to use HCL instead of sulphuric acid. The common effluent treatment plant that is managed by Ludhiana Effluent Treatment Society (LETS) and operated by a private company, JBR Technologies Pvt Ltd, is also in the dock as the PPCB report states that it is not technically as well as legally appropriate for the pant to lift the effluent from the HCL consuming units as the methodology adopted by it is not effective for the effluent generated from the HCL consuming pickling units. Another spent HCL-based reprocessing unit, Rajchem Global Technologies Pvt Ltd, at Dheri village on Rahon Bajra Road, Ludhiana, has started its operation without obtaining consent to operate (under Water Act, 1974, and Air Act, 1981) and without installing adequate pollution control devices. Further, the report reveals that the unit is lifting HCL-based spent liquor illegally from unknown locations and is not maintaining any record of the operation of the plant. This reprocessing unit (Rajchem Global) has consumed around 28,458 power units from January 2020 to May 2021 generating an electricity bill of ₹11.2 lakh, thus proving it is still in operation illegally, states the report. Verma said strict action will be taken against the defaulters and also the CETP operator for not following the norms. The report also stated that there are 23 big electroplating/surface coating/pickling units, which are getting more than 1 lakh litres per month of effluent lifted to the CETP operator. As such, there is a need to issue directions to these units to install captive effluent treatment plants rather than getting their effluent lifted to CETP operator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ppcb-nails-15-ludhiana-steel-units-for-violations-101623612158258.html
14-06-2021||Other||NMCG team sprays solution in the Ganga to remove algal bloom||: A team of National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) sprayed special solution in the Ganga in Varanasi to disintegrate algal bloom here on Sunday. The team, led by project officer (technical), NMCG, Neeraj Gahlawat and comprising NMCG, Varanasi, convener Rajesh Shukla, city health officer Dr NP Singh sprayed the special solution in river Ganga from Dashashwamedh Ghat to Asi Ghat. The team has brought around 15 kg powder from which solution was prepared and sprayed. “Around 3000 litre solution was prepared using 7.5 kg powder and sprayed in a long stretch of river Ganga in Varanasi to disintegrate algae strains and prevent algal bloom,” said Neeraj Gahlawat. He said around 3000 litre solution will be sprayed in river Ganga on Monday too. On Tuesday, spot inspection would be done, and situation will be assessed.“Solution was sprayed at Dashashwamedh Ghat stretch on Sunday morning. In the afternoon, when we reached the same spot, the algal bloom was nowhere in the stretch. It means the solution disintegrated the algae,” said Rajesh Shukla. The algal bloom was seen in the Ganga nearly 20 days back. After few days, it disappeared and was seen again in the same stretch of the Ganga around a week ago. Thereafter, district magistrate, Varanasi, Kaushal Raj Sharma constituted a team of experts on June 7. The team collected samples from the Ganga and testing was done UP pollution control board, laboratory. The samples were tested and it was found that the algae strains coming from STP, Mirzapur caused algal bloom in the Varanasi stretch. UPPCB scientific officer Dr TN Singh said, “We collected samples of the Ganga water from various stretch of the river to find out the cause of algal bloom in river Ganga in Varanasi. The samples were tested, and results revealed that algae strains drained into the river Ganga from Mirzapur district’s Chunar oxidation pond and STP. These algae flourished in Varanasi stretch of river Ganga due to presence of nitrogen and phosphorous (though mild) which mainly come in the river water from untapped drains.” A 50 MLD untapped drain in Asi area falls into the river Ganga. Likewise, another 10 MLD untapped Ramnagar drain also falls into the river. The nitrogen and phosphorus reach the river with the sewage water, said Dr Singh adding that nitrogen and phosphorous act as fertilizer for the algae and it blooms. The UPPCB officials submitted the report to the district magistrate on June 11. Moreover, NMCG sent a team for preventing algal bloom.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nmcg-team-sprays-solution-in-the-ganga-to-remove-algal-bloom-101623611137478.html
14-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana extends lockdown, but all shops can open till 8pm||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the statewide lockdown till 5am on June 21 “as a preventive and precautionary measure” while further relaxing the restrictions in view of the decline in new Covid cases. According to the order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan late on Sunday evening, gyms have been allowed to open from 6am to 8pm with 50% capacity, but spas will remain closed. Even sports complexes and stadia can open, but only for sports activities and no spectator will be allowed. Also read: Haryana sees lowest single-day spike in three monthsMeanwhile, doing away with the odd-even rule for markets and extending their timings, the government has allowed all shops to open from 9am to 8pm. Shopping malls, which were allowed to open last Monday, will continue to operate from 10am to 8pm.Restaurants and bars (including in hotels and in malls) will open from 10am to 10pm with 50% seating capacity, while home delivery has been allowed till 10pm as well. Club houses, restaurants and bars at golf courses can open with 50% capacity from 10am to 10pm, instead of the earlier 8pm deadline.Gatherings at weddings, funerals and cremations have a cap of 21 attendees, and the ban on wedding processions will remain. For other gatherings, the maximum number of attendees allowed is 50. For gatherings with more than 50 attendees, prior permission of the deputy commissioner concerned will be required. All production units, establishments and industries have been permitted to function while strictly adhering to Covid appropriate guidelines. However, all colleges, coaching institutions, libraries and training institutes — government as well as private — will remain closed till further orders. During the current lockdown period, ending at 5am on June 14, the state government last Monday allowed malls to open while also allowing restaurants and bars to open with 50% seating capacity from 10am to 8pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-extends-lockdown-but-all-shops-can-open-till-8pm-101623610778067.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||Major dip in foreign students enrolling at Mumbai varsity amid pandemic||Amid the pandemic, the international student count of the University of Mumbai dipped to 101 in the 2020-21 academic year from 209 and 227 foreign national or non-resident Indian (NRI) students who had confirmed their admissions in 2018-19 and 2019-20, respectively, data revealed.For years, Nepal contributed to a majority of international students approaching MU-affiliated colleges or departments for higher education opportunities. From 26 and 28 students confirming admissions in the past two academic years, 2020-21 saw only five students from Nepal in MU. Similarly, 42 students from Afghanistan had confirmed admissions in MU in 2019-20, but in 2020-21, not a single student from the country registered for admissions.Usually, NRIs make up for the largest chunk of international students approaching MU. Nut only five NRI students confirmed admissions in 2020-21, compared to 85 and 92 students in 2018-19 and 2019-20, respectively.“Several foreign nationals usually opt for undergraduate (UG) as well as postgraduate (PG) degrees in innovative self-financed courses and in the field of science and research,” said a varsity spokesperson, adding that every year, students who visit MU under exchange programmes end up liking a course and come back to seek admission soon after. “The pandemic, however, has forced students to rethink and re-plan. So may have postponed their plans for foreign education by a year at least,” he said.While applications from several countries dipped in the 2020-21 academic year, surprisingly those from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the United States of America (USA) increased as compared to the previous years. From 11 UAE students in 2019-20 and 17 in 2018-19, the count rose to 29 in 2020-21, while 15 students from the US confirmed admissions as opposed to 12 in 2019-20.“Many foreign nationals choose to pursue PG degree in languages as well as science and research. I have been in touch with some of my UG students who are foreign nationals and they specifically deferred their higher education plans in MU by a year because of the Covid-19 pandemic,” said the head of a foreign language department at MU, on the condition of anonymity. She added that this dip will only be a temporary trend and colleges are expecting the numbers to rise in the upcoming admission season.Several Mumbai colleges also attract students from across the country every year and the pandemic, however, has not discouraged such students from approaching city institutes for admissions. “At the beginning of the 2020-21 academic year we were worried that the number of outstation and international students will be affected. But were surprised to see more applications that ever of students from Gujarat, Rajasthan as well as Bihar,” said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, Churchgate.“We have previously also received applications of students from USA, Australia and the UK (United Kingdom). But last year, applications from international students had dropped,” he said, adding that several NRI students, especially from Dubai, Kuwait and Qatar still approached the college for admissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/major-dip-in-foreign-students-enrolling-at-mumbai-varsity-amid-pandemic-101623610177234.html
14-06-2021||Other||Local bodies to transfer central funds to govt for buying covid-19 vaccine||Moga Even as the Centre has promised free vaccine to state governments, local body institutions under the rural development and panchayat department in the state are passing resolutions to handover Central ‘untied funds’ meant for development of rural areas to the state government for procurement of Covid-19 vaccine. The Centre has released ‘untied funds’ of ₹205 crore to Punjab last month to distribute it to local bodies for the development of rural areas. All five block samitis in Moga have passed such resolutions and the zila parishad is scheduled to pass it on Tuesday. Rural development and panchayat department officials say the government had told districts to transfer rural development funds of the 15th Finance Commission of the Centre for vaccine procurement in a video conference, a few days ago. Top officials of the department had also held a meeting with representatives of zila parishads and block samitis in Moga.“The department has sent a pro forma for passing the resolution. Zila parishad and block samitis have to write just their name and amount of funds,” said an official. Inderjit Singh, chairman, zila parishad, Moga, said, “Rural development and panchayat department director had visited Moga on June 5, and verbally directed us to transfer funds for vaccine procurement.” Jagjit Singh Bal, DDPO, Moga, said, “Almost all block samitis have passed such resolutions. The meeting pertaining to the resolution of the zila parishad will be held on Tuesday. The gram panchayats are also doing this gradually.” Subhash Chander, ADC (D), Moga, said, “The department had asked us to get such resolutions passed in a meeting via video conference. The Centre has decided to provide vaccines to states free of cost, but the state government is yet to issue any direction. If the government directs not to pass such resolutions, we will not do it.” Barjinder Singh, alias Makhan Brar, youth leader, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), said, “The money is supposed to be spent on rural infrastructure development. Instead of sending verbal orders, the government should work through written orders.” Seema Jain, additional chief secretary of the department, said, “The matter of utilisation of ‘untied funds’ for procurement of vaccine was under consideration. There is no official order yet. Some blocks may have passed such resolutions, but it does not mean that we are using their money for vaccine procurement, as the Centre has made it free for all states. The passing of a resolution does not mean that the money has been transferred.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/local-bodies-to-transfer-central-funds-to-govt-for-buying-covid-19-vaccine-101623610117952.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||Will go solo in all polls: Maharashtra Congress||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s statement that the state’s three ruling parties will fight polls together, and his meeting with poll strategist Prashant Kishor this week have left one of its alliance partners, the Congress, fuming. The Maharashtra Congress, while reacting sharply to the developments, has said that it will go solo in all the elections that will be held henceforth in Maharashtra, and that its allies should not take the party for granted.On Thursday, during NCP’s 22nd foundation day celebrations, Pawar had said that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, will fight the next Lok Sabha and Assembly polls together. He also said that MVA will complete its term and hailed Sena for its past records of standing firm on its commitments on political support. A day after the statement, Pawar and other party leaders met Kishor at the NCP chief’s Mumbai residence, leading to speculations of political developments in the state and the country.NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik’s statement on Saturday fuelled the speculations further, prompting Congress to react.“There is a need to form a formidable alliance of Opposition parties against the BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party) at national level, ahead of the next general elections. Pawarsaheb had himself spoken about the need to have such a national alliance and had said that he would try to bring together all such forces,” Malik said.Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said that his party would fight all the forthcoming elections alone.“We already have announced that we will go solo in all forthcoming local body elections, likely to be held from November, and thereafter the Assembly polls too. We do not want to keep our allies in the dark and ditch them ahead of the polls. We are preparing to go solo and they too are free to do so. The Congress will be the single-largest party in 2024 Assembly polls,” he said.Party’s working president Arif Naseem Khan said that the party will benefit if the local elections are fought on its own.“It will also help in regaining the old glory when the party used to form the government in the state singlehandedly. Patole’s statement is the party’s official stand,” he said.Malik, while reacting to statements by Congress leaders, on Sunday said that there were no talks held between the three ruling parties.“Patole aspires to become the chief minister of Maharashtra, and the statement has come out of it [his ambition]. Every party has the right to spread its wings and such statements are necessary to keep the morale of the workers high. The MVA alliance is ruling unitedly by taking decisions close to the heart of the people. We may fight the local body elections by forming an alliance of three or two ruling parties, or even separately, depending on the political situations at the local level. There are no talks held about the Lok Sabha or Assembly elections for the alliance yet,” he said.The contradictory statements have led to speculations over the differences between the three ruling parties. The Congress, since the government was formed in November 2019, has been complaining about secondary treatment by its allies. Party leaders feel that the Sena and NCP have been on the same page when it comes to keeping the Congress out of the decision-making process.More than 15 municipal corporations (including Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane), 29 of 36 district councils and over 90 municipal councils will go for polls over the next 20 months. The election bandwagon to these local bodies in such a huge number is considered as the mini assembly polls. NCP and Shiv Sena are likely to join hands in most of the local body elections by keeping the Congress out.BJP leader Ram Kadam said that the contradictory statements by Congress and NCP indicate the differences between the ruling parties.“It is a proven fact now that the Congress is not happy with CM Uddhav Thackeray and hence, they have been talking about going solo. It needs to be understood if Congress’ anger is out of the differences between them or because the other two parties are grabbing major share of power,” he said.Malik said it would be wrong to draw conclusions over their statements.Political analyst Pratap Asbe said, “The decision over the alliance in elections is taken by Congress’ central leadership. There is no meaning to what the state leaders of the party say. They keep saying things to keep the leadership happy. As far as the question of putting up an alliance of Opposition parties against BJP at national level is concerned, it all depends on the stand taken by Congress,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-go-solo-in-all-polls-maharashtra-congress-101623609937231.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||No info on mangrove cover in Nhava Sheva, says JNPT||The Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), which is legally mandated to transfer 913 hectares (ha) of mangroves on its property in Nhava Sheva to the Maharashtra forest department for safekeeping as per an order of the Bombay high court (HC), has claimed that it does not have any information as to the current extent of mangrove cover on its land. This was revealed on June 7, in response to a Right to Information (RTI) request. In response to a query, filed by BN Kumar of the environment group NatConnect Foundation, seeking details about the total hectares under mangroves at entire JNPT “as on date”, JNPT through its public information officer RA Mhatre has said the “details are not available.” The response has drawn the ire of environmentalists and experts, who have criticised JNPT on multiple occasions for failing to comply with HC’s final order, dated September 17, 2018, to transfer the mangroves on all government land to the forest department within three months. JNPT has been previously accused of wilfully reclaiming the mangrove cover at Nhava Sheva, burying several dozens of ha under mud and debris. A site visit to the area by an HT team earlier this month found that mangroves at the edge of the Belpada wetland were being actively reclaimed in an organised fashion by dump trucks and earth-moving machines. JNPT officials though, said they have received HC’s permission for road-laying work in the area. Previously, JNPT has been penalised by the HC-appointed mangrove protection and conservation committee for destroying at least 4,500 mangroves to make way for its container terminal-4 port expansion project. A JNPT spokesperson, who did not wished to be named, emphasised that the RTI response does not mean a denial of the fact that there are mangroves in Nhava Sheva. “There certainly are. Initially, there were about 900ha in 2016, but we do not have a current assessment on how much of the mangrove area remains. As the RTI applicant has asked for the area “as on date”, we have responded saying that these details are not available,” the spokesperson said. Until at least February, JNPT’s website, under a section titled ‘Environment Push’, also contained a declaration that it has 913.6ha of mangroves on its land in Uran. This section has now been removed. When asked for reasons behind the same, the JNPT spokesperson said, “The part about mangrove cover has been removed from the website because there is no current data on mangrove cover. The port planning and development department is carrying out an assessment and the true area, as of date, will be uploaded.” The spokesperson did not mention the timeframe in which this is to be done. The website does, however, still mention: “The total land available with JNPT is around 3,402ha. Out of this, 1,147ha area (34%) of the port is under green cover, including mangroves.” On February 12, the state mangrove cell had written to JNPT, asking it to comply with the HC order. In a letter issued to the chairman of JNPT, Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (mangrove cell), had asked the port authority to notify mangrove area under its control under section 4 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927, “at the earliest”. Once notified, the mangrove area has to be handed over to the mangroves cell for better conservation. “It had come to our notice that JNPT had not yet started the process of notifying mangrove land despite a court order in 2018. As we don’t have any information regarding the mangrove area owned or controlled by JNPT, we had been waiting for the port trust to start the process on its own. We have not received any response from them as of date,” said Tiwari. In December, environment group Vanashakti had issued a contempt notice to JNPT for failing to hand over mangrove land under their jurisdiction. In January, Vanashakti filed a petition in HC, seeking an immediate transfer of all mangrove lands to the forest department. “The JNPT’s response amounts to concealment of material facts. If there were 900-odd ha at the time of the court order, then those need to be handed over immediately. Their response also seems to imply that there has been a reduction in the area, which is in itself a violation of HC’s directions,” said Stalin D, director, Vanashakti. JNPT officials emphasize that the area of mangroves within JNPT “as on date” is tentative and the exact area of mangroves needs to be finalised before any further action is taken. HT also learnt that JNPT has approached the Maharashtra Remote Sensing Application Centre (MRSAC) for demarcation of its mangrove area, and that the latter responded with a work proposal in the first week of June. “Following demarcation of mangrove area of JNPT through MRSAC after approval, notification, the port trust may handover mangroves land to forest department,” a senior JNPT official said to HT on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-info-on-mangrove-cover-in-nhava-sheva-says-jnpt-101623609817399.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra still not out of Covid-19 danger: Experts||There is still potential for a surge in Covid-19 cases despite the steady drop over the past few weeks, health experts warned, amid the unlocking of activities in the state since June 1. They feel that although the devastating second wave has subsided, various factors like the large number of cases in some districts, lack of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, and slow pace of vaccination, still remain a matter of concern.On Sunday, the state recorded 10,422 cases, taking the tally to 5,908,992, and 483 deaths, pushing the toll to 111,104. Mumbai reported 695 cases and 19 deaths, taking the tally to 715,660 and toll to 15,183. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state on Covid-19 management, points out that the danger of another disastrous Covid-19 wave still persists. “We need to continuously monitor the incidence and recoveries daily, along with tests. It is imperative to speed up the pace of vaccination. If we see the cases graph as constant when on its downward journey, then it’s a warning sign. Then if we see an upward trend, it is definitely a danger sign, where again restrictions need to be imposed,” said Salunkhe. Salunkhe voiced his concerns to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar during a meeting last week.In the past week, the number of new Covid-19 cases has averaged 11,030 per day. There were 77,211 cases in the period between June 7 and June 13. A week before it, between May 30 and June 6, there were 103,489 new Covid-19 cases — a daily average of 14,784.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate said steps are being taken to reduce cases in those districts where cases are still high. “We are now focused on reducing the cases in six districts like Kolhapur, Raigad, Satara, Kolhapur, Ratnagiri and Pune, where the positivity rate is more than 10%,” said Awate.He said that the unlocking was being done in a scientific manner on basis of the positivity rates and oxygen-bed occupancy to facilitate the opening up of the lockdown.Mumbai, which has been reporting a declining trend in terms of positivity rate, moved to level two from level three of the unlocking classifications this week. Level two of unlock requires positivity rate to be below 5% and oxygen bed occupancy to be between 25% and 40%, which were fulfilled by Mumbai. However, the Brihamumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to stick to the relaxations applicable to level-three areas to ensure that the virus spread does not see a rise in cases. Mumbai clocked 695 new cases on Sunday with 19 deaths.Dr Awate said BMC is right in its decision. “Although the city may meet the criteria which means curbs needs to be relaxed, the fact remains that BMC, which works on the ground level is the best judge of the situation. Hence, its justified in taking this decision,” said Dr Awate.Awate said the “carrot and stick approach” is being adopted for those not adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. “We are making the people aware on the consequences of not wearing masks or not maintaining social distance and also fining them,” said Awate.Maharashtra’s mortality rate has gone up significantly over the past two weeks as the state authorities have reconciled 15,996 deaths during this period.There were 212,536 tests conducted on Sunday, while the total number of cases from the time of outbreak has now reached 5,908,992. The toll has now reached 111,104 with Pune leading with 15,187 deaths, followed closely by Mumbai with 15,183 deaths. The number of active cases recorded were 155,588 with Pune again leading with 18,571, followed by Mumbai with 18,166.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-still-not-out-of-covid-19-danger-experts-101623609757248.html
14-06-2021||Other||Covid-19 hits lives: 300 GNDU students have job offers, but no marksheets||AMRITSAR Over 300 students who graduated from Guru Nanak Dev University this year have got job offers at good pay, but have no detailed marks cards (DMCs) to back their academic performance, thanks to the Covid-19 pandemic.“These students are now facing a peculiar situation with DMCs of their intermediate semesters not available, as they were promoted in 2020, on the basis of the cumulative average of their grades of previous semesters. This was done as per government direction,” said a GNDU spokesperson. “Some companies who have issued offer letters are finding it difficult to evolve a criteria to hire prospective employees in absence of concrete and comprehensive evidence of their academic performance in form of detailed marks cards of all the semesters,” he said, adding that online exams without university supervision had been rejected. On its part, the university had conducted students’ survey by creating a dedicated page to take feedback from students, as to their choice of the method of examination and also the fallacies in the exams held last year.“The overwhelming majority of the students have favoured offline examinations. The university has conveyed this to the Punjab government. However, GNDU will conduct examinations as per guidelines and directions from the state government,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-hits-lives-300-gndu-students-have-job-offers-but-no-marksheets-101623609697914.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||Thane creek lost 30sqkm in 48 yrs: Study||The Thane Creek – a coastal inlet off Mumbai’s eastern waterfront, which separates the city from the Maharashtra mainland – has shrunk by 12% in 48 years, according to an unpublished study by the state forest department’s mangrove cell. The analysis shows that the creek’s water spread area reduced to 202 square kilometres (sqkm) in 2020 from 232 sq km in 1972. About 30 sq km of the waterway has been lost to new mudflats and mangroves.The study was carried out by Anjaneyulu Adluri, a geographic information systems (GIS) specialist with the mangrove cell, using Landsat satellite images for the years 1972, 1978, 1988, 2000, 2010, 2014 and 2020, and confirms that “there is an overall increase in the spatial extent of mangroves and reduction in the width of the Thane Creek.”Adluri’s analysis is in line with a similar study published by Srushti Conservation Foundation (SCF) and led by Dr Deepak Apte, former director of the Bombay Natural History Society on June 4. Apte’s analysis had shown that the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has lost 107.6 sq km of waterways and agricultural lands along its coast between 1990 and 2019, as a result of siltation that is likely caused by the deposition of untreated sewage and other waste into the city’s creeks.The cumulative area lost is larger than Sanjay Gandhi National Park, which is 103 sq km in size. Of this, about 24 sq km of waterway in Thane Creek were lost between 1990 and 2019, Apte’s analysis suggested. Viewed together, results from both the studies indicate that there has been a sharp increase in the rate of siltation in recent years. About 9 sq km of water spread was lost since 2014 at a rate of 1.5 sq km per year, the mangrove cell has shown in their study (an executive summary of which was shared with HT).The report also notes an increase in the cover of new mangroves, which propagate after taking root in the newly created mudflats. “The mangrove area around Thane Creek has increased from 68.11 sq km in 2014 to 79 sq km in 2020, which is a 10.72 sq km increase in mangrove area in the past six years,” Adluri has noted in his study.The mangrove cell has said that it will seek the Bombay high court’s permission to uproot these new mangroves, which have grown just before and after the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary was declared in 2015. HT was the first to report on this development on June 5.“Flamingos and migratory waders are presently benefiting from the shrinking waterways as their population increase is being witnessed in the same trajectory as the expansion of mudflats and mangroves. This in combination with high sewage load that MMR is pumping into the creek as well as warm water from refineries and power plants make it a perfect feeding ground, with nutrient rich flora and fauna,” said Apte. However, once the accreted land is taken over by mangroves in combination with reduction in tidal prism during non-monsoon months, soft mudflats turn into hard and barren land. “Thus, flamingos could permanently move away from the area,” Apte added.Shrinking creeks also mean shallower creeks, which spell bad news for Mumbai at a time when previous studies have indicated a rise in sea levels by 0.5 to 3mm per year in the Arabian Sea, along with of extreme rainfall events in the foreseeable future. Simply put, shallow creeks cannot hold as much water; so even with a slight increase in sea-level rise and precipitation levels, the combined impact of high-tide and heavy rainfall will lead to a spill-over of water into the city, disrupting the lives and livelihoods of coastal populations and exacerbating degradation of otherwise productive coastal lands.Published studies, such as the one from January 2020 in the Journal of Coastal Conservation and another by the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) and the BN Bandodkar College of Science, Thane, have also noted or demonstrated the siltation issue in Thane Creek. “Considering the seriousness of this issue where the width of creeks is reducing owing to excess siltation, scientific removal of mangroves will have to be carried out to protect the original coastline,” said Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF), mangrove cell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-creek-lost-30sqkm-in-48-yrs-study-101623609577196.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Drains along tracks helped WR keep trains running through rain||The drains with new pipelines measuring 1,780 meters alongside the railway tracks, helped Western Railway (WR) in averting waterlogging at three crucial spots this monsoon. It helped WR to operate the suburban locals uninterrupted last week amid heavy rainfall.The WR constructed drains, retaining walls and installed 1,780 meters of high-density polyethylene (HDPE) pipes alongside the railway tracks. The installation of pipes and construction of drains was done between Grant Road and Bandra; Virar and Goregaon and Dadar and Mahim railway stations.First-of-its-kind on the Western Railway, the installation of HDPE pipes along with tracks helped in pumping out water from the tracks during heavy rainfall last week. The WR services were operational without any glitch throughout, as the city received heavy rainfall.On the Grant Road and Bandra railway section, the zonal railway has installed 460 meters of HDPE pipe and constructed an 800 meters drain. Between Dadar-Matunga and Mahim 680 meters of HDPE pipe has been inserted and 500 meters of the drain is constructed along the railway tracks. On the Virar and Goregaon section, 580 meters of HDPE pipes along with three retaining walls are constructed.“The small techniques have helped us a lot in avoiding waterlogging on critical locations throughout last week heavy rains. With the installation and construction, the water pumping capacity at each location has been increased. The capacity has increased up to 320% between Grant Road and Bandra, 280% between Virar and Goregaon and 300% between Dadar-Matunga and Mahim railway stations,” said a senior WR official.In 2020, due to waterlogging instances owing to heavy rainfall train services on the WR were suspended during the monsoon. In 2018, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) had to rescue 1,000 passengers who got stuck in outstation trains due to waterlogging between Nallasopara and Vasai railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-drains-along-tracks-helped-wr-keep-trains-running-through-rain-101623609337170.html
14-06-2021||Other||Navi Mumbai: APMC traders take up long pending issues with Cidco||Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) traders took up long pending issues of the wholesale market with City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) vice-chairman and managing director Sanjay Mukherjee. They have been given a positive response by Cidco in the meeting, at which, Belapur MLA Manda Mhatre was also present.The market issues raised by the traders included additional floor space index (FSI), balance FSI, redevelopment, conveyance deed, Cidco policies for the market, plots transfer, among other issues.Mhatre had taken traders from wholesale grains, vegetable, fruit and onion-potato market for the meeting. Those present included APMC director Shankar Pingle, Vegetable Traders Association president Kailas Tajne, secretary Santosh Abhang, grains market director Nilesh Vira, GROMA president Sharad Maru, Bhumji Bhanushali, fruit market president Chandrakant Dhole, secretary Mahesh Mundhe, onion-potato market president Sanjay Pingle, secretary Rajeev Maniyal, Pashabhai, Shashi Bhanushali, Cidco estate manager Gajendra Jangam, Vinu Naik and other officials.Shankar Pingle said, “Of the FSI given by Cidco, construction in the vegetable market has been done using the balance FSI. Cidco should issue NOC requisite payment due to it.”He added, “Extension in time should also be given for payment of the balance payment as per ready reckoner rates.”The traders also asked for exemption of lease rent on the plot under high tension electric cables in the vegetable market where there are plans to plant 1,000 trees. The traders also asked for a parking facility to be provided.Speaking on the occasion, Manda Mhatre said, “APMC market is the biggest market in the country. The grains, vegetable, fruit and onion-potato market have dilapidated buildings that need to be redeveloped. Due to Cidco policies, the issues have been pending for 30 years. These include additional FSI, balance FSI, plot transfer, UDCR scheme, redevelopment etc.”She added, “We discussed the need to look up a 1,000-acre collector land to construct an international standard APMC market here. The process can be speeded up if the land belongs to the government.”According to Mhatre, “A meeting will soon be held comprising of Cidco MD Sanjay Mukherjee, NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar and APMC administrator and additional commissioner Satish Soni soon to decide on the issue.”She informed, “Cidco MD Mukherjee gave a very positive response and assured that the long pending issues will be resolved at the earliest.”Informed Mhatre, “Mukherjee indicated that since projects in APMC under Cidco jurisdiction have been completed, hence with NMMC permission, additional FSI can be given to the market.A Cidco official said that the meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere and that the issues raised by the traders will be looked into.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navi-mumbai-apmc-traders-take-up-long-pending-issues-with-cidco-101623609157805.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests three for baking, selling cakes mixed with drugs in Mumbai||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) busted a marijuana pot cake making bakery in Malad (West) and arrested three persons including a woman and main supplier of weed, and allegedly seized 830 grams edible weed pot brownie and 160 grams of marijuana from them.The NCB discovered a new trend among the young generation of consuming substances through brownie weed pot cakes, which have been mixed and baked accordingly. “This is the first case in India in which the edible weed is used for baking cake and the agency cracked the nexus,” said zonal director Sameer Wankhede of the NCB.Based on the information, the agency raided a bakery at Orlem, Malad (West) on Saturday night and seized 10 brownie cakes weighing 830gm edible week pot brownie. During further search officials found 35gm of marijuana and arrested a 20-year-old woman and another person Elston Fernandes.After interrogation of the duo, the agency intercepted the main supplier Jagat Chaurasia at Bandstand in Bandra and during the search allegedly seized 125gm of marijuana from him late at night on Saturday, said Wankhede. The agency discovered that drug suppliers were selling marijuana where edible weed is used for baking cake. Chaurasia supplied many people and Fernandes is one of them who has converted his house into a bakery shop, said Wankhede. The case has been registered under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act against three accused. During interrogation, it was learnt that the accused found the idea of selling edible weed with brownie cake through an online streaming service. The accused were produced in the court on Sunday and remanded three days in NCB custody for further investigation, added Wankhede. The NCB issued a statement, “A cannabis edible or edible weed pot brownie is a food product (either homemade or produced commercially) that contains cannabis extract as an active ingredient. Edible weed pots are a way to consume cannabis. Cannabis edibles may affect people for a longer period than smoked cannabis”. “The important base to all food edibles is that it has fat that has been infused with THC (a psychoactive compound in cannabis). In other words, any food that contains butter, oil, milk, or any fatty substance can be turned into an edible. Examples of cannabis-infused foods include baked goods, candy, potato chips, and more. One may not be able to distinguish between regular baked goods and those containing cannabinoids which tend to have a slightly green tinge and often emit a faint cannabis smell” reads the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-three-for-baking-selling-cakes-mixed-with-drugs-in-mumbai-101623609157160.html
14-06-2021||Pune||655 buses on 255 routes from Monday: PMPML||From Monday onwards, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML), will have 655 buses running on 255 routes from 13 depots across Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has allowed public transport buses to run at 50 per cent capacity.Since the lockdown restrictions began in the state in the first week of April, public buses were only transporting emergency services staff.Prior to that, PMPML was earning a revenue of ₹1 crore per day.“We have already started our bus service for the common people and we are now extending our fleet from Monday to 655 buses. From June 6, initially, we started with 25 per cent of our fleet and we are slowly increasing the number as per the response from passengers. Also, there is demand to add on the routes which were running prior to the lockdown,” said Rajendra Jagtap, chairman and managing director (CMD), PMPML.While passengers have welcomed this decision, Supriya Badegaokar, a resident of Yerawada said, “Before the lockdown I used to daily travel by bus to Swargate for work. Now this bus route and frequency needs to be increased by PMPML.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/655-buses-on-255-routes-from-monday-pmpml-101623608378841.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Zilla Parishad reserves vax drive for specially abled in rural Pune||PUNE In a bid to ensure all rural residents are vaccinated against Covid-19, the Zilla Parishad has decided to reserve June 14, Monday, to vaccinate only the specially abled.If needed, these beneficiaries will be taken to vaccination centre via ZP ambulances. Vaccination for all others will be shut for the day. This comes as a follow-up to the central government’s orders.The special drive for the specially abled will also facilitate Covid-19 vaccination for the mentally challenged and also those who are bed-ridden and cannot come to the centres. The Zilla Parishad has identified 28,772 specially abled residents in the rural areas of the district who will be prioritised for vaccination. Both, first and second doses will be given at the centres. The district collector has issued a letter to the taluka health officers stating that those who are unable to reach the centres, should be driven in on primary health centre ambulances and fuel expenses will be paid for by the gram panchayat. To prioritise vaccination for the specially abled the CoWin slot booking for those aged between 18-45 was closed on Sunday. As per the collector’s order, vaccination all specially abled in the rural areas should be vaccinated on Monday. Dr Bhagwan Pawar, district health officer, said, “To ensure that every specially abled person is vaccinated, we will carry out the special drive. Also, if any person is not able to come to the centre we will either make arrangements, or designate a team which will go door to door and vaccinate such people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/zp-reserves-june-14-to-only-vaccinate-specially-abled-in-rural-pune-101623608377538.html
14-06-2021||Pune||105 gardens reopen in Pune on Monday with strict rules||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Monday, will be re-open 105 of the 204 gardens in the city.Sarasbaug’s horticulture area, Chitranjan Vatika, Nanasaheb Peshwe Udyan (gaden), MaharanaPratap Udyan, Panchvati Vanikaran, and Gul Poonawalla Udyan are some of the gardens that will reopen for the public.These gardens will be open only for walking and joggingDue to the Covid-19 pandemic, PMC had closed all gardens and parks from March 23, 2020. Now that the city is “unlocking”, horticulturists and gardeners are sprucing up the gardens to welcome people on June 14.Madhukar Munde, gardener at Chitranjan Vatika, is at work the day before the reopening. “We have been working in shifts to make sure the garden looks pleasant for the public when they walk in. We have a watchman who will be at the main gate to see that people are following the protocol of wearing masks and also to check on social distancing. We will not allow groups to sit on the patios and benches, and will not allow people to loiter,” said Munde.Ashok Ghorpade, chief superintendent, PMC garden department, said, “We are opening 105 gardens of which 34 gardens in wards 20, 21, 1, 2, 6, 5, 4, 8, 9 and 7 will be open only in the morning from 6 am to 9 am. These gardens are equipped with jogging tracks and are large, while the rest of the gardens on the list of 105 will be open in the morning, as well as in the evening from 4 pm to 7pm.”He added, “We are still following the protocol of no seating on benches inside the garden. No using gym equipment and not allowing those above 65 years of age, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 inside.”Vikram Mohite, a resident of Model colony, is thrilled with the news of gardens reopening. “It has been almost two months that we haven’t stepped into the Chitranjan Vatika, and I have been a regular morning walker. As an alternative, I was walking along the road, but it’s not the same. Walking in the garden is a very pleasant experience.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/105-gardens-reopen-in-the-city-on-monday-with-strict-rules-101623608376970.html
14-06-2021||Pune||Pay pending fees directly, in person, at colleges: SPPU||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), in a new circular issued on Sunday, has instructed students to go to their colleges to pay pending fees, if they have been unable to do so online. The second-semester exams are going to start from June end, and the online registration process has already begun. Many students are not able to complete the registration due to non-payment of college fees.As per the circular issued by SPPU, “The examination forms of SPPU are being stopped by colleges and not forwarded for students who have not paid the college fees. Students who want to pay their fees can come down to college administration offices between 10.30 am and 12.30 pm. Students should come along with their last year’s marksheet and a printout of the online examination form. After verification, it will be forwarded to the university for the second- semester exams.”The examinations will begin from June 15 its diploma, graduate and post-graduate courses. This exam will be taken in phase-wise manner. “There are many issues students are facing while registering online for the second semester exams. Colleges are deliberately not forwarding the forms of students who have not paid fees. Students from rural parts are already facing financial issues at home due to the pandemic, so SPPU should allow students to appear for exams now and if possible they should be concession on payment of fees.” said Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of the Students Helping Hand organisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pay-pending-fees-directly-in-person-at-colleges-sppu-101623608256947.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sena MLA asks people to dump garbage at contractor||Shiv Sena Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) from Chandivli, Dilip Lande, stirred controversy by asking people to dump garbage on a contractor, who was made to sit on a waterlogged street for allegedly not cleaning drains properly. Visuals of the act went viral on social media leading to a reaction against the legislator and his party.Lande made the contractor sit on the waterlogged drain and asked his aide and party workers to pour the silt and garbage on him. The legislator was seen asking why his boss did not come to the spot.“You will have to sit in the drain until your boss comes. The waterlogging exists for the past eight days but you have no time to clean the drains. We were forced to clean it up,” Lande is seen threatening the contractor amid the abuses hurled at him.Lande said that he punished the contractor to make him realise the situation the people of his area are going through. “The people of Sanjay Nagar and Sundarbaug (in Kurla) have been wading through the dirty water and clogged streets for the last few days. I had to resort to the street along with party workers and Shiv Sena corporators and get the drains cleaned. I made him sit in the waterlogged drains so that he realised the plight of the people,” he said.Though the video clips were released by his office, Lande was not available for comments, despite repeated attempts.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya has slammed Sena MLA calling it hooliganism. “Mumbai mayor says 103% garbage removed by BMC & Shivsena MLA Dilip Lande assaulting Contractor from not removing Garbage. Actual Gandagardi is for Commission from Contractor. BMC meaans Nexus of Mafia Contractors & Gundagiri of Shivsena. Is this acceptable to Congress Rahul Gandhi.(sic),” Somaiya tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sena-mla-asks-people-to-dump-garbage-at-contractor-101623608017575.html
14-06-2021||Mumbai||Covid pandemic: Children putting on weight, doctors warn of health risks||With schools shut, restrictions on playgrounds and hours spent in front of screens, children are gaining weight, which, according to doctors, is a worrying trend and could contribute to Covid-19 complications in paediatric patients. In the second wave, children with obesity or high body mass index needed more clinical attention. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital, said almost 30-40% of paediatric patients with Covid-19 infection who were treated in intensive care units (ICU) or ventilators at the hospital in April were overweight. “During the peak of the pandemic, we got several paediatric patients who were overweight or obese. Due to their underlying health issues, they take longer time to recover than others,” she said. Similarly, Dr Tushar Parikh, pediatrician from Motherhood Hospital, said, “Such children tend to develop more complications like acute pneumonia which requires treatment in the ICU.” Hospitals like Nanavai Max Super Speciality Hospital, Bombay Hospital have witnessed a rise in the number of children suffering from obesity-related cardiac, respiratory and diabetes complications. “Children can’t go to school, or play outside due to the Covid-19 safety restrictions. It is affecting their mental health also which often makes them irritable and aggressive. This also leads to overeating and consumption of junk foods,” said Dr Harish Shetty, a city-based psychiatrist. Dr Parikh claimed that obese children with mild Covid-19 infection can turn severe. “An obese child is prone to early onset of heart problems and diabetes, which brings down the immunity. So they become more vulnerable to Covid-19. Even after contracting the infection, their underlying health condition can contribute to further worsening of their infection.” Health experts say the lockdown has negatively impacted sleep, eating habits and physical activity among children. In fact, doctors are getting children as young as two years old who are gaining weight due to the sedentary lifestyle. “In children, obesity can lead to a metabolic syndrome (a cluster of conditions that increase the risk of heart disease, stroke and diabetes), which can be a serious problem in adolescence,” said Dr Subhash Rao, senior paediatrician, Fortis Hiranandani Hospital, Vashi. According to a study, ‘Obesity as a risk factor for severe illness from Covid-19 in the paediatric population’, obesity leads to persistent immune dysregulation and is associated with increased susceptibility to infections that lead to sepsis and death. It has been postulated that chronic inflammation-hypercytokinemia, endothelial dysfunction, cardiac abnormalities, and pro-thrombotic environment are possible mechanisms through which obesity leads to worse Covid-19 outcomes. The study has been conducted by Ascension Sacred Heart, University of Florida, Pensacola, USA. In the conclusion, the study read: “With increasing pediatric infections due to Covid-19, risk factors for disease severity are becoming evident with obesity prevailing as a major risk for the pediatric population.” “Children with obesity need better observation and the treating doctors should be more careful,” said Dr Bakul Parekh, past president of the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and part of the paediatric Covid task force. Dr Rao suggested that the children eat a healthy diet that will ensure they get all micronutrients, vitamins and the right number of calories to build their immunity. “Also, ensure at least one hour of physical activity in the form of exercises at home, dancing, using stairs instead of lift among others. Limit the consumption of “JUNCS” food i.e. (junk foods, ultra-processed foods, nutritionally inappropriate foods, caffeinated/colored/carbonated food/ beverages, sugar-sweetened beverages),” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kids-don-t-let-pandemic-weigh-you-down-101623607957793.html
14-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Gurugram records lowest single-day spike since Feb 22||The district on Sunday reported 19 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest single-day count since February 22, officials of the health department said.According to the district health department data, the number of active cases in Gurugram was 375 as of Sunday evening, of whom 30 patients were hospitalised and 345 were in home isolation. On Sunday, 53 patients also recovered in the district.The deaths of two Covid-19 positive patients were also reported in the district that took the total toll due to the pandemic to 872, as per the health department data.On the testing front, the health department collected 3,420 samples on Sunday, with the results of 1,334 patients still awaited. Even as the number of cases continued to decline, the health officials urged citizens to continue to follow Covid-19 safety protocols and to ensure they wear masks before stepping out.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Sunday witnessed the lowest number of cases since February and we are hopeful that the number will decrease with the coming days. People have been careful but they still need to be on alert and wear face masks when stepping out. We could reach at this number due to the strictness of the authorities,” he said.According to the health department data, 855,749 doses of the vaccines have been administered in the district till now, of which 4,926 doses were administered on Sunday at private hospitals. Over 4,212 people in the 18-45 age group took their vaccine shots, out of whom 4,051 took their first jab at private hospitals. Among those aged 45 and above, 706 people took their doses at private hospitals and no vaccination drive was carried out in government hospitals on Sunday. Only one healthcare worker and five front-line workers took the second dose of vaccine shot.Dr Yadav said, “On Monday, there will be a vaccination drive at 31 primary health centres for the first dose of Covishield for 18-45 years and six centres will vaccinate people for the second dose of Covaxin. These are all walk-ins. “There are 200 slots at each centre and people need to visit the sites on time. Four sites have been dedicated for health workers and front-line workers at Tigra, Chauma, Badshahpur and Manesar, but only for second jabs,” he said.Yash Garg, Gurugram’s deputy commissioner, said, “People should still maintain social distancing and wear face masks to ensure their health safety. We have been regularly holding awareness camps and have motivated the residential welfare associations to ensure all residents are vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-gurugram-records-lowest-single-day-spike-since-feb-22-101623606279734.html
14-06-2021||Gurugram||Residents of Gurugram’s Khori Gaon to continue protest||Residents of Khori Gaon Basti in Faridabad said they will continue to protest against the plans to demolish their houses without rehabilitating them, even as eight people were arrested and 10 booked for blocking a road in Faridabad’s Surajkund last Friday. The police said that more than 150 men, women and children gathered in violation of Covid-19 safeguards to block the Faridabad-Delhi road and raise slogans against the authorities.The police said that they were protesting against the impending demolition of their houses following a Supreme Court order in Khori Gaon Basti colony which was constructed illegally on the foothills of the Aravallis 20 years ago. There are nearly 10,000 houses with a population of around 100,000 that will be displaced as the demolition drive is set to start on Wednesday. The police said that the dwellers were demanding rehabilitation and are not ready to vacate the area fearing being homeless.Residents of the area are demanding the release of the arrested persons and rehabilitation ahead of the demolition drive. They said they have hired lawyers who will help them get the bail of the victims.Sonu Kumar, a resident who has been living in the colony for the last 15 years, said that the residents have invested a huge amount to buy the houses there. “The government has to come up with a solution as to who will bear the loss of property. How can they demolish and give no alternative for our rehabilitation? We will protest on Monday again in our colony to give a clear message that we will not let the drive take place,” he said.Milesh Kumar (29), a social activist and a member of Basti Suraksha Manch, who works on issues of housing rights, said that people arrested from the spot were holding a silent protest and they were not violating any Covid-19 guidelines. “All of them are demanding reallocation and an alternative plan so that they get a space to live. People have built double and three-storey houses but the administration and government have turned a blind eye for the last 20 years. Why did they let the constructions take place?” he said.The eight persons arrested on Friday were booked under sections 109 (punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment), 114 (abettor present when offence is committed), 147 (riot), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (whoever voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant)., 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 283 (danger or obstruction in public), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and Section 61 of the Disaster Management Act at Surajkund police station.Anshu Singla, the deputy commissioner of police (NIT), said that they received information about the gathering near the Faridabad-Delhi border around 6.30am. “Even small children were brought to the spot and they all were violating Covid-19 protocols. When our teams asked them to maintain social distancing and wear face masks, they refused to follow their directions. All of them shouted slogans against the state government and the Faridabad municipal corporation authorities,” she said.Singla said that despite repeated directions, protesters did not pay heed to them and were not ready to unblock the road, following which they arrested eight people and detained several others. “We have got the videography done of the incident and pictures have been clicked, from which we are identifying more people who are likely to be arrested,” she said.Residents said that constructions were taking place in the colony since 2000, while demolition drives were held in September 2015 and last April, wherein 1,000 and 2,000 houses, respectively, were razed.Following the demolition of 300 houses in April this year, the dwellers of Khori village had approached the Supreme Court for protection, seeking rehabilitation before the demolition of their houses. On April 6, the Khori Gaon residents’ welfare association held a day-long peaceful protest outside the office of the commissioner of the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad and the deputy commissioner.After the Supreme Court, last Monday, ordered the eviction of thousands of slum dwellers encroaching on the Aravalli forest area, they are demanding temporary rehabilitation and action against those who sold land to them decades ago.The land where 15 colonies were built is notified under special sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), which extends protection against land-use change to certain specified Aravalli areas, forests and trees. According to directives of the Supreme Court, the PLPA attracts protection under the Forest Conservation Act of 1980, which states that “no state government or other authority shall make, except with the prior approval of the central government, any order directing that any forest land or any portion thereof may be used for any non-forest purpose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-colonies-khori-gaon-residents-to-continue-protest-eight-in-police-custody-101623606279274.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Behind crime spree, 4 petty thieves trying to ‘make it big’||Nearly five hours after committing a series of crimes in the early hours of June 8, including allegedly robbing a truck driver and shooting him dead in west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh, four car-borne robbers returned to the crime scene in another car to observe the actions of the police, investigators said after arresting and questioning three suspects. Police said they are on the lookout for the fourth suspect.They said the men, who were arrested by a team from the northwest district’s special staff on Friday, allegedly confessed to committing seven crimes, six of them within an hour, in five districts while driving 70-80 kilometres around the city in the intervening night of June 7 and 8.“Their sole objective was to mark their entry into Delhi’s crime world. Previously, all four committed petty thefts such as stealing batteries of parked vehicles, mostly in Ghaziabad. But they were not satisfied with their crimes and the earnings, so they decided to make it big for themselves. They had purchased two pistols and bullets and that emboldened them. However, our team arrested them and shattered their dreams,” said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani, quoting the disclosures of the three arrested suspects, identified as Rizwan, Shamshad and Nasir.While only four crimes were reported to the police, investigators said they are now trying to identify and locate the victims in the other three crimes, which included the alleged theft of four wheels of a parked car that the suspects used to replace the old wheels of their Santro car. Police said they allegedly stole the wheels to ensure the tyres do not burst during the crime spree or in case they faced a police chase.The fourth suspect, Bhola, who is still absconding, drove the stolen silver-coloured Santro car during the crime spree. The car, which was found to be stolen from Jahangirpuri in November 2020, allegedly remained in the possession of Bhola, a resident of Mukundpur in outer Delhi from where the crime spree began on the night of June 7. Police found the vehicle in a charred state in an agricultural field in a village in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, on Friday after questioning the arrested men.Around 10 pm on June 7, Bhola left his home for Loni in the stolen car and returned to his room around 11 pm with Rizwan, Shamshad and Nasir. The accused reportedly consumed liquor and around 11.30 pm, embarked on the crime spree .They first allegedly stole four wheels of another Santro car parked in Mukundpur area and replaced their car’s wheels with them near Azadpur vegetable market. They remained in the area till 2.15 am on June 8, eating omelettes at a roadside stall and discussing their next course of action. Police said a CCTV camera from the area captured them replacing the wheels and its footage is now a key evidence in the investigation.Around 2.30am, the four reached a residential neighbourhood in Singalpur village in northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, where their alleged attempt to steal the battery of a parked e-rickshaw was thwarted by the wife of the vehicle owner who raised an alarm from the balcony of her first floor flat. According to police, Rizwan allegedly fired his pistol but the bullet reportedly hit a window AC of the adjacent house.The four then drove towards Punjabi Bagh, another police officer who did not want to be named, said. “On the way, near Prem Bari Pul, they waylaid an autorickshaw and robbed the mobile phones of the driver and the passenger. A few kilometres away, they also stopped a truck and robbed its driver of ₹5,000 and his mobile phone. While leaving, Rizwan, who had a scuffle with the driver who tried to resist the robbery, fired at the driver who died on the spot,”“While leaving, Rizwan fired a bullet at the truck driver, killing him on the spot. He fired the bullet just because the driver was resisting the robbery and had a scuffle with Nasir,” the officer said, quoting Rizwan’s disclosure during questioning.From Punjabi Bagh, the four drove towards central Delhi and on the way, they allegedly fired a bullet at another e-rickshaw driver when their attempt to steal the vehicle’s battery failed. The incident took place somewhere on the Ring Road between Punjabi Bagh and ITO, where they also allegedly robbed the passenger of an auto of his mobile phone.While the firing incident on Ring Road was not reported to the police, the phone theft at ITO was reported.The suspects allegedly robbed their last victim, the driver of a car who was changing a flat tyre near the Moolchand flyover in south Delhi, of his cellphone at gunpoint at around 4am. However, they returned the phone and fled after seeing a police patrol van, police said.Investigators said that after the crimes, the suspects returned to Loni, where they parked the car at an isolated place and left again in a Wagon R car owned by Rizwan.“Around 7.30 am, they arrived at the Punjabi Bagh crime scene to see what the police were doing. As the police had removed the truck and the dead truck driver from the crime spot, Bhola returned to his room while the others went to Loni. To destroy evidence, Rizwan and Nisar drove the Santro car to Baghpat and set it on fire in a village on the same day,” the officer said.DCP Rangnani said that the suspects were identified with the help of technical surveillance and information collected through the human intelligence network.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-petty-thieves-behind-late-night-crime-spree-wanted-to-mark-their-entry-into-crime-worldpolice-101623605497393.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||65-yr-old woman murdered at home in north Delhi’s Burari||A 65-year-old woman was found with her throat slit and some burn marks on her left leg at her home in north Delhi’s Burari on Saturday night, police said.According to police, the woman, identified as Rajwari Devi, lived with her son Pramod and his wife Sunita at their home in Kamalpur near Burari. On Saturday evening, Pramod and Sunita went to a relative’s home in northeast Delhi’s Khajoori Khas. “They returned home around 10 pm and found Rajwari lying unconscious with her throat slit. There were some burns on her left leg,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.The family informed the police control room about the incident. A police team reached there and rushed Rajwari to a nearby hospital, where she was declared brought dead. “We have registered a case of murder and looking into it from all possible motives, including personal enmity and robbery. It looks like the killer was known to the woman as there are no signs of forced entry into the house,” said the DCP.Police said they have asked the family members to inform them if any cash or valuables were missing from the house.In another murder case, 25-year-old man, identified as Avinash alias Gola, was stabbed to death by another man over a money dispute in north Delhi’s Sadar Bazar on Friday. The suspect, Shivam, was later arrested. Shivam told the police that Avinash had borrowed some money from him and was not returning it despite repeated demands. On Friday, a scuffle broke out between them and Shivam stabbed Avinash, who died during treatment at a government hospital, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/65yrold-woman-murdered-at-home-in-north-delhi-s-burari-101623605496625.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Weekly markets are back in Delhi, but with Covid riders||Weekly markets in the city will reopen per day, per municipal zone – and subject to a long list of conditions concerning location, space, capacity and random Covid-19 tests of vendors and customers – after eight weeks this Monday, according to directions issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to scale down restrictions concerning the ongoing lockdown that was imposed in April in the light of a sharp surge in Covid-19 cases.“I hope our lives will be back on tracks if the Covid cases continue to decline. It is a massive calamity and we have to tackle it together, and hope the cases do not increase now,” Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday, announcing another round of easing of restrictions as Delhi has reported fewer than 500 cases for nine days and city’s test positivity rate has stayed below the 1% mark for 10 days now.The announcement came as a major relief for tens of thousands of people who are associated with these markets spread across the city, which specially cater to lower-income and middle-income group people, offering products that range from soaps and utensils to toys and garments.“Only one authorised weekly market (up to the limit of 50% of the allowed vendors at normal time) per day per zone in all three municipal corporations/ New Delhi Municipal Council/ Delhi Cantonment Board shall be allowed subject to the strict compliance of SOP and all instructions/ guidelines issued by government of India/ government of Delhi from time to time. To contain the spread of Covid-19. Weekly market shall be selected by the zonal deputy commissioner of the municipal body as per prescribed guidelines,” said the DDMA order, a copy of which HT has seen.It further said that no weekly market will be allowed to function on roadsides. “The weekly markets can be allowed to function at suitable nearby grounds, school grounds, where SOP/ guidelines of DDMA can be strictly implemented. No unauthorised weekly market shall be allowed to function… RT-PCR / Rapid antigen tests of vendors / customers of weekly markets shall be conducted on random basis by the district magistrate concerned regularly.”Delhi has total 12 municipal zones.“It has come as a major relief. Thousands of people have been deprived of incomes, of which many have left for their home states. We hope that business recovers soon,” said Sanjay Kumar, a vendor and member of town vending committee in charge of a weekly market in the Yamuna embankment area in east Delhi.Dhanik Chand, vendor and member of town vending committee in charge of a weekly market in Mandawali locality, said, “Last year, vendors had to wait for months for weekly markets to resume business. We are lucky this time. This will ensure some income in such difficult times.”Brijesh Goyal, president of chamber of trade and industry, said, “Delhi has around 2,700 weekly markets – big and small ones. Collectively, they employ around 400,000 people in different capacities – vendors, suppliers, porters, etc. Sunday’s announcement is expected to bring them big relief.”Arbind Singh, national coordinator of the National Association of Street Vendors of India, said, “Allowing weekly markets to finally operate is a welcome move. The government should have allowed them earlier with strict protocols. But better late than never. Weekly market vendors are in extreme distress. Many of them are migrants and they have been struggling for food and ration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weekly-markets-are-back-in-delhi-but-with-covid-riders-101623605438666.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||Monsoon set to arrive in Delhi by Tuesday: IMD||The south-west monsoon is set to arrive in Delhi and will cover most parts of north-west India by Tuesday, almost a fortnight ahead of schedule, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday.The expected early arrival of the monsoon will cap what has largely been a cooler-than-usual summer this year in Delhi, a city known for its scorching summer heat. Scattered spells of rain brought on by two cyclonic storms, along with a series of western disturbances, through April to June have given Delhi residents a relatively easy summer this year.IMD officials said monsoon is on course to cover most areas of north-west India by Tuesday. “Conditions are favourable for further advancement of south-west monsoon into most parts Madhya Pradesh, remaining parts of east Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, more parts of west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab during next 48 hours,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre said on Sunday.On Saturday, HT had reported that the monsoon was around two weeks ahead of schedule due to a low-pressure system building up over the Bay of Bengal and was set to advance over Delhi and most parts of north-west India by June 15. The south-west monsoon generally arrives in Delhi by June 27-28.Mahesh Palawat, vice-president of privately operated Skymet Weather Services, said that while the monsoon is expected to arrive by June 15, there may not be significant rainfall in the city at least in the initial days. “Rain activity may increase by June 15-16. However, it may not be a typical onset of monsoon. We might see patchy rainfall instead of a continuous downpour,” said Palawat.He added that the temperature had already dropped from 41-42 degrees Celsius zone experienced last week to 34-35 degrees Celsius in the past few days, as humidity has started rising signalling the arrival of monsoon.While the south-west monsoon arrived two days late in Kerala coast on June 3 this year, it picked up pace soon after and has, since then, been sweeping across the country several days ahead of schedule. Experts have said that it may cover the entire nation about a fortnight before its normal date of July 8.Early on Sunday, the IMD had issued an alert for a thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain for Delhi-NCR. The weather alert, however, was later withdrawn, but sparse rainfall may occur in some regions of the city and its neighbouring areas on Monday.“On Sunday, we saw that a patch of cloud was travelling towards Delhi, but it evaporated before reaching the city. On Monday, we might see light to moderate showers in patches. Rain activity might increase from June 16,” said Palawat.On Sunday, the maximum recorded temperature was 35.2 degrees Celsius, four degrees below what is considered normal for this time of the year, while the minimum temperature stood at 23.8 degrees Celsius, as per the Safdarjung weather station, considered to be the official marker of the city.As per IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature is expected to hover around 34 degrees on Monday while the minimum might touch 24 degrees. As per the weekly forecast, a thunderstorm with rain is expected in the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-set-to-arrive-in-delhi-by-tuesday-imd-101623605439222.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||As Delhi unlocks, bruised restaurant industry hopes for reprieve||Restaurants in the city will throw open their dine-in spaces – up to 50% of their total seating capacity and their bars closed – after eight weeks from Monday, with the Delhi government further scaling down restrictions in the ongoing lockdown in the light of Covid-19 cases declining for several weeks now.“All activities, except certain prohibited ones, will be allowed from 5am on Monday. There are also certain restricted or partly allowed activities announced last week that will continue,” Kejriwal said in an online briefing on Sunday.The chief minister, however, cautioned that if Covid-19 cases will increase, the government will scale up restrictions again. He appealed to all market associations to ensure that all Covid protocols are followed.“We will watch the relaxation allowed to reopen markets and restaurants during the next week. If Covid cases do not increase, we will continue the relaxation, but if cases increase, we will have to bring back the restrictions.“I, therefore, appeal all market associations and others to prevent crowding and ensure social distancing and other precautions,” the chief minister said.A lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19. So far, restaurants were only allowed to offer take-away and home delivery either independently or through food delivery aggregators.Restaurant owners welcomed the decision, citing how the industry has been adversely affected by the pandemic, and assured that they would strictly follow all necessary regulations for protection against any potential spread of Covid-19, but urged the government to allow them to serve liquor to guests.An order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Sunday said, “Restaurants are allowed up to 50% of their seating capacity. The owners of the restaurants shall be responsible for strict adherence to prescribed SOP (standard operating procedure) and all instructions/guidelines issued by the government of India/ government of Delhi from time to time as well as compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour (viz. wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, regular hand washing and use of sanitiser, etc) to contain the spread of Covid-19 virus. In case any violation is found, strict penal/criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the restaurant.”Another part of the order essentially restricts liquor service in restaurants. It said, “It is directed that all district magistrates, districts DCPs, deputy commissioners of municipal corporations... and all other authorities concerned shall be responsible for ensuring Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, which is wearing of masks, maintain social distancing ... (and) no consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco, etc in all shops, malls, market complexes, weekly markets, restaurants, mandis, ISBTs and railway station.”Two senior officials in DDMA confirmed that bars will not be allowed to open this week. However, liquor stores in the city are allowed to function all days a week under the current regulations.“The industry is in distress. We hope that the current relaxation marks the beginning of its road to recovery. But we urge the government to allow bars to function too. They help in increasing revenue. There is already a 50% cap on seating capacity,” said Gaurav Chhatwal, owner of Chungwa in Greater Kailash – II.Kabir Suri, owner of Mamagoto in Khan Market said, “It is a welcome decision. The industry could not recover from the shock of the first lockdown by the time the second lockdown happened. We hope the coming days will witness economic recovery and restrictions will be further scaled down very soon. We will ensure that all regulations and Covid-19 protocols are followed.”Manpreet Singh, a Delhi-based restaurateur and treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI), said the restriction on serving liquor does not make any sense. “Clients who are seated can order any food item or beverage. Then what is the harm in serving them liquor too? I fail to understand this condition especially at a time when liquor shops are allowed to operate. The government should reconsider this decision,” he said.The Capital began to emerge out of a punishing fourth wave of infections in mid-May. The city has, for 16 days now, added fewer than 1,000 Covid-19 cases each day, and fewer than 500 cases for nine days. The seven-day average of cases, also known as the case trajectory, on Sunday fell to its lowest in 97 days. In the week ending Sunday, Delhi added an average of 271 fresh infections a day, the lowest since the seven days ending March 8, when the city added 268 cases.Further, the city’s test positivity rate has stayed below the 1% mark for 10 days now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-delhi-unlocks-bruised-restaurant-industry-hopes-for-reprieve-101623605437405.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||As home becomes campus, DU freshers go a year without friends, class||Last year, 18-year-old Vanshika Aggarwal was admitted into an undergraduate course at Lady Shri Ram College, a dream she harboured since Class 10. As her first year winds to a close, she has been to the college just once, and has not met any of her classmates in person.“I am one of the luckier ones,” she says. “At least I got to see the campus.”Aggarwal is just one of over 73,000 undergraduate students who have barely visited their campus since they got into Delhi University colleges and courses in the Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB) last year — soon after the pandemic took hold in the country.The Covid-19 outbreak has forced educational institutes in Delhi to stay shut since March last year. While final-year students were able to visit their colleges earlier this year for practical classes, most first-year undergraduate students haven’t been able to visit campus since their courses began in November 2020. Their academic year is set to end in August, leaving them with only a few months before they move to the second year. For several of these undergraduate students, this has meant a year’s worth of interactions with classmates, peers and teachers lost.“My biggest fear is that whenever college reopens, everybody else is going to have their own circle of friends and I may not have anyone to talk to. College is scary because in school we have our own identities after being involved in various activities. Here, we are nobody and the year-long isolation may only make it more difficult for some students,” said Aggarwal.Several students also lamented missing out on several extra-curricular activities (ECA) and fests, which DU colleges are known for. While many college societies organised these activities online, students said they could not be compared with participating in these activities in person.Madurai resident Aakash BT, 19, a first-year BCom (Honours) student, cancelled his admission in a private university and moved to Shri Ram College of Commerce because of the exposure and ECA options it offered to its students.“SRCC has one of the best fests, which is organised by second-year students. If the pandemic situation is better by next year, we have to organise the fest without any experience. These festivals involve a lot of teamwork, organisational skills, time management, interpersonal skills, getting corporate exposure while arranging for sponsors – all of which is important for our overall personality development. DU offers something beyond just academics, and we missed out on that this year,” he said.The pandemic also forced the university administration to make changes to the admission process which also allowed for reservation of 5% supernumerary seats each under ECA and sports quotas. Last year, DU scrapped the ECA trials due to the pandemic and awarded points on the basis of past certificates.Anamika Prasad, DU’s deputy dean (cultural activities), said the two-fold transition from school to college and from offline to online learning has made things difficult for first-year students.“While they have had some experience with online activities, we agree it is of no match to the real-life experience of engaging in cultural events. Conducting academic activities like classes or seminars through online mode is easier than arranging online cultural events which require an audience. Moving forward, whenever these students return to campus, colleges can organise cultural and communication workshops to make up for the things that these students missed out on,” she said.While a majority of students haven’t been able to visit their campuses, the situation at St Stephen’s College is a little different, because the college kept its hostel open for first- and second-year students.Falit Sijariya, 18, a first-year undergraduate BA programme student at the college, was looking forward to engaging in co-curricular activities as he did not get much exposure during his schooling in Meerut. “Even though I have been able to visit the college and interact with my peers, I haven’t been able to take part in co-curricular activities. Due to a delayed academic cycle, our seniors are busy with their exams and so even the online activities are not taking place for now.”The lack of interaction with teachers also means that colleges are finding it hard to establish a connection with students and offering them the help they need during the pandemic. Bijayalaxmi Nanda, principal of Miranda House, said they have engaged several college societies to interact with the first-year students. “We have been trying to reach out to students who have faced personal losses during the pandemic or are finding it difficult to manage things. However, it has been a challenge since most of the outstation students haven’t even visited their college once or met their teachers,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-home-becomes-campus-freshers-in-delhi-university-go-a-year-without-friends-class-101623605377479.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||6 million Covid vaccine doses given in Capital: Delhi govt||Delhi on Sunday completed administering six million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, of which around 4.6 million were first doses and 1.4 million were second doses, showed the government’s vaccination bulletin.The 4.6 million first doses were given to around 250,000 healthcare workers, 428,000 frontline workers, around 2.6 million people in the 45+ group and 1.36 million in the 18-45 group, said government records.Around 181,000 healthcare workers, 261,000 frontline workers, 900,000 beneficiaries aged 45+ and around 97,000 people in the 18-45 group were administered the 1.4 million second doses, show records.Delhi has a population of around 20.6 million, of whom around 15 million are adults.“With vaccine supplies slightly stabilising in the last one week, the administration of doses everyday is picking up slowly,” said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi, while reading the government’s vaccination bulletin in a live-streamed video press briefing.Currently, there are 635 vaccine sites operational for the 45+ age group and 248 sites inoculating beneficiaries in the 18-45 group. More than 300 sites for the 45+ group and 368 sites for the 18-45 group were temporarily closed for several days in the light of a vaccine shortage.Vaccine centres operated by the Delhi government currently have 11 days of Covaxin stock and 24 days of Covishield stock for the 45+ age group. For the 18-45 age group, two days of Covaxin stock and less than a day’s stock of Covishield are available.Atishi urged the central government to scale up vaccine supplies to Delhi, even as she highlighted how an ongoing government initiative involving door-to-door visits by booth level officers and setting up temporary vaccine sites at polling booths is helping boost turnout of the 45+ age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6-million-covid-vaccine-doses-given-in-capital-delhi-govt-101623605376770.html
14-06-2021||Delhi||56 shanties gutted in fire at Rohingya camp in southeast Delhi||Around 56 shanties housing Rohingya refugees in Madanpur Khadar were gutted in a fire late on Saturday night. No casualties were reported in the incident.“It has been revealed that around 56 jhuggis of Rohingyas having a total population of around 270 people were burnt to ashes in the fire. The cause of the fire is not known yet and appropriate legal action is being taken,” said DCP (southeast) RP Meena.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that the fire department had received a call about the fire at around 11.54 pm on Saturday. “Five fire tenders were rushed there to control the blaze. The fire was brought under control around 3 am on Saturday,” he added.Rohingya refugees have been living on a plot of land in Madanpur Khadar near Kalindi Kunj since 2012 when the land for setting up the camp was given by a non-governmental organisation.Around midnight on Saturday, Minara Begum (24), a Rohingya refugee from Myanmar’s Rakhine region, said she woke up to frenzied screams of people. “We were sleeping when I heard some commotion around 12 am. People were shouting ‘fire, fire’. We ran out without our slippers. There was no time to think or salvage anything. Everything that we had has been destroyed,” said Minara, who has been living in the refugee camp along with her seven-member family since 2012.Refugees living in this camp are no strangers to tragedy. Over the past several years, the camp has witnessed a number of conflagrations, including three so far this year. While residents claimed they diffused the previous two blazes before it went out of control, they recall a massive blaze had gutted the entire camp on April 15, 2018.Abdullah (37) is among those who saw his home turned into a smouldering ruin for the second time​in three years. “Incidents like these are not uncommon. Three years ago, we lost our house and everything that we had earned over the years in a similar fire. We had to start all over again then. Once again, we are back to nothing,” he said, adding that the fire had started from an empty hutment and spread rapidly to other houses in the camp.“In the past three years, I had saved around ₹30,000-40,000 rupees. We lost it all last night. Rice, pulses and grains also got destroyed in the fire along with all our clothes and the cooler that we had,” said Abdullah, who drives an e-rickshaw but has been without work since the lockdown was imposed.Noor Begum (35), another resident, said that while she was thankful to God for saving her family, their lives had been upended once again. “Our clothes, food, utensils, whatever we had accumulated over the past few years were destroyed. Around ₹2,000 that I had saved for my husband’s medicines was also lost. We don’t know how we will rebuild our lives again,” said Begum, whose husband recently got operated on for kidney stones and is unemployed.Ali Johar (26), a Rohingya youth leader, said the community had faced multiple fire tragedies but there was no solution in sight. “This year alone, we have seen three fire incidents. Every time a tragedy unfolds, people talk about this issue for some time but no permanent solution is proposed. This time too, we will be left to fend for ourselves. In the absence of a solution, we will end up waiting for another tragedy,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/56-shanties-gutted-in-fire-at-rohingya-camp-in-southeast-delhi-101623605316740.html
14-06-2021||Ranchi||Covid-19: Jharkhand observes 38-hr complete lockdown||Jharkhand, for the first time since the outbreak of Covid-19 last year, observed a 38 hour-long complete weekend lockdown during which even essential services of milk supply and grocery stores were not allowed to operate.The weekend lockdown, which on began Saturday evening, will be lifted on Monday morning. People were asked to stay indoors and not to venture out unnecessarily during this time. On Sunday, all public activities came to a standstill across the state. Every road and street wore a deserted look, more so due to the monsoon rain.Milk supply, vegetable and fruit vendors and small grocery shops remained closed.Local police along with additional forces, including rapid action force (RAF), were deployed to check implementation of the lockdown. State capital Ranchi, that is the hardest hit by the pandemic, witnessed total shut down on Sunday, except healthcare establishments.Police also conducted intensive checking. People arriving in the city by train or air were also intercepted during the checking.“Such lockdown is not going to bring significant improvement. Crowd in markets swelled up on Saturday as people were scurrying for making arrangements of essentials for the next day. Since it is implemented for the first time as an experiment, I believe that government will make an assessment of its true benefits,” said Pramod Pathak, a resident of Ranchi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jkhand-observes-38-hr-complete-lockdown-101623603936696.html
