15-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s birth rate down 23% in 2020 compared to 2019: BMC data||While the number of deaths in 2020 was the highest since 2015, the number of births in the city went down significantly, amid the Covid-19 pandemic. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data, 120,188 births were registered in 2020, which is the lowest since 2015 and a dip of 23% when compared to 2019.According to data shared by the BMC, institutional deliveries dropped by almost 23% in 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. The number of childbirths registered with BMC hit the five-year low since 2015 with 120,188 births in 2020. In 2019, 148,898 births were reported, while in 2018, 151,187 were recorded. In 2017, 155,386 births were recorded, 152,952 in 2016 and 174,902 in 2015.However, contrary to popular belief that institutional births went down in 2020, probably due to Covid-19 as people are preferring home deliveries. But the data states otherwise as even home births have hit the five-year low in the city. In 2020, 256 home births were reported in the city, 353 in 2019, 415 in 2018, 528 in 2017, 704 in 2016 and 1,465 in 2015.According to experts, the births going down due to Covid will even have more impact in 2021. Besides, the impact of 2020 on those living in Mumbai is expected to be felt in 2021, they opine. Dr Nikhil Datar, a city-based gynaecologist said, “A woman gives birth after around nine months of pregnancy. To understand, how Covid affected women’s decision-making about pregnancy and childbirth we will have to wait for 2021 and 2022’s data. In 2020, the birth rate in Mumbai has gone down due to migration. Due to the loss of a job or the convenience of working from home, many families went to their hometowns. This might have contributed to lesser births in the city, but I do not see any direct relation between Covid and birth rate going down in 2020 at least.”Dr Datar added, “Also, I have always thought that at least in Mumbai we might not see a trend wherein home births will increase due to Covid-19. The data also has proved it there is no infrastructure available for having home births in Mumbai like how it is done in rural areas.”Another Dr Ashok Anand, gynaecologist from Sir JJ Hospital said, “When it comes to 2020, there was fear among many for delivery in hospital due to Covid. We also saw many preferring private hospitals over government-run hospitals in 2020 for deliveries considering many government hospitals were turned into covid centres. However, another reason for births going down could also be migration to hometowns due to work from home and lockdown or even many going out of Mumbai for deliveries considering other cities were not impacted much during the first wave.”The data further reveals that stillbirths which means death or loss of a baby before or during delivery increased in 2020 compared to 2019. According to data, 1,131 stillbirths were registered in the city in 2020, 904 in 2019, 1,396 in 2018, 1,684 in 2017, 1,818 in 2016 and 2,225 in 2015.In terms of overall deaths, the city reported the five-year highest death toll in 2020 amid the outbreak of covid-19. As per the data, 112,603 deaths were reported in 2020, 91,223 in 2019, 88,852 in 2018, 89,037 in 2017, 86,642 in 2016, 94,706 in 2015.Meanwhile, though overall deaths went high, the death toll of infants and neonatal went down significantly in the city during 2020. Between 2015 and 2019, every year between 3,400 to 4,500 deaths of infants were reported, however, in 2020, the number came down to 2,649. Further, neonatal deaths between 2015 and 2019 were between 2,100 to 2,700, however, in 2020, the number came down to 1,858.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-birth-rate-down-23-in-2020-compared-to-2019-bmc-data-101623781086573.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC seeks state, FRA reply to PIL on school fee hikes||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday sought a response from the state government and the Fee Regulatory Authority (FRA) to the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by the Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA) Atul Bhatkhalkar seeking directions to the school education department to constitute the divisional fee regulatory committees, to decide on the fee structure for the new academic year.The PIL has also sought orders restraining schools from hiking fees for the new academic year and to collect fees at a deducted rate in lieu of schools and colleges functioning virtually and not incurring overhead costs which are included by the FRA while fixing fees. The division bench of justice Sunil Deshmukh and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL, was informed by senior advocate Dr Birendra Saraf that he was prompted to file the PIL after he received numerous complaints from parents in the western suburbs complaining of schools debarring their children from attending classes, as they had not paid fees. Dr Saraf further submitted that the complaints were pertaining to aided and non-aided schools and the grievances from parents of regular students as well as students who had secured admission under the Right to Education Act. The petition states that the schools after getting interim relief last year from the HC on the implementation of the May 8 government resolution had forced parents who were affected by the pandemic and faced financial difficulties to shell out the hiked fees. The government resolution (GR) had restrained schools from hiking fees for the academic year 2020-21.The HC had, however, stayed the implementation of the GR but asked schools to allow parents to pay the fees in instalments and not debar students from attending school virtually or withhold their progress reports for non-payment of fees. The petition states that the schools had failed to comply with the latter order and had not only debarred students but also withheld the progress reports. Dr Saraf further stated that the schools had not formed the executive committee for deciding on fee structure and hence as per the Maharashtra Fee Regulation Act, sought formation of the Divisional Fee Regulation Committee and also reduction of fees to 50% for students admitted to unaided schools under RTE Act. The PIL also prayed for a reduction in fees in lieu of virtual classes among other orders. The additional government pleader for the state submitted that under the powers conferred upon the state government by the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Fee Regulation) Act, 2011 a Divisional Fee Regulatory Committee was already constituted and sought time to file an affidavit setting on record the information concerning the functioning and address of the authority which the court allowed and posted hearing of the PIL to June 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-seeks-state-fra-reply-to-pil-on-school-fee-hikes-101623781026527.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Every Covid death is reported: Mumbai civic body chief||Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Tuesday clarified the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is following all protocols laid down by the government bodies, including Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and is not underreporting single death due to Covid-19. HT had on Tuesday reported how in Mumbai, 11,125 people died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in 2020. However, along with this, the number of non-Covid-19 deaths also increased significantly in 2020, which raises doubts whether Mumbai is underreporting deaths due to the viral infection. “We are diligently reporting each death to the ICMR and the increase in non-Covid deaths in the city does not mean that those who die because of Covid are labelled as non-Covid deaths,” he said. “I will be the last person to underreport Covid deaths in the city. Ever since the outbreak of Covid, the BMC has updated and shared all data transparently and there is no question of underreporting. In fact, there are few patients who are from outside the city and come to Mumbai for treatment, but sometimes they die here. The death certificate issuing authority is BMC in this case and we are reporting their data also in Mumbai’s toll.” In 2019, the city reported 91,223 deaths, which went up to 112,603 in 2020 (a 23% increase), the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data revealed. If we subtract Covid-19 deaths from 2020’s overall toll of 112,603, the city saw 101,478 non-Covid deaths in 2020, a significant spike from 2019 (91,223 deaths) and 2018 (88,858 deaths). This means that there was a 2% spike in non-Covid deaths from 2018 to 2019, and an 11.24% leap from 2019 to 2020. Also, in the first three months of 2021, between January and March, overall, 23,114 deaths have been reported in the city. Of this, only 579 were recorded as Covid deaths, so there were 22,535 non-Covid deaths. Chahal added, “For example, we had a politician flying down to Mumbai from Jalgaon for treatment. He was Covid positive patient of Jalgaon, but unfortunately, he died in Mumbai. We issued a death certificate for him and have also added that number in our death count. Also, we need to understand that not all patients who die of Covid are deaths due to Covid.” He said there are patients who are being treated for cancer and are in the last stage during their treatment. During their admission for treatment, they test positive but later they die due to preexisting medical complications. So, for those having underlying disease, the death is not necessarily termed as a Covid death. These types of deaths also find a mention in the list of ICMR. The ICMR itself mandates data in this format. Chahal added, “If the Central government stops taking such data, we will stop uploading data in that format. But we are just following what is required by government authorities. We also have several cases where patients are admitted in hospitals for months due to terminal diseases. At times, such patients get infected and catch Covid and they later die due to their existing medical complications.” Meanwhile, as of Tuesday, the city reported 15,216 deaths and the mortality rate is 2.12%. The city reported 572 cases on Tuesday and 14 deaths. The city’s recovery rate is 95.11% and there 17,519 active cases in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/every-covid-death-is-reported-mumbai-civic-body-chief-101623781027130.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Pune tops in daily active cases, Mumbai second||The state on Tuesday recorded 9,350 new Covid-19 cases with 388 deaths. However, Pune continued to clock the highest number of active cases, as well as the fatality rate in Maharashtra.Maharashtra has a total number of 1,38,361 active Covid-19 cases, of which, Pune is leading with 17,623 cases, followed by Mumbai with 17,519.Similarly, in terms of fatality, of the total 1,14,154 deaths, Pune leads with 15,593, followed by Mumbai with 15,216.Till now, Mumbai was leading in the number of deaths, however, this changed on June 13 when Pune recorded 15,187 deaths, while Mumbai recorded 15,183. From the last two days, Pune continued to outdo Mumbai in the number of deaths.Since the outbreak of Covid-19 cases last year, Pune has recorded 17% of the total cases in Maharashtra with a caseload of 10,37,780, of the total 59,24,773 in the state.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who is the advisor for the government of Maharashtra on Covid-19 management, and a resident of Pune, said, “Even before Mumbai, Pune had travellers coming from the Middle East and China, who were infected with Covid-19 virus. They infected the locals and it subsequently spread to the semi-urban and rural pockets.”Salunke attributed the high mortality rates to those citizens coming from the peripheral areas. “Many of the citizens living in peripheral areas which lacked proper hospitals thronged to Pune for treatment in the second wave. However since many were late in admitting themselves, they succumbed to the virus resulting in high death rates,” said Salunkhe.Dr H K Sale, Executive Director, Noble Hospital situated in Hadapsar said the second wave was aggravated due to twin factors of the overwhelming number of patients and lack of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour of the citizens. “The second wave mutant of the virus was lethal resulting in large number of people getting infected, No one was prepared to handle such a huge load and the whole medical infrastructure was overburdened. Other factor was that the citizens became negligent and let their guard down,” rued Dr Sale.There were 202,638 tests done on Tuesday while the number of recoveries was 15,176.Meanwhile, on Tuesday, Mumbai clocked 572 new Covid-19 cases and 14 deaths. The total number of cases in Mumbai reached 716,351 with 15,216 deaths. Mumbai has been getting less than 1,000 new Covid-19 cases from May 31 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pune-tops-in-daily-active-cases-mumbai-second-101623780966507.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Students going abroad can get second vax dose in 28 days: Mumbai civic body||After the Central government gave its approval, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday announced bringing down the minimum gap for a second dose of Covishield from the existing 84 days to 28 days for students going abroad, those travelling for work and those participating in Tokyo Olympics.This follows a week after the Central government had asked all the state governments to bring down the interval gap for Covishield’s second dose to 28 days. For this, the Central government had given three categories which included students who have to take foreign travel for educational purposes, persons who have to take up jobs in foreign countries followed by athletes, sportspersons and accompanying staff of Indian contingent attending International Olympics games in Tokyo, Japan.The BMC, is since over 15 days, is vaccinating students who have secured admission to foreign universities, for free. However, with the revised direction, free vaccination will also be done for persons going for jobs in foreign countries and those travelling to Tokyo for the Olympics.The civic body in a circular issued by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has stated that free vaccination for the above-mentioned categories will be conducted three days a week on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday on a walk-in basis. The BMC has designated seven civic-run hospitals in the city to undertake the above vaccination drive. This includes Dahisar jumbo centre, Kasturba, KEM, SevenHills, Cooper, Shatabdi, and Rajawadi hospitals.In the circular, the BMC has made it mandatory for the above three categories to carry valid documents with them to prove their eligibility for vaccination. For students travelling for educational purposes, admission confirmation letter of the foreign university, visa form issued by the foreign university followed by persons travelling to a foreign destination for work, a letter from the employer is mandatory. In the case of those travelling for the Tokyo Olympics, a letter from the concerned sports department will be sufficient, according to BMC.The above arrangement of giving Covishield doses in 28 days gap for the above categories will be an arrangement valid till August 31, 2021, for now, according to BMC.Meanwhile, until Tuesday, the BMC has vaccinated over 3,100 students who are heading to foreign countries for educational purposes. On Tuesday, 75,867 citizens were vaccinated followed by since January 16, 2021, 4,187,747 citizens have been vaccinated in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/students-going-abroad-can-get-second-vax-dose-in-28-days-mumbai-civic-body-101623780906555.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||AAP claims only 20% drains cleaned by MCDs, BJP holds PWD responsible||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party BJP)-led municpal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) have failed in cleaning drains even as the monsoon is set to hit the city in a few days. Senior AAP leader and the party’s municipal affairs in-charge Durgesh Pathak said every year, there is waterlogging in Delhi during the monsoon and this year, too, the municipal corporations could clean only “20% of drains” so far. “The monsoon may arrive anytime in Delhi but the MCDs have cleaned only 20% of drains. If there is waterlogging in Delhi this year as well, and if anyone dies, then the Delhi BJP will be responsible. I demand that the Delhi BJP clean all drains on war footing…It is unfortunate that the BJP ruled MCDs do not clean drains ahead of the monsoon and that is why the national capital faces massive waterlogging every year,” Pathak said in a statement. Pathak added, “Delhi is the national capital where the President of India, the Prime Minister of India, judges, and representatives of other countries live. Such an important city faces waterlogging only on account of the poor governance of the BJP-ruled MCDs.” Responding to Pathak’s remarks, North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said it is the Delhi government that has not cleaned its big drains. He said MCDs are responsible only for minor drains located in colonies and along internal roads, while all major drains are managed by the Delhi government’s public works department and other agencies.“We have cleaned over 80% drains in our jurisdiction and removed 9,580 metric tonnes of silt. But drains under the PWD, Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, the Delhi Jal Board and the irrigation and flood control departments are yet to be cleaned fully. At many locations, workers have removed silt from drains but left it on the roadside. Instead of blaming us, the AAP should ask its government to clean drains on priority,” Prakash said. Similarly, East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain also accused the PWD of not cleaning its drains. “They (PWD) have not cleaned drains and at several places, workers have left silt on the road itself. I have written to the PWD to get the silt removed so that waterlogging does not occur this monsoon,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-claims-only-20-drains-cleaned-by-mcds-bjp-holds-pwd-responsible-101623780787180.html
15-06-2021||Noida||Noida: 337 spots identified for CCTV installation for women safety||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar police have identified 337 locations across the district where high resolution CCTV cameras will be installed under the state government’s safe city project with a focus on women’s safety, officials said on Tuesday.The spots that have been identified for CCTV camera installation include Sector 18 market, Harola market, Sector 15 metro station, Shani temple Sector 14A, Sector 75 market, Sector 37 crossing, Haldawni and Kulesra markets, Shahberi, Cherry County, Alpha commercial belt, and Charmurti crossing. The district has been allotted ₹132 crore for the project which aims at making GB Nagar safer for the public, the officials said. “The zonal deputy commissioners of police and the women cell have identified 337 areas in Noida, Central Noida and Greater Noida where the CCTV cameras will be installed,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety).Shukla said that the spots cover a wide range of areas like markets, metro stations, places of worship, and educational institutions, among others. “With a focus on the safety of women, the areas have been identified after extensive public feedback, inputs from previous police initiatives and the information shared by the women police teams working in the field,” she said.The officials said that the deadline of the project has not been fixed yet and the spot identification was the first step.“We will start working on installing the new equipment as soon as possible. In addition to CCTV cameras, technical surveillance is also being ramped up. We will work with respective departments in the district to start work on the project,” said Pushpanjali, additional commissioner of police (headquarters).Pushpanjali further said that SUVs with female cops will also be rolled out soon. “We will also set up women police booths in public areas which will act as help desks. Construction of pink toilets and a women’s shelter home is also in the pipeline,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-337-spots-identified-for-cctv-installation-for-women-safety-101623780727306.html
15-06-2021||Noida||E-surveillance project in Noida: Detailed survey of traffic intersections begins||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Tuesday said that it has started conducting a detailed survey of traffic intersections in the city where high-tech cameras and speed detection devices will be installed under the intelligent traffic management system (ITMS) project. The survey will be completed within a week and the authority will begin the installation of cameras and other necessary infrastructure from June 21, said officials. “The detailed survey will help in better installation of infrastructure to put the city under electronic surveillance. The authority aims to make the project functional by January 2022,” said SC Mishra, senior project engineer of the Noida authority. The installation work was supposed to start in May but it got delayed due to the Covid 19 pandemic, said the officials. The authority will spend ₹64.49 crore on the project. In February this year, it had selected a private firm to install and maintain this project that is likely to benefit thousands of commuters who have to face traffic congestions during peak hours.Under the ITMS project, initially 84 traffic intersections will be put under e-surveillance monitored from a control room to be set up in Sector 94. The authority will install 40 adaptive traffic control units, 18 speed detection devices, 22 variable message signboards and 693 automatic numberplate reader cameras, among other equipment.“We reviewed the project with the Noida authority last week and made some suggestions to make sure that the project works effectively. We suggested that a detailed survey should be carried out before installation of the cameras and other equipment, because each traffic intersection has its own challenges in view of managing traffic. Once the new system becomes functional, it will certainly improve traffic management and contain street crimes too,” said Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Gautam Budh Nagar. Police officials said that with the help of these automatic cameras, it will be easier to identify traffic violators. In May 2016, the UP government had asked administrations in 12 cities, including Noida, to improve the traffic congestion in order to reduce pollution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/esurveillance-project-in-noida-detailed-survey-of-traffic-intersections-begins-101623780606480.html
15-06-2021||Noida||Two more arrested for attack on Muslim man in Ghaziabad; not a communal episode, say cops||The Ghaziabad police on Wednesday arrested two more suspects in the case of a 72-year-old Muslim man being beaten up and his beard forcibly cut on the afternoon of June 5, after a video, purportedly of the incident, went viral on social media two days ago. Officers leading the investigation said the suspects were known to the victim Sufi Abdul Samad, who hails from Anupshahr in Bulandshahr district. They also said the incident was one of “personal dispute” and not communal as at least one of the arrested men is a Muslim. Police identified the arrested men as Kallu (single name) and Mohammad Adil. On Tuesday, they had arrested Pravesh Gurjar, the prime suspect. While Gurjar and Kallu are Hindus, Adil is a Muslim, police said.Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural), said Samad, who made a living by selling “taveez (amulets for good luck)”, was beaten up over the amulets that he had sold the suspects, which apparently had not brought the wearers any “good luck”.“Investigations have revealed that the suspects knew Samad as he often came to Loni and handed ‘taveez’ to people, promising it would bring them good luck. He also offered a ‘taveez’ to some of the suspects in this case, but those did not bring them any luck. So, they were angry with him and called him to Loni on June 5. Samad arrived in Loni and reached the house of prime suspect Pravesh Gurjar, which he later claimed was ‘an unidentified location’,” said Raja. Police also said Samad was not made to chant “Jai Siya Ram”, as alleged by him during a Facebook Live session with a Loni politician on June 7. They further said Samad had made no mention of this or his beard being chopped in his complaint to the police the same day.In his complaint, Samad said on June 5, he arrived in Loni, Ghaziabad, and boarded a shared auto which had a few male passengers, apart from the driver. He alleged that he was forcibly taken to an isolated place where he was confined and badly thrashed by about 7-8 men, who also chopped his beard using a pair of scissors. A video later surfaced of the incident, in which the suspects were purportedly seen beating up Samad and chopping his beard, but no religious chant or conversation was audible in the video. Raja said their investigation had revealed no communal angle to the incident and that the present case was one of “personal dispute”. “We arrested two more suspects, Kallu and Mohammad Adil, who were present in the house where the victim was thrashed. In the video, the suspects and the victim were talking about the ‘taveez’ but they overwrote the conversation with some song. We have some more suspects whose names have come to light and they will be arrested soon,” the SP said. But Samad’s family refuted the police version. Samad’s son Babbu (single name) said, “My father went to Loni to visit a friend whose wife had died a couple of months ago. There, the suspects gave way to the incident. Since we are poor, the police can say anything. But everything is clearly seen in the video -- how my father was beaten up and his beard chopped off. We took help from the local politician in Loni as when we reached the police station with a complaint on June 6, the personnel there were not very cooperative.” “We have our own small-time businesses, and my father is not into things like ‘taveez’. He is nursing his injuries and is upset by what has happened with him,” he added. Police, meanwhile, said they will add Section 295a (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code to the case registered at the Loni Border police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-more-arrested-for-attack-on-muslim-man-in-ghaziabad-not-a-communal-episode-say-cops-101623780487078.html
15-06-2021||Noida||GB Nagar medical staff gets hands-on training for paediatric care||Around 150 medical professionals are being trained in paediatric care in Gautam Budh Nagar in anticipation of a possible third wave of Covid-19 infection that could affect children.They are the first batch of around 500 professionals who will be trained. Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and Sharda Hospital are giving hands-on training to these professional using mannequins and dummy equipment.Dr Ambrish Gupta, nodal officer appointed by the Directorate of Medical Education and Training Uttar Pradesh (DGMEUP), is overseeing the trainings. “Five-day modules have been created for the batches of 50-60 professionals which is conducted in an auditorium in Sharda Hospital. Since the venue has a seating capacity of 300, we are able to follow social distancing and Covid protocols as well as train staff,” said Dr Gupta. While Sharda Hospital is in its third week of training, GIMS started the same on June 14. While Sharda Hospital is open to medical students and healthcare workers from all over the district, GIMS is currently training only for its own staff.On Monday, GIMS also started its first workshop in Basic Skills for medical students and non-pediatric staff. The hospital has created a skill lab, similar to one at Sharda Hospital, which is equipped with baby dummies for training.“Participants are provided with practical training on interactive mannequins to check their techniques. The trainees are taught how to intubate the babies, insert IVs and use resuscitation protocols on them,” said Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, Director, GIMS.Dr Ranjeet Ghuliani, Additional Medical Superintendent and Professor of Pediatrics at Sharda Hospital, who is one of the experts on the training committee said, “The physiology of a child is very different from that of an adult and hence intensive training is required to treat such cases. In fact, training is being given for post-Covid complications like Multisystem Inflammation Syndrome in Children (MIS-C) as well. Last two weeks we have training around 110 nurses of which around 30 nurses were from GIMS as well. This week we will start training medical interns in batches of 50 each and so on”.Experts have earlier said that there was no evidence to the claim that the children would be severely affected in case of a third wave although they may have a greater infection share as they had not been vaccinated yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-medical-staff-gets-hands-on-training-for-paediatric-care-101623780307718.html
15-06-2021||Noida||Monsoon likely to delay by four days, mercury simmers in Noida||Noida: Weather analysts said the monsoon is likely to be delayed by “at least four to five days” from earlier predictions in Noida.Normally, the city would get rains by the end of June, but the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had earlier predicted it to arrive by June 15. “For the advancement of south-west monsoon we need easterly winds flowing up to at least five to eight km in altitude. But at the moment it is only upto four km. Apart from that the low pressure area from Bay of Bengal has weakened and with it the push for south-west monsoon has weekend as well,” said Mahesh Palawat, Vice President, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.With rain, the daytime temperature soared by three notches in the past 24 hours.According to IMD, Noida’s maximum temperature was 39.1°C and minimum was 27.4°C on Tuesday. As per the Central pollution control board’s (CPCB) air quality index (AQI), Noida’s air was under the “satisfactory” categroy. The air quality for Greater Noida was 164 and for Gaziabad was 141 both satisfactory.“Rainfall and aerosol washout are expected to improve AQI. AQI is likely to stay in the Moderate to Satisfactory category for tomorrow and likely improve further to the Satisfactory category for 17th and 18th June,” said A statement from the System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/monsoon-likely-to-delay-by-four-days-mercury-simmers-in-noida-101623780246479.html
15-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Security guard arrested for posting wife’s objectionable photos||Greater Noida: A 35-year-old security guard was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly posting objectionable photos and mobile number of his estranged wife on social media. The couple has two sons aged five and seven years, police said.The suspect, Ravindra Raghav who is a native of Bhondsi in Gurugram, was married for 10 years. He was living in a rented accommodation in the Ecotech 3 area of Greater Noida, police said, adding that his wife is from Jewar. Bhuvnesh Kumar, station house officer of Ecotech 3 police station, said that the suspect was not happy with his married life. “He used to beat up his wife who has been living separately for the last five months. While the younger son stays with his father, the elder one stays with his mother,” he said. The woman started working in a factory in Greater Noida and became self-dependent lately, police said.The woman filed a complaint on May 21 this year, alleging that a person named Pawan Dankad had been posting her photos and mobile number on Facebook. “I started getting random calls and messages from different people. They informed me that the photos and contact number were shared by Pawan Dankad on social media,” she said. A case was initially registered against Dankad under Section 63 of IT Act, police said.The SHO said that the cyber cell investigated the matter and found that Pawan Dankad was a fake ID. “This Facebook account’s IP address was traced to her husband Raghav,” he said.Police have also seized the suspect’s mobile phone. The suspect told police that he posted objectionable photos of his wife on social media as he was not happy with his married life.“My husband used to drink heavily and would not give me sufficient money to meet the expenses. This would lead to frequent quarrels between us. However, I had never thought that he would be posting such things using a fake ID,” the woman said.The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-security-guard-arrested-for-posting-wife-s-objectionable-photos-101623780189127.html
15-06-2021||Noida||Malls, restaurants to reopen with 50% capacity from June 21 in Noida, Ghaziabad||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday decided to relax night curfew timings and allowed malls and restaurants to partially open from June 21.The new curfew timings will be from 9 pm to 7 am. Earlier, it was between 7pm to 7am. Markets will still be required to shut on weekends for sanitisation.“The chief minister, during a review meeting, directed that restaurants and malls can also open up with 50% capacity with Covid help desks to screen visitors,” said Navneet Sehgal, UP’s additional chief secretary (information). He added that the decision was taken in wake of declining in Covid-19 cases. The partial Corona curfew was imposed from the night of April 30. Restrictions were relaxed for districts having fewer than 600 active Covid-19 cases from June 7. Markets and restaurants in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar welcomed the move but said more easing was required. “The two-hour extension will give a chance to shoppers to come out after wrapping up their work for the day. The evening hours usually see an increase in customer footfall. We hope that the market efficiency will increase up to 40-50% with this decision,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president of sector 18 market association, Noida. “The weekend is the time when people move out for purchases. It would be better to shift the ‘weekend closure’ to other day,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram in Ghaziabad. “The closing time of 9pm does not attract many customers. We have to shut by 8pm at least so that we can clean the premises,” said Vikas Singh, owner of a food-chain restaurant in Noida Extension. “Since many small restaurants face financial issues, the government should come out with some support system.” Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad) said it was time to allow economic activity. “The number of Covid cases has come down considerably since they peaked from mid of April and the trend continued till mid of May. On the other hand, the economic activity should also open up, but all precautions must be observed. It should not be the case that people disregard the Covid protocols once more relaxations come into picture,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/malls-restaurants-to-reopen-with-50-capacity-from-june-21-in-noida-ghaziabad-101623780186490.html
15-06-2021||Noida||45+ age group showing vaccine hesitancy, says GB Nagar health dept||Officials of the Gautam Budh Nagar health department have said there is a lot of vaccine hesitancy, or a reluctance to get vaccinated, among the 45-plus age group, and cited it as one of the reasons why the inoculation pace for this group has slowed down since the beginning of June.The vaccinations for the 45+ age group had started in April, and till June 14, only 215,014 persons of the 904,057 vaccinated in the district were in the 45-60 age group. This roughly works out to about 23.78% of total vaccinations, .district immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said, adding that vaccinations in this age group has slowed down since the start of June.“As slots for vaccinations on Co-WIN portal open on Sundays at 10am, at least 40% of slots for the 45+ age group go vacant while the 18-45 slots are filled up within hours. Moreover, even for the 45+ age group slots that are booked, almost 20% don’t turn up for the shot,” said Dr Tyagi.He further said, “The trend is being seen in urban as well as rural centres and there is no distinction between the two demographies.” On Tuesday evening, over 20 Covid vaccination centres on the Co-WIN portal showed open slots for the 45+ age group for June 15-17. These included private as well as government centres.District magistrate Suhas LY said while the health department volunteers are carrying out awareness drives in urban as well as rural areas, efforts need to be made by citizens as well.“The district administration is aware of the vaccination hesitancy among the 45+ age group and the health department is trying to address this by motivating and encouraging people to get the jab and also by holding free vaccination camps. Efforts also need to be made by society at large to educate the misinformed and help create awareness regarding vaccination” said Suhas.Dr NK Sharma, president of IMA, Noida chapter, said there are still some rumours and misinformation about vaccinations doing the rounds in the district.“Since April this year (when vaccination of 45+ age group was started), doctors in Gautam Budh Nagar have been getting all sorts of queries from this age group regarding vaccination. They wanted to know whether the vaccines were safe or check the veracity of rumours or misinformation. It has been seen that there is a lot of fear among the people aged above 45 years. As doctors, we make it a point to inform and educate people and create awareness among them to get vaccinated,” said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/45-age-group-showing-vaccine-hesitancy-says-gb-nagar-health-dept-101623780006462.html
15-06-2021||Noida||No takers for remdesivir since May 25, Ghaziabad left with 3,000 doses||Ghaziabad: The demand for remdesivir injection, used to treat Covid-19 patients with moderate symptoms, has dropped significantly since May 25. As a result, the district is left with a stock of over 3,000 doses of the injection which will expire in January 2022, said officials of the district health department. According to official records, the district received 6,255 doses of remdesivir from April 1 to May 31. As many as 2,839 doses were given to various government facilities, while 394 were provided to different private hospitals. “In all, we provided 3,792 doses to different government and private facilities, and some batches comprising 556 doses were returned due to adverse drug reaction events. Now, we have a stock of 3,019 doses of remdesivir, but there is hardly any taker. The last batch of 200 doses was provided to Santosh Medical College on May 25 and thereafter no hospital has asked for the drug,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. “However, we have decided not to return the stock,” he added. During mid of April when patients faced difficulties in getting remdesivir and some cases of black marketing also emerged, the district administration had identified six distributors who were tasked to provide the drug to hospitals and other Covid centres. Experts said that the health department should keep the stock for future use. “The present stock of remdesivir may come handy, in case the thrid wave of the pandemic arrives. Remdesivir has yielded encouraging results in combination with other drugs in Covid treatment,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad chapter). “The requirement of remdesivir has now considerably reduced as the number of cases has also declined significantly,” he added.On June 8, the Ghaziabad administration had formed nine different teams for better management of Covid-related activities. One of the teams headed by additional district magistrate (finance) is tasked to ensure ambulance services and availability of life-saving drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-takers-for-remdesivir-since-may-25-ghaziabad-left-with-3-000-doses-101623779946533.html
15-06-2021||Noida||GB Nagar may follow Bikaner model of door-to-door vaccination||The Gautam Budh Nagar health department is analysing the “Bikaner model” of door-to-door vaccination underway in Rajasthan. Under the model, people who are 45 and older can register for the vaccine against Covid-19 on a helpline launched by the Rajasthan government, Live Hindustan reported. A vaccine van will reach people’s homes only when a minimum of 10 people have registered from the same address. The van will then move to another address, but a medical team will stay back to keep an eye on the people who have been vaccinated for adverse events. The drive began on Monday. Earlier, the drive had been kicked off in Jodhpur and Pali districts.GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, said, “The Bikaner model of vaccination is very similar to our chief minister’s vision of inoculating the people residing in rural areas through the common service centres (CSCs). It can be very handy in the remote areas as well as in the high-rises. Adequate number of ambulances and mobile teams will be ready to carry the vaccine vials to the doorsteps. The district administration will release a helpline with a WhatsApp number for people to register for the shots with their names and address,” he said. The DM also said that if the Bikaner model will be adapted, once at least 10 people register, the vaccine van will leave for the desired destination. “The requirement of a minimum of 10 registrations before the mobile van rolls out will minimise the wastage as one vial of vaccine can be used to give the jab to 10 people. While the vaccine van will go from one address to the next after administering the shot, a medical team in back-up will stay with the vaccinated persons for observation,” he said. District chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that 447,162 people under the 18-45 age group had been vaccinated till Tuesday, which is nearly 50% of the total vaccination. “The participation of women in the vaccination drive is also as per our expectations, which is nearly 46% of the total vaccination. Even the number of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) in the district is less than 0.002%, which is much better than national AEFI of 0.011% and state’s 0.006%. In terms of number of vaccination, GB Nagar district stands second after Lucknow’s figures of 1,157,910,” he said. The official sources said that GB Nagar has a population of around 2.1 million, of which nearly 1.6 million over the age of 18 years are eligible for vaccination. As per the Co-WIN portal, 904,057 doses had been administered in the district till Tuesday. While 793,187 have taken their first dose, as many as 110,870 have been given both the shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-may-follow-bikaner-model-of-door-to-door-vaccination-101623779886510.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Ambani bomb scare case: Police arrest two more persons||Two more persons have been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the case of explosives-laden SUV found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani and the subsequent murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, an official said on Tuesday. They were taken to the Gaimukh area in neighbouring Thane during the day for the purpose of investigation, an official said. A special court here has remanded Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav, the two accused, in the NIA's custody till June 21, he added. While the NIA officer said that both Shelar and Jadhav were arrested from Malad area of Mumbai on June 11, a senior police official in central Maharashtra's Latur district said they were nabbed from Latur MIDC area on June 10. "On the face of it, both were involved in the conspiracy to plant the SUV with explosives near Ambani's south Mumbai residence," the NIA official said. The Central agency also suspects that they played a role in the murder of Hiran, a Thane-based businessman who had claimed that the SUV found near Ambani's residence `Antilia' on February 25 had been stolen from his possession, the official said. Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. Shelar is involved in a Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) building project in Malad and allegedly has connections with a well-known former `encounter specialist' police officer, sources said. When produced before the court, one of the accused shouted the name of this retired police officer, the sources added. Assistant inspector of Mumbai police Sachin Waze, now dismissed from service, is the prime accused in the case and has been arrested. A total of four policemen -- three officers and a constable -- and a cricket bookie were arrested in the case earlier. The two cases, earlier being probed by Maharashtra Police, were later taken over by the NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ambani-bomb-scare-case-police-arrest-two-more-persons-101623778379557.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||From June 21, night curfew in UP to shrink; eateries, malls can open||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has announced further relaxations in Covid-19 curfew in the state from June 21, with the shortening of night curfew from 9 pm to 7 am instead of the current 7 pm to 7 am. Restaurants and malls, parks and street food kiosks, too, can operate but with 50% capacity.Reviewing the Covid-19 situation with Team-9, on Tuesday, Adityanath said: “Now that the Covid-19 infection situation in the state has further improved, there will be a state-wide relaxation in Coronavirus curfew from June 21. Night curfew will be in place from 9 pm to 7 am. Restaurants and malls will open with 50% capacity and follow all Covid-19 protocols. Parks and street food carts too will open and all such places will have to put up a Covid-19 helpdesk. The state government will issue detailed guidelines soon.”Taking about the Covid-19 data of the state government, Yogi said: “In the last 24 hours, only 340 cases tested positive among 2.5 lakh sample tests. A total of 1,104 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals. Only 7,221 cases are active across the state, and in the last 24 hours, the positivity rate was 0.1% and recovery rate 98.3%.”Target to administer 10 crore doses by August-end; June’s target halfwayDiscussing the ongoing vaccination drive, Yogi said that in the first 14 days of the month (June) the state has administered a total of 51 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses (which is half the target of one crore doses set by the government for June). In the last 24 hours, 4.33 lakh doses were administered and so far 2.35 crore doses have been administered since the vaccination began in the state. The state now targets to administer 10 crore doses by August-end.Arrange, manufacture child pulse oximeters: YogiWhile talking about the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the chief minister asked the officers concerned to arrange sufficient child pulse oximeters. He also said that MSME units in the state can lend a helping hand by working towards manufacturing child pulse oximeters in the state itself. “The departments concerned should speak to MSME units and begin efforts to manufacture child pulse oximeters in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/from-june-21-night-curfew-in-up-to-shrink-eateries-malls-can-open-101623778566485.html
15-06-2021||Other||Rajju Bhaiya varsity to introduce NEP-based courses from 2021-22 session||Students seeking admission to the Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) State University, in the upcoming academic session, will be able to take up a course designed in accordance with the new National Education Policy (NEP)-2020.Students will need to take a test just once at the time of their admission and they would be able to continue and complete their studies till post-graduation (PG). A new course at the UG level has been designed in PRSU. Under this, admission to the graduate level will be through an integrated course which will enable the student to continue studying till the PG level. These courses have been approved by the Board of Studies (BoS) of the state university recently and will now be placed before the academic council (AC) and the executive council (EC) for final approval. Once approved, this will be introduced in the new academic session (2021-22), university officials said.Also, if the student wishes, he or she will be able to leave studies in the middle and re-join at a later stage to complete the studies. Akhilesh Kumar Singh, vice-chancellor, Rajju Bhaiya State University, said, “Following the instructions of the government, the common minimum syllabus prepared by the university under the NEP-2020, is only for the graduation level at present. In this, UG courses have been made semester-based and follow the concept of multiple ‘entry and exit’ system in the larger interest of the students,” he said.The students of the state university will also have the freedom of pursuing a Master’s programme with research in four years under this. The UG curriculum under the new integrated course has been divided into six semesters. A student completing the first two semesters and wishing to leave would earn a certificate, while if a student wishes to leave after completing four semesters, he/she will be able to do so with a diploma, while students completing six semesters will be awarded a bachelor’s degree.On completion of four years, a ‘Bachelor with Research’ (Master with Research) degree will be awarded to the student while on completion of five years, one will get a Master’s degree, the V-C explained. Efforts have been made to make traditional courses also employable. Additional programmes have also been added in traditional subjects like geography, sociology, history and economics.Under the NEP, credit and grading have been fixed for every semester. If a student leaves after completing one year of graduation and wishes to complete his course later, then based on the credit earned, he/she will be given the option to complete the course in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajju-bhaiya-varsity-to-introduce-nep-based-courses-from-2021-22-session-101623778326345.html
15-06-2021||Other||Maratha Kranti Morcha to take place in Kolhapur, despite Ajit Pawar’s request to cancel over Covid worries||PUNE Considering the Covid-19 pandemic, organisers of the Maratha Kranti Morcha have assured authorities that all necessary measures will be taken like using masks and keeping social. However, the silent morcha will take place in Kolhapur on Wednesday.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Tuesday, said, “We appealed to the morcha organisers to cancel it, but they are going ahead. Their preparations are almost done and it is not possible to cancel. We have offered Yuvraj Sambhajiraje a discussion with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. In democracy, everyone has a right to agitate.”Pawar added, “The Supreme Court had scrapped the reservation for Marathas. We requested the central government to make necessary amendments. There are some demands with the state government. We will definitely sort it out, whatever is within the limits of the state government.”Yuvraj Sambhajiraje, who is in Kolhapur, said, “Maratha Kranti morchas are always silent. We will ensure that it will be peaceful and follow the norms. We have invited all the MLAs and MPs from Kolhapur district to attend. Elected members will speak at the morcha and clear their stand.”Kolhapur district guardian minister Satej Patil said, “The Maha Vikas Agadhi (MVA) government is firm on getting reservations for the Maratha caste. I will remain present for the Maratha Kranti Morcha and support the demands made by Yuvraj Sambhajiraje.”As Kolhapur district has the highest positivity rate in western Maharashtra, the administration is worried. This is the first morcha after the Supreme Court’s decision. NCP leader and deputy CM Ajit Pawar said the BJP is restless after losing the power in Maharashtra. “They believed that the MVA government would lose power in a year. As the government is stable, now they are trying to instigate various groups and asking them to carry out morchas. As an opposition party, it’s right that they should agitate, but they should also understand that the MVA government is stable as long as Congress leader Sonia Gandhi, NCP leader Sharad Pawar and Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray stand firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maratha-kranti-morcha-to-take-place-in-kolhapur-despite-ajit-pawar-s-request-to-cancel-over-covid-worries-101623778146417.html
15-06-2021||Other||70% of school teachers have received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine||PUNE As the new academic year begins, teachers and principals of schools in the city believe that at least 70 per cent of staff have taken the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. As per a notification issued by the Education department on Tuesday, 50 per cent offline attendance of teachers in schools is compulsory, whereas schools will continue online classes for students.The notification makes it mandatory for teachers of Class 1 to Class 9 to register a 50 per cent attendance in school. Teachers of Class 10 to Class 12 have to have 100 per cent in-person attendance.D G Jagtap, director of Primary, Secondary and Higher Education, in an official statement said that because of the evaluation and results of Class 10 and Class 12 which are still to be declared, “Teachers and staff for Class 10 and Class 12 are required to come to school to help evaluate the students as soon as possible.” He added that the rest of the classes will continue online as per directives by the Maharashtra State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT).Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune district principals’ association, said that 70 per cent of teachers in rural parts of the district have got either one or both jabs.“However, there are many teachers in the city who have not received the vaccination as frontline workers (FLW),” said Gaikwad.Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Laxmanrao Apte Prashala, said that teachers at the school have at least got their first jabs.“As Class 10 and Class 12 teachers have to have 100 per cent attendance, many have got at least the first jab. Many have also completed both the doses,” said Sinnarkar.Rajendra Singh, president of the Independent English Medium School Association (IESA), said that teachers should be vaccinated as a priority.“We had approached authorities from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) to vaccinate teachers from private schools on priority. However, only a few got the jabs,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/70-of-school-teachers-have-received-at-least-one-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-101623778147262.html
15-06-2021||Other||Maharashtra Intelligence Academy reopens with ISO certification||PUNE The Maharashtra Intelligence Academy (MIA), formed in the aftermath of the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks, has been granted an ISO:9001:2015 certification, according to special inspector general of police Mahadev Tambade, director of MIA. Tambade was speaking at a press gathering on Tuesday where he announced the certification. The MIA training sessions had been on hold during the lockdown. However, the sessions have started again now.The academy has trained 5,528 officers and 21,047 staff members through 737 courses since its inception.Those who have received training at MIA include security personnel from Goa, Madhya Pradesh, Bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS), Railway protection force (RPF), central Industrial security force (CISF), Central reserve police force (CRPF), Maharashtra state security corporation (MSSC), Prison department of Maharashtra, Regional transport office (RTO) officials, MSEDCL employees, and high-risk security staff. It is one of the only two intelligence academies run by state governments in the country, according to Tambade.Tambade, who was previously posted in Gadchiroli, joined as the director of the agency in October 2020.“Protective service officers (PSO) from all 36 districts in Maharashtra come here to train. Those working in the special branch and detection branch learn skills that help them carry out day-to-day activities efficiently - like establishing and maintaining sources, protecting themselves, gathering useful information. This certification will establish MIA as a place where many other organisations can come for training,” said Tambade.MIA has since started language training for security personnel who work in places with a high rate of armed conflict. A total of 165 people have received language training to understand the basic local use of at least one of various languages in the past few months, according to Vijaykumar Palsule, assistant commissioner of police (training), MIA.“Training in Urdu, Bengali, Telugu, Madiya Gondi, Gurmukhi, and Kashmiri is given by experts. Guest lectures from people like Lt General Shekatkar, Hemant Mahajan, officials of SPG, NSG, IB, and ITBP helps the trainees,” said Tambade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-intelligence-academy-reopens-with-iso-certification-101623777967313.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Pratapgarh scribe’s death: Priyanka writes to Yogi, demands CBI probe||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has demanded a CBI probe into the mysterious death of a television journalist Sulabh Srivastava in Pratapgarh on June 13 night. She has also demanded financial assistance to family of the deceased and action against the liquor mafia which, she said, has gained ‘deep roots’ and formed a nexus with the administration in Uttar Pradesh.Priyanka made these demands in a letter sent to chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday (June 15). In her letter, she said Sulabh Srivastava had died under mysterious circumstances on way back home after covering a news assignment in Pratapgarh. She said there were deep head wounds on the journalist’s body found near a brick kiln.She said Sulabh Srivastava had written to ADG, Prayagraj zone, alleging that illicit liquor mafia was upset with him for his recent reportage of illicit liquor trade. Priyanka said family of the journalist and his journalist friends had also demanded a CBI probe to bring out the truth.Priyanka said there had been reports of deaths due to consumption of spurious liquor from a number of places in the state. She said hundreds of people had died after consuming spurious liquor in Aligarh and Pratapgarh etc.The Congress leader said apprehensions about threat to life by a journalist for reporting on illicit liquor spoke volumes about the deteriorating law and order situation in the state. She said there had been instances of attacks on journalists in Ballia, Unnao and other places too.Maya for impartial probe 
15-06-2021||Gurugram||Haryana: 3rd sero survey postponed for a few days||The third round of Covid-19 serological survey, which was scheduled to begin on Tuesday, has been postponed, health officials said on Tuesday. The stratified random sampling for the survey, which will include children in the 6-17 age group for the first time, has to be modified further, they said.Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary, Haryana health department, said, “The survey has been postponed for a few days, and is likely to start within this week. It was delayed due to the addition of new parameters in the sampling strategy.”Data collection of the sero survey has to be done on a mobile application, which will also be modified with new changes.A serological survey is done to detect the body’s immune response to the coronavirus infection. Out of the total 8,800 participants, over 3,520 children of six to 17 years will be covered in this serological survey, which will be held across Haryana on June 15 and 16. Of these, 5,280 people will be adults, 2,640 children of 10-17 years, and 880 children of six to nine years.This comes as children are not being covered under the ongoing vaccination programme. The survey results will help in analaysing the trend for the possible third wave of Covid-19, with children likely to be the most affected.Out of the 400 samples in Gurugram, at least 160 children between six and 17 years will be covered in 20 clusters. Their blood samples will be collected to check for IgG antibodies. It will also provide information on the proportion of the population having Covid-19 antibodies even if they did not have symptoms or diagnosis with the disease.About 60 people from the health department were trained earlier this week, to conduct the stratified multistage random sampling. A team comprising three members has been formed for each cluster. It includes a doctor, auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM), and a lab technician.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Our teams are ready to start the survey once we receive the green signal from the Haryana health department. New guidelines will be shared with the team in a few days.”Gurugram has conducted two rounds of sero survey in 2020, where the sero-positivity rate in the urban areas was recorded at 18.5%, while it increased to 25.9% in the second round. In rural areas, it increased from 5.7% in the first round to 10.1% in the second round.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-3rd-sero-survey-postponed-for-a-few-days-101623777727166.html
15-06-2021||Gurugram||Amazon duped with dummy phones in returns, case filed||Following a 10-month-long investigation, the police on Tuesday registered a complaint against unidentified persons for duping e-commerce company Amazon India of over ₹20 lakh in the year preceding last July, when a complaint was lodged in this regard.The police said that in the alleged frauds, members of a gang ordered expensive phones, mostly iPhones, and replaced them with dummy phones while returning the order, as per the company’s policy.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said, “They order Apple iPhones from the website with the choice of paying online or paying on receipt of product. Later, they return duplicate phones using the e-commerce website’s return policy.” Rao said that similar cases have been registered at multiple police stations in the city and they have arrested four people for stealing iPhones after replacing them with cloned ones. “On May 30, we had arrested a delivery associate of an e-commerce company for allegedly stealing seven iPhones and replacing them with dummy phones in the boxes. The consignment had Apple’s iPhone 12 Pro Max model, which was marked undelivered and was deposited to the warehouse on the same day. Later, the phones were found to be fake,” he said.During the investigation, the police found that several accounts were created on the website using aliases and mobile numbers procured on incorrect documentation. The gang members had ordered items of high value. “Making use of the return policy of the e-commerce website, the accused packed duplicate products in the company packaging and returned them. The people then received a refund for the original product,” said Rao. The police said similar cases have been reported in Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Faridabad, Pune, Mumbai and Bengaluru. More than 50 people have been arrested this year from different cities for such scams, the police said. Rao said that in as many as 100 instances, the gang had cited performance issues for returning the phones. They pasted the IMEI number of the original products on the duplicate one so as to not arouse suspicion. “The cloned phones were brought from Delhi. We have questioned the shopkeeper dealing in these fake mobile phones that are also called dummy phones,” he said. A case under Section 420 (fraud) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at IMT Manesar police station and the IP address of the suspects was identified. The police said they use cyber café and other public networks to order the electronic gadgets.Aditya Singh, authorised representative for Amazon, told the police that these cases have been reported since 2019. “Earlier, a gang from Rajasthan was arrested that used to order cameras and later return them after replacing them with cloned ones. The same modus operandi is followed by the Gururgam gang. They give locations of remote places where our delivery persons do not deliver and a third party delivery man is sent. As the delivery man cannot make out a difference between a clones and original phone, refund is initiated and later they are found to be fake,” he said, adding that similar cases are being reported from Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/amazon-duped-with-dummy-phones-in-returns-case-filed-101623777726375.html
15-06-2021||Gurugram||GMDA’s flood control room to be functional by this week||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) is likely to make its flood control room functional later this week, to manage waterlogging issues in the district during monsoon, officials said on Tuesday.“This year, we are setting up the flood control room early as Gurugram has been receiving rainfall at frequent intervals in the past few weeks. We usually take a timeline of monsoon arrival by July 1 and make it functional by then, but this year, preparations started early. At present, the negotiations for setting up the flood control room are done, and we are waiting for a final approval from senior officials, following which, it will be functional by the end of this week,” said a senior official, infrastructure-II division, GMDA.The flood control room ensures that waterlogging issues being reported by the people are resolved at the earliest, with workers and machinery available on time for smooth functioning of the stormwater system during the monsoon.Usually, two people manage the work at such flood control rooms, but the information about this facility is yet to be released.The GMDA had invited tenders last month, and it set a deadline of June 1 for companies to submit proposals for the flood control room worth ₹69 lakh.This year, the authority has arranged for six temporary additional suction pumps that will be used in addition to the permanent ones placed at critical points. They will also make arrangements for super sucker machines in case of heavy waterlogging during the peak monsoon.At a few critical points, like Narsinghpur service lanes, water can be removed from the streets only by using machinery, said the officials. The authority plans to deploy pumping sets and diesel generator sets at these locations, so that the work is not hampered during power cuts. Places such as Golf Course Road underpass, Sheeba Apartments in Sector 28, and Hero Honda Chowk among others, are some of the critical locations.In 2019, the GMDA had placed eight dewatering pump sets, four tractor-mounted suction pumps, one earthmover, two super sucker machines, and 5,000 gunny bags at a flood control room in Sector 53. About 10 people worked there 24X7, in shifts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmdas-flood-control-room-to-be-functional-by-this-week-101623777668599.html
15-06-2021||Gurugram||Aravalli encroachment: Faridabad activist arrested for ‘instigating crowd’||The Faridabad police on Tuesday afternoon arrested an activist from Khori village for allegedly instigating protesters and booked 150 residents for gathering in violation of prohibitory orders.A student activist who visited Khori village with the activist on Tuesday, requesting anonymity, said, “We had learnt from the villagers that electricity and water supply to the area had been disconnected for the past two days. We visited the place today (Tuesday) to see what the condition was and if people needed any help. When we were leaving the village, police officials stopped our vehicle and arrested Nirmal Gorana.” Gorana, the general secretary of Bandhua Mukti Morcha, had been working with the residents of Khori village to seek rehabilitation from the district administration, as their houses on Aravalli land are to be demolished soon. Residents of Khori have been protesting since the last week, after the Supreme Court — holding that there cannot be a compromise or concession on forest land — ordered the demolition of houses encroaching on the Aravalli forest area in Faridabad district. Anshu Singla, the deputy commissioner of police (NIT), said that Gorana was violating the Covid-19 protocols by organising gatherings and was instigating them to violate the Supreme Court order. “He was trying to disturb the peace of the city by violating all guidelines and was violating Section 144 (of the CrPC) imposed in the area,” he said. Singla said they received information that nearly 150 protesters had gathered in the village and were raising slogans against the district administration. “They were planning to pelt police parties deployed in the area with stones. The protesters and social activists had set up tents and were using microphones to instigate dwellers,” he said. A case was registered against more than 150 people on Tuesday and one person was arrested. Other identified suspects allegedly fled the spot, but their names have been mentioned in the FIR, the police said. On Monday, the Faridabad district magistrate released an order prohibiting gathering of five or more persons “within a radius of 200 meters of village Khori” fearing heavy protest by occupants and the possibility of unrest.The order stated, “...prohibit the gathering of five or more persons, the carrying of weapon of offence like firearms, swords, gandasa, lathis, barchas, kulahris, knives, and other weapons within 200 meters of encroachment area in village Khori... till completion of work.”Residents, however, alleged that police officials pelted stones at Gorana’s vehicle while he was leaving the village and arrested him. “We already did not have water supply in this area and used to manage with tankers, but now, the administration has stopped their entry. The electricity supply has also been disconnected for three days. Nirmal Gorana and his team were just learning about the situation, and he was arrested while leaving. The police pelted stones to stop his vehicle,” said a resident. In a joint statement, four social organisations, Basti Suraksha Manch, Working Peoples’ Charter, Bandhua Mukti Morcha and National Alliance of People’s Movements, said, “The police is patrolling every street and every intersection in Khori village. They are beating people as soon as they exit their houses. Many people have begun shifting their household items and the police are attacking them too. Despite a meeting between district officials wherein Khori residents were granted three additional days, the ground reality is that there are hordes of police in the village, terrorizing the residents and arresting people arbitrarily. Section 144 is still imposed in the area and there is no electricity or water.”Police said teams are patrolling in the area to maintain the law and order situation but refuted allegations that they were stopping people who were trying to move out of the area. “Neither are we stopping anyone nor are we beating or troubling any resident. We are only keeping a close watch on the activities taking place in the area and to ensure people are safe and secure,” said Singla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/aravalli-encroachment-faridabad-activist-arrested-for-instigating-crowd-101623777669163.html
15-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: 12 new cases lowest daily spike since February 4||The district on Tuesday reported 12 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest single-day count since February 4, when the daily case count stood at 14.According to the district health department data, the number of active cases in Gurugram was 332 as of Tuesday evening, of whom 20 patients were hospitalised and 312 were in home isolation. On Tuesday, 33 patients also recovered in the district.The death of one Covid-19 positive patient was also reported in the district that took the total toll to 874, as per the health department data. The test positivity rate, the proportion of positives of the sample tested, reached 0.3%. At the state level, the positivity rate of the second wave from March 1 till Tuesday was at 12.79%.On the testing front, the health department collected 3,421 samples on Tuesday, with the results of 1,528 patients awaited. Even as the number of cases continued to decline, the health officials urged citizens to continue to follow Covid-19 safety protocols and to ensure they wear masks before stepping out.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “Tuesday witnessed the lowest number of cases since February and we are hopeful that the number will decrease in the coming days. People have been careful but they still need to be on alert and wear face masks when stepping out. We could reach at this number due to the strictness of the authorities.”According to the health department data, 884,461 doses of the vaccines have been administered in the district till now, of which 8,683 doses were administered on Tuesday at private hospitals and 5,070 at government centres. Over 11,238 people in the 18-45 age group took their vaccine shots, of whom 6,727 took their first jab at private hospitals and 3,199 did so at government centres. Among those aged 45 and above, 1,131 people took their doses at private hospitals and 1,195 took their jabs at government centres. Nearly 108 healthcare worker and 81 front-line workers also took their vaccine shots.At least 83 people took their vaccination shot at the special vaccination centre set up at Polyclinic in Sector 31 for students and people who have to travel abroad.Dr Yadav said, “On Wednesday, there will be a vaccination drive at 31 primary health centres for the first dose of Covishield for 18-45 years and six centres will vaccinate people for the second dose of Covaxin. These are all walk-ins. There are 200 slots at each centre and people need to visit the sites on time. Four sites have been dedicated for health workers and front-line workers at Tigra, Chauma, Badshahpur and Manesar, but only for second jabs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-12-new-cases-lowest-daily-spike-since-february-4-101623777667862.html
15-06-2021||Gurugram||Creeks in Aravallis will be cleaned to prevent waterlogging on Golf Course Road: MCG||Four natural creeks in the Aravallis that serve as a vital catchment area for recharging groundwater table, water run-off from which causes waterlogging on Golf Course Road, will be cleaned on priority, officials said on Tuesday.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja issued a directive to the civic body’s joint commissioners during a review meeting of civic issues, including flood preparedness, held at the MCG’s Sector 34 office on Tuesday.The four creeks are located close to Golf Course Road, at sectors 26, 42, 54, and 56. The run-off rainwater from these creeks was identified as one of the primary reasons for waterlogging on the seven-kilometre Golf Course Road during last year’s monsoon, in August.As per MCG and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) joint drainage plan, work on cleaning of drains was allocated in October last year, and around 60% of the work has been completed. The pending work was hampered due to encroachments, the report states.“Work on cleaning of the four creeks as well as clearing encroachments on them is going on. In the meeting, I directed the joint commissioners concerned to inspect the work on the ground and expedite it on priority,” said Ahuja.“The main objective is to ensure that there is no blockage in the creeks. Besides the prevention of flooding on Golf Course Road, we want to ensure that maximum amount of rainwater can be used for groundwater recharge while the excess can be naturally channelled towards the nearest water body or natural drain,” he said.On August 19 and 20 last year, the city received over 196mm of rainfall, following which the Golf Course Road was inundated, with rainwater accumulation as high as 0.5 metres above the surface level at several points on the stretch.Last November, TERI School of Advanced Studies, in a hydrogeological study of the area, done at the behest of IAmGurgaon NGO, highlighted that cleaning of these creeks is the main measure for recharging groundwater table in the Aravallis and for checking waterlogging on the Golf Course Road. They had also recommended to the GMDA and MCG to avoid concretising the creeks in any manner, as it would hinder the rainwater from seeping underground.Ritu Rao, a PhD scholar at the TERI School of Advanced Studies, who specialises and works on urban water bodies, said that the clearing and cleaning of creeks is a vital move as it will help in groundwater recharge.“The four creeks are existing rainwater channels and hence, their revival is one of the important steps to avoid flooding in Gurugram and in recharging the groundwater table. It will significantly reduce the run-off rainwater flowing downstream. The creeks would serve as a catchment area for rainwater to seep underground while the excess would flow towards the Ghata Jheel, Badshahpur drain, and eventually, empty at the Najafgarh Jheel instead of flowing to other parts of the city and causing flooding,” said Rao, adding that the MCG should ensure that there is no further encroachment of the creeks and construction and demolition (C&D) waste is not dumped in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/creeks-in-aravallis-will-be-cleaned-to-prevent-waterlogging-on-golf-course-road-mcg-101623777667242.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Ganga E-way: UPEIDA nod to SBI’s proposal for draft financial advisory report||The 66th Board meeting of the UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) on Tuesday approved an SBI Capital Markets’ proposal for draft financial advisory report for civil work of the Meerut to Prayagraj Ganga Expressway project. Awanish Awasthi, CEO, UPEIDA, presided over the meeting.The 594-km Ganga Expressway will start from NH 334 in Meerut and will end in Prayagraj. It will pass through Meerut, Hardoi, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Budaun, Shahjahanpur, Hardoi, Unnao, Rai Bareli, Pratapgarh and Prayagraj districts. For the Ganga Expressway project, the government has acquired around 4600-hectare land against the requirement of 7800 hectare. At the meeting, a proposal to select private and government oil companies to set up eight fuel stations on Purvanchal Expressway was also approved. The construction work of Purvanchal Expressway is in its last stage. This expressway would pass through nine districts of the state, including Lucknow, Barabanki, Faizabad, Ambedkar Nagar, Amethi, Sultanpur, Azamgarh, Mau and Ghazipur. Apart from this, the expressway would also connect important cities like Varanasi, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur and Allahabad through link roads. It will also have a three-km long runway at Kudebhar in Sultanpur district. This runway is for landing and take-off of fighter jets of the Indian Air Force during an emergency situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ganga-e-way-upeida-nod-to-sbi-s-proposal-for-draft-financial-advisory-report-101623777546402.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Devotees throng Hanuman temples on third ‘Bada Mangal’||The devotees of Lord Hanuman thronged Bada Hanuman temple in Aliganj and Hanuman Setu at Aminabad in large numbers on the third ‘Bada Mangal’, in Lucknow on Tuesday. Amidst the chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram, Jai Hanuman’, the overjoyed devotees performed darshan of their deity and prayed for the wellbeing of humanity from Covid-19. Hanuman Setu reopened for devotees after one and half month. A large number of people queued up outside the temple for darshan from 4am. However, only limited numbers of devotees were allowed to enter the premises at a time, said Chandrakant, priest of Hanuman Setu temple. Meanwhile, the historic Hanuman temple in Aliganj was also opened for devotees.Besides, Aminabad Hanuman Temple, Chachi Kuan Hanuman Temple, Temples at Daliganj and Rakabganj, Birbal Sawhney Marg Panchmukhi Hanuman Temple, Mauni Baba Hanuman temple in Alambagh and Om Mandir in Patel Nagar Alambagh were also opened for devotees. The ‘Bhandaras’ also made a comeback in the areas of Aminabad, Chowk and Daliganj. However, the numbers were lesser this year, a devotee said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/devotees-throng-hanuman-temples-on-third-bada-mangal-101623777312659.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Temple Trust members must resign amid allegations: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday demanded that members of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerath Kshetra Trust overseeing Ram temple’s construction should resign in the wake of the allegations the Trust faced over a land deal in Ayodhya.“After the (2019) Supreme Court judgment on Ayodhya, the entire country agreed that the Ram Temple of Ram Lalla (infant Ram) will come up there. And now...reports have surfaced that corruption has happened...first of all, all the Trust members must resign until the allegations are there. If the work is going on in the name of ...Ram... (if) the question mark has been put on those Trust members who have to do everything, then they should resign,” he told a TV news channel.Former Samajwadi Party MLA from Ayodhya Tej Narayan Pandey aka Pawan Pandey and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh had on Sunday accused the Trust of purchasing the land, which was bought for ₹2 crore just 10 minutes before, for ₹18.5 crore on March 18 this year. Yadav questioned chief minister Yogi Adityanath as to how the land prices changed so much within minutes. “If corruption can happen in the land for Ram Temple, where else it might not have happened,” he asked. The Trust on Monday said the land was purchased at rates lower than market prices while refuting the allegations of corruption and dismissing demands for a probe into the land deal.“Now, they (the Trust members and BJP leaders) are saying that the land was purchased according to the circle rate or market rate. In that case, I would like to ask them that there is a village Dharampur in Ayodhya from where many farmers came and met me complaining that the government was not offering them suitable prices in lieu of acquiring their land,” Akhilesh said.“Ayodhya airport has to come up there. The farmers are willing to sell their land at appropriate rates. I had asked the government to give them money six times the circle rate in lieu of their land. But the government, which is paying good rates to the farmers of a neighbouring village, is not giving similar prices to farmers of this (Dharampur) village. What kind of policy is this? No one wants to stop development,” he added.Akhilesh also asked what officers were doing when the prices of the land that the Trust purchased went so high within moments. “We are not the only ones who are putting a question mark on this (land deal), people are also questioning as to what was happening,” he said.Akhilesh hints at alliance with Shivpal’s partyLucknow: Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday hinted at the possibility of an alliance with his uncle Shivpal Yadav and his Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia.Responding to his party’s resolve to contest the 2022 UP Assembly polls by allying only with the small parties and not tying up with any big parties, Akhilesh on the issue of Shivpal said, “Samajwadi Party will not field any candidate on Chacha’s (Shivpal is Akhilesh’s uncle) seat--Jaswant Nagar.”He added, “The time will tell if an alliance with his party (PSP-L) will happen and how.”Shivpal for last two years had been repeatedly saying that he was looking for an alliance with the SP.Akhilesh said that his Samajwadi Party along with small allies will win 350 seats in 2022 UP Assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/temple-trust-members-must-resign-amid-allegations-akhilesh-101623777246462.html
15-06-2021||Other||Only 650 visitors to get entry to Taj Mahal at a time||The district administration of Agra has ordered that not more than 650 tourists would be allowed entry to Taj Mahal at a time when the Archaeological Survey of India ASI)-protected monument reopens for public from Wednesday (June 16) after remaining closed for two months due to the pandemic. The Taj Mahal was closed on April 16 following surge in Covid -19 cases.“We will make sure that guidelines, including that of not more than 650 tourists at a time, are followed and all standard operating procedures (SOP) are adhered to from Wednesday onwards” said ASI’s superintending archaeologist (Agra circle) Vasant Swarnkar. “Covid protocols will be followed at every monument reopening for public from Wednesday. Preparations have been made in advance and sanitisation was undertaken on Tuesday,” he said.Swarnkar further said all other ASI-protected monuments, including Fatehpur Sikri, Sikandra and Agra Fort, will also reopen for public from Wednesday. “The visitors would be required to book their tickets for Taj Mahal online as the ticket windows at the monument will not be functional,” he added. The timings of Taj Mahal are from sunrise to sunset and ASI will be required to have a mechanism to comply with restriction of 650 visitors at a time. However, no such restrictions would be there at monuments other than the Taj. The Taj Mahal was first closed on March 17 last year during the first wave of the pandemic. It reopened on September 21 last with certain restrictions. These restrictions were relaxed as Covid cases went down in Agra. During the second wave, the 17th century monument was again closed on April 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-650-visitors-to-get-entry-to-taj-mahal-at-a-time-101623777126976.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita , Asif Iqbal Tanha released from prison||JNU students and Pinjra Tod members Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha will finally walk out of jail after over a year following their arrest under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with a case related to the northeast Delhi riots.According to official sources, the Delhi Police is likely to file an appeal in the Supreme Court against a Delhi High Court order granting them bail on Tuesday.All three of them were arrested in May last year in connection with the case related to large conspiracy in the riots which broke out in February last year.All three of them were booked in FIR no. 59/2020 dated March 3 which was registered initially under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Crime Branch Police Station.Later, sections 109 (punishment of abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment), 114 (abettor present when offence is committed), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and other relevant sections of the IPC, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act 1984, Arms Act 1967 and UAPA were subsequently added in the FIR.Narwal, who is a student pursuing MPhil-PhD programme in the Centre of Women's Historical Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University, and Devangana Kalita, who is pursuing MPhil-PhD programme in the Department of Women's Studies at JNU, were taken in police custody in May 29, 2020 in the said FIR.Narwal and Kalita were arrested for allegedly being a part of a premeditated conspiracy behind the communal violence that broke out in northeast Delhi in February that year during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).Narwal was also arrested in two other FIRs registered at Jafrabad Police Station in connection with the northeast Delhi riots, while Kalita was one of the accused in three other FIRs. The two of them have already got bails in the other cases.They were first arrested by the Delhi Police on May 23, 2020. However, both of them were arrested in the UAPA related case on May 29, 2020 when they were in judicial custody in Tihar jail. This arrest in the UAPA related case was almost three months after the registration of the case.Iqbal Tanha, a 25-year-old student, pursuing his final year of BA (Hons) Persian programme at the Jamia Milia Islamia University was arrested in the same UAPA case on May 19 last year which was being probed by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police.At the time of his arrest in the case, Tanha was already in judicial custody in a different case registered in December, 2019 at Jamia Nagar Police Station in connection with protests held in Delhi in 2019 against the CAA and NRC. However, he got bail in the said case.Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.Tanha had challenged a trial court's October 26, 2020 order dismissing his bail application on grounds that he allegedly played an active role in the entire conspiracy with reasonable grounds for believing the allegations to be prima facie true.Narwal and Kalita had challenged the trial court's January 28 order that dismissed their bail pleas, saying the allegations against them were prima facie true and provisions of anti-terror law were rightly invoked in the present case. PTI AMP AAR AAR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/natasha-narwal-devangana-kalita-asif-iqbal-tanha-released-from-prison-101623776782579.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi flags vaccine shortage; MLA says jabs for 18-45 age group almost over||hindusThe Delhi government flagged shortage in Covid-19 vaccine stocks on Tuesday saying that less than a day’s stock of Covid-19 vaccine is left for people in the 18-44 age group category. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi said that due to the shortage of vaccines half of the vaccination centres closed down on Tuesday and the rest will close on Sunday if the stocks are not refilled.Atishi also highlighted that over 50% of the population aged 45 years and over have been vaccinated, citing data from a vaccination bulletin published online on Tuesday.“As we are slowly unlocking, offices and markets are reopening, hence young people will venture out more and it is important that they get vaccinated. The drive for vaccination of people above 18+ was picking pace but due to lack of doses it has slowed down again,’ Atishi was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Atishi said that stocks will have to be replenished and urged the Centre to send more vaccines. She said that there are 795,000 doses available with the Delhi government for people above 45 years. Out of those 795,000 doses available, Covaxin doses will last for 22 days and Covishield doses for 43 days. The MLA also said that 6,150,931 doses have been administered till date in Delhi. There are currently 64 centres across 36 locations which vaccinate people in the 18-45 years age group.Delhi’s Covid-19 health bulletin on Tuesday showed that 1.46 million people have been vaccinated fully. At least 4.68 million people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 with one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-flags-vaccine-shortage-mla-says-jabs-for-18-45-age-group-almost-over-101623776233596.html
15-06-2021||Pune||Pillion rider woman crushed by speeding truck after bike slips||An unidentified tanker truck driver was booked for causing the death of a woman who was riding pillion on a motorbike with her husband on Sunday evening when they slipped and fell in the path of the speeding truck. The deceased was identified as Bhagyashree Prabhune (28) while her husband, who is injured, was identified as Srikrushna Prabhune, both residents of Siddheshwar Gali in Baramati. They both worked in a farm, according to the police. “We are looking for the tanker driver. The two were going on a bike and returning home after a pilgrimage of Theur Ganapati temple when the bike slipped and they fell,” said assistant police inspector Shrishailya Chiwadshetty of Lonikalbhor police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 279, 304(a) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Loni Kalbhor police station. Man assaulted with chilli powder, robbed A 25-year-old man was robbed of his motorbike after two men threw chilli powder in his eyes late on Sunday night in Hadapsar. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Akshay Shirke (25), a resident of Fursungi who was riding a blue Pulsar 220 registered in Pune near Kamthe mala area on a public road in Fursungi. Two men threw chilli powder in his eyes which made Shirke speed his bike, slip, and fall. Once he fell, the two threatened him with a sickle and fled with his motorbike while leaving him on the road. A case under Sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code and Section 4(25) of Arms Act was registered at Hadapsar police station. Assistant police inspector Henumant Gaikwad of Hadapsar police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pillion-rider-woman-crushed-by-speeding-truck-after-bike-slips-101623775086152.html
15-06-2021||Kolkata||Poll strategist Prashant Kishor’s company renews contract with TMC till 2024||After achieving a resounding victory over the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the recent West Bengal assembly elections, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has renewed its contract with the Indian Political Action Committee, or I-PAC, the company launched by election strategist Prashant Kishor, till the crucial 2024 Lok Sabha polls in which Mamata Banerjee wishes to see her party playing a bigger role in national politics, HT has learnt.Kishor recently declared that he would quit I-PAC and let his team function on its own. A top TMC leader said on condition of anonymity that the contract with I-PAC has been renewed till 2024. Kishor, he said, will play a different role from now on. “The contract is with I-PAC,” Kishor told HT. According to the new contract, I-PAC will help the TMC in the next state panchayat polls, the civic body elections, which are already overdue, and the Lok Sabha polls. The TMC leader said Mamata Banerjee plans to consolidate anti-BJP forces and contest polls in other states with a target to win elections as declared by her nephew and TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on June 8. The young TMC Lok Sabha MP declared on that day that his party will set up units in other states with the sole aim to win assembly elections and face the BJP head-on. Although Abhishek Banerjee did not name any state, the senior TMC leader HT talked to, said, “We are exploring the possibility of contesting in some big states rather than eyeing the smaller ones first. It is too early to comment on these plans.”States that go to the polls in 2022 are Manipur, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. The TMC has no presence in any of these states. Kishor was roped in by the TMC after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which the BJP wrested 18 of the state’s 42 seats and created a record. The TMC’s tally in the Lok Sabha came down from 34 to 22. The situation changed in the recent assembly polls in which the TMC bagged 213 of the 294 seats while the BJP ended the race with 77 seats. Kishor’s role was acknowledged by the TMC leadership. Kishor also helped the DMK-Congress alliance win the Tamil Nadu elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/poll-strategist-prashant-kishor-s-company-renews-contract-with-tmc-till-2024-101623774666763.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Police firing: SIT to question Badal on June 22||A special investigation team (SIT) probing the police firing cases of 2015 has decided to question former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal at his residence in the MLA flats, Chandigarh, on June 22.In a communication sent to the Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch on Tuesday, the SIT said: “You are hereby called upon to remain present along with the record if any… on June 22 at 10:30 when the SIT, keeping in view your age, health (bed rest for 10 days from June 8) and prevailing pandemic situation, visits your current place of residence for the purpose of investigation of the above case.” Earlier, the SIT had summoned Badal to appear before it on June 16 at a rest house in Mohali. However, on Monday, he had written to the panel, expressing his inability to meet it on June 16 on health grounds and sought a new date for appearance. He also offered to join investigations at his current residence in Chandigarh.Since its constitution last month after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the report of a previous SIT, the new probe panel led by additional director general of police LK Yadav has held three rounds of questioning of police officers and politicians in the politically sensitive cases of police firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-firing-sit-to-question-badal-on-june-22-101623774487024.html
15-06-2021||Other||Odisha youth tries taking family hostage over spurned marraige offer||A 25-year-old businessman in western Odisha district of Balangir took three members of a family hostage at gunpoint over spurned marriage offer on Tuesday before he was nabbed, police said.Bikram Panda entered the house of retired school teacher Madan Mohan Hota in Shantipada area of Balangir town on Tuesday morning when Hota was finishing prayers. Thinking of him to be an electrician, Hota let him in. Moments later Panda brandished a country-made gun at Hota and threatened to kill him and his family members.“The youth asked Hota to call his niece with whom he was in love. The girl’s family had apparently spurned his marriage proposal. When Hota said his niece had left for her workplace at Bhima Bhoi Medical College and Hospital, he demanded that the girl be called back immediately,” said Balangir Superintendent of Police, Nitin Kushalkar. The girl lived with Hota’s family.Hota ran into a room with his wife and two sons, locked it from inside and called up the police. A team from Balangir town police station and fire personnel reached the spot. Sub-divisional police officer Tophan Bag reached the spot requested Panda to let the family members go. The police also asked some of his friends to request him to release the hostages. A team of journalists was then sent in to negotiate with him. The youth, however, hurled abuses at them and threatened to kill himself if they tried to persuade him, officials said.When the ploy did not work, the police then called Panda’s brother and mother to convince him to release the family. While they were engaged in a conversation with him, a police team led by SP Nitin Kushalkar, wearing bullet-proof jackets, entered the first floor of the house from a backside window and brought Hota, his wife and sons with the help of a rope and ladder after nearly a five-hour-long operation.The youth was subsequently nabbed and taken to the police station for further interrogation. As per the officials, he fired few shots at the police too before he was nabbed.Police officials said the youth was in a relationship with the girl and had proposed marriage. He was upset as the girl’s family members had fixed her marriage with someone else.“The youth’s friends say he is a quiet, soft-spoken and well-behaved person. Maybe, he was mentally disturbed after hearing about the girl’s engagement,” said SDPO Bag.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-youth-tries-taking-family-hostage-over-spurned-marraige-offer-101623774308604.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||When life turned full cycle again during the lockdown||They say a real friend is one who walks in when the rest of the world walks out. True to this adage and not so long ago, one of my childhood friends came back to impart some activity to my lockdown-driven sedentary lifestyle, the bicycle. Images of last year’s lockdown were still fresh in the mind when the second Covid wave swept us into another round of lockdown. Though the situation is improving now, my loyal friend looks on hoping I will give it company as the gym reopens. I’ve silently given my word to it. Last year too, when the Covid cases started declining in November and December, it made us believe that we were slowly headed towards normalcy, including the quotidian gym sessions. Being ungrateful, as most of us are to old friends, hitting the gym made me forget the buddy who had kept me fit during the lockdown. The lockdown acted as a catalyst to rekindle my lost love for cycling as it certainly did for many others, going by the surge in the number of cyclists around. Childhood memories of buying a cycle came riding back when I bought a bike last year. I still remember how my uncle gifted me a bicycle on my 14th birthday and overnight I became the owner of two cycles. Euphoric and proud of my two possessions, I would take the older one to school and keep the new one to flaunt and race with neighbourhood peers. The fervour of a new bike, coupled with childhood memories, revved up my cycling sessions for a few miles every day. Riding through the town, I observed the changes around and cherished the places that had stood the test of time. I was overjoyed and started motivating others to take to cycling. A friend also bought a cycle and joined me on the morning rides. I started enjoying cycling so much that I even started going to work on it, drawing appreciation from many. But as things started improving by the year-end and places started reopening, I’m guilty of parking my bicycle in the storeroom and getting back to the gym. The cycle started gathering dust and its tyres were deflated. I would look at it indifferently. But when the second lockdown was imposed and the gyms were closed, my friend asked me if it’s time to get the cycle back on track. So, life came full circle for us and our bicycles as we started pedalling our way to health again. One day while riding through a deserted stretch, my friend reminded how its old friends who come to our rescue, while new ones head out for their own safety. This time, we have made amends towards our endearing friend; we have promised to keep our date with cycling even as gyms reopen. manpreetping@gmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based dentist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/when-life-turned-full-cycle-again-during-the-lockdown-101623773826812.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: Three policemen injured in mob attack||Three policemen were injured in an attack by village residents at Tarwan Mushari locality under Parsa police station in Patna when they reached there to arrest alleged liquor smugglers on Monday night.The injured policemen have been identified as ASI Vijay Narayan Singh, constable Prem Kumar and a home guard jawan. Soon after the incident, the police half a dozen people for interrogation.Police said that the incident happened around 9pm as they reached the Tarwan Mushari locality to “arrest liquor smugglers.” “As the villagers saw police arriving, they started pelting stones in which three policemen were injured. The attackers also snatched an SLR rifle from a policeman and escaped,” a police officer said. Later, they recovered the looted SRL rifle, besides 20 live cartridges and liquor.Meanwhile, locals alleged that the police used to collect money from them in the name of continuous raids. “The police team came late on Monday night in the village to collect money from the liquor traders. When they refused to pay, the policemen entered many houses and misbehaved with women,” a village resident said. Police have lodged an FIR and raids are on to arrest the attackers, ASP (Sadar) Sandeep Singh said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharthree-policemen-injured-in-mob-attack-101623773046550.html
15-06-2021||Other||Maize, makhana replace paddy and jute as cash crops in Seemanchal||Md Taimur Alam (67) of Chhatiya village in Purnia was a paddy and jute growing farmer till 2005. “These two crops were not bringing as much return as I had expected. So I decided to switch over to other crops that could give more in return,” he said. “In 2006, I started experimental cultivation of makhana (fox nut) in a waterlogged area behind my house. The return was much more than what I had expected. Since then, I reduced the area of cultivation of paddy and jute and started cultivating makhana,” he said. Today, Alam grows makhana over 40 acres of land.Similarly, brothers Prakash Kumar Jha, Prabhat Kumar Jha, Pradeep Kumar Jha and Dilip Kumar Jha of Mirchaibari in Katihar jointly practise makhana farming over 25 acres of land. “Earlier, we used to give out our land on lease, but now we have started makhana cultivation ourselves due to the availability of better power supply,” they said.“Maize growing area has increased during the last two decades by replacing jute and paddy,” maize farmer Md Ibrahim of Shrinagar in Purnia said. However, he demanded a better price and smooth trading of maize. Meanwhile, there is some resentment among maize farmers over the price. “The government fixed MSP on maize at ₹1,870 per quintal, but we are compelled to sell our crops at ₹1,300 to ₹1,400 per quintal,” maize grower of Japharpur village of Purnia Sunil Kumar Jha said. He demanded that the procurement of maize should start at the panchayat level through PACS (primary agriculture credit societies), like paddy and wheat.In Seemanchal, maize and makhana have replaced paddy and jute as cash crops. Hari Mohan Mishra, deputy director of agriculture technology management agency (ATMA) at Purnia, said, “Makhana cultivation has sharply increased during the last few years and is still increasing. Farmers have started growing makhana on low-lying land, which used to be for paddy cultivation.” State’s industries minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain said, “We are serious about setting up food processing units in Seemanchal. The region has emerged as a hub of maize and makhana and their processing units will not only benefit farmers but also boost local employment.” He said several entrepreneurs have come forward to set up processing units in Purnia and Katihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maize-makhana-replace-paddy-and-jute-as-cash-crops-in-seemanchal-101623773045973.html
15-06-2021||Other||CID to probe man’s killing by security forces||The crime investigation department (CID) will investigate the recent killing of an armed man, who was shot dead by security forces while hunting, inside Piri forest under Garu police station in Latehar district, police said on Tuesday. Latehar superintendent of police (SP) Prashant Anand said, “As per the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) guideline, the case has been transferred to CID for inquiry. There is nothing new in this, as every case leading to gunning down of Maoists or a criminal in encounter with security forces is handed over to CID.”As per police, security forces were carrying out an anti-Maoist offensive inside the forest last Saturday when the firing took place. They mistook a group of six armed villagers, who entered the forests for hunting, for Maoists and one of them, identified as Brahmdev Singh (23), was killed in the “exchange of fire between both sides.”Meanwhile, police lodged an FIR in this connection against the other five persons. “Raghunath, Rajeshwar, Dinanath, Govind and Sukuldev, all residents of Piri village, have been booked for involving in the encounter with the police, possession of illegal arms and carrying out hunting in reserve forest area,” a police official said.According to locals, the armed group entered the reserve forest to hunt for a wild boar or rabbit to celebrate Sarhul, a tribal festival, the next day. Police said that the hunters fired in the forest, and the security forces having taken position on a nearby hill mistook them for Maoists and retaliated. Brahmdev was killed in the process, officials said.The SP said, “We have released the five villagers after a written undertaking of extending cooperation in the investigation. They have also surrendered their fire arms to the police,” adding that the “police was taking a a very balanced approach in this case and there was nothing to hide.”Meanwhile, Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) on Tuesday demanded action against security personnel for shooting a local, besides a government job and compensation of ₹10 lakh to the bereaved family.A fact finding team in of the party, in its report submitted to the state committee, also denied that the village youths fired any shot during the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cid-to-probe-man-s-killing-by-security-forces-101623772386600.html
15-06-2021||Other||Jamshedpur shelter home bank account blocked, no trace of missing girls and accused||The East Singhbhum district administration has directed bank authorities to freeze the account of Mother Teresa Welfare Trust (MTWT) children’s home, officials said on Tuesday.The shelter home at Kharanghjar under Telco police station of the district is currently under investigation for alleged sexual abuse, mental and physical torture of its minor inmates.“As per the deputy commissioner’s order, I have asked branch manager of Kharanghjar branch of Punjab National Bank to block and freeze the shelter home’s account with immediate effect, as the NGO is presently under investigation for exploitation of children,” Parameshwar Bhagat, Jamshedpur deputy development commissioner (DDC), said. The bank authorities on Tuesday also provided the account transaction details to Jyotsna Singh, National Employment Programme (NEP) director heading the 11-member district level probe committee formed by the DC to investigate the case. Earlier on June 7, a first information report (FIR) was filed under Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and Indian Penal Code against MTWT director Harpal Singh Thapar, his child welfare committee (CWC) chief wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey, warden Geeta Singh, her son Aditya Singh and another staff Tony Davis after two rescued minor girls accused Thapar and others of sexual abuse, physical and mental torture of girls at the home for past four years. The two girls were rescued by police from Birsanagar on June 6. All the five accuses have been absconding since then, police said.Later on June 11, two more girls went missing from the shelter home during time shifting of 41 inmates to another children home in Patamda. It was also found that accused Aditya Singh was also mentioned in the list of MTWT inmates. Search was still on for these two missing girls and the five named accused.“We are examining the bank transactions of MTWT and sought details about all child care institutes (CCIs) run by private NGOs in the district from East Singhbhum district CWC about process of registration, how they got to keep the rescued children and the whereabouts and family details of all the children,” said Singh.As per sources, the district presently has nine registered private CCIs, while nine others have applied for registration with the state government.BJP district spokesperson Ankit Anand thanked DC Suraj Kumar for prompt action on his tweet sharing account details of MTWT director on Sunday. Meanwhile, investigation has also started into alleged illegal construction and encroachment in Shamsher Tower housing the MTWT shelter home. A team of the CO’s office has collected the account and plot numbers of the building, map, building plan and drawing after visiting Shamsher Tower Monday. They have also summoned Pritpal Singh, the builder of the tower. Locals alleged that the builder’s office on the ground floor of Shamsher Tower was also forcibly closed by the Thapar couple, apart from opening a back door illegally and encroaching flats and open spaces in the residential complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jamshedpur-shelter-home-bank-account-blocked-no-trace-of-missing-girls-and-accused-101623772385985.html
15-06-2021||Other||NSUI expels 7 leaders for posting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ on official platform||Seven leaders of East Singhbhum unit of National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of Congress, were expelled from the organisation for three years for posting ‘Jai Shri Ram’ on the party’s official WhatsApp group, officials said on Tuesday. NSUI district President Rose Tirkey issued an official order to this effect, expelling NSUI Jamshedpur workers Kamal Agrawal, Raj Mahato, Rahul Giri, Anand Singh, Prashant Kumar, Lav Kumar and Jayanto Pramanik.“These people promoted factionalism against NSUI district president and promoted a particular religion in NSUI’s official WhatsApp group. All these leaders are being expelled immediately from the NSUI for three years for their anti-party activities, social media posts against party lines organisational protocol, and promoting factionalism within the organisation,” Tirkey stated in the order.She said secularism was the foundation on which Congress and NSUI stands. “Congress and NSUI are not based or inclined to any particular religion, it’s not a party or organisation of any particular religion. There’’s no need and place for leaders resorting to such acts. This apart, they were continuously posting objectionable posts against district president on social media, leading to mental harassment. They have been resorting to anti-party activities. They were also promoting factionalism and accusing NSUI district leadership of arbitrarily forming a new team,” Tirkey’s order, copy of which is with the HT, read.However, one of the expelled persons Kamal Agrawal said he did not receive any such order. “I have not received the expulsion order as yet, but came to know about it from media. I had a detailed talk with our state president Aamir Hashmi recently over organisational matters. Doesn’t everyone has the right to practice their religion in this country? We wished each other with Jai Shri Ram the way Sikhs say Wahe Guru,” he said.Meanwhile, BJP district general secretary Rakesh Singh termed the move as “anti-Hindu”. “This is promoting appeasement. Now, Congress has objection to Jai Shri Ram in Jharkhand after Mamata Banerjee in West Bengal. Congress’ student wing expelled its members for taking Lord Ram’s name in Lord Ram’s country. Top Congress leaders raise doubt over existence of Lord Ram, who is revered and worshipped by billions of Hindus,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nsui-expels-7-leaders-for-posting-jai-shri-ram-on-official-platform-101623772326535.html
15-06-2021||Ranchi||Amid heavy security, work on Centre’s Light House Project begins in Ranchi||Construction work for the central government’s ambitious Light House Project (LHP) started amid heavy security at Ranchi’s Dhurwa area on Tuesday morning. The locals, who are protesting against the construction, were not allowed to gather at the site by security forces deputed by Ranchi administration, officials said. Directorate of Municipal Administration (DMA) director JV Narayan Rao said, “The work started hassle-free with no problem and no protest. Everything was peaceful.” The Centre recently held up funds for LHP--foundation of which was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 1 this year--due to delay in beginning of construction work. According to state officials, the work could not take place due to protest by locals, who were demanding shifting of the site, as they claimed it was the only playground for children. However, the Centre warned that it will not release the fund until satisfactory progress on the project was seen. It also asked the urban development department to begin the construction work within a week. Then, the department wrote to Ranchi administration last week for providing adequate security to initiate the project work. Meanwhile, work of soil testing, barricading and factory set-up also started at the site on Tuesday. “If everything goes as per plan, the work will now continue till it gets finished,” adding that the government project aims to provide dwelling units to the poor. The entire construction site turned into a fortress with deployment of heavy security forces on Tuesday morning. A section of the locals tried to protest but they were not allowed. Basti Bachao Sangharsh Samiti (BBSS) convener Mintu Paswan said, “The protestors were threatened not to gather at the site. As there was a weekly market in Hatia on Tuesday, majority of the protestors were out of home since morning.” Under the LHP, as many as 1,008 affordable houses will be constructed for the poor and middle-class people. The project will come up on 7.5 acres of land using innovating construction technologies named ‘NAVARITIH’ (new, affordable, validated, research innovation technologies for Indian housing) at an estimated cost of ₹133.99 crore. LHP will include on-site infrastructure development such as internal roads, pathways, common green area, boundary wall, water supply, sewerage and drainage system, rain water harvesting, solar lighting, external electrification and others. The carpet area per flat will be around 315 square feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/amid-heavy-security-work-on-centre-s-light-house-project-begins-in-ranchi-101623772327180.html
15-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand edu minister ready to resume work after 8-month long Covid battle||Strap: The minister returned from Chennai after 239 days on Monday After recovering from a Covid-19-triggered lung transplant, state school education and literacy department minister Jagarntah Mahto returned from Chennai after 239 days on Monday evening and is geared up to resume office. The minister started his first day at Ranchi-based Doranda home by waking up around 5am on Tuesday and some light exercise. “My father is on a normal diet and he had his usual breakfast on Tuesday morning,” his son Akhilesh Mahto said. According to the minister’s son, Mahto is ready to resume office and waiting for direction from the chief minister’s office. The 54-year-old education minister tested positive for Covid-19 on September 28 last year and was admitted to state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Science (RIMS), Ranchi. However, after his health deteriorated, he was airlifted to MGM Chennai on October 19 from Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspeciality Hospital. According to doctors, the infection damaged his lungs completely, due to which he underwent a lung transplant on November 11 last year. Only a few lung transplants on Covid-19 patients have been performed across the world, and the minister’s critical condition necessitated the procedure, officials said. The minister was discharged on February 9 this year. However, he stayed in Chennai with some family members for post-recovery care. Mahto was brought back on Monday to Jharkhand on a special chartered flight under observation of two doctors of RIMS by the state government. Chief minister Hemant Soren received him at Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport. Mahto said, “I would like to thank CM Soren who stood by me since the beginning.” He also thanked people and doctors both for helping him recover. “People’s blessing and doctors’ medicines gave me a second life,” Mahto said, adding “The second innings of my life will be dedicated to the service of people.” Sharing his experience from when he was under treatment, Mahto said, “I fought Covid-19 with full courage and defeated it. Doctors and staff at the Chennai hospital provided me a great service.” The education minister said he was now ready to take on the field. “Doctors have declared me fit and I am ready to extend my service to the people of Jharkhand,” he said. Mahto will now be staying at his Ranchi residence now. Chief minister Hemant Soren on Monday visited his residence to assess arrangements, including medical equipment. He directed to ensure all safety precautions at the residence. According to sources, Mahto’s entire treatment cost nearly ₹1 crore. However, there has been no official confirmation on the amount as yet. In a bid to provide hassle-free treatment to ministers outside the state, the Jharkhand cabinet in December last approved an amendment in the rules for ministers’ salary and allowances. The amendment was made following problems faced during shifting of the infected education minister to Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-edu-minister-ready-to-resume-work-after-8-month-long-covid-battle-101623772325951.html
15-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand allows shops, malls, offices to open till 4pm; weekend lockdown to continue||Strap: Govt also reimposes complete weekend lockdown from June 19 afternoon  The state government on Tuesday announced to reopen all kinds of shops, malls, departmental stores, government and private offices till 4pm from Thursday across all 24 districts, officials said. With extending the health protection week , or Swasthya Suraksha Saptah, by another week June 24 morning, the government has also decided to reimpose the complete weekend lockdown from 4pm of June 19 till June 21 morning. The current weeklong lockdown ends on Thursday at 6am. During the weekend lockdown, all shops, including fruits, vegetable, grocery and sweets, will remain closed during the said hours. However, medical emergency shops, medical equipment related shops, petrol pumps, LPG outlets and milk stores will remain open. In the last such weekend lockdown, milk stores were not allowed to operate. The decisions were taken at a state disaster management authority’s(SDMA) Covid-19 review meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren at state project building on Tuesday. The state recorded 151 new cases and one Covid-19 death in a day till Monday night. Last week, all kinds of shops, including salons, were permitted to reopen in all districts, excluding East Singhbhum. Garment, cloth, footwear, cosmetic and jewellery shops were not allowed to reopen in East Singhbhum in view of surge in Covid-19 cases. However, the district will now enjoy the same relaxations provided to other districts, officials said. Government and private offices have been permitted to open with 50% working strength of human resources till 4pm. However, multiplexes, cinema halls, banquet halls, bars, clubs, stadium, gymnasium, swimming pools and parks will remain closed, according to the government order. All educational institutions, including schools, colleges, IT, skill development, coaching institutions and training institutions, will also remain closed. The provision of e-pass will remain in place for interdistrict and interstate movement. The restriction on bus movement will also continue. Lockdown-like restrictions have been in place in Jharkhand since April 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-allows-shops-malls-offices-to-open-till-4pm-weekend-lockdown-to-continue-101623772266600.html
15-06-2021||Other||Free petrol to people getting vaccinated in W Singhbhum||At a time when fuel prices have skyrocketed past the ₹100-mark, a vaccination camp was providing people with one litre of free petrol for getting vaccinated against Covid-19 at Chakradharpur in West Singhbhum district. The idea was to inspire people to get vaccinated, officials said on Tuesday.The unique vaccination camp was held jointly by Chakradharpur unit of Marwari Yuva Manch (MYM) and Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) at Devi Fuels in Chakradharpur. State women and child development and social security minister Joba Majhi inaugurated the camp in presence of the West Singhbhum deputy commissioner (DC) Ananya Mittal, Chakradharpur SDO Abhijit Sinha and SDPO Nathu Singh Meena on Monday.“We held this special vaccination drive at Devi Fuels in Chakradharpur in collaboration with IOC. A total of 240 persons were given coupons to avail one litre petrol for free after they got themselves vaccinated against Covid-19 at the camp. The idea was to inspire people for inoculation against the pandemic,” Nitesh Kumar Bagaria, secretary of MYM-Chakradharpur, said. As many as 134 persons have died of Covid-19 so far in West Singhbhum.Praising the organisers, Majhi said people should not pay heed to rumours about vaccination.Talks were also on with tribal village heads, panchayat mukhiyas, political leaders and intellectuals to convince people to get vaccinated, said Mittal.This was significant as West Singhbhum has been facing challenges in convincing tribal village residents to get vaccinated due to widespread rumours about the vaccine leading to “impotency”. Moreover, health workers were also attacked in few villages during vaccination drive, officials said. The DC also chaired a meeting with village heads in this regard in Bandgaon block of the district. “Vaccination coverage is very low at just 9% in Bandgaon block. The vaccination rate in West Singhbhum is 30% whereas 60% people in neighbouring East Singhbhum district have been vaccinated. The third wave of Covid-19 is expected in last week of July and more and more people need to get vaccinated before that. I urge people not to pay any heed to rumours about vaccination,” Mittal said.Meanwhile, the Chaibasa unit of Lions’ Club and Chaibasa Gurudwara jointly started a vaccination camp from Monday, where lucky draw coupons were given to people after getting vaccinated. The camp will run till June 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/free-petrol-to-people-getting-vaccinated-in-w-singhbhum-101623772265994.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: Senior cop accused of minor’s rape faces arrest||The Bihar Police brass has finally ordered the arrest of deputy superintendent of police (DSP), who was booked over a fortnight back for raping a minor Dalit girl in 2017.The accused DSP, Kamlakant Prasad, who is posted at the Central Selection Board of Constables (CSBC) in Patna as officer on special duty, was booked by Women’s police station of Gaya under provisions of Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and other laws.In 2017, Prasad was posted in Gaya as a DSP (headquarter).On June 11, state’s director general of police (DGP) Sanjiv Kumar Singhal ordered the CID’s Weaker Section wing to probe the case. Additional director general (weaker section) Anil Kishore Yadav issued orders late Monday evening to senior SPs of Patna and Gaya districts for the arrest of Prasad and submit a report to the police headquarters.Earlier, on June 4, the police headquarters had recommended Prasad’s suspension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-senior-cop-accused-of-minor-s-rape-faces-arrest-101623771785919.html
15-06-2021||Other||After LJP, buzz of a split headache for Congress||PATNAThe ruling Janata Dal (United), which had earlier made an abortive bid to split the Congress in 2017, is learnt to have launched a mission to win over at least two-thirds of the 19 Congress legislators to consolidate its position in the alliance government. JD(U) currently has 44 members in the current Assembly while its ally BJP has 74. This is the first time in their alliance history that chief minister Nitish Kumar’s party has fewer MLAs than BJP’s. One of the JD(U) ministers, who is said to be driving the poaching mission along with Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh, confided that 10 Congress legislators had agreed to defect so far. “We are waiting for the consent of at least three more MLAs to desert the Congress in order to escape the anti-defection law,” said the minister. Lalan Singh, who was spearheading the JD(U) effort in 2017 to split the Congress, is said to have played a pivotal role in engineering the recent coup in the Laok Janshakti Party (LJP). “He (Singh) would focus on Congress once the LJP thing settles,” said a senior JDU leader and former minister. Rajesh Rathore, chief spokesman of state Congress, said Nitish Kumar was desperate as his government has a majority of only five MLAs in the Assembly. “With RJD chief Lalu Prasad out of jail, Kumar is uncomfortable. He is already under tremendous pressure from the BJP,” he said. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra, however, dismissed the JD(U) claim and said all legislators were firmly behind the party and its leadership under Rahul Gandhi. “Nitish Kumar, who has resorted to political adventurism during the pandemic to weaken his political rivals, will be disappointed yet again,” he said. Party insiders, however, said the claim by JD(U) leaders was not totally unfounded, especially due to absence of a strong leadership in the state. Congress veteran Kishore Kumar Jha said the party high command must resolve issues in the Bihar Congress as the state was crucial for power at the Centre. “The party has become weak over the past few decades as it relied heavily on the RJD, much to the discomfiture of the loyalists. Inordinate delay in state unit’s reconstitution and organisational restructuring up to the grassroots level are other reasons fanning unrest among the party cadres,” said Jha. A day ago, JD(U) president RCP Singh had parried a question about possible desertions in the Congress, saying the party was like a sinking ship and hence it might continue to suffer desertions as it has done in the past. Political analyst and former Patna University professor Nawal Kishore Chaudhary said, “Nitish Kumar does not have experience of working under pressure. He left the grand alliance once the RJD begun asserting in the matters of governance. Now, he is facing pressure from muscle-flexing by NDA constituents and Jitan Ram Manjhi and VIP leader Mukesh Sahni,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-ljp-buzz-of-a-split-headache-for-congress-101623771729476.html
15-06-2021||Other||BSEB to begin online admissions for Class 11 from June 19||PATNAThe Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) is set to commence registration for admissions in Class 11 through online facilitation system for students (OFSS) from June 19.Board officials said a common application form will be uploaded on online admission portal on Friday. Those students who have cleared matriculation examination can apply for admission to Class 11 by registering themselves on www.ofssbihar.in by filling online form between June 19 to June 28.BSEB has already uploaded a list of affiliated institutes, more than 3,600 higher secondary schools and colleges along with their locations, stream-wise seat availability and college type.A senior BSEB official said, “Admission in Class 11 will be taken on 17.63 lakh seats across the state. Of these, science stream has the highest intake capacity of 45% followed by art 42% and commerce 13%. Applicants have to pay ₹300 per school or college for registration. Candidates can select a maximum of 20 schools or colleges as their preferred institutions.”“The applicants are advised to go through common prospectus before registration for queries related to school or college allotment system, documents required for filling form etc. Those candidates who lack internet connectivity can apply for registration at Vasudha Centres across the state,” the official said. BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said, “The Board will issue fresh dates for online registration for those students whose results are pending or those of other education boards like CBSE and ICSE, who are still waiting for their result announcement.”Altogether, 12.93 lakh students cleared the matriculation exam conducted by BSEB this year.Meanwhile, several private schools affiliated with CBSE have commenced provisional admissions in the absence of Board results while several missionary schools like Loyola High School and Notre Dame Academy are waiting for result announcement.Private schools rued that admission in Class 11 has slowed down due to postponement of CBSE board results.“We commenced online admission process for Class 11 in April. Around 10 students have taken admission in science stream while just two in commerce. We have intake capacity of 300 seats. Admissions are likely to pace up after the announcement of results,” said an admission counsellor of Kankarbagh-based school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bseb-to-begin-online-admissions-for-class-11-from-june-19-101623771728778.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Theme park on life of Guru Gobind Singh planned in Patna||The Bihar government on Monday decided to allocate ₹13.38 crore to develop a museum and a theme park on the life of the 10th Guru of the Sikhs, Guru Gobind Singh. The facility will come up at Prakash Punj, a multi-purpose complex being constructed by the state tourism department over 10 acres of land at Patna Sahib at a cost of about ₹50 crores. It will have an auditorium, two exhibition halls and galleries apart from other facilities for tourists and visitors. “The government decided to have a museum and theme park where one can witness the life and works of Guru Gobind Singh and other Sikh Gurus,” Bihar tourism minister Narayan Prasad said. Guru Gobind Singh was born in 1666 at Patna Sahib. Mahendra Pal Singh Dhillon, general secretary of the Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, said a big auditorium with the capacity of 900 people is also under construction at the three-storied complex..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/theme-park-on-life-of-guru-gobind-singh-planned-in-patna-101623771727557.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Heavy rain lashes parts of Bihar, red alert for today||Extremely heavy rain occurred at a few places in the northwest parts of the state while heavy rain lashed south-east and north-central parts in the past 24 hours, said officials of Patna Meteorological Centre on Tuesday.According to Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), rainfall ranging between 70 mm and 110 mm is termed as “heavy”, 120 mm to 200 mm “very heavy” and rain exceeding 210 mm “extremely heavy”.As per the daily bulletin, Ramnagar and Chanpatia in West Champaran recorded 280 mm rain each, followed by Bagha (210 mm), Guanaha (160 mm) and Kesariya (130 mm). Patna received 42.6 mm of rainfall between 8.30 am to 5.30 pm.As per the five-day forecast, widespread rain is likely in the state till June 19. The MeT centre predicted very heavy rain on Wednesday as well and issued a red-colour warning for northwest parts of Bihar, including West Champaran, Siwan, Saran, East Champaran and Gopalganj while an orange alert has been issued for the remaining districts. Meteorologist SK Patel said the state recorded the season’s highest rainfall on Tuesday. “Monsoon remained very active in the state in the past 24 hours. The state recorded 111 mm actual rain this month, which is 92% excess than normal rain,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/heavy-rain-lashes-parts-of-bihar-red-alert-for-today-101623771728136.html
15-06-2021||Other||Shops to open till 6 pm, night curfew cut short||Shops and offices in Bihar will be allowed to operate for one extra hour from Wednesday and night curfew will be cut short by four hours in the second phase of unlocking in the state in view of improving Covid-19 situation, chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Tuesday.Kumar said the relaxations will remain in effect till June 22.“For the next one week, office timings will be till 5 pm. However, all government and private offices will function with 50% of their strength,” the CM said. Offices were allowed to function till 4 pm during Unlock 1, which was announced last week on June 8 after 35 days of long lockdown in the state. The lockdown was clamped on May 5 and was extended four times, the last being on June 2, to contain a record rise in Covid-19 infections in the state, which began in April and continued till May end, paralysing the healthcare system and resulting into deaths of hundreds of patients while the state struggled to augment number of beds, oxygen supply and essential medicines.The CM said all shops will now be allowed to operate till 6 pm on alternate days and the night curfew will now be in force between 8 pm and 5 am. During unlock 1, shops were allowed to open from 6 am till 5 pm on alternate days and the night curfew was imposed from 5 pm till 6 am.All education institutions and religious places along with malls, parks and gyms will however remain closed till further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shops-to-open-till-6-pm-night-curfew-cut-short-101623771726782.html
15-06-2021||Other||Champaran faces flood after heavy rain, discharge from barrage||Incessant rain threw life out of gear in Bettiah while heavy discharge of water from Gandak barrage and swelling rivers sparked fears of flood across East and West Champaran districts on Tuesday.According to the disaster management department, West Champaran received 267.5mm of rainfall with a torrential downpour in Bettiah, causing heavy waterlogging in most parts of the town. Laxman Prasad, municipal commissioner of Bettiah, said, “We are doing everything possible to clear the waterlogging.”Meanwhile, in the wake of the discharge of about 1.97 lakh cusecs of water from Gandak barrage at Valmikinagar on Tuesday, coupled with incessant rain in Champaran and neighbouring Nepal, the rivers passing through the districts are flowing in spate.Meanwhile, an approach bridge to Marjadi Majadpur village in West Champaran collapsed due to the pressure of Kataha river. “The drainage department has started the flood-fighting work,” said Sahila Heer, sub-divisional magistrate, Narkatiaganj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/champaran-faces-flood-after-heavy-rain-discharge-from-barrage-101623771725999.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Bihar bans production, use of single-use plastic||The state cabinet on Tuesday decided to ban production, import, storage, circulation and usage of single-use plastic, the waste of which was becoming a major issue for disposal. This was among the six decisions the cabinet at its meeting chaired by chief minister Nitish Kumar approved. Environment and forest minister Niraj Singh Bablu said the ban would come in effect after 180 days of the gazzete notification. “All industrial units and marketing installations would be asked to dispose of their product, mainly of made of thermocol, within the stipulated period and resort to eco-friendly alternatives. A detailed modality to check production and use of thermocol items and other single use plastic and penalty would be worked out notified soon,” said the minster. Earlier, the state government had banned production, circulation and use of polythene. However, polythene bags are still in use. Chief executive officer (CEO) of Centre for Environment and Energy Development Ramapati Kumar, while welcoming the move, said the government should create necessary infrastructure for safe disposal of plastic and launch awareness drive to curb leakage in the policy. “Otherwise, single use plastic would remain in circulation like polythene despite ban,” he said. The cabinet also gave nod for the health department’s proposal to offer financial incentive to all health workers engaged in Covid management equivalent to their one month’s salary. It also approved the department’s plan to purchase 250 ambulances at the cost of ₹62.50 crore. The panchayati raj department’s long-term maintenance policy for operation of rural water supply system was also okayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-bans-production-use-of-single-use-plastic-101623771666527.html
15-06-2021||Other||Term of panchayat bodies ends, new system kicks in today||PATNAThe system in the panchayats of Bihar will change from Wednesday, with advisory committees replacing the existing system as elections could not be held due to disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.On June 1, Bihar cabinet had approved an ordinance to amend certain sections of the Bihar Panchayati Raj Act, 2006, to empower the state government to constitute advisory committees to run three-tier rural local bodies beyond the expiry of their five-year term until fresh elections. The term of all elected functionaries of panchayat raj institutions (PRIs), like gram panchayat, zila parishad and gram kutcheries, ends Tuesday.Though the Opposition demanded continuing of the term of PRIs and a petition was also filed in the Patna High Court, the government came out with an alternative mechanism through an ordinance as there was no provision in the Act for extending the term. The court had sought responses from the Election Commission of India, State Election Commission, union law ministry and the state government, but did not grant any stay. The petitioners also did not press for any stay. The matter is again listed for hearing on July 15.Former additional solicitor general SD Sanjay said there would have been a vacuum in Bihar’s panchayat system after June 15, had the alternative mechanism not been formed. “ Article 243-E of the Constitution of India mandates that the maximum duration of a Panchayat is five years from the date appointed, and no longer. It is similar to the Article 172 of the Constitution which fixes the term of the State Legislature for five years and its term also cannot be extended,” he said.Sanjay said the State Legislature has powers under Article 243C of the Constitution to make provisions with respect to the composition of Panchayat. “The Bihar Panchayat Act, until now, has been silent on the aspect of contingencies and situations when elections could not be held before the expiry of its term of five years. As a result, the state government was under obligation to intervene and remedy the situation. As the Legislative Assembly is not in session, the Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Ordinance, 2021, was promulgated to enable a stop-gap arrangement. It will be operational from Wednesday,” he said.The state government has constituted an advisory committee in all the panchayats and appointed the erstwhile mukhiya of the Gram Panchayat as the chairman, Up-Mukhiya as vice-chairman, members as member and secretary as secretary of the committee. It has been mandated that all the powers exercisable under the Bihar Panchayat Raj Act will be exercised by the aforesaid office bearers of the advisory committee, which will act like a caretaker government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/term-of-panchayat-bodies-ends-new-system-kicks-in-today-101623771667151.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Bihar exports GI-tagged mangoes to London||Bihar exported the first one-tonne consignment of geographical indications (GI) certified Jardalu mangoes from Bhagalpur to London Monday. State agriculture minister Amarendra Pratap Singh virtually flagged it off.GI relates to a specific geographical origin of a product and certifies that it possesses qualities or a reputation because of that.The mangoes were packed in Lucknow after which the Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority exported them in collaboration with the Bihar government, the Indian High Commission in London, and Invest India.Singh said Jardalu mangoes are mainly grown in Bhagalpur and parts of some neighbouring districts. He added that these mangoes are grown over 1,200 hectares of orchards in Baghalpur. “Banka and Munger jointly produce these mangoes over 700 hectares land. The annual production of these mangoes is 10,000 metric tonnes.” He added that these mangoes have better shelf life and flavour. “The mangoes fetched GI tag in 2018 due to their exceptional quality.”In May, Bihar exported one tonne of Muzaffarpur’s GI tagged shahi litchi to London.N Saravana Kumar, Bihar’s agriculture department secretary, said they are working to formulate a policy to boost the export of GI products. “We are also setting up labs approved by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories at two agriculture universities for quality check of goods before export,” he said..”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-exports-gi-tagged-mangoes-to-london-101623771665982.html
15-06-2021||Pune||Water discharge to canals stopped by irrigation department||On Tuesday, the water discharge to canals was stopped at the Khadakwasla dam by the irrigation department. As of Tuesday, 6.59 TMC water remains in all four dams which includes the Khadakwasla dam for drinking purposes in Pune city. Water resources department officials said that all four dams, Khadakwasla, Panshet, Warasgaon and Temghar which provide water to Pune city are collectively 22.06 per cent full this time. During the same time last year, all four dams had 5.94 TMC water and were 20.38 per cent full. Officials from the irrigation department said that this water will be utilised for drinking purposes in Pune city. HV Gunale, chief engineer of the water resources department, Pune division said that water discharge in the canals has been stopped. “This water discharge in the canal is for irrigation purposes. It stops in monsoon season as there is rain and no extra water is required for irrigation. Hence, the canal discharged has been stopped, as of Tuesday” said Gunale. Officials from the water resource department noted that as the rainfall in the catchment areas increases, the water storage in dams increases too. As per data furnished by the water resource department officials, 0.88 TMC water remains which is 44.50 percent in full until Tuesday. Panshet dam has 3.30 TMC water which is 31.01 per cent full, Warasgaon has 2.06 TMC water and is 16.07 per cent full and Tenghar dam has 0.35 TMC water and is 9.36 per cent full as on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/water-discharge-to-canals-stopped-by-irrigation-department-101623771425858.html
15-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,127 new Covid cases, 16 deaths||Pune: As 1,127 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Tuesday, the district’s total count went up to 1.037 million cases of which 1.004 million have recovered, 15,775 declared dead and 17,623 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation. Also, 16 more deaths were reported in the district in 24 hours. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 698 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 300,567 and with eight more deaths the death toll stood at 5,455. Pune city reported 249 new cases which took the progressive count to 489,767 and with seven more deaths the toll went up to 7,890 while PCMC reported 180 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 247,446, With one more death, the toll stood at 2,248. The state reported that 15,176 patients were discharged on Tuesday which took the total count of recovered patients to 5,669,179. The recovery rate in the state is 95.69%. Also, 9,350 new cases and 388 Covid deaths were reported in the state on Tuesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.93%. Of 38,418,130 laboratory samples 5,924,773 have been tested positive (15.42%) for Covid until Tuesday. Currently, 904,462 people are in home quarantine and 5,621 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-127-new-covid-cases-16-deaths-101623771305872.html
15-06-2021||Pune||PMC approves purchase of tablets worth Rs25 crore for municipal school children||The standing committee of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Tuesday approved to purchase tabs worth Rs25 crore for kids learning in the municipal school. Republican Party of India (RPI)’s leader Siddharth Dhende had given a proposal in front of a standing committee to provide tabs for all the kids as they are facing many problems of online education. Dhende said, “Due to the lockdown and Covid-19 pandemic, the schools were closed. As the schools were closed, the PMC did not distribute the books, uniforms, school bags and shoes. The Rs17 crore budgetary provisions for it are lying idle. Even this year, the schools would be offline.” Dhende said, “It is officially proven that many kids did not able to attend online schools as they did not have smartphones or internet connections. If the PMC would provide tabs to kids learning in the PMC-run schools, it would be beneficial to them.” Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “We approved the proposal submitted by Dhende. There is budgetary provision for the school department which would be utilised for it.” NCP leader Nitin Kadam said, “Few years before the PMC had purchased the tabs which are lying ideal. If those tabs would get utilized, PMC would not need to purchase more tabs. The education department officers confirmed to the standing committee that they would give the exact figure of the previous tabs which are with the education department.”BOX 1The standing committee of the PMC approved the proposal to acquire various lands for metro projects executed by Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA). The PMRDA is executing the metro project in between Hinjewadi to Shivajinagar. The maximum part of this line is passing through the PMC limit. PMRDA requested the PMC to acquire land for entry and exit of the metro stations in the PMC limit. PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar put the proposal in front of the standing committee for approval, which was approved by the standing committee.BOX 2The standing committee of the PMC on Tuesday gave the nod to sell the PMC owned 1,512 flats to the tenants who have been occupying it for the last several years.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “It would help to get more revenue to the PMC. The tenants are using it for the last several years and getting very nominal rents. The city improvement committee approved it on Monday and now standing approved it.” Meanwhile, the NCP city unit president objected to the decision taken by the standing committee and blamed that ruling party took this decision without keeping opposition parties in loop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-approves-purchase-of-tablets-worth-rs25-crore-for-municipal-school-children-101623771245865.html
15-06-2021||Pune||Students should accept new changes and move ahead in life: Koshiyari||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) held its 118th convocation ceremony online on Tuesday. Former Lok Sabha speaker Sumitra Mahajan delivered the convocation address as the chief guest and special guest Uday Samant, Maharashtra higher and technical education minister was also present. This is the first convocation which was held this year by the SPPU, usually there are two convocation progammes which are held during a year. Maharashtra state governor and chancellor of SPPU also spoke at the ceremony. Koshiyari said, “It was a big challenge to conduct online examinations during these tough times in the Covid pandemic and Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) accepted it and successfully achieved a better outcome. Like the university, all students should also accept these new changes in our lives and keep moving forward in lives.” Vedant Mundada received the gold medal in the name of former President of India Dr Deendayal Sharma. He even received the best student award for the year 2019-20. A total of 1,61,591 students graduated and post graduated from various departments of SPPU in the academic year 2019-20 and were given the graduation certificates even before the ceremony was held. Of these, 465 students received their Ph.D degrees from the university. Talking on this occasion Mahajan said, “After completing graduation, we think of job opportunities with a good package, but at the same time we should also think about giving back to the society we belong. We should always keep our sensitivity towards society which will make us a better human being,” Samant said, “The online examinations held by the SPPU is very much appreciated and other universities should learn from them. Also, the university is ahead into merging the new education policy in its academics and overall operations. I am proud of the NSS students who have voluntarily worked hard during the Covid pandemic.” In the beginning of the programme, vice chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar gave a brief introduction about SPPU’s various works carried out in the last one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-should-accept-new-changes-and-move-ahead-in-life-koshiyari-101623771185868.html
15-06-2021||Pune||PMC completes crucial part of laying main water pipelines in heart of the city||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has completed the most crucial part of laying the main water pipelines network under the equitable and regular 24x7 water supply project in the heart of city areas during the second wave of Covid. However, minor works will take some time to complete to actual execution of the project. PMC initiated the 24x7 water supply project at the cost of ₹2,550 crore to solve the water problem of the city. It raised ₹200 crore through bonds and also levied water charges. It has set a deadline of five years to complete the project. It was approved in February 2018 and work started in December 2018. The PMC allotted work to L&T and Jain irrigation. However, the project was affected very badly in the first wave of Covid-19 as workers returned to their hometown. During the unlocking of the first wave, workers returned to work but, suddenly the second wave started in the month of March. PMC once again faced a workers’ shortage problem, but it was not so severe as compared to the first wave. Nandkumar Jagtap, superintendent engineer who is handling the project of 24x7 water supply project said, “The water supply department and drainage department took to replacing 40-year-old pipelines in the heart of the city area due to lockdown in the second wave. We took the decision to lay down a water pipeline network along with these works. It helped us a lot and we have completed a 25-kilometre network of laying main water pipelines in the heart of the city road like Laxmi road, Bajirao road and Tilak road. In the congested part of the main city, we have to lay down a total of 125 kilometres of pipeline for 24x7 water work. Of that, we have completed major work on the busiest roads of the city. Shivaji and Nehru road are working in the pipe in the next stage.” He further said, “Due to busy and narrow roads, it would have not been possible to complete during the normal situation. Now, secondary pipeline lay work remains in the by lanes which we will complete smoothly in the coming days.” Sushmita Shirke, superintending engineer, sewerage, maintenance and repair department said, “The water supply department laid down a 24x7 work water pipeline along with the drainage work. It saved time and duplication of road digging work. We replaced 40 years old China clay drainage lines from the heart of the city area. It happened due to the lockdown, otherwise, because of narrow roads and heavy traffic, it would have taken a lot of time and energy of the administration to replace it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-completes-crucial-part-of-laying-main-water-pipelines-in-heart-of-the-city-101623771065789.html
15-06-2021||Pune||Hampered water supply restored in peth areas||For the past week, residents of Budhwar peth, some parts of Sadashiv peth and Shaniwar peth faced an acute water supply shortage with residents taking to social media to highlight their plight. Hemant Rasane, PMC standing committee chief and local corporator who was approached by residents with complaints of no water supply said, “There was a problem with the water supply when, the old water pipeline was accidently damaged during the ongoing drainage pipeline laying work. The water lines in the peth areas are primarily still the old cement ones which have not been changed since 1970 and during the work on laying of drainage pipelines, a JCB accidently hit the old pipeline thus causing the water to shut off, but the office of the water supply department has assured us we will get full water supply from tomorrow.” Aniruddha Pawaskar, heading the water supply department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) confirmed that there was a problem with the water supply to some of the peth areas. “During the work on the drainage pipeline, it seems that a JCB accidently damaged the water pipeline, hence people in peth areas were getting low pressure water supply, when we dug up the line, we saw that there were several leakages along the line, hence it took longer time to get these repaired. But I have assured the people that routine water supply will resume from tomorrow.” Jyoti Dawalbhakt who lives in Shukrawar peth never faced any problem with the water supply. “Last week, though we had very low pressure for water, and it was almost a trickle, we were lucky to get enough water to last for a day but my mother who lives in Shaniwar peth had trouble getting enough water. At least the authorities should inform us before turning off water,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hampered-water-supply-restored-in-peth-areas-101623771005870.html
15-06-2021||Other||TV journalist’s wife demands CBI probe into husband’s death||The wife of deceased TV journalist Sulabh Srivastava has demanded a CBI probe into the suspicious death of her husband who was found seriously injured on Katra Road in Pratapgarh, Uttar Pradesh and was later pronounced dead at the hospital late Sunday night, HT has learnt. Speaking to media persons, Srivastava’s wife Renuka Srivastava repeated that her husband was under threat from liquor mafias who killed him and made it look like an accident. She demanded adequate security for the family.A delegation of Congress leaders, led by MLA from Kanpur Sahil Akhtar Ansari, met Srivastava’s kin and handed over ₹1 lakh as assistance. The Congress leaders said that they had come on the instructions of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who has assured all possible help to the deceased journalist’s family.State Congress Committee general secretary Sushil Pasi, Congress district president Brijendra Kumar Mishra and Congress leaders Neeraj Tripathi, Devendra Srivastava, Jaikaran Verma and others were part of the delegation.Samajwadi Youth Brigade torched an effigy of chief minister Yogi Adityanath in Pratapgarh and demanded an impartial probe and arrest of those involved in the incident.A group of media persons in Prayagraj took out a candle march at Subhash Crossing on Tuesday evening, demanding justice for Srivastava.Meanwhile, ADG zone Prem Prakash, IG Range KP Singh, SP Pratapgarh Akash Tomar visited the spot at Katra Road where the journalist was found injured. The officials carried out investigations with the forensic team and spoke to residents in a bid to unravel the mystery behind Srivastava’s death. The officials instructed the police teams to collect all details related to the incident.SP Akash Tomar said although the circumstances are indicating an accident, all angles will be thoroughly investigated. Mobile towers in the vicinity are being scanned to learn about any suspicious person who could be present in that area at the time of the incident, he added.Srivastava’s body was cremated on Monday evening amid heavy security. A panel of two doctors conducted a postmortem examination which revealed that Srivastava sustained serious wounds in the stomach while a kidney was punctured. Injuries were also found near the eyes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tv-journalist-s-wife-demands-cbi-probe-into-husband-s-death-101623770886785.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports over 9,000 new Covid-19 cases, 388 more deaths in last 24 hours||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 9,350 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the state’s tally reached 5,924,773 cases so far, according to the latest data. Also, 388 people succumbed to the infection on the day taking the death toll to 114,154, the data also showed. Apart from the new fatalities, 1070 new deaths were also reconciled to the tally in the last 24 hours.The capital city of Mumbai saw 572 new cases and 14 more fatalities on Tuesday. With this, the city’s tally reached 716,351 and so far, 15,216 people have lost their lives to the disease.Daily new recoveries continued to remain above the number of new cases identified on Tuesday. In the last 24 hours, 15,176 patients recovered in the state from the disease and the cumulative recoveries reached 5,669,179 as of date.Earlier on Monday, less than 10,000 people (8,129 to be exact) tested positive for the disease in a gap of 24 hours and as many as 200 people died.Also read | INSACOG helped detect variants of concern, data shared with states, UTs: GovtMeanwhile, medical workers in Maharashtra tested 202,638 new samples for Covid-19 on the day. This pushed the cumulative samples tested to 38,418,130 , the data also showed.Among other major cities, Nagpur reported 46 new cases of the coronavirus disease. While three people died of the infection on Tuesday, the city also registered 281 new recoveries. Also, 7,018 samples were tested by health workers in the city, according to the official data.The Union health ministry’s dashboard on Tuesday showed that 26,228,293 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries in the state as of 7am on the day. Of this, 20,995,275 people received their first dose and 5,233,018 received their second, the data showed.Earlier on Tuesday, during a press briefing, the ministry said that the average daily new cases and the active caseload in the country have reduced in the past week. Lav Agarwal, joint secretary of the Union health ministry, said that 196 districts across the country are reporting over 100 daily new Covid-19 cases as of the week ending on June 13, 2021. Previously 531 districts were reporting over 100 new cases as of May 4, 2021, the ministry’s data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-over-9-000-new-covid-19-cases-388-more-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101623766518803.html
15-06-2021||Pune||CMO adds Rajgad to its list of five forts taken up for conservation||Pune: The state government has decided to add Rajgad to its earlier list of five forts to come under the conservation plan. A committee of mountaineers is formed to look after the conservation of the historic structures. Rajgad (ruling fort) is situated in Pune district and was the capital of the Maratha empire under the rule of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj for almost 26 years, after which the capital was moved to the Raigad fort and was also one of the 12 forts that Shivaji Maharaj kept when he signed the Treaty of Purandar in 1665 with the Mughal general Jai Singh I. The fort is located 60 kms from Pune. The five Shivaji-era forts comprising Shivneri and Torna in Pune district along with Sindhudurg, Vijaydurg and Sudhagad have been chosen for conservation by the government. The Chief Minister’s Office recently added Rajgad fort which is currently under the control of Maharashtra State Archaeology Department. In October 2016, the central government had undertaken a similar initiative to maintain and develop five forts — Raigad, Rajgad, Sindhudurg, Panhala and Vijaydurg — and had appointed Rajya Sabha member Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati as brand ambassador for the project. Following the move, the Maharashtra State Tourism Department (MTDC) had planned to develop five heritage forts in Pune district as model monuments. The CM has mooted the idea of bringing all the forts under one single department for their beautification and conservation under the CMO office. According to heritage lovers, other important forts like Padmadurg or Kasa fort in Raigad, Paranda fort in Solapur, Arnala fort in Thane and other historical forts across the state must also be conserved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cmo-adds-rajgad-to-its-list-of-five-forts-taken-up-for-conservation-101623768905633.html
15-06-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand defers Char Dham yatra amid storm over fake Covid tests during Kumbh||The Uttarakhand government has withdrawn its decision to open the Char Dham yatra for people living in three districts from Tuesday, reversing a decision that it announced just a day earlier despite concerns that the pilgrimage could lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases.The U-turn comes at a time the government is investigating if private labs mandated to carry out Covid-19 tests during the Haridwar Mahakumbh issued fake Covid reports, possibly to meet targets.A Covid-19 test report was mandated for the Char Dham yatra as well, according to the announcement by Cabinet minister and government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal on Monday. He had said the yatra was being opened for residents of Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi, the three districts where the shrines are located, from Tuesday provided they have a Covid RT-PCR test report.On Tuesday, Subodh Uniyal explained the decision to defer the yatra to the hearing by the Uttarakhand high court. Also, hotels, resorts and shops are still going to be shut due to the extension of the Covid-19 curfew in the state till June 22., he said.“So, if pilgrims go there, what will they eat or where will they stay?” he asked, rhetorically. “Also, I was apprised that Char Dham Devasthanam Board needs more time to complete the preparations for the yatra. So due to these factors, we will now take a decision about opening the yatra on completion of preparations and lifting of the Covid curfew in the state.” The Devasthanam Board controls the management of 51 temples in Uttarakhand, including the famous four Himalayan temples also called ‘Chardham’.To be sure, the Uttarakhand high court has repeatedly expressed concern over allowing the Char Dham yatra. On June 9, the judges also expressed displeasure that the state’s tourism secretary Dilip Jawalkar hadn’t visited the shrines to assess the preparations needed before opening them to pilgrims in phases.As reported by HT, the probe into the fake Covid-19 tests was ordered after questions were raised about the low Covid positivity rate beginning April in Haridwar as compared to the rest of the state. Data The 10-week average test positivity rate in Haridwar was 4%, while the figure for the rest of Uttarakhand was 13.7%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-defers-char-dham-yatra-amid-storm-over-fake-covid-tests-during-kumbh-101623768669441.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Unemployed teachers cane-charged in Patiala, 150 detained||Around 150 unemployed teachers were detained while over a dozen received minor injuries as police cane-charged them twice during an agitation near Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s residence in Patiala on Tuesday. Demanding jobs, the ETT (elementary teacher training) and TET (teacher eligibility test) qualified teachers were marching towards the CM’s residence when police restricted their movement near YPS Chowk. The protestors clashed with police before blocking the Patiala-Sangrur road near Passiana village, where police dispersed them again. “We were holding a peaceful protest when police used force to remove us,” said union state president Deepak Kumar, adding that despite multiple assurances, the government has failed to provide them jobs in government schools. The unemployed TET-ETT teachers are demanding a notification for recruitment on all 12,000 vacant posts and an increase in the upper age limit to 42 years.Jobless youths to boycott Cong leadersIn the neighbouring Sangrur district, jobless youths under the banner of Unemployed Joint Front have given a call to boycott the ruling Congress during the upcoming state elections. Associated with various unemployed teachers, health workers and other unions, they had been protesting outside education minister Vijay Inder Singla’s residence in Sangrur for over five months.With the government failing to listen to their demands, they have installed banners outside their houses, seeking answers on the status of their jobs and unemployment allowances. They had also opposed Congress candidates in the last Lok Sabha elections while raising the slogan of “no employment, no vote”.Sukhwinder Singh Dhilwan, a senior leader of the front, said: “We have decided to boycott Congress ministers and leaders. All unemployed youths are installing banners seeking answers from Capt Amarinder Singh. We will not allow entry of Congress leaders in our houses during elections.”Such banners have been installed at Harigarh, Jagjitpura, Gumti, Thuliwal, Dhilwan, Bhattlan, Dirba and Bhawanigarh besides the district headquarters in Sangrur and Barnala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/unemployed-teachers-cane-charged-in-patiala-150-detained-101623768607019.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid-19 tally rises, 228 new cases recorded in past 24 hours||Delhi on Tuesday recorded a slight increase in Covid-19 infections with 228 fresh cases and 12 related fatalities, according to the health bulletin.Even as the fourth wave diminishes in the national capital, the fresh infections and positivity rate have seen a slight increase from the previous day's figures.The national capital had recorded 131 Covid-19 cases, the lowest since February 22, and 16 fatalities on Monday, while the positivity rate dropped to 0.22%, according to a health department bulletin.The total number of tests conducted in the last 24 hours stood at 71,291. The cumulative case tally stands at 14,31,498, while the total number of fatalities stand at 24,851.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-19-tally-rises-228-new-cases-recorded-in-last-24-hours-101623766948241.html
15-06-2021||Pune||Pune mayor shown black flags for monsoon ill-preparedness||Pune: The residents of Bibwewadi, led by a corporator, showed black flags to mayor Muralidhar Mohol accusing the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) of its failure to address flood-related works for the past two years. Those staying along the nullahs and nearby residential societies have suffered damage to houses and property during the flash floods in the past. The mayor was also shown black flags when he visited Sahakarnagar, Pune cantonment, Kothrud, Kasba peth and Parvati areas to check monsoon preparedness works. Prashant Jagtap, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) city unit president who led the protests, termed the PMC administration as “anti-people and callous”. He said PMC has failed to carry out nullah-cleaning activity leaving residents at the mercy of monsoon fury. Anil Mohite, a resident, said, “We have not seen any nullah-cleaning and construction of fencing wall works being done during April and May. The PMC administration and elected representatives are least concerned about our lives.” Social worker Nitin Kadam from Parvati said, “Houses on the banks of Ambil Odha were badly affected due to rains on October 21 in 2019 and later also. PMC has been lax and citing Covid as an excuse.” The residents of Gururaj Housing Society and adjoining areas of Padmavati and Sahakarnagar faced a tough time as water breached Ambil Odha and entered into their society on Tuesday. The September 25-26 flash floods was the result of a wall collapse surrounding the Ambil Odha. Environmentalists and urban planning experts stated that key causes for the severe overnight deluge at Ambil Odha was due to reduction of natural water passageways and mismanagement of space around a stormwater drain in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-mayor-shown-black-flags-for-monsoon-illpreparedness-101623767825517.html
15-06-2021||Kolkata||'Pledge allegiance to ruling party’: Village head’s diktat to ISF workers in West Bengal||A panchayat pradhan West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas stoked controversy on Tuesday by issuing a diktat which said that people pledging allegiance to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) will get work under the 100-days' job scheme.Modasser Hossain, the panchayat head of Bhogali-II panchayat in Bhangar, on Monday said that those who worked for the Indian Secular Front (ISF) during the West Bengal assembly legislative elections should pledge allegiance to the TMC. “Those working for other parties have to surrender to the ruling party if they are willing to find work under the scheme,” Hossain said.“Activists who had worked for other parties during the elections after having taken all facilities from us will not be considered (for the scheme) unless they surrender to us. Those who worked for the ISF during elections will have to show their allegiance to the ruling party,” he further added.The ISF said that political leanings should not be a criteria in such matters. Bhangar MLA Naushad Siddiqui who emerged victorious by defeating the TMC in Bhangar said that elected representatives need to work for everyone despite their political leanings while criticising Hossain’s assertion.Incidents of political violence following the end of West Bengal elections has led to loss of lives and property in many parts of state, mainly between the TMC and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). At least 16 people have died due to post-poll violence in Bengal. The Supreme Court has asked the Bengal government to rehabilitate people who have lost their properties or have been displaced from their homes due to violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/pledge-allegiance-to-ruling-party-village-head-s-diktat-to-isf-workers-in-west-bengal-trinamool-congress-mamata-banerjee-suvendu-adhikari-101623766482271.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Was Chirag Paswan betrayed? Latest updates on crisis within LJP||Chirag Paswan, isolated in Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and removed from the post of national president of the LJP on Tuesday, suspended the five rebel Lok Sabha MPs who revolted and chose Pashupati Kumar Paras as their leader.Paras, Chirag Paswan's uncle and the younger brother of Ram Vilas Paswan, is believed to have led the coup against his nephew with the help from Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).A rift between the two came to light when Paras stood against Paswan's decision to break away from the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar election last year. While LJP ended up winning only one seat, it was responsible for cutting out on the vote share of Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal United (JDU).Rebels thrown outChirag Paswan suspended the five rebel MPs from his party a day after they replaced him as the party's parliamentary leader with Paras.A national executive meeting was held & decided to remove all the 5 MPs from the party: Raju Tiwari, LJP leader pic.twitter.com/Kyfre9zUT2LJP leader Raju Tiwari said that the five MPs were given notice to which they did not respond. They were suspended after a virtual meeting of the party's national executive was held. Paswan, who was later removed from the post of LJP national president, had taken over the reigns of the party after his father and LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan died in October last year.Sidelined, Chirag tried to meet uncle and salvage situationChirag Paswan went to meet Paras in New Delhi on Monday. However, according to news agency PTI, Paswan was only allowed inside his uncle's residence after waiting for some time in his car. Chirag Paswan's cousin and MP Prince Raj also lives at Paras's house. Neither Paras nor Prince was seen outside their residence as Paswan waited.Prince Raj is also one of the rebels who revolted against Paswan.Who are the rebels? Along with Pashupati Kumar Paras, Prince Raj, Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Keshar revolted against Paswan. The sixth MP of the party is Paswan himself.“There are six MPs in our party. It was the desire of five MPs to save our party. So, I’ve not broken the party, I’ve saved it. Chirag Paswan is my nephew as well as the party's national president. I have no objection against him,” Paras said on Monday.Surajbhan Singh - the new working presidentAfter Chirag Paswan was removed from the top post, Surajbhan Singh was made the national working president. The 56-year-old LJP leader was also authorised to convene a meeting of party's national council within five days to elect its new national president.Is it fair to blame Nitish Kumar for LJP split?Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal United (JDU), an ally of the BJP-led NDA in the state, faced a setback in the 2019 elections when Chirag Paswan decided to break away from the alliance. While the LJP won only one seat out of the total 243, Paswan's decision resulted in a negative impact on JDU's vote share, which in turn resulted in its weak position in the NDA alliance.Following this, a few JDU leaders were reported to have gone behind the back of Paswan to approach LJP MPs and Paras and encourage them to oust their leader from the post of parliamentary party leader and party president.The BJP, however, has maintained a silence on the happenings so far. “What do we have to do with whatever is happening? It is an internal matter of the LJP.” said Bihar BJP president, Sanjay Jaiswal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/was-chirag-paswan-betrayed-latest-updates-on-crisis-within-ljp-101623760933111.html
15-06-2021||Other||‘Enforce protocols, rebuild image’: Goa’s tourism sector tells state govt||Tourism stakeholders in Goa have called on the state government to undertake an image rebuilding exercise to undo the negative publicity received by the state during the last few months which, they say, has affected the image of Goa as a safe and secure destination, HT has learnt.Both tourists and locals need to feel safe for the industry to restart, the stakeholders said.“We at the TTAG feel that we need to rebuild the image of Goa in the eyes and minds of all tourists. The TTAG along with Goa Tourism need to work together to undo the negative publicity received by the State during the last two to three months which has affected the image of Goa as a safe and secure destination,” Nilesh Shah, president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), said in a memorandum submitted to the chief minister.The TTAG is a body of industry representatives, its members called on Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday and suggested that as part of the brand rebuilding exercise, a negative Covid test or a vaccination certificate should be made mandatory for tourists entering Goa at least until October, while large events like music festivals should not be allowed until at least March next year.Among the measures suggested was deploying personnel who will strictly enforce the protocol at all borders, check posts, railway stations, airports, bus stands, etc who should be properly trained with strict penalties for any mistakes and negligence of duty.“Entry into Goa (at least) till October 2021 should be allowed based on a compulsory RT-PCR test or antibody test or full vaccination certification or be made to undergo rapid testing on payment at the border check post or railway or bus station. There should be no entry without the above measures,” the TTAG said.“No high capacity events such as Hunar Haat (exhibition), Sunburn (music festival), religious or entertainment should be allowed till March 2022. These events are super spreaders,” the TTAG said.“All tourism-related businesses should only take 50-75% of their actual carrying capacity for at least 6 months to ensure social distancing. The actual carrying capacity of each premise should be clearly displayed and the reduced capacity should be stated,” the TTAG said.The TTAG has asked the government to embark on a publicity campaign to let the message go out that the state is safe to visit -- but only after measures like quarantine centres, mechanisms to enforce protocols and adequate supply of vaccines, oxygen, beds, testing centres with quick results, etc are put in place.“We urge you, your office, the home department and the tourism department to please undertake the above measures at the earliest to ensure that the image of Goa is re-built and so that tourists and locals will both feel safe,” the TTAG said.Several ministers have weighed in on how and when Goa should reopen for tourism with some suggesting that only vaccinated tourists should be allowed to enter, while others have suggested that tourism should not be allowed until everybody in the state is completely vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/enforce-protocols-rebuild-image-goa-s-tourism-sector-tells-state-govt-101623766331038.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination in Punjab: Teachers, students to get jabbed from June 21||Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday directed the health authorities to start vaccination of teachers, non-teaching staff and students in the 18-45 age group at all schools and colleges from June 21 to enable educational institutes in the state to open safely. He also directed the department to ensure that all persons with co-morbidities as well as disabilities, government employees, judicial officers and lawyers are vaccinated on priority. “Staff in hospitality industry, parlours, service outlets, including shops, restaurants and gyms, should also be vaccinated at the earliest,” he said at the Covid review meeting. Expressing concern over the gender gap in vaccination, the CM directed the health experts to identify the reasons and rectify the situation. He also ordered ward-level and village-level campaigns in urban and rural areas that saw higher positivity or mortality rates in order to prioritise them for vaccination. Claiming that Punjab was perhaps the only state in the country to have put in place a vaccination strategy for the 18-45 age group that prioritises the poor and the vulnerable, he expressed happiness that almost 1 lakh co-morbid youth and 3.5 lakh young construction and other workers had been vaccinated for free by the state government. Health secretary Hussan Lal said the number of Covishield doses received by the state so far for the 18-45 age group stood at 5,86,000, of which 5,30,610 had been used, leaving a balance stock of 55,390. Of 1,50,850 Covaxin doses received, 66,040 have been utilised. Experts to study effectiveness of vaccineThe chief minister also directed the expert group headed by Dr Gagandeep Kang to start studying the effectiveness of vaccines in the context of the new variants of the coronavirus.“The month-wise whole genome sequencing has shown that in March, 95% of the problem was due to the UK variant. In April, the Delta variant started increasing, and became dominant, reaching nearly 90%, in May,” he said, adding, “It was a matter of concern that the Brazil variant (B1) had increased from 1% in April and now stood at 8%.”The CM underlined the need to get more samples analysed to have a clearer picture and formulate a proper strategy. The state’s adviser, Dr KK Talwar, said an expert group was being constituted to analyse the audit of patients who had been on ventilator during the second wave to provide learnings for the future. Dr Talwar is making efforts to arrange for genome sampling at Patiala’s Rajindra Hospital.Capt also ordered tracking of all black fungus (mucormycosis) cases, which currently stand at 441 in the state. Of these, 51 cases have already been cured and 308 are undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-in-punjab-teachers-students-to-get-jabbed-from-june-21-101623765486199.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab lockdown: Restaurants, cinemas, gyms to open at 50% capacity||With Punjab’s Covid-19 positivity rate dropping to 2%, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced easing of lockdown restrictions and allowed restaurants and other eating joints as well as cinemas and gyms to open at 50% capacity from Wednesday. The chief minister also announced an increase in the cap on gatherings, including weddings and cremations, to 50 people. Under the new guidelines, which will remain in effect till June 25 — when they will be reviewed — daily night curfew will be in place from 8pm to 5am and weekend curfew from 8pm on Saturday to 5am on Monday across the state. Earlier, the night curfew was from 7pm to 6am. However, all essential activities, including those covered under the existing exemptions, will remain unaffected by curfew restrictions, stated an official release. The CM, while chairing a virtual Covid review meeting, gave the order for opening all restaurants (including in hotels), cafes, coffee shops, fast food outlets, dhabas, cinemas, gyms at maximum 50% of their seating capacity, subject to all their employees having received at least one dose of vaccination. AC buses can also ply with 50% occupancy. However, bars, pubs and taverns will continue to remain closed. Similarly, all educational institutions will remain shut, the spokesperson said. The district authorities have been asked to determine opening timings of non-essential shops, including on Sunday, on the basis of the local situation, while ensuring that crowding is avoided. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan cited a University of Cambridge Judge Business School report of June 14, on Growth of Infection in Punjab, according to which new cases are on a downward trajectory across all districts. “Newly reported Covid-19 cases are likely to decline to about 210 per day by June 28,” she said. The projected number of deaths by June 28 stands at 21. The state had hit its second wave peak on May 8, with 9,100 cases, which had come down to a low of 629 on June 14.Key decisionsLockdown will remain in effect till June 25; night curfew from 8pm to 5am; weekend curfew to continueRestaurants, other food outlets, cinemas, gyms to open at maximum 50% seating capacity, if all employees have received at least one vaccine doseAC buses can ply with 50% occupancyBars, pubs and taverns will continue to remain closedAll educational institutions will remain shutDistrict authorities to determine opening timings of non-essential shops||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-lockdown-restaurants-cinemas-gyms-to-open-at-50-capacity-101623765426020.html
15-06-2021||Jaipur||Out on bail, rape accused rapes same minor girl in Jaipur||A 17-year-old rape victim was allegedly raped by the same accused here, police said on Tuesday.The incident occurred on Monday night, they said, adding the man has absconded.“He took her to a house in Bagru and raped her. The girl was rescued after a complaint was made by her parents,” Station House Officer (SHO) Rajesh Bapna said, adding a case was lodged at Kardhani police station in this regard.Earlier, two cases of abduction and rape were registered against the accused on the complaint of the same girl.According to police, the man was arrested in the previous case and a chargesheet filed against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/out-on-bail-rape-accused-rapes-same-minor-girl-in-jaipur-101623763632863.html
15-06-2021||Dehradun||Sachin Pilot meets Rajasthan Congress co-in-charge in Haridwar||Amid political uproar in Rajasthan, Congress leader and former Union minister Sachin Pilot took time to express condolences to Haridwar-based Uttarakhand Congress MLA Qazi Nizamuddin on the demise of his mother. Nizamuddin is also co-in-charge of the Rajasthan Congress.“I have come for a personal visit to express condolence to Qazi ji on his mother’s recent demise. We have good family relations with the Nizamuddin family and my father also used to meet Qazi Mohammad Mohiuddin, Qazi ji’s father,” Pilot said.Qazi Nizamuddin’s mother Sayedda Nafisa Khatun (70) passed away on June 4 in Roorkee after suffering heart-related ailments.Both the leaders held close door meeting at Nizamuddin’s Manglaur-based residence and both refrained from speaking to media on political affairs in particular dissidence in Rajasthan state and party politics.मेरी ईश्वर से प्रार्थना है कि दिवंगत आत्मा को शांति प्रदान करें। इस दुखद घड़ी में मेरी संवेदनाएं आपके व आपके परिवार के साथ हैं। https://t.co/wjEdJWRkLzIn capacity of being Rajasthan Congress co-in-charge, the three-time legislator Qazi Nizamuddin is said to have a good rapport with Sachin Pilot. Qazi’s family holds good political ground in Uttarakhand and western Uttar Pradesh. His father Mohiuddin was a five-time legislator in Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly.Shortly after the meeting, Nizamuddin took to Twitter and shared pictures of his meeting with Pilot and thanked him for his visit.“Senior Congress leader Shri @SachinPilot ji came to my residence today. He paid tribute to my Ammi ji and encouraged us to rise from grief. We are grateful to him for giving us courage in this hour of grief,” he tweeted.“I pray to God to give peace to the departed soul. My condolences are with you and your family in this sad time,” Pilot posted in response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/sachin-pilot-meets-rajasthan-congress-co-in-charge-in-haridwar-101623763509192.html
15-06-2021||Patna||LJP national committee in Bihar expels 5 rebel MPs, decides Chirag Paswan would continue heading the party||A rift within the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) in Bihar appears imminent, as the party’s national executive committee expelled its group of five rebel members of Parliament (MP) following a meeting headed by Chirag Paswan. The committee also declared Paswan as the leader authorised to take decisions for the upcoming assembly elections.In a tweet, the party said that the resolution was passed to remove the five MPs for anti-party activities. It also shared a copy of the resolution which said, “The National Executive Committee has unanimously decided to remove Shri Pashupati Kumar Paras MP, Smt. Beena Devi MP, Chaudhary Mehboob Ali Kaiser MP, Shri Chandan Singh MP and Shri Prince Raj MP from the primary membership of Lok Janshakti Party with immediate effect.”लोक जनशक्ति पार्टी के राष्ट्रीय कार्यकारिणी की बैठक आज की गई जिसमें पार्टी के 5 सांसदों को पार्टी विरोधी गतिविधि में शामिल होने के लिए सर्वसम्मत से निष्कासित किया गया। pic.twitter.com/MLLVEgSBRz“The National President of LJP Shri Chirag Paswan is authorized to take all decisions in the coming assembly election on behalf of the party,” the resolution further said. Apart from the expulsions, the committee also discussed the party’s course of action in the upcoming state assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand and Punjab.LJP leader Raju Tiwari also confirmed that the five MPs have been removed from the party. “A national executive meeting was held and [it was] decided to remove all the 5 MPs from the party,” news agency ANI quoted Tiwari as saying on Tuesday. When asked if the party’s leader Chirag Paswan was betrayed, Tiwari acknowledged it positively and said “There is a process of doing things in a party. This will be called a betrayal,” ANI reported.The decision by the committee came after another similar emergency meeting took place at the residence of the party’s new parliamentary leader Pashupati Kumar Paras on Tuesday afternoon, in which Chirag Paswan was removed from his post as the party’s national president.Also read | From leadership aspirations to losing LJP, how Chirag Paswan got outmaneuveredEarlier on Monday, the entire series of events started unfolding when five of the six LJP MPs (now expelled) intended to remove Paswan as the leader of the parliamentary party and replace him with Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras. They also conveyed this decision to Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla. The MPs had said that they were unhappy with Paswan’s style of functioning. Paras, who is also Paswan’s uncle, said that he had nothing against his nephew and said he only wants to save the party and not break it.When asked if he intends to merge LJP with the ruling Janata Dal (United), Paras said “This is 100% wrong. LJP is our party, the organisation is strong in Bihar. I was with NDA and I will continue to be a part of the alliance.”Meanwhile, the primary opposition, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress have blamed chief minister Nitish Kumar for the coup in LJP. Notable, Paras had praised Nitish Kumar and called him a ‘Vikas Purush’ earlier on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ljp-national-committee-in-bihar-expels-5-rebel-mps-decides-chirag-paswan-would-continue-heading-the-party-101623761714561.html
15-06-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Align sustainable devp goals with Pune’s civic challenges||A few days ago, NITI Aayog released the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) India Index and Dashboard 2020–21. It told us that Kerala is ranked first, and Maharashtra is among the top five states. India is ranked 120 out of 165 countries in an independent global report and index using the SDG framework, prepared by a team led by Jeffrey Sachs and the Sustainable Development Solutions Network. We have a lot to do!All United Nations’ member states adopted the Sustainable Development Goals in 2015. Developed through a global consultative process, these 17 goals and 169 related targets are to be achieved by 2030. The goals are: no poverty, zero hunger, good health and well-being, quality education, gender equality, clean water and sanitation, affordable and clean energy, decent work and economic growth; industry, innovation and infrastructure; reduced inequalities; sustainable cities and communities; responsible consumption and production; climate action; life below water; life on land; peace, justice and strong institutions; and strengthening global partnerships for the goals.The goals are relevant not only at the country level, but for cities as well. How India’s cities develop is highly consequential for global sustainable development. Consider this: globally, 4.2 billion people live in cities, about 54% of the world population. Of these, 451 million are urban dwellers in India. So, over 10% of the world’s urban population lives in Indian cities. By contrast, the US is about 82% urban with 269 million urban dwellers of its total population of 327 million. If Indian cities taken together were to be considered a country, this “Indian city country” would be bigger than the US.If monitoring and measuring make us behave more sustainably, then Indian cities should prepare local SDG reports. The NITI Aayog report too refers to responsibilities at all levels of government. A couple of years ago, a mapping of municipal functions with the SDGs was done in a pilot initiative in Patiala. However, a formal framework has not yet been provided to cities by the central or state governments for how best to contribute to the SDGs with their municipal functions. It is admirable that since the 1990s, the Pune Municipal Corporation has been regularly publishing its annual Environment Status Report (ESR). It uses a framework of Drivers-Pressure-Status-Impact-Response and is a handy reference for the city’s performance on air quality, water, waste, and aspects such as the number of gardens and vehicular growth, etc. The ESR gives us the trends and status of environmental quality and is published around the end of July every year, so look out for it. A Pune SDG Report is perhaps now called for. The ESR framework provides the status, but the SDG framework also provides desired directions for change and has targets and indicators. Currently, when the ESR highlights that the city’s air and water are polluted, the municipal plans and budgets don’t necessarily incorporate corrective actions. The SDGs targets and indicators don’t all neatly match with municipal functions. Nor do all municipal functions directly fit in. But, that is ok. The important thing is to critically look at and deliberate upon the various indicators of sustainable development and check how well-aligned with sustainability needs, or not, are the city government’s policies and projects. Often, several targets are linked. For example, the SWaCH Cooperative has been working to improve the livelihood arrangements (SDG 1.4) and work conditions (SDG 8) of a highly vulnerable, predominantly female workforce (SDG 5), which helps reduce inequalities (SDG 10). SWaCH encourages doorstep collection of source-segregated waste (SDG 11), improves the retrieval of recyclables, thus enhancing sustainable production and consumption (SDG 12), and avoids waste-burning and consequent air pollution (SDG 11, SDG 3.9.1). By using a non-motorized collection system, SWaCH avoids carbon emissions and support climate action (SDG 13).Converting the SWaCH model to a contractor-driven model for corporate profits would likely reduce the overall SDG performance of the city. It’s up to us to use tools like SDG indices and frameworks to improve well-being, especially of those who are the poorest and most marginalised, and to make our footprint on the earth lighter. While governments should improve sustainability performance and monitoring systems, the public don’t have to wait for that to happen to do their bit. Individuals, communities, and CSR-supported partnerships can (and already do) think, learn, plan and act for sustainability. Let’s strengthen our own contribution and ask for the city government to do so too. Sanskriti Menon is senior programme director, Centre for Environment Education. She writes on urban sustainability and participatory governance. Views are personal. She can be reached at civic.sanskriti@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-align-sustainable-devp-goals-with-pune-s-civic-challenges-101623760805575.html
15-06-2021||Other||Case filed in Haridwar over sale of fake favipiravir medicine||Police in Haridwar have registered a case against unnamed people for the alleged sale of fake antiviral drug favipiravir, which is used to treat Covid-19 patients.Life Max Cancer Laboratories owner Ashwini Garg has filed a complaint in this regard saying fake favipiravir was being sold under the company’s logo and brand name.Lakhpat Singh Butola, a local police officer, said when the batch number and wrappers of the drugs were checked they were found to be manipulated and fake. “We have lodged a case on the complaint of company owner Ashwani Garg and started probing the matter. From chemists to suppliers, we are checking and interrogating people to reach the accused.” Singh said a case has been lodged under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 276 (sale of a drug as a different drug or preparation) and under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act.In May, seven people were arrested for running a factory producing fake remdesivir injections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-filed-in-haridwar-over-sale-of-fake-favipiravir-medicine-101623759125782.html
15-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka BJP in-charge Arun Singh to visit state on June 16; party core committee meeting on June 18: Minister||Karnataka’s minister of rural development and Panchayat Raj KS Eshwarappa on Tuesday said that the party’s in-charge Arun Singh will meet with the state BJP ministers on June 16 (Wednesday) and June 17 (Thursday). He also said that there will be a core committee meeting on June 18 (Friday).Eshwarappa also said that the purpose of Singh’s visit was to listen to the BJP MLAs about their opinions on chief minister BS Yediyurappa and also their grievances.“BJP's state in-charge Arun Singh is coming to Karnataka on Wednesday. There'll be [a] meeting of state ministers on Wednesday and Thursday headed by Singh. MLAs will present their opinions on CM BS Yediyurappa and their grievances,” news agency ANI quoted Eshwarappa as saying. “There will be a core committee meeting on 18th June. It's BJP, we believe in democracy. Central leaders are sending Arun Singh to listen to the leaders here in Karnataka. It's not like Congress where no one listens or asks,” he further added.Also read | Karnataka to unlock in phases from today; curbs to continue in 11 districtsThe minister’s remarks came amidst the simmering leadership issue within the ranks of the Karnataka BJP. Despite the party’s efforts to put the matter to rest, talks about leadership change in the state keeps emerging. Some senior leaders of the BJP like Arun Singh, national general secretary CT Ravi and Union minister Prahlad Joshi have expressed their support to the chief minister BS Yediyurappa and have denied speculations about removing him from the post.“Yediyurappa is doing a good job as the CM, he is working hard along with Ministers and legislators, [and the] organisation is also functioning well. He (Yediyurappa) will continue (as CM),” Singh had said earlier on June 10 (Thursday), news agency PTI reported.Earlier in the day, Yediyurappa also confirmed Singh’s three-day visit to the state from Wednesday. “Arun Singh is Karnataka in-charge, he is coming to the state, he will talk to all legislators and Members of Parliament, there are no confusions, he has said anyone can meet him. He will gather all the information in detail... he will be there for a couple of days. I will also be with him and give all required cooperation,” PTI quoted the chief minister as saying, on Tuesday.Yediyurappa had also said that controlling Covid-19 in the state was his only focus despite a few state legislators having reportedly visited Delhi last month and sought appointments with the party’s high-command. “The only thing before me is Covid, controlling it and protecting the interest of the people is my priority. If some has gone somewhere (referring to some legislators going to Delhi to meet high command), they have been given the right answers (by the high command) and sent back,” PTI quoted the chief minister as saying, earlier on May 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-bjp-in-charge-arun-singh-to-visit-state-on-june-16-party-core-committee-meeting-on-june-18-minister-ks-eshwarappa-101623754736054.html
15-06-2021||Other||Free petrol to those taking Covid vaccine in Jharkhand city||A unique vaccination camp was held in Chakradharpur city in West Singhbhum district of Jharkhand where those taking the Covid-19 vaccine shot were given a litre of petrol free. This comes amid vaccine hesitancy among the tribals.Monday’s camp was jointly organised by the city unit of the Marwari Yuva Manch (MYM) and Indian Oil Corporation (IOC). State women and child development and social security minister Joba Majhi inaugurated the camp in the presence of the West Singhbhum administration officials.“We held this special vaccination drive in collaboration IOC. A total of 240 persons were given coupons for 1 litre free petrol after they got themselves vaccinated. The idea was to motivate people for inoculation,” Nitesh Kumar Bagaria, MYM-Chakradharpur, said on Tuesday. On the occasion, minister Joba Majhi said, “Every citizen must protect themselves against Covid-19 by getting vaccinated urgently. They should not pay any heed to rumours over vaccination.” Also Read | Jharkhand logs 151 fresh Covid-19 cases, one new deathSo far, West Singhbhum has seen 134 Covid fatalities while 5,086 deaths have been reported from the state. Convincing tribals to get the vaccine shot has been a task in West Singhbhum. Health workers have reportedly been attacked in a few villages when they went there to vaccinate people.Deputy commissioner Ananya Mittal said at a meeting with village heads at government school in Bandgaon block of the district, “Vaccination percentage is very low at just 9% in Bandgaon block. The vaccination rate in West Singhbhum is 30% whereas 60% people in neighbouring East Singhbhum district have been vaccinated already. I urge people not to pay any heed to rumours about vaccination.” Meanwhile, the Chaibasa unit of the Lions Club and Chaibasa Gurudwara jointly started a vaccination camp from Monday where lucky draw coupons are being given to the people after getting vaccinated.“This camp will run till June 20 where people are being vaccinated with the cooperation of the district administration. People will be given attractive gifts on the basis of the lucky coupon lottery,” Kunal Saraf, former president of Lions Club-Chaibasa, said, adding that the focus is on the people in the nearby slums.To be sure, while overall vaccine supplies may be there at the state level, individual vaccination centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/free-petrol-to-those-taking-covid-vaccine-in-jharkhand-city-101623754505196.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police former DCP Balkar Singh joins AAP||Former deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Balkar Singh joined the Aam Aadmi Party in Jalandhar on Tuesday. AAP Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha inducted him into the party during a press conference. Party sources said Balkar Singh is likely to contest the assembly election from Kartarpur consituency of Jalandhar district. Also read: Sukhbir Singh Badal detained amid huge protest outside Amarinder Singh’s houseChadha said: “People from every section of Punjab are joining the Aam Aadmi Party, be it government employees or sportspersons.” He said the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government had jeopardized the future of two lakh Dalit students in the state as it had not paid the fees of these students to colleges and now the students won’t be able to take the exams. Former DCP Balkar Singh said that he was impressed with the development works and policies of the party’s national convener, Arvind Kejriwal, and the AAP government in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-former-dcp-balkar-singh-joins-aap-101623754445530.html
15-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Police arrest 10 in Chittorgarh lynching case||The Rajasthan police said it has arrested 10 persons till Tuesday for allegedly lynching a 25-year old man in Chittorgarh and severely injuring other on suspicion of smuggling cattle late on Sunday night. Begun circle officer Rajendra Singh said a murder case has been registered against 19 persons including the 10 who have been arrested, and efforts are on to nab the rest.He said the arrested villagers have told police that they started chasing a pick-up van carrying oxens, believing hearsay that the cattle inside were being smuggled. A crowd of 20-25 people started beating the victims after the vehicle was apprehended.Though the post-mortem report is awaited, Singh said the deceased identified as Babu Bhil, son of Dhanna Bhil, received injuries on private parts. The other victim Pintu Bhil, son of Var Singh Bhil, is under treatment and recovering.The incident happened on the intervening night of June13-14, when the two were driving towards their village in Madhya Pradesh after purchasing three oxen from Begun town in Chittorgarh district. They were intercepted near Bilkhanda by a group of locals who were wielding sticks. Police said the purchase of oxen has been verified with the seller.Rajasthan was rocked by a mob lynching incident in 2017 when a 55-year-old dairy farmer named Pehlu Khan was beaten to death by a mob near Behror in Alwar district on the Jaipur-Delhi national highway. Khan was transporting cows to his hometown Nuh in Haryana after buying them at a cattle fair in Jaipur. The mob thrashed Khan and his son, accusing them of smuggling cattle even though he produced papers to prove that the consignment was legal. Khan died at a private hospital two days later.In 2019, the new Congress government led by Ashok Gehlot introduced an anti-mob lynching law in the form of the Rajasthan Protection from Lynching Bill, 2019. Under it, lynching offences were to be tried by a sessions’ court and be cognisable, non-bailable and non-compoundable.According to the new law, a person who commits an act of lynching will face rigorous life imprisonment and a fine of ₹1 lakh to ₹5 lakh. In case of grievous hurt, the punishment will be jail up to 10 years and a fine of ₹25,000 to ₹3 lakh, and for other injuries, the punishment is a jail term of up to seven years and a fine of ₹1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-police-arrest-10-in-chittorgarh-lynching-case-101623752749656.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala gang rivalry: Man shot dead on street||A man was shot dead by two assailants near Hathikhana Mandir in Ambala Cantt on Tuesday. The CCTV footage of the incident that occurred around 8am shows that multiple shots were fired by the motorcycle-borne assailants, who fired at the man, identified as Jeetu, on his back until he collapsed on the road.Also read: Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Badal detained during protest outside Punjab CM’s houseWhile the men were firing, commuters were seen passing by the spot in vehicles, but no one stopped. Police said that eight shots were fired. Jeetu was rushed to the local civil hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Deputy superintendent of police (Cantt) Ram Kumar said that Jeetu had come near the temple to feed his cows fodder when the incident occurred. “Jeetu was attacked earlier too by members of a gang led by Saurabh Mau. Investigation is on,” the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-gang-rivalry-man-shot-dead-on-street-101623752629575.html
15-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand logs 151 fresh Covid-19 cases, one new death||Jharkhand recorded only one Covid fatality during the last 24 hours, pushing the death toll to 5,085, a health department bulletin said on Tuesday.The Covid-19 death was reported from East Singhbhum district.The state also reported 151 new Covid-19 cases which took the tally 3,43,609, the bulletin said.The new cases were reported from East Singhbhum (27), Dhanbad (23) and Hazaribag (15).The mortality rate in the state dipped at 1.47 per cent but remained higher than the national average of 1.20 per cent.The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state has improved to 97.62 per cent, better than the national average of 95.40 per cent.The state now has 3,062 active Covid-19 cases, while 3,35,462 patients have recovered from the infection including 483 during the last 24 hours, the bulletin said.Altogether, 91,40,410 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, including 38,711 since Monday, it added.In a bid to combat the second wave of Covid-19, the government has extended the lockdown like restrictions in the state till June 17.Several other restrictions, including seven-day mandatory quarantine for people visiting the state, have been in place.The state has also suspended the operation of the intra and inter-city bus services and restricted the maximum number of attendees in a wedding event to 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-logs-151-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-new-death-101623752380007.html
15-06-2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: 2 held with 4 pistols, revolver, 310 bullets in Indore||Two people have been arrested allegedly with three pistols, a revolver, four magazines and 310 live bullets in Indore in Madhya Pradesh, police said on Monday. Mohammad Hussain (45), a mechanic, and Akram Shah, hailing from Ratlam district, were held from Gautampura here on Sunday following inputs received from Rajasthan police, Additional Superintendent of Police Puneet Gehlod said. “We got clues that arms and ammunition were going to be sold to interstate criminals. Shah has cases of murder and attempt to murder against his name. His role in firing outside a jailer's house in Rajasthan has also come to light. They have been remanded in police custody for six days," Gehlod said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/madhya-pradesh-2-held-with-4-pistols-revolver-310-bullets-in-indore-101623751125780.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Rebel BSP leaders to join Samajwadi Party, says Akhilesh Yadav||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said rebel Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) lawmakers will join his Samajwadi Party (SP) amid reports that nine of them have met him. He acknowledged the meeting did take place but did not elaborate on what transpired and how many rebels met him.“They (BSP rebels) will join Samajwadi Party soon,” Yadav told TV news channel Aaj Tak. He added many senior leaders have met him and others were in touch with him. “...they want to join SP and want to contest elections...”There was no immediate response from the BSP, which contested the 2019 national polls in Uttar Pradesh in alliance with the SP.Also Read | Akhilesh takes a swipe at BJP, says UP suffering from political maladyAkhilesh Yadav said the people of Uttar Pradesh, where elections are due next year, want the Bharatiya Janata Party government out. He added the people are distressed over alleged corruption, Covid mismanagement and that the SP will win.Yadav ruled out any alliance with bigger parties. “The experience with both Congress (in 2017 assembly polls) and BSP (in 2019 Lok Sabha polls) was bitter. We will ally with small parties.”He said there have been no talks with Om Prakash Rajbhar of Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party or All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen of Asaduddin Owaisi. Yadav said if any small party wants to talk, the SP is open to the idea.Yadav said the SP will not field a candidate against his uncle, Shivpal Yadav, who heads Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party-Lohia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rebel-bsp-leaders-to-join-sp-akhilesh-yadav-101623751249280.html
15-06-2021||Other||Amid pandemic, a building called Quarantine in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar||The term quarantine was not well known until last year when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the world and isolation centres came up everywhere to prevent the spread of the disease. But an over 100-year-old heritage building known locally as “quarantine” has been a popular spot at Malthaun in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district. Residents say the British colonialists constructed the building and it is known as “quarantine” as it was used for the treatment and isolation of Spanish Flu infected people.The 1918-19 Spanish flu pandemic was one of the worst in history and spread across the world. It is estimated to have affected about 500 million people, or one-third of the world’s population, and killed at least 50 million globally, according to the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Rameshwar Prasad Tiwari, 87, a local resident, said his parents would tell him when Laal Bukhar (Spanish Flu) was spreading in the world, this building was used to isolate people and to provide treatment to the infected people. “When I used to share this story with my sons and grandsons, they used to say how can someone be locked in a building for treatment, But after Covid 19 struck, they started believing me.”DP Tiwari, a local schoolteacher, said they would play around the “quarantine” and elders would tell them how it was used to isolate cattle and people during the Spanish Flu pandemic. “For us, it was just a heritage building of the British era. Last year, we understood the importance of this place when Covid 19 started spreading in India and the state government started quarantine centres.”Officials said for two years during the Spanish Flu pandemic, the building was used for containing it.Ajay Dandotiya, a veterinary doctor, said Malthaun was an entry point to the erstwhile Central Province and Berar State. “It was constructed for cattle as merchants from Kashmir to Kanyakumari used to come with cattle and sheep for selling them here. But to stop the spread of foot and mouth, zoonotic, and other viral diseases, cattle used to be kept in isolation at this centre and merchants used to live in tents nearby for seven to 14 days.”Dandotiya said when the Spanish Flu broke, the building was used to isolate people, who would come from other states. “A team of doctors treated the people in the camps set up in the nearby ground. However, we do not have any documental proof of that. But we believe this strongly as locals have been sharing this story for decades.”Neelkamal Rajput, a former local body representative, said they realised the importance of this building after Covid. He added the building is now in ruins and they have requested the state government to restore it and develop it.Animal husbandry joint director RP Yadav said the building belongs to their department and was used as a veterinary clinic to vaccinate cattle till 1990. “Now, we have sent a proposal to start the process of restoration of this historically important building.”Sagar collector Deepak Singh said they will restore the building and develop it more to inform people that isolation is not new but an old age practise for preventing the spread of any infection in both animals and human beings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-pandemic-a-building-called-quarantine-in-mp-s-sagar-101623750829352.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Bihar Unlock 2: Shops to open till 6 pm, night curfew duration reduced||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Tuesday that shops and offices will be allowed to operate for one extra hour from Wednesday and night curfew will be cut short by four hours in the second phase of Unlock in recognition of the state’s improving Covid-19 situation.Kumar, who earlier in the day chaired a meeting of the crisis management group with ministers and senior officials of the state, said the relaxations will remain in effect till June 22.“For the next one week, office timings will be till 5 pm, however, all government and private offices will function with 50% of their strength,” Kumar said. Offices were allowed to function till 4 pm during Unlock 1, which was announced last week on June 8 after 35-days long lockdown in the state.The lockdown was clamped on May 5 and was extended four times, the last being on June 2, to contain a record rise in Covid-19 infections in the state, which began in April and continued till May end, paralysing the healthcare system and resulting into deaths of hundreds of patients while the state struggled to augment number of beds, oxygen supply and essential medicines while containing black marketing of life saving drugs and equipment by unscrupulous elements.The CM further stated that all shops will now be allowed to operate till 6 pm on alternate days and the night curfew will now be in force between 8 pm and 5 am. During unlock 1, shops were allowed to open from 6 am till 5 pm on alternate days and the night curfew was imposed from 5 pm till 6 am.The relaxations come after the state reported only 324 new Covid cases on Monday and the recovery rate rose to 98.01% with only 4,771 cases remaining active. The state also reported 13 Covid-19 deaths on Monday, taking the total death tally to 9,505.All education institutions and religious places will however remain closed till further order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-unlock-2-shops-to-open-till-6-pm-night-curfew-duration-reduced-101623750529377.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya land deal: Akhilesh Yadav asks Trust members to resign||Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday asked members of the Trust overseeing the Ram Temple’s construction in Ayodhya to resign until it is cleared of the allegations it faces over a land deal.“After the (2019) Supreme Court judgement on Ayodhya, the entire country agreed that the Ram Temple will come up there. And now...reports have surfaced that corruption has happened...first of all, all the trust members must resign until the allegations are there. If the work is going on in the name of ...Ram... (if) the question mark has been put on those trust members who have to do everything, then they should resign,” he told TV news channel Aaj Tak.Tej Narayan Pandey, a former lawmaker of Yadav’s Samajwadi Party, and Aam Aadmi Party Parliament member Sanjay Singh have alleged that on March 18 a plot sold for ₹2 crore by two people was bought by the Trust for ₹18.5 crore 10 minutes later.Also Read | Akhilesh takes a swipe at BJP, says UP suffering from political maladyThe Trust on Monday said the land was purchased at rates lower than market prices while refuting the allegations of corruption and dismissing demands for a probe into the land deal.Yadav questioned chief minister Yogi Adityanath as to how the land prices changed so much within minutes. “If corruption can happen in the land for Ram Temple, then where else it might not have happened?” he asked.The Trust did not immediately respond to Yadav’s comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-land-deal-akhilesh-yadav-asks-trust-members-to-resign-101623750169276.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||As Delhi unlocks, social distancing norms defied, doctors warn of 'Covid-19 explosion': Report||In India's capital, Delhi, thousands of commuters crowded into underground train stations and shopping malls on Tuesday, prompting some doctors to warn it could lead to a resurgence in Covid-19 infections.Major Indian cities have begun lifting strict lockdowns as the nationwide tally of new infections has dropped to its lowest level in more than two months.But disease experts and doctors have cautioned that a race towards resuming business as usual would compromise vaccination efforts as only about 5% of all 950 million eligible adults have been inoculated.Doctors say Delhi's near-complete re-opening is concerning. The city's authorities have said they would reimpose strict curbs if cases rise.Thousands died in the capital in May, as oxygen supplies all but vanished and families pleaded on social media over scarce hospital beds.People paid 20 times the usual price to secure ambulances and hearses, many died in parking lots, and morgues ran out of space."Delhi's top #mall saw a footfall of 19,000 people last weekend- as soon as it reopened. Have we gone totally mad?" Ambrish Mithal of Max HealthCare in New Delhi said on Twitter. "Wait for #Covid19 to explode again- and blame the government, hospitals, country."In the early hours of Tuesday, Delhi's underground rail network put out alerts on Twitter about peak traffic and longer waits, responding to angry commuters angry about long queues.After a strict five-week lockdown in Delhi, authorities have fully re-opened shops and malls, and allowed restaurants to have 50% seating. Suburban rail networks can run at 50% capacity, and offices have been partially reopened.Vaccinations have slowed, however; the city government said inoculation centres for people ages 18-44 would start shutting down on Tuesday, as doses were scarce."Delhi ought to have unlocked far more scientifically. We are inviting trouble!" Arvinder Singh Soin, a surgeon and leading liver transplant specialist, said on Twitter.Nationwide, India reported 60,471 new Covid-19 infections over the past 24 hours, the lowest number since March 31, data from the health ministry showed.The South Asian country's total Covid-19 caseload now stands at 29.57 million, the second-highest globally behind the United States.India added 2,726 deaths overnight, taking the overall tally to 377,031, data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-delhi-unlocks-social-distancing-norms-defied-doctors-warn-of-covid-19-explosion-report-101623746431113.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses urgent hearing of Kangana Ranaut’s plea on passport renewal||The Bombay high court on Tuesday refused an urgent hearing of actor Kangana Ranaut’s plea seeking directions to the authorities to renew her passport, which expires in September, as she has to travel to Hungary for the shooting of a film. The renewal has apparently been denied over a pending case against her. Calling the application vague, the court said Ranaut was not vigilant enough to mention all details and that she also did not include the authorities as a party. The court allowed her to amend the application and posted the hearing in the matter on June 25.A bench of justices Prasanna Varale and justice Surendra Tavade asked Ranaut’s lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee for the refusal order. Siddiquee told the bench that the objection raised was not in writing as she was verbally asked to get orders from the high court regarding the quashing of the First Information Report (FIR) against her.The FIR was registered against Ranaut and her sister, Rangoli Chandel, in October 2020 on a magistrate’s order for allegedly creating communal disharmony through their statements and tweets. Siddiquee submitted that in her passport renewal application, Ranaut mentioned the case and hence the authorities directed her to get directions from the high court.The bench sought to know why the interim application did not specifically mention it was only for the renewal of Ranaut’s passport and had nothing to do with Chandel. When Siddiquee sought an earlier date of hearing, the bench observed it was only a film shoot and her schedule could be adjusted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-urgent-hearing-of-kangana-ranaut-s-plea-on-passport-renewal-101623748369069.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD-BSP leaders booked for protest near Punjab CM’s farmhouse||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal was on Tuesday booked along with at least 300 leaders and workers of his party and new alliance partner Bahujan Samaj Party for staging a protest near Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s farmhouse at Siswan on the outskirts of Chandigarh. Leading hundreds of party workers, Sukhbir was demanding the dismissal of state health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into alleged irregularities in the sale of vaccines and procurement of medical kits for Covid-19 patients, while asking the state government to come clean on the allegations of corruption.There were two barricades put up within a distance of 200 metres near the Siswan T-point, at least two kilometers from the CM’s farmhouse. The protesters led by former Akali minister Bikram Singh Majithia managed to break the first barricade, but police used force to stop them from crossing over the second barrier. BSP state president Jasvir Singh Garhi was hit by water cannon while trying to cross over the barricades. Sukhbir, Majithia and Garhi along with a number of SAD-BSP workers were detained when they were marching towards the second barricade. After staying at the Kurali police station under preventive detention, they were released on bail.“We have registered a case under Section 188 (disobedience to order) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Disaster Management Act against all senior leaders of Akali Dal and BSP besides at least 300 workers of the two parties. We will proceed against them as per law,” said Mohali senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh. Earlier, too, Sukhbir and 225 other party leaders and workers were booked for violating Covid-19 norms on the CM’s orders, after they had gathered for a protest near the health minister’s house in Mohali.Corrupt Cong ministers will face action: Sukhbir “If a storm rises, Captain (Amarinder Singh) will be unable to stop it. There is a scam in vaccination drive; there is a scam in the disbursal of Fateh Kits; there is scam in scholarship for the SC community; and the land of farmers is also being acquired,” Sukhbir said ahead of getting detained. The SAD alleged that the price of Fateh Kits — medical kits containing medicines, consumables and oximeters that re given to Covid-19 patients — was jacked up repeatedly from ₹800 to ₹1,400 each as the state government invited one tender after another even as the first was valid for six months. The opposition party also claimed the government is involved in a vaccination scam, and sold vaccines to private hospitals at huge profit margins while allowing the latter to charge the beneficiaries steep prices. Addressing the protesters, Sukhbir made it clear that all Congress ministers who had indulged in corruption would be booked if the SAD-BSP alliance is voted to power in 2022. Condemning the CM for shielding corrupt ministers, he alleged: “Balbir Sidhu was responsible for the drug de-addiction tablet scam, PPE kit scam, vaccine scam and Fateh Kit scam; Sadhu Singh Dharamsot was responsible for SC scholarship scam; and Sukhjinder Randhawa had indulged in the seed scam.”Sukhbir alleged the chief minister had also extended patronage to sand and liquor mafia, which had looted the state with the loss in excise revenue alone being ₹6,500 crore besides illegal mining of sand worth hundreds of crores. The opposition party also demanded that land acquisition for national highways be done at market rates and displacement compensation be offered to the affected landowners, and the pending dues under the post-matric scholarship scheme for scheduled caste (SC) students be released at the earliest.The former deputy chief minister announced that if voted to power, the SAD-BSP government would give free education in government schools and SC students would be offered scholarships in engineering and medical colleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-chief-sukhbir-badal-detained-during-protest-outside-punjab-cm-s-house-101623747889174.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath launches Covid-19 medical kits for Covid-19 symptomatic children||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Aditynath on Tuesday flagged off vehicles carrying medical kits to be distributed among children with Covid -19 symptoms across the state. In a special drive aimed to protect children in various age groups from the pandemic, the state government will distribute 50 lakh medical kits through village surveillance committees, said an official release.State health and family welfare department’s additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad said the medical kits contain paracetamol tablets, ORS packets, multi – vitamins and Ivermectin tablets to be administered to symptomatic children in the interim, till their samples are tested for coronavirus following their admission to a health care facility if found positive. Medicines supplied in the kits can also be used to treat seasonal fever, he said.“The kit has been prepared based on the suggestions given by medical experts and paediatricians,” Prasad said.UP Medical Supply Corporation Limited has prepared separate kits for four age groups: Infants (0-1 year), 1-5 years, 5-12 years and 12-18 years. Infants and children up to 5 years will only be given drops, syrups and liquid medicines. The kits do not contain any antibiotics, which will only be given at the primary health centers on producing a doctor’s prescription, said Prasad.In the first phase, the vehicles flagged off by the CM will transport 17 lakh medical kits to 75 districts, and later, 33 lakh medical kits will be transported to warehouses set up in various districts for further distribution as per need basis, he added.In all the 75 districts, a team of doctors under the chairmanship of the district’s chief medical officer (CMO) will supervise the administration of doses as well as distribution of the medical kits among the children. Frontline health workers including- Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha), Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANM) and Anganwadi workers will visit each household to collect details of sick children and distribute medicines.“The district health department will send a rapid response team to collect samples of children with Covid-19 symptoms. Those found positive will be admitted to the nearby primary or community health centres for treatment,” Prasad added.He said that the state government has also planned to set up 100 beds in paediatric intensive care units in each district hospital and state-run medical college in preparation to shield children from a possible third wave of the pandemic. The department will also set up 25 beds neonatal intensive care units in each district hospital and medical college, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-launches-covid-19-medical-kits-for-covid-19-symptomatic-children-101623747649057.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||NIA arrests two more in Mansukh Hiran murder case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested two more persons in connection with the murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran, linked to the Mahindra Scorpio involved in the Antilia explosives scare.The arrested accused have been identified as Santosh Atmaram Shelar and Anand Pandurang Jadhav, both residents of Kurar village in Malad east and both are arrested for their role in Hiran murder case, said an NIA officer. He, however, refused to elaborate on the alleged roles of the two.The duo were produced before the special court in Mumbai and have been remanded to NIA custody till June 21.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia, the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to Ambani family.A case was registered with Gamdevi police station in connection with the episode. Later, on March 5, Hiran, the owner of the SUV, was found dead in a creek near Mumbra, with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf. Also Read | Man who said his cars were used in Mansukh Hiran case booked for forgeryA separate case was registered with the Mumbra police in connection with the murder of the auto spare parts dealer. The NIA, subsequently, took over both the cases and clubbed them for investigation purpose. The federal agency has so far arrested five persons in connection with the two cases, including three Mumbai police officers -- controversial police officer Sachin Vaze, Riyazuddin Kazi, Vaze’s colleague at the Criminal Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Police crime branch, and inspector Sunil Mane.It also arrested former police constable Vinayak More, a life convict in fake encounter killing of Lakhan Bhaiya, and cricket bookie Naresh Gor, both of whom allegedly helped Vaze to execute the suspected murder.Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the Antilia explosives scare case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran. NIA took over the explosives case on March 8 and the murder case on March 24. Vaze was named the main accused in both and was arrested by NIA on March 13.To contain the damage, the Maharashtra government transferred then police commissioner Param Bir Singh. The senior IPS officer wrote to the chief minister, alleging that home minister Anil Deshmukh had instructed Vaze and some other Mumbai police officers to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants, hookah parlours and when no action was forthcoming, he approached the courts.The Bombay high court eventually asked the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the matter, prompting Deshmukh’s resignation. The CBI registered an offence against Deshmukh and some others on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-arrests-two-more-in-mansukh-hiran-murder-case-101623746088908.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal BJP’s three-day review meet begins today||A three-day meeting of senior BJP leaders begins in Shimla from Tuesday evening to assess the government’s efforts to combat the second Covid-19 wave and review the party’s strategy for the three byelections likely in August besides next year’s assembly elections. The meeting, which begins at Hotel Peterhoff from 4pm, will be attended by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, Union finance minister Anurag Thakur, former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal, BJP national vice-president Saudan Singh, BJP state in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, and co-in-charge Sanjay Tandon among others. Also read: Leopard that killed a 4-year old girl in Jammu and Kashmir’s Budgam, caughtThe party leaders will analyse the Jai Ram Thakur government’s performance as it completes four years in December. The byelections for the Fatehpur and Jubbal Kotkhai assembly seats and Mandi parliamentary constituency are expected in August. The BJP leaders will also review the reasons for the electoral reverses in the municipal corporation elections in Solan and Palampur and the close call amid rebellion in Dharamshala. Mandi, the hometown of the chief minister, was the only civic body where the party won a comfortable majority. In a statement, state BJP president and Shimla MP Suresh Kashyap highlighted the efforts of the Seva Hi Sangathan-II initiative in providing Covid relief. On June 16, the session will begin at 9am with a meeting of candidates who fought the 2017 assembly elections followed by another meet of conveners of party cells. The next day, meetings will resume at 9am with brainstorming sessions of state presidents and general secretaries of frontal organisations and various cells of the party. A meeting of in-charges of the four parliamentary secretaries and districts is also scheduled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bjp-s-three-day-review-meet-begins-today-101623745728909.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||AAP MP Sanjay Singh’s residence in Delhi vandalised||Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh on Tuesday said his residence in the North Avenue high-security area was vandalised by unidentified persons.Singh alleged that the attack was linked to his stand against an alleged scam involving the Ram temple Trust in buying a piece of land for the temple in Ayodhya at an inflated price. In a press conference on Sunday, Singh had sought a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) into the matter.After Tuesday’s attack, Singh said, “I will not be scared and I shall continue exposing this scam being done in the name of prabhu Sri Ram (a Hindu deity).”Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said that an attempt was made to deface the MP’s name plate at his residence. “Two persons have been detained in this regard. No physical injury has been caused to anyone. Further investigation is on,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-mp-sanjay-singh-s-residence-in-delhi-vandalised-101623743749194.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Bihar eases Covid-19 curbs further, night curfew timings revised||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Tuesday Covid-19 curbs imposed across the state will be eased for a week and said that the night curfew will continue, albeit with revised timings.“Covid-19 situation across the state was reviewed. For the next one week, starting June 16 till June 22, restrictions are being eased. This means that government and non-government offices can work till 5pm, while shops and establishments can open till 6pm. Night curfew will be in effect from 8pm to 5am,” a rough translation of Kumar’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read.कोरोना संक्रमण की स्थिति की समीक्षा की गई। अगले 1 सप्ताह तक अर्थात दिनांक 16.06.21 से 22.06.21 तक प्रतिबंधों में ढील देते हुए अब सरकारी एवं गैर सरकारी कार्यालय 5 बजे अप0 तक, दुकाने एवं प्रतिष्ठान 6 बजे अप0 तक खुली रहेगी। रात्रि कर्फ्यू संध्या 8 बजे से प्रातः 5 बजे तक लागू रहेगा।Bihar ended its Covid-19 induced lockdown on June 8, with the chief minister crediting it with bringing down the state’s daily cases of the viral disease. As part of relaxations, the Bihar government allowed government and private offices to function at 50 per cent capacity till 4pm. Shops and establishments were permitted to open till 6pm. A nod was also given to online educational activities while private vehicles were allowed to operate. All these measures were to be in effect for seven days, which ended on Tuesday.Also Read: Bihar government lifts Covid-19 lockdown, night curfew to continueThe lockdown was first imposed on May 5 and witnessed four extensions, the last of which was till June 8 as announced by Kumar on May 31.On Monday, 324 people were found positive for Covid-19 in Bihar, while 13 people lost their lives due to it, according to a health department bulletin. Bihar’s cumulative infection tally thus stands at 717,539 including 703,262 recoveries and 9505 related fatalities. Active cases, meanwhile, have slumped further to 4771.Last Wednesday, the Bihar government added 3951 fatalities to the state’s official Covid-19 death toll which, till a day earlier, stood at 5424. This led to India reporting a daily death toll of 6148 the following day, the highest anywhere since the pandemic struck in early 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-eases-covid-19-curbs-further-night-curfew-timings-revised-101623741743149.html
15-06-2021||Kolkata||Former TMC leader sends legal notice to Suvendu Adhikari over tweets||Former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Vinay Mishra, who is among the accused in the alleged cattle smuggling and coal mining scams in West Bengal, has sent a legal notice to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari for his social posts against the former on June 11.The notice sent through advocate Ayan Poddar alleged that the remarks in the posts were false, malicious, and slanderous.Adhikari, who is also the Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, refused to comment.On June 11, Adhikari tweeted: “In year 2018 Vinay Mishra seems to be a Citizen of VANUATU and renouncing Indian citizenship. In year 2020 the same person is made the General Secretary of TMC Youth wing. Drawing the kind attention of ECI (Election Commission of India), Does Indian law permits a foreigner to be a part of a political party?”Also Read | ‘Where are your 25 MLAs?,’ TMC MP Banerjee asks BJP’s Suvendu AdhikariPoddar, in the notice to Adhikar, said Mishra left India on September 16, 2020, much before the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a case against him.“My client (Mishra) was a citizen of India when he was appointed as a General Secretary of the West Bengal Pradesh Trinamool Youth Congress Committee on July 23, 2020,” Poddar said. He added Mishra resigned from his post prior to surrendering his Indian citizenship on December 19, 2020.Poddar said an Indian passport was issued to Mishra on September 5, 2018, and he did not hold citizenship in any other country in 2018.“Be that as it may, I on behalf of my client call upon you to immediately delete the tweet published by you and abstain from any further acts of intentionally spreading lies and falsehood against my client. Furthermore, I have instructions to take appropriate steps against you for illegal acts which have resulted in a wrongful loss to my client and his reputation,” Poddar said.The CBI is trying to locate Mishra through an Interpol red notice issued against him about two months ago. Reports suggest Mishra may have settled in Vanuatu, a small island nation in the South Pacific.The Enforcement Directorate arrested Mishra’s brother, Vikas, in March and attached his property.The BJP has alleged that chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, was involved in the coal smuggling case. TMC and Banerjee have rejected the allegation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cattle-smuggling-accused-sends-legal-notice-to-suvendu-adhikari-over-his-tweets-101623741768710.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi hotels, restaurants not allowed to serve liquor yet: Excise dept||Delhi hotels and restaurants haven’t yet been allowed to serve liquor though the capital city has opened up after eight weeks of lockdown this Monday. Liquor shops in the city would function all days of the week but bars will remain closed, the government said in an order.“Bars in the hotels, clubs and restaurants are not allowed to open till further orders,” stated a clarification issued by the excise department of Delhi government on Monday.Last week, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) allowed shops in markets -- including those selling liquor -- to operate on alternate days on an odd-even basis, depending on the shop number. This week, DDMA allowed shops to operate the entire week from 10am to 8pm. Also Read | Pinjra Tod activists, Jamia student get bail in northeast Delhi riots caseUnder the current orders, liquor stores in the city are allowed to remain open all days till 8pm.This week, the DDMA also allowed restaurants to open their dine-in spaces at 50% capacity. However, its current order prohibits bars from opening, which essentially means that hotels and restaurants cannot serve liquor to their clients.Delhi has around 760 liquor stores and around 840 restaurants and hotels which have license for bars.“We are keenly observing trends and developments as we ease lockdown restriction in phases. Restrictions will be further scaled down in the coming week if the Covid-19 situation continues to remain under control,” said a DDMA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-hotels-restaurants-not-allowed-to-serve-liquor-yet-excise-dept-101623740689474.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Pinjra Tod activists, Jamia student get bail in northeast Delhi riots case||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted bail to Pinjra Tod activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, as well as Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) student Asif Iqbal Tanha in connection with the main conspiracy case of last February’s riots in northeast Delhi.The high court granted bail at a personal bond of ₹50,000 in each of the three cases and a surety of like amount. The two-judge bench, comprising Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Anup J Bhambhani, also put forth certain conditions which the three will have to follow. These include providing their respective mobile phone numbers and present residential addresses to the station house officer (SHO), as well as surrendering their passports. Additionally, they cannot contact any of the witnesses of this case, nor tamper with evidence or indulge in any unlawful activity.For Tanha, the bail order will supersede the interim bail granted to him for appearing in exams.They ( Narwal and Kalita) were booked in three cases, and have been granted bail in all three, including today.Narwal, who was recently granted bail to attend the last rites of her father, who passed away due to Covid-19, and Kalita were arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to orchestrate riots in Delhi, the Capital’s first since 1984’s anti-Sikh riots. They were specifically accused of calling people to come out and block roads against the central government’s contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA).Also Read: Natasha Narwal, jailed anti-CAA activist, granted interim bail after father dies of Covid-19In the resulting violence, which broke out between anti and pro-CAA protesters, 53 people were killed while more than 400 were injured. On January 29, a trial court dismissed bail applications of both Narwal and Kalita.Meanwhile, Tanha was arrested in May 2020 for allegedly being a part of a “pre-meditated” conspiracy in the riots. He challenged a trial court’s order from October that year dismissing his bail application on the ground that he allegedly played an active role in the entire conspiracy with reasonable grounds for believing the allegations to be prima facie true.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pinjra-tod-activists-jamia-student-get-bail-in-northeast-delhi-riots-case-101623733934937.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Bihar to spend ₹13cr on theme park on life of Guru Gobind Singh||Bihar government on Monday decided to allocate ₹13.38 crore to develop a museum and a theme park on the life of the 10th Guru of the Sikhs, Guru Gobind Singh. The facility will come up at Prakash Punj- a multipurpose complex being developed by the state tourism department in Patna to commemorate his 350th birth anniversary, which was celebrated in 2017.“This structure was planned on 350th Prakash Parv of the 10th Sikh Guru. Government decided to have a museum and theme park where one can witness the life and works of Guru Gobind Singh and other Sikh Gurus,” Narayan Prasad, Bihar tourism minister, said. The project was originally scheduled for completion by 2020, but has been delayed due to lockdowns and various other restrictions amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The life of the Sikh Guru will be displayed through paintings, graphics, plaque, sculpture and audio visuals. Besides, some articles belonging to Guru Gobind Singh including his costumes, pen and weapons, will also be put on display. Guru Gobind Singh was born in 1666 at Patna Sahib in state capital, which is home to Takhta Sri Harmandir Sahib Gurudwara, made at his birth site.Prakash Punj is being built over 10-acre land at Patna Sahib and is estimated to cost in excess of ₹50 crores. It will have an auditorium, two exhibition halls and galleries apart from other facilities for tourists and visitors.One of the exhibition halls at the complex will be devoted to the life of all the Sikh Gurus and the other will focus exclusively on Guru Gobind Singh. “It would also be interesting to witness his costumes, the pen he used and the weapons which he used during the battles,” the minister said.Mahendra Pal Singh Dhillon, general secretary of the Takht Sri Harmandir Sahib Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, said a big auditorium with the capacity to house nearly 900 persons is also being developed at the three-storied complex.“The structure will also display the miniatures of the Gurudwaras created at major five places related to the 10th Guru. One can witness here the Gurudwaras of Nanded Sahib, Ponta Sahib, Takhta Sri Keshgarh Sahib, Takhta Shri Hemkund Sahib and Takhta Shri Patna Sahib,” Dhillon added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-spend-rs-13cr-on-theme-park-on-life-of-guru-gobind-singh-101623732468235.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||'Baba ka Dhaba' row ends, YouTuber Gaurav Wasan says 'all is well'||The "Baba ka Dhaba" controversy seems to have come to an end after YouTuber Gaurav Wasan said he has accepted the octogenarian owner's apology over charges of swindling the money donated by people. "All is well that ends well. The person who forgives is a bigger person than who makes a mistake - That's what my parents have taught me," Gaurav Wasan tweeted with hashtag #BABAKADHABA.Gaurav Wasan's posts on social media platforms came after Kanta Prasad, the owner of the Baba Ka Dhaba or a roadside eatery, offered an explanation. Prasad apologised after he accused Wasan of fraud and said the YouTuber did not give him all the money received in donations. Wasan denied the allegations and produced documents to prove his claims.A post shared by Gaurav Wasan (@youtubeswadofficial)Also read | Baba returns to dhaba: Rise and fall of the social media sensation"Woh ladka koi chor nahi tha, na usko humne kabhi chor kahan hai (That boy was not a thief neither did we call him that)," Prasad can be seen saying with folded hands in a video shared by a food blogger.Also watch: ‘Baba Ka Dhaba’ owner accuses YouTuber of misappropriation of fundsLast year, Gaurav Wasan shot a video showing the "Baba ka Dhaba" owner talking in tears about the loss of his business amid the coronavirus pandemic, and then it went viral. As the video started being shared widely, hundreds lined up outside his eatery in south Delhi's Malviya Nagar. People from across the country also started helping Kanta Prasad monetarily, which helped him start a restaurant. Baba ka Dhaba was also listed on Zomato.Also read | Delhi Police book YouTuber accused of cheating ‘Baba Ka Dhaba’ ownerBut Prasad shut his restaurant on February 15 this year as he could not sustain it and customers stopped coming. "The heavy expense of around ₹1 lakh was involved in running it and we had to pay ₹36,000 per month to workers working there and the rent of that shop was ₹35,000 per month," Prasad was quoted as saying by news agency ANI earlier this month."Other expenses included electricity bill, water bill, etc. As compared to the investment, the returns were less so it was necessary to close it because we were incurring losses," he said,.The 80-year-old back to running his old "Baba Ka Dhaba" but said he will continue running this eatery as long as he lives. "The day business sees a slump, I will shut it. We have kept ₹20 lakh for me and my wife from the money we received as donations last year," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/baba-ka-dhaba-row-ends-youtuber-gaurav-wasan-says-all-is-well-101623730843894.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Two killed, 3 injured in road accident in Delhi’s Daryaganj||Two persons, including a woman, were killed while her husband and two children were injured after the e-rickshaw they were travelling in was hit by an allegedly speeding car in central Delhi’s Daryaganj on Monday night. The other deceased person was the driver of the e-rickshaw. The mishap took place around 10.30pm near Delight Cinema, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh said that the couple and their two children were going towards Daryaganj in a battery-operated rickshaw when it was hit by an allegedly rashly driven white Hyundai Verna car. Also Read | Covaxin trials on children ages 6-12 from today: All you need to knowThe four passengers and the e-rickshaw driver were rushed to a nearby government hospital, where the woman and the driver were declared dead on arrival. The condition of the woman’s husband and their two children is stable, said DCP Singh.“The driver of the car fled the spot, but some locals chased the car on their two-wheelers. The car was intercepted at a police picket point near Jama Masjid. Two people in the car were caught and handed over to the police,” he added.A case was registered, and the errant driver was arrested. The Verna car was also impounded, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-killed-3-injured-in-road-accident-in-delhi-s-daryaganj-101623730968288.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Is Mumbai underreporting its Covid-19 casualties?||In Mumbai, 11,125 people died of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in 2020. However, as the number of non-Covid-19 deaths also increased significantly in 2020, which raises doubts whether Mumbai is underreporting deaths due to the viral infection.In 2019, the city reported 91,223 deaths, which went up to 112,603 in 2020 (a 23% increase), the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) data revealed.If we subtract Covid-19 deaths from 2020’s overall toll of 112,603, the city saw 101,478 non-Covid deaths in 2020, a significant spike from 2019 (91,223 deaths) and 2018 (88,858 deaths).This means that there was a 2% spike in non-Covid deaths from 2018 to 2019, and an 11.24% leap from 2019 to 2020. Also, in the first three months of 2021, between January and March, overall 23,114 deaths have been reported in the city. Of this, only 579 were recorded as Covid deaths, so there were 22,535 non-Covid deaths. The city’sofficial Covid-19 toll, from March 2020 up to March 31 this year, was 11,704. The city reported its first coronavirus case on March 11, 2020, and the first death due to it was on March 17 the same year.Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 cases, deaths fall further to 60,471 and 2,726BMC officials maintain there is no underreporting of Covid-19 deaths. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC, said, “I will have to check the data and analyse it in order to comment on it. However, the situation was different in 2020, compared to 2019, as several citizens came to Mumbai for treatment as hospitals in the neighbouring cities were closed due to lockdown. Hence, these deaths also got registered in Mumbai. Another factor is also of people probably delaying their treatment due to Covid-19 fear.”Earlier, in May 2021, Leader of Opposition in the state, Devendra Fadnavis, alleged that the civic body was underreporting Covid-19 deaths. He said some Covid-19 fatalities were shown as deaths due to other reasons, thus suppressing the real toll of the viral infection.However, the BMC termed his allegations baseless. It issued a statement stating that Covid-19 testing and recording of deaths due to the infection were being done as per the criteria laid down by the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). It added that it was committed towards “mission zero”, which aims to bring the Covid-19 situation under control step-by-step.Further, according to BMC’s data, a comparison of March 2021, when the city was witnessing a second wave, with that of the previous years, showed an increase of 5.59%. In March 2021, the city reported 7,554 deaths, compared to 7,154 in March 2020 and 7,155 in March 2019. However, all the data of 2020 provided by the BMC is provisional data.Meanwhile, overall, in 2020, the city’s progressive figures of Covid-19 stood at 294,067 cases, 11,125 deaths, meaning a death rate of 3.78%, and a recovery rate of 93.20% (274,072 recoveries).In the current context, the death rate, as of June 13, 2021, stands at 2.11%, with 15,183 deaths and 716,579 cases. Further, the recovery rate is 95.36% with 683,382 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/is-mumbai-underreporting-its-covid-19-casualties-101623730488180.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Maize, makhana replace paddy and jute as cash crops in Bihar’s Seemanchal||In Bihar’s Seemanchal, maize and fox nut (locally known as Makhana) have replaced paddy and jute as cash crops and resulted in better income for farmers. The state government says the change is encouraging businesses to set up food processing units in the area.Md Taimur Alam (67) of Chhatiya village in Purnia says he switched from growing paddy and jute to cultivating makhana in 2005. “These two crops were not bringing as much return as I had expected,’ he said, explaining the move.“In 2006, I started experimental cultivation of makhana in a waterlogged area behind my house. The return was much more than what I had expected. Since then, I reduced the area of cultivation of paddy and jute and started cultivating makhana. I now grow makhana over 40 acres of land,” he said, giving a glimpse of the transition over the years.Other farmers in the region, too, have made the switch. A family of four brothers in Katihar say they have been practising makhana farming over 25 acres of land for the past few years. “Earlier, we used to give out our land on lease, but now we have started makhana cultivation ourselves due to the availability of better power supply,” they said.40,000 to 50,000 metric tonne (MT) of Makhana is currently being produced on around 20,000 hectares of land in Seemanchal by around 15, 000 to 18,000 farmers. The crop fetches ₹40,000 to 50,000 per quintal and the trade volumes cross over ₹1,000 crores per year, according to agriculture department records. Darbhanga, Madhubani, Purnia, Katihar, Sitamarhi, Saharsa, Supaul and Kishanganj account for 90% of total makhana production in Bihar.Hari Mohan Mishra, deputy director of agriculture technology management agency (ATMA) at Purnia, said, “Makhana cultivation has sharply increased during the last few years and is still increasing. Farmers have started growing makhana on low-lying land, which used to be for paddy cultivation.”Similarly, around 1.5 lakh farmers are currently growing the other popular crop of maize on 2.25 lakh hectares of land in Seemanchal districts. It gives a yearly yield of around 50 -60 lakh MT fetching ₹1300 to ₹1500 per quintal and the trade volume crosses ₹4,000 crores yearly, according to official data.Md Ibrahim of Shrinagar in Purnia says the switch to maize cultivation from jute and paddy has generally been profitable for farmers. He, however, adds that the government needs to ensure that the farmers get better prices for maize by setting up smooth trading channels.Another maize farmer in Purnia, Sunil Kumar Jha, agrees. “The government fixed MSP on maize at ₹1,870 per quintal, but we are compelled to sell our crops at ₹1,300 to ₹1,400 per quintal.” He demanded that the procurement of maize should start at the panchayat level through PACS (primary agriculture credit societies), like it is done for paddy and wheat.Bihar industries minister Syed Shahnawaz Hussain said the government was “serious” about setting up food processing units in Seemanchal to create better earning opportunities for farmers. “We are serious about setting up food processing units in Seemanchal. The region has emerged as a hub of maize and makhana. It will boost demand for the produce, create local employment and help farmers get a steady income,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/maize-makhana-replace-paddy-and-jute-as-cash-crops-in-bihar-s-seemanchal-101623729828432.html
15-06-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram most suitable city to live in Covid-19 era, says report||Gurugram is the most suitable city to live in during Covid-19 times, considering factors such as population density, open area ratio and hospital infrastructure, said a report by Square Yards titled “Suitability Index: The COVID Perspective”. It said that these are far more important than the distance from work or affordability to decide where a homebuyer wants to live at a time when coronavirus disease is spreading.According to the report, Gurugram is overall the most suitable city to live from a Covid perspective as compared to Mumbai and Bengaluru. However, Western and Central suburbs in Mumbai and Mahadevapura zone in Bengaluru were identified as more suitable.As per the report, the Covid-19 pandemic exposed the shortcomings in medical infrastructure like never before. Both Mumbai and Bengaluru were poorly placed in this regard with just 1.3 and 0.30 Covid hospitals available, respectively, per 10,000 people. Gurugram outshone both with 2.5 hospitals per 10,000 people.The Index defined suitability in the city by population density, open area ratio and the number of hospitals. As per the report, localities in the East zone in Gurugram, like sectors 52-56, 58, 40-44, 30, 24-27, were found to be the most suitable for living as per the index.The Covid-suitability index for each city suggests that across all cities, suitability increased as people moved away from the city centres and older parts of the city towards more peripheral locations.The Index said though the density of Covid-19 cases in this zone was second only to the North, presence of maximum number of hospitals every 10,000 people, more than 40% open area and lowest population density made it the most suitable and hence livable from the Covid-19 perspective.As per the analysis, Mahadevapura, was the most suitable zone in Bengaluru. Some of the localities in the zone were Bellandur, Devasandra and Marathahalli.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-most-suitable-city-to-live-in-covid-19-era-says-report-101623726586117.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Covaxin trials on children ages 6-12 from today: All you need to know||All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi will begin screening of children in the age group of 6 to 12 years for the clinical trials of Covaxin, the indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine, from Tuesday. AIIMS Delhi has already completed the clinical trial for a single dose of Covaxin for children aged 12-18 age group. The recruitment of children for the trial of a single dose of Covaxin among those aged between 12-18 years started at the AIIMS in New Delhi on June 7 after India's drug regulator, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI), granted permission for conducting the Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials of the vaccine.All you need to know about Covaxin trialsCovaxin, which has been developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is being used on adults in India's ongoing Covid vaccination drive, which started from January 16 this year.Bharat Biotech has said that scientific standards and commitment of Covaxin are transparent, and the company has so far published nine research studies on its safety and efficacy.The vaccine for children aged 6-12 will be administered by the intramuscular route in two doses on day 0 and day 28. The trial will assess the safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of the Covid-19 vaccine in children, PTI reported.Once the recruitment of children from 6-12 years is done, AIIMS Delhi will begin trials for children between 2 and 6 years. The trials are taking place at 525 centres.The government last week cautioned that even though Covid-19 has not taken a serious shape among children till now, its impact can increase among them if there is a change in virus behaviour or epidemiology dynamics, and said preparations are being strengthened to deal with any such situation.A national expert group has been formed to review Covid-19 infections in children and approach the pandemic in a renewed way to strengthen the nation's preparedness, NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul said.The Covaxin trial on children has already started at AIIMS Patna. Participants would be given the vaccine after their screening report comes.The trials have been flagged off in anticipation of a mutated variant of Covid-19, that could leave children vulnerable.A plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court seeking a stay on phase II/III clinical trials of Covaxin on 2-18-year-olds. Conducting the trial on healthy children would amount to "homicide", the petition has claimed and has sought criminal prosecution of the persons involved in such trials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covaxin-trials-on-children-ages-6-12-from-today-all-you-need-to-know-101623721401444.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Maha 2nd Covid wave added over 61K deaths in 4 months||The second wave that started in Maharashtra in February has so far led to 3,868,319 new Covid-19 cases and 61,336 deaths within four months. The first wave, which peaked in September, 2020, saw 2,048,802 cases, along with 51,360 deaths.On Monday, the state recorded 8,129 new cases, along with 200 deaths.Also Read | Himachal Pradesh issues new Covid rules after tourists rush inAvinash Supe, chairman, state deaths audit committee, said various factors led to the high death rate in the past four months. “There were more Covid-19 cases in the second wave compared to the first wave, which was directly proportional to the death rate. In addition, we saw more deaths as the virus spread to rural areas, which had poor hospital infrastructure. Other reasons include shortage of oxygen as well as late reporting of the symptoms, which led to delayed treatment, contributing to a higher death rate,” he added.Dr Jeevan Jain, general physician from Lalbaug, who is credited with treating more than 15,000 Covid-19 patients, said, “The first wave was mild compared to the second one as we saw very few patients admitted to the hospital and a majority recovered in home quarantine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-2nd-covid-wave-added-over-61k-deaths-in-4-months-101623727488467.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal Pradesh issues new Covid rules after tourists rush in||The Himachal Pradesh government has issued a travel advisory for tourists and made Covid e-pass mandatory after thousands of people flocked the state, popular for its scenic mountain towns and resorts, causing massive traffic jams in several areas over the weekend.Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Monday said though the government has removed the condition of RT-PCR negative report entering the state they must follow Covid-19 guidelines. While replying to a media query about the heavy rush of tourists seen on the state’s borders, Thakur said nobody will be allowed to flout the government's norms to check the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.Thakur said people visiting the state would be monitored through registration on the Covid e-pass software. He said pass applicants have to enter their particulars in the online system and that details of their arrival were being shared with all the stakeholders concerned.Also read | Tourists breathe life into hospitality sector as Himachal unlocksRoads leading to Himachal Pradesh saw congestions, bringing traffic to a standstill, on Sunday as tourists from the neighbouring states of Haryana, Punjab, Chandigarh, Delhi and Uttarakhand made a beeline. This came after the Himachal Pradesh government's announcement that RT-PCR negative tests are no longer required to enter the state.Mohit Chawla, Shimla's superintendent of police (SP), said at least 5000 vehicles entered Shimla from the Shoghi barrier on Saturday and Sunday. "There is a huge influx of tourists after the state government relaxed Covid guidelines. We anticipated the increase in the tourist movement during the weekend, but what is heartening to note is that people are following Covid protocols," he said, according to news agency ANI.Chawla said 10 additional police reserves are deployed in the whole district along with traffic police to manage the influx of tourist vehicles. "Around two and a half to three reserves are stationed alone in Shimla city along with city police to manage the tourists. Patrolling parties are guiding the tourists and we are requesting them to follow Covid protocols," he added.Also read | Pandemic-hit HP tourism industry seeks govt help to emerge from crisisAnd in Parwanoo, a nearly 2km-long queue of vehicles was reported at the border where the tourists have to get themselves registered. Similar rush was witnessed at other state entry points, including Bilaspur, Mehatpur in Una and Kandwal barrier of Kangra district.On Friday, the Himachal Pradesh government under the new guidelines lifted Section 144 in the state and said negative RT-PCR tests will no longer be required to cross the state borders.The tourism industry, hit by the restrictions imposed to contain the second wave of coronavirus in April, now has a reason to cheer as tourists from the neighbouring states have started flocking to the hill stations of Himachal Pradesh.The tourism industry, which contributes 9 per cent to Himachal Pradesh's GDP, has faced losses worth more than ₹1,500 crore and lakh of people employed in the hotel industry lost their jobs as the lockdown was imposed in the state.“The year was terrible for the industry so far as we were unable to meet even capital expenses. We hope that the ‘unlock’ will revive the sector,” Sanjay Sood, the president of Shimla Hotel and Restaurateurs’ Association, said.Anoop Thakur, the president of the Manali Hotel Association, also welcomed the administration’s decision to open the Rohtang pass, a major tourist destination. Thakur said it would help the ailing tourism industry get back on track.Himachal Pradesh on Monday reported 326 new cases of Covid-19 and seven related deaths and now the state has 198,876 infections, while the death toll has crossed 3382.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-pradesh-issues-new-covid-rules-after-tourists-rush-in-101623726017792.html
15-06-2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Samples sent for genome sequencing to identify new Covid-19 variant||The Maharashtra government has sent a substantial number of samples from various districts for genome sequencing to verify if any new mutation of SARS-CoV-2 has taken place, with the aim being to identify new Covid-19 variant Delta Plus or AY.1, an official said here on Monday. The highly transmissible Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has mutated further to form the Delta Plus or AY.1 variant and it is said to be resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment for Covid-19 recently authorized in India, he added. "We have sent substantial samples from various districts to investigate if there is any prevalence of Delta-plus ( or AY.1). The reports are expected to come by Tuesday," said Dr. Pradip Awate, State Surveillance Officer.He said the state's Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) had signed an MOU with CSIR-Institute of Integrative and Genomic Biology (IGIB) under which BJ Medical here will be the nodal lab to perform genome sequencing of the samples. In its latest report on coronavirus variants, updated till last Friday, the health agency said Delta Plus was present in six genomes from India as of June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-samples-sent-for-genome-sequencing-to-identify-new-covid-19-variant-101623725445818.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Soon, learner’s driving license will be available online in UP||Acquiring a learner’s driving license is likely to become convenient in Uttar Pradesh from next month with the state transport department deciding to move the entire process, including submission of application, verification, conduct of test and printing of learner’s license, online. It is expected to save time applicants spend visiting the regional transport offices (RTOs) and make the process transparent while reducing footfall at RTOs.“Candidates will be required to submit their Aadhaar details online, after which we will cross-verify their credentials such as age, address, photo etc with the help of the Aadhaar database. Their application will be processed further, if the details are found to be correct,” he explained.Around three million learner’s licenses are issued in Uttar Pradesh every year and the new Aadhaar-authenticated system to award learning driving licenses is part of UP transport department’s recent initiative to move 17 similar services online, with an aim to achieve greater efficiency and reducing physical contact.Under the new system, candidates will have to upload all the necessary documents online and will be able to download the license after passing the test, which will also be conducted online.“We have asked the National Informatics Centre (NIC) to make necessary changes in the Sarthi software to make it possible for the RTOs to conduct online tests for issuing learner’s DLs,” said Dheeraj Sahu, Uttar Pradesh transport commissioner.Sahu said the department will also introduce a ‘first in, first out’ system to ensure applications are dealt with in a sequential manner with the staff having no discretion to favour anyone. He added that a random verification of credentials of applicants will also be done to check if any procedures have been bypassed.Other transport department services that are either completely online in Uttar Pradesh or under implementation, include renewal of DL, issuance of duplicate DL, certificate of registration (RC), duplicate RC, application for temporary registration of motor vehicles, endorsement of hire-purchase agreement and termination of hire-purchase agreement.“Making issuance of learner’s DL completely online was a bit of a complicated task as it required RTOs to conduct an objective-type written test for candidates. Now, the NIC is making software changes to make online tests possible in a transparent manner,” another official said, underlining the achievement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/soon-learner-s-driving-license-will-be-available-online-in-up-101623725928035.html
15-06-2021||Patna||Father, son duo land in custody after sparking bomb scare on Delhi-Patna flight||A Patna-bound flight was delayed for around two hours at Delhi airport on Monday after a bomb scare, in which a passenger faslely informed cabin crew about the likelihood of an explosive on board."SpiceJet flight SG 8721 scheduled to operate from Delhi to Patna on June 14 was delayed after a passenger after boarding the aircraft misinformed about the safety of the aircraft including the possibility of a bomb. The said passenger repeatedly told the crew that he had an intuition that there was a bomb on board the aircraft," the airline told ANI.The passenger in question was travelling with his father.Soon after, cabin crew informed the captain and the pilots of the flight took the aircraft to the isolation bay for a safety check."The crew informed the Captain and the aircraft was moved to a remote bay. All passengers were de-boarded and baggage were screened again." the airline said.Later, the airport bomb squad team and aviation security took over the aircraft for security checks and evacuated passengers from the aircraft after an intense two-hour investigation."The said passenger and the one accompanying him were handed over to Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and Delhi Police for further investigation and the flight has departed," SpiceJet Spokesperson said.Delhi Police took cognisance of the matter and an investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/father-son-duo-land-in-custody-after-sparking-bomb-scare-on-delhi-patna-flight-101623725461970.html
15-06-2021||Ranchi||Hazaribag SP among 6 injured in a road mishap in Jharkhand||Hazaribag SP Kartik S and five others including three policemen were injured in a road accident here on Monday when the SUV collided with a heavy vehicle moving ahead, an official said. The accident took place after the driver of the SP's vehicle tried to protect a scooter entering the highway from a connecting local road under Ramgarh town police station, the official said. Those injured include SP's driver, his two bodyguards who were in the vehicle and a woman and her child on scooter, he said. The Injured IPS officer was rushed to a hospital in Ranchi while others were admitted to a local hospital in Ramgarh town. Kishore Kumar Rajak, Sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), Ramgarh said that Hazaribag SP Kartik S was on way to state capital Ranchi from Hazaribag in his SUV (Innova) when the mishap took place. Ramgarh SP along with team of cops reached the spot and rescued injured and sent them to hospital, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/hazaribag-sp-among-6-injured-in-a-road-mishap-in-jharkhand-101623725475976.html
15-06-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand opens Char Dham yatra for locals from 3 districts||Uttarakhand on Tuesday opened the Char Dham yatra for pilgrims from Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts of the state, where the four Himalayan shrines are located. Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri shrines, together called Char Dham, have been open since May for daily prayers but pilgrims have been kept out."People of Chamoli district now have the permission to visit Badrinath temple for 'darshan' if they have a negative RT-PCR test report. Similarly, people of Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi districts can also now visit Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri respectively with a negative RT-PCR test report," cabinet minister and state government's official spokesperson Subodh Uniyal said.On May 15, the portals of the Gangotri Dham in Uttarakhand opened and traditional rituals were performed on the occasion. On May 29, amid the massive surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the Uttarakhand government had suspended the Char Dham yatra for this year. The yatra was scheduled to start on May 14."Uttarakhand government has suspended Char Dham Yatra this year in view of Covid-19 situation in the state. Only priests of the four temples will perform rituals and puja," Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said.Char Dham Yatra or pilgrimage begins from Yamunotri in the west, then proceeds to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east.Uttarakhand on Monday recorded 296 fresh Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths, according to the state health bulletin. Active cases in the state now stand at 3908 with a positivity rate of 6.55%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-opens-char-dham-yatra-for-locals-from-3-districts-101623715742249.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Sputnik V likely to be available at Delhi hospital from today||Sputnik V, the Russian-made vaccine against Covid-19, is likely to be available at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in Delhi from Tuesday, according to a report. Sputnik V, developed by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute, vaccine rollout will depend on the number of consignments received by the hospital, news agency ANI has said.The first phase of the Sputnik V rollout by Apollo Hospitals and Dr Reddy's Laboratories started on a pilot basis on May 17 in Hyderabad and the next day in Vishakhapatnam. Sputnik V is also available at Hyderabad’s Continental Hospitals.Apart from Apollo Hospitals, Madhukar Rainbow Children’s Hospital in Delhi will also start administering the Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to people by the end of this week. The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at ₹1,145 per dose.ANI also reported, citing people familiar with the matter, that Sputnik V was administered to employees of Dr Reddy's Laboratories at Delhi's Indraprastha Apollo Hospital on Sunday. As many as 1000 doses of Sputnik V reached the Apollo Hospital and 179 doses were administered to the Dr Reddy's Laboratories’ employees.Also read | Russia tests Covid-19 vaccine as nasal spray for children: ReportHigh efficacy rateDr Reddy's Laboratories has partnered with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which globally markets the Covid-19 vaccine, for the rollout of the two-dose vaccine in India. Sputnik V, developed by the Gamaleya Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology, is the world's first registered vaccine against Covid-19 and was given regulatory approval in Moscow last August. The two-dose vaccine is now authorised in 67 countries.The two-dose Sputnik V received the Indian drug regulator's permission for restricted emergency use with certain conditions on April 12 and vaccination against coronavirus with the Russian vaccine started on May 14.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd had applied for the grant of permission to import and market Gam-COVID-Vac combined vector vaccine, popularly called Sputnik-V, for Emergency Use Authorisation.Also read | Dr Reddy’s to get freezers from Rockwell to store Sputnik VSputnik V claimed to have the highest efficacy rate at 91.6 per cent—Moderna and Pfizer vaccines also have an efficacy of over 90 per cent. RDIF on June 10 announced that the efficacy of the Sputnik V was estimated at 94.3 per cent during a vaccination campaign by Bahrain's ministry of health. However, the World Health Organization (WHO) has not yet approved Sputnik V as an emergency vaccine.Also read | SII gets DCGI’s nod to manufacture SputnikSputnik LightA single-dose vaccine Sputnik Light is also expected to be approved in India soon. PTI reported in late May that the government is hopeful of a speedy launch of Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik Light, the slimmed-down, single-dose version of Sputnik V, in India. An application seeking regulatory approval for Sputnik Light is expected to be filed in the next couple of weeks and it could become the first single-dose vaccine to be launched in India, PTI reported citing people familiar with the development.Also read | How Centre will vaccinate all 940 million adults against Covid by DecemberSputnik Light demonstrated 79.4% efficacy, according to an analysis of data gathered 28 days after the shot was administered as part of Russia’s mass vaccination programme between December 2020 and April 2021, the vaccine’s developers said in a statement. Gamaleya Center also demonstrated during laboratory tests that Sputnik Light had proven effective against all new strains of the coronavirus, the statement said.The use of Sputnik V in India will significantly boost the country's vaccination drive, which was halted in several states amid a severe shortage of doses. India, the world's biggest vaccine manufacturer, has been able to vaccinate around 3 per cent of its population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sputnik-v-likely-to-be-available-at-delhi-hospital-from-today-101623716659640.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s statements in top court ‘misleading’: Centre||Setting the stage for yet another face-off with the Delhi government, the Centre has termed as “misleading” the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government’s statement before the Supreme Court last week in which it said it has commenced implementing the One Nation One Ration Card (ONORC) scheme.The ONORC scheme helps beneficiaries, especially migrant workers to avail of subsidised food commodities anywhere in India and is currently operational in 24 states and eight Union territories. Apart from Delhi, the Centre has said, West Bengal, Assam and Chhattisgarh are yet to make the scheme functional.The Centre criticised the Delhi government for depriving scores of interstate migrants present in Delhi of their quota of subsidised foodgrains under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in the absence of full implementation of ONORC. In Delhi, nearly 7.2 million people are eligible for subsidised food under various schemes.In written submissions filed before the top court on Monday, the Union government underlined that implementing the ONORC scheme only in one circle of Delhi with a handful of transactions doesn’t make it really functional. “The claim of GNCTD regarding launch of ONORC plan in NCT of Delhi is misleading, as they claim to have implemented it only in circle 63 Seemapuri. Only a handful of transactions conducted in (a) single circle with about 42 ePoS (electronic point of sale) machines cannot be considered as implementation of ONORC,” the Centre submitted in writing.Delhi government spokespersons refused to comment on the matter.The Centre said that unless the national portability transactions were rolled out formally in all the fair price shops of all circles of Delhi, in which more than 2,000 ePoS machines have been supplied and are waiting for operation, it could not be considered as implementation of the scheme.“It is pertinent to appreciate that a very large number of intestate migrants are present all across Delhi who do not have access to their NFSA foodgrains, being away from their own villages/hometowns, are not able to take the benefit of their quota of subsidised NFSA foodgrains in Delhi as there is no full implementation of ONORC and reporting of such transactions of NFSA/PMGKAY (Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana) foodgrains on the central portals/dashboards,” the Centre submitted.The Supreme Court is expected to pass further orders in this matter later this week.On Friday, the Delhi government, through its standing counsel Chirag M Shroff, informed a bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and MR Shah about making the national scheme functional as the court heard the suo motu case on “problems and miseries of the migrant workers”. Shroff refuted the statement of solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Union government, that Delhi was one of the four states yet to implement the scheme.The Delhi government’s assertion followed its affidavit in the Supreme Court that read: “Regarding efforts to be made to encourage migrant NFSA beneficiaries to use facilities of portability under ONORC, it is submitted that in Delhi, to begin with ONORC has been implemented in circle 63, Seemapuri, and from this facility, portability facility can be availed.”Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to allow the AAP government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme while saying that it was a waste of resources to have two schemes (ONORC and doorstep ration) trying to do the same thing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-statements-in-top-court-misleading-centre-101623714678685.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Hour-long waits to board a Metro||Commuters thronged Metro stations, resulting in long, serpentine queues outside, as a majority of activities reopened in Delhi on Monday.With a 50% cap on seating, the waiting time at many stations across the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) network increased to 50 minutes during rush hour, officials said, attributing the delay to strict adherence to guidelines issued by the Delhi government.“DMRC is taking all necessary measures to ensure that the guidelines in place for the operation of Metro services is stringently followed. Flying squads are travelling across the system to counsel and, if necessary, penalise passengers who are not following Covid guidelines,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC).“Standing passengers are also being de-boarded in accordance with the rules. Stations are being temporarily closed or entry is being regulated as well. These are attempts to regulate and control the flow of passengers for their safe travel,” he added.While distancing was maintained inside stations and trains, it led to long queues outside stations. In some stations around Dwarka, Kashmere Gate, Rajiv Chowk, Qutub Minar and GTB Nagar, the queues continued for a few kilometres during the peak rush hours in the morning and in the evening.According to DMRC’s official Twitter handle on Monday morning, the waiting time at the Dwarka Mor and Nawada stations on the Blue Line, connecting Dwarka Sector 21 and Noida Electronic City, was around 50 minutes.At least nine stations, including Dwarka Mor, Uttam Nagar East, Janakpuri East, Dwarka, Karol Bagh, Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Govindpuri, Badarpur and Lajpat Nagar, were also closed intermittently to ensure that there was no crowding inside the network.These stations were shut for between 10 to 20 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hourlong-waits-to-board-a-metro-101623714498191.html
15-06-2021||City||Nearly 5,000 vehicles enter Shimla as Himachal eases Covid-19 restrictions||Following the Himachal Pradesh government's announcement that Covid-19 RT-PCR negative tests are no longer required to enter the state, tourists were seen flocking to Shimla on the weekend.According to Mohit Chawla, Superintendent of Police (SP), Shimla, at least 5,000 vehicles entered Shimla from the Shoghi barrier on Saturday and Sunday."There is a huge influx of tourists after the state government relaxed Covid guidelines. We anticipated the increase in the tourist movement during the weekend, but what is heartening to note is that people are following Covid protocols," he said.The SP informed that a total of 10 additional police reserves are deployed in the whole district along with traffic police to manage the influx of tourist vehicles."Around two and a half to three reserves are stationed alone in Shimla city along with city police to manage the tourists. Patrolling parties are guiding the tourists and we are requesting them to follow Covid protocols," he added.On Friday, the Himachal Pradesh government under the new guidelines lifted Section 144 in the state and now negative RT-PCR tests are no longer required to cross the state borders.However, the state has extended the 'Corona curfew' till 6 am on 14th June but with relaxed norms. Now intrastate public transport is allowed to operate with 50 per cent occupancy and shop timings have been increased from 9 am to 5 pm.On Sunday, roads leading to the state saw massive congestion, bringing traffic to a standstill.Himachal Pradesh reported 326 new Covid-19 cases, 664 discharges, and 7 deaths on Monday. Total cases in the state have reached 1,98,876, while the death toll has crossed 3382.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/nearly-5-000-vehicles-enter-shimla-as-himachal-eases-covid-19-restrictions-101623713456849.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Paharganj reduced||The tables and chairs are gone. The cake counter is gone. The kitchen at the back is gone.One of Delhi’s quirkiest hang-outs has become history. Appetite German Bakery, in Paharganj, has closed permanently—the owner’s brother confirms. Not wishing to be named, he says the coronavirus pandemic is the reason behind the closure. The place was founded 30 years ago, he informs. It underwent two major renovations over its lifetime (the earlier wicker chairs were sorely missed).For many in the Capital, the backpackers’ district of Paharganj is a place to mingle around with eclectic post-hippie foreigners.Appetite was its archetypal hang-out, where you would try “baahar ki (from abroad)” dishes for cheap, and chat up with backpackers in the neighbouring tables. These exotic strangers, looking so free while away from their cultures and countries, would be reading Lonely Planets or playing guitars or writing in their notepad, or simply showing off their tattoos and piercings. Words like ‘Goa’, ‘Manali’, and ‘Benares’ would be overheard again and again, in French, German, Hebrew accents. The manager, Farid, would be sitting in a corner playing chess.Appetite had many dishes misspelled in the menu and the Today’s Special, hand-written on a white board, wouldn’t change for weeks. Whatever, the bakery counter was an eye-catcher with trays of almond cake, lemon iced cake, banana cake, chocolate banana cake, chocolate cake, and cheesecake. The fresh papaya juice was heavenly. Momos were yummy, so were the ratatouille and aloo parathas. The honey ginger lemon tea was Delhi’s best. Even so, you would be allowed to spend a whole day here over cups of masala chai alone.This reporter has an archive of hundreds of photos of foreigners passing through this cafe.They include an elderly woman from Sydney, Australia, who suddenly started dancing by her table; a hospital staffer from Wisconsin, the US, sitting thoughtfully with his guitar; and a designer from Normandy, France, jotting in a diary clipped with fabrics of various shades. The dinner regulars would faithfully feed the stray dogs outside.The eatery’s glass wall too was a distraction, showing Paharganj’s cosmopolitan street life—matronly Central Asian women in robes and head scarves, Israeli rabbis in Hasidic hats and side-locks, Indian flute sellers and loafing cows heedless of bikes and autos.The place that was Appetite is being remodelled. Very soon, a 24/7 convenience store will open in its place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-paharganj-reduced-101623703676314.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cases of loneliness, elder abuse during lockdown on the rise in Chandigarh||The two lockdowns were a harrowing experience for senior citizens living in the tricity.On World Elder Abuse Awareness Day observed on June 15, many senior citizen bodies have reported that incidents of elder abuse went up during the pandemic and many citizens faced loneliness or/and were diagnosed with psychiatric issues.Out of the 11.3 lakh population of Chandigarh as per the 2011 census, there are 83,952 senior citizens in the city as per the 2019 Lok Sabha registered voters’ list with seniors forming 7.4% of the population.Gurnam Singh, a member of the Chandigarh Senior Citizens’ Association (CSCA) that coordinates with the UT administration regarding cases of elder abuse, said that the number of cases coming to him had increased compared to previous years. “Due to loss of livelihood and staying home alone, there are about 300 pending complaints with the UT deputy commissioner ever since March 2020. On my end, I counsel the parties whenever I receive calls like these,” he said, adding that a system must be put in place so that these complaints could be streamlined and resolved within a period of six months.The Modern Housing Complex Resident Welfare Association (RWA) had been running a special programme for seniors, providing food to those with Covid and those living alone. President of the RWA, Colonel (retd) Gursewak Singh, said, “Our volunteers would also talk to the seniors as they would get lonely. We also started hosting a webinar where we would talk to them and work on stress management.”Second Innings Association president RK Garg also said that more cases of senior abuse had come forward: “The first lockdown was harsh for the seniors since we were not allowed to go outside. This affected many who had to go for physiotherapy and other medical procedures. Many seniors were left at the mercy of their household help. In Sector 27, a maid refused to feed a senior and he couldn’t do anything about it. Later, he also fell in the house and had to be rushed to the hospital.”The situation has improved in the second wave as per Garg. “Those with children living outside have been reunited with them. The lockdown restrictions put up by the administration were more reasonable and we had learnt from the first wave.”In Mohali, too, seniors had a bad year. As per the president of the Mohali Senior Citizen Association, Swarn Chaudhary, loneliness has led to psychiatric problems for the seniors: “Not being allowed to go outside has affected many who have now developed psychiatric disorders. Neighbours are insensitive to our plight and there have been problems getting our pensions as well. Those with children and grandchildren settled abroad were the worst affected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cases-of-loneliness-elder-abuse-during-lockdown-on-the-rise-in-chandigarh-101623701506222.html
15-06-2021||Other||Save our green belt, plead Sector 20 residents in Panchkula||Residents of Sector 20 in Panchkula have said that their pleas to have their green belt saved, which they say is in danger, has been falling on deaf ears.Once a thick forest area, the belt is now ridden with large patches of barren land with trees cut off. Residents claim that the government is planning to construct the Ashiana flats by “destroying” the green area.Recently, the Sector-20 resident welfare association requested the chief administrator of Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) to save the green area and the developed park number 2008 in their sector. Others have met the Panchkula MLA as well.KK Jindal, president of the RWA, said that Sector 20 is known as a concrete jungle as it is the most thickly populated sector in Panchkula with a population of around 60,000. “But a 9.6 acre green or forest area consisting of over 3,000 medicinal and fruit trees helps maintain an ecological balance here. However, HSVP and CTP are busy planning destruction of the green belt and the adjoining park under the name of Ashiana Scheme,” he alleged.Construction of flats approved by HSVP: RTIThe RTI reply availed by the one of the residents of Sector 20 and shared by the RWA president mentions that “the parks have been merged into Ashiana Scheme approved by chief administrator of HSVP, Panchkula, on October 1, 2020”.Some residents have been raising the issue on social media as well, wherein they have shared pictures of the “destruction”. Akhil Goel, a resident, shared: “Once a thick forest and habitation of wild life, it is slowly being converted into a barren land. Trees are being cut in hundreds, daily transport vehicles can be seen in big numbers; shanties are being made.”Goel said: “If the government cannot plant trees, at least it must not axe them. They are destroying a beautiful, thick forest.”He added that there were already about 2,000 houses and flats for EWS in the sector. Currently roads and infrastructure is already insufficient to cope with vehicles of sector 20 , from adjoining peer Mashallah and The Dhakoli localities of Punjab. Jindal said that they were not against the rehabilitation of EWS, just against the cutting of trees. “We request you to preserve thousands of trees and plants in the 10-acre garden and adjoining park in this sector and maintain the context of the World Environment Day,” the president requested.However, when contacted, the chief administrator of HSVP, Ajit Balaji Joshi, said: “There is no such proposal yet.” When asked about the RTI, he said: “I don’t reply to these RTIs, but other officials do.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/save-our-green-belt-plead-sector-20-residents-in-panchkula-101623701266357.html
15-06-2021||Other||Phagwara man’s bid to smuggle out liquor bottles in milk containers foiled||The Mohali police nabbed a Phagwara resident who was trying to smuggle out liquor bottles from Chandigarh by concealing them in milk containers.Police recovered 12 cases, carrying 114 liquor bottles, which were meant for sale in Chandigarh only. The accused has been identified as Mandeep Singh, a resident of Phagwara. Phase 1 station house officer, sub-inspector Shivi Brar said that acting on a tip-off, a naka was set up at Phase-1. “During checking, we found 144 bottles (12 cases) of liquor, made for sale in UT only being smuggled in milk containers on a bike,” the cop said, adding, “We are trying to find out how long he has been into liquor smuggling. During initial questioning, we found out that he planned to sell the liquor at higher rates in Phagwara.” A case under the Excise Act has been registered against the accused. “He will be produced before the court on Tuesday,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/phagwara-man-s-bid-to-smuggle-out-liquor-bottles-in-milk-containers-foiled-101623701026195.html
15-06-2021||Other||Bhajouli village first in Mohali to achieve 100% vaccination for 18+ population||Leading the district in Covid vaccination, Bhajouli village of Mohali created a record on Monday by inoculating all of its 18-plus population. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “All villages are doing well in vaccination. Five of our villages namely Tarouli, Rasoolpur, Barsalpur, Madanheri and Bahadurgarh have successfully covered 100% of the 45+ population while Bhajouli is leading the district by vaccinating 100% of its 18-plus population.” The population of Bhajouli village is 536, out of which 356 residents are above the age of 18. Barring two, who have gone abroad, all eligible persons have been vaccinated with at least one dose. The village panchayat has thus emerged a pioneer among local civic bodies to be eligible for a special development grant of ₹10 lakh, announced earlier by Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, for villages achieving cent per cent Covid vaccination target in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhajouli-village-first-in-mohali-to-achieve-100-vaccination-for-18-population-101623700846303.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: GMSH’s new ICU facility with 14 beds to be ready by next week||The UT administration-run Government Multi-Speciality Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, will soon have a new intensive care unit (ICU) facility with 14-beds. With this, GMSH’s ICU bed capacity will increase to 22. The decision to augment the capacity of ICU in GMSH-16 was taken during the peak of the second wave of Covid-19. “At the time it was realised that an eight-bed ICU facility is not adequate during such emergencies, and it was decided to expand it immediately,” said Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang, director, health services, UT. During the peak, the entire facility was dedicated to Covid patients. At the time, there was 100% bed occupancy in the hospital’s ICU. The city had successfully and quickly expanded oxygen beds as the second wave hit the city. The administration had roped in non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to create mini-Covid centres and mandated them to provide oxygen support on at least 80% of their total bed capacity.But the ventilator equipped ICU beds fell shortage as the number of critical patients increased. The city had to bear the load of critical patients from neighbouring states, even Delhi. The pandemic raged on in the first 15 days of May, leaving critical Covid-19 patients scrambling for intensive care beds in city hospitals. Even though the number of ICUs doubled in the last month and a half, the arrangements were not enough to cater to the increased demand. Existing space being used The work on the new ICU has started and the civil work, being done at a cost of ₹60 lakh, is likely to be completed within two weeks, said, UT chief engineer CB Ojha. The new facility is coming adjacent to the existing ICU facility and in place of the trauma recovery centre. “We have decided to use the existing space and upgrade it to an ICU facility. It is in preparation for the anticipated third Covid wave. It can even be used for non-Covid patients.” All beds in the new facility will be equipped with ventilators. The hospital has already received the ventilators. After the civic work is completed by the engineering department, these will be handed over to the hospital. “It will take another four to six weeks for the ICU to become fully operational. There is civil work going on at present. An ICU has specific requirements like regarding flooring. At present, we have time to upgrade the facility as patient load has decreased,” said Kang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-gmsh-s-new-icu-facility-with-14-beds-to-be-ready-by-next-week-101623700666420.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Brother of deceased Ludhiana DSP held for assaulting kin in Mohali||Mohali police on Monday arrested the brother of Ludhiana deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Harjinder Singh, who succumbed to Covid on June 10, for allegedly assaulting and abusing his family members.The accused has been identified as Baljeet Singh. He was arrested by Mataur police based on the complaint of Manjit Singh, his cousin.The complainant told the police that he, his two sons Gurnoor Singh (18) and Rohitveer Singh (8) and Hardeep Singh (also Harjinder’s cousin), were living with Harjinder’s mother Balwinder Kaur at his residence in Sector 70 to look after her after his death.On Sunday, Baljeet arrived at their house and started abusing the whole family. After that, he also assaulted them and then entered a room after forcing the children out. Before leaving the house, Baljeet also threatened them, said the complainant.A case has been registered under Sections 452, 506, 353 and 186 of the Indian Penal Code at the Mataur police station. Inspector Manphul Singh, station house officer at Mataur police station said, “The accused was produced before a local court which sent him to judicial custody. ”On the other hand, Harjinder’s family refused to comment on the issue. As per sources, the assault could have stemmed from a property dispute, but police are still verifying it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/brother-of-deceased-ludhiana-dsp-held-for-assaulting-kin-in-mohali-101623700186078.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Two years on, promotion policy of Panjab University dental faculty hangs in balance||Even after two years since members of the dental faculty of Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Science and Hospital raised the issue regarding their promotion policy and approached the high court, the matter still hangs in balance at the varsity. Last year, PU had submitted its report to the HC in the matter. The recommendations of the panel, which was approved by PU’s syndicate in July last year, stated that the promotion policy framed by the varsity in 2007 will continue for the promotion of dental faculty. However, the report is yet to be approved by the PU senate, the varsity’s governing body.In September 2020, HC had asked PU to give representatives of dental faculty members a chance to air their grievances regarding the committee report, at the senate meeting. However, the meeting wasn’t held last year amid the pandemic, till the senate’s term ended on October 31.In the absence of the governing body, there is uncertainty about when the decision will be taken. PU has been functioning without the senate since November last year.In May 2019, as many as 37 faculty members had approached the HC arguing that PU has framed a promotion policy/career advancement scheme as per regulations of the University Grants Commission (UGC) for faculty of all other colleges. However, the benefit of the same is not being given to faculty of the dental institute, they said.What panel’s report statedThe report tabled at last year’s July 13 meeting of the PU syndicate recommended that the existing promotion policy framed in 2007 already has promotional avenues and should continue to be followed for promotion/appointment at the varsity’s dental college, subject to the availability of the post as per the statutory scheme applicable in Punjab.A faculty member, Ikreet Singh Bal, said, “In the absence of the governing body, the vice-chancellor is the sole authority at present and should look into our grievances. We are uncertain when the governing body will be constituted but our grievances should be heard.” Meanwhile, PU’s registrar Vikram Nayyar was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-years-on-promotion-policy-of-panjab-university-dental-faculty-hangs-in-balance-101623700076020.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Yogi calls for speeding up vaccination further in Uttar Pradesh||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday underlined the need to speed up the Covid-19 vaccination drive further in the state. He said this while observing that the state on Monday launched a special drive to vaccinate street vendors, sellers of vegetables, fruits, milk, besides bus drivers and conductors, rickshaw-pullers, e-rickshaw operators and three-wheeler drivers. “Considering the vast population of the state, there is a need to speed up the vaccination drive even further; all the more because in July the target is to administer 10-12 lakh doses per day,” he said at a Covid-19 review meeting. The chief minister said only 339 new Covid-19 infection cases were recorded in the past 24 hours in the state and 1,116 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals during the same period. “The state now has a recovery rate of 98.2% and only 8111 active cases,” he said. He also said the state had more than sufficient oxygen and the oxygen demand was returning to normal. Continue wheat procurement beyond June 15: CM Chief minister Yogi Adityanath asked the officers concerned to continue the wheat procurement process beyond June 15. “Make sure that the procured wheat is stored properly and protected from rain,” he said. So far, the state had purchased 52.66 lakh metric tonnes of wheat from 11.83 lakh farmers and the state government had already paid ₹8,510 crore to the wheat growers, he said. He also asked the officers concerned to operate cow shelters in an organised manner in coordination with the chief veterinary officer in each district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-calls-for-speeding-up-vaccination-further-in-uttar-pradesh-101623700066427.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Child Mapping Survey 2020: Number of out-of-school children in Chandigarh goes down||The number of children who have dropped out of school and who were never enrolled in schools has decreased in Chandigarh, the Child Mapping Survey (CMS) 2020 carried out by the UT education department under Right to Education Act has found.As per the survey, out of 1,66,589 students identified between the ages of 5 to 18, as many as 3,160 were drop-outs and 3,252 had never been enrolled in school. In 2019, the number of children who had dropped out of schools and had never enrolled was much higher at 3,810 and 3,369 respectively.The maximum dropouts were found in the 14 to 18 age group with 2,269 such cases.In 11-14 bracket, 432 dropouts were identified while in 5 to 11, 459 dropouts were found. Out of the children who never enrolled in school, 2,722 are aged between 5 and 11, 258 are aged between 11 and 14 and 302 are aged between 14 and 18.Due to the pandemic-induced migration of families, the number of children in the 5 to 18 group also went down during the first Covid wave. In 2019, 1,72,982 students were identified in the survey while the number has gone down to 1,66,589 in 2020, reduced by 6,393.Speaking about this decrease, professor of Sociology at Panjab University, Rajesh Gill said, “This decrease of 6,000 children needs to be studied in detail. Mostly lower income families migrated during the first wave in 2020 and they are likely to have kids who weren’t studying in school. Otherwise a narrative for the success of the enrollment initiative by the education department and of online education is being built. The data needs to be studied in detail before jumping to conclusions.”In both categories, the number of male children has exceeded the number of female children. There are 1,726 boy dropouts compared to 1,434 girl dropouts. As many as 1,698 boys never enrolled in school as compared to 1,584 girls. Speaking about this, Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) chairperson Harjinder Kaur said, “Over the years we have found that girls are more dedicated students. We are launching special programmes for boys since the education of both boys and girls is important.”The survey is conducted cluster-wise in which the city is divided into 20 clusters. Clusters which cover villages have higher number of children not studying in schools. The education department conducts special trainings to bring such students into the mainstream every year, however, when asked how these numbers went down this year, UT education secretary SS Gill remained unavailable for comments.UT department of social welfare, women and child development also keeps a check on such kids. Secretary, social welfare, Nitika Pawar said, “The department keeps a close watch on children living under difficult circumstances. These children are enrolled in schools and linked with social security schemes where allowances are given to children for their educational needs.” She added that the department has created a Covid relief fund as well to give a monthly stipend of ₹2,000 per child to children living under difficult circumstances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/child-mapping-survey-2020-number-of-out-of-school-children-in-chandigarh-goes-down-101623700009207.html
15-06-2021||Other||Tricity’s cases drop below 100 after 110 days, P’kula reports only 2 new Covid infections||In a major relief for residents, the tricity’s Covid-19 count remained below 100 on Monday, a first in 110 days. Of the total 87 cases recorded in the last 24 hours, the lowest number of infections, 2, came from Panchkula.Before this, the three cities had reported such a low count on February 24 when it had 82 cases. From thereon, the tricity’s daily count consistently went up, reaching the peak of 2,612 on May 10 before beginning its descend. One loses battle to virus in PanchkulaIt is also for the first time this year that Panchkula’s daily count dipped so low. It is now left with 123 active cases. A 62-year old resident of Panchkula’s Sector 23 lost the battle to virus on the day. The city’s positivity rate on Monday was 0.4% while the recovery rate was 98%. Being a Sunday, only 476 samples were taken for testing, against 900 on normal days.Panchkula civil surgeon Jasjeet Kaur said: “We seem to be heading towards the end of the wave. We are now focusing on vaccinating as many people as possible before the third wave hits. We do not want it lightly. Tomorrow onwards, we are preparing for the third wave.” She added that they are also going to start sero-surveillance from tomorrow.At 50, UT had highest infections in tricity in 24 hrsChandigarh reported 50 new cases and three deaths in the last 24 hours. Its positivity rate stood at 3% while the recovery rate was 97%. The UT now has 507 active cases. PGI director Dr Jagat Ram said: “Finally, we will get some breathing time. But that does not mean that people behave the way they did during the end of the first wave. One must adopt Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.”35 cases, 3 deaths in MohaliMohali’s daily cases also saw a dip with 35 infections. A day before, it had logged 49 cases. However, three deaths remained a cause of worry in the district. Mohali’s positivity rate, on Monday, was 2% while the recovery rate was 97%.After ‘may’hem last month, tricity on recovery path As compared to the first fortnight of May, tricity’s infections and deaths saw a considerable dip in the first 14 days of June. Against 30,378 new cases and 351 deaths between May 1 and May 14, the three cities have reported only 2,969 cases and 112 deaths in the first two weeks of June.While Chandigarh had reported 11,396 cases and 139 deaths in this period in May, it reported only 1,114 cases and 41 deaths in the last 14 days. It’s recovery rate has also substantially increased, from 82% on May 14 to 97% now.Mohali district had reported 12,954 cases and 145 deaths in the first two weeks of May, with its recovery rate hovering around 80% and positivity rate around 14%. In June, the numbers dipped to 1,329 cases and 56 deaths. It’s active cases have also come down from 10,109 on May 15 to 754 on Monday.In Panchkula, the cases have come down from 6,028 to 496 and deaths from 67 to 15. The positivity rate has improved from 22% on May 14 to 0.4% on June 14. Also, recovery rate is now 98%, which was 89% on May 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tricitys-cases-drop-below-100-after-110-days-p-kula-reports-only-2-new-covid-infections-101623700006506.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut moves Bombay high court for passport renewal||Actor Kangana Ranaut, who has been booked by Bandra police along with her sister on sedition charges, has approached the Bombay high court seeking directions to the authorities to renew her passport to enable her to go abroad for shooting a film in Hungary. According to the interim application filed by Ranaut, the Passport Authority of India has raised an objection to her passport renewal application in light of the FIR. Her advocate Rizwan Siddiquee said the passport will expire in September 2021. The court is expected to hear the application on Tuesday. Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel had been booked by Bandra police station in October 2020 after the magistrate ordered the police to investigate into allegations by a Munawaarali Sayyed, resident of Bandra. Sayyed had alleged that the two sisters tried to create communal disharmony by making objectionable statements and posting tweets on Twitter with regards to the gathering of people outside Bandra station in May during the lockdown period during the pandemic. After investigations the Bandra police had registered an FIR against the actor and her sister. The actor had approached the HC seeking quashing of the FIR. The HC had provided interim protection to the actor in February 2021 provided she cooperated with the investigation. The actor has filed the current interim application in that petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kangana-ranaut-moves-bombay-high-court-for-passport-renewal-101623699825445.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena: Trust, RSS chief must clarify if money for Ram temple was misused||Amid allegations of corruption over the purchase of the land for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, the Shiv Sena has demanded a clarification from the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat and said the proposed temple is a matter of “faith” for them.Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that the allegations and evidence brought forward by Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Sanjay Singh is “shocking” and that Bhagwat, the temple trust and Uttar Pradesh chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath must tell people if there is any truth in these allegations. The Sena is expected to corner the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the issue in a bid to counter them on the Hindutva agenda.Singh had claimed that the trust’s general secretary Champat Rai had purchased land worth ₹2 crore at an inflated price of ₹18.5 crore for the temple, and was aided by the trust’s member Anil Mishra. Singh and Samajwadi Party leader Pawan Pandey have demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) into the land deal.Speaking to reporters on the issue, Raut said that all the members of the trust, set up for the construction of the Ram temple, were appointed on behalf of BJP. “Crores of rupees have been donated from across the world for the Ram temple of our faith. Even Shiv Sena, through [CM] Uddhav Thackeray, had donated ₹1 crore. If the sum collected for this work of faith is being misused then what use is the faith? With the suspicious land deal that has come to light, the temple trust must come forward and clarify on behalf of the government. RSS chief must clarify and so must the leaders of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad VHP). We must get to know what transpired there [in the land deal],” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-trust-rss-chief-must-clarify-if-money-for-ram-temple-was-misused-101623699826049.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Retired cop shoots at his two sons after fight; one dies||A 68-year-old retired assistant sub-inspector (ASI) with the Mumbai police allegedly shot three rounds of bullets at his two sons from his licensed revolver at their Airoli residence on Monday evening. The elder son suffered major injuries and died late evening. The younger son ducked the bullet, but suffered minor injuries and was discharged from the hospital. The Rabale police arrested the accused, Bhagwan Patil, and also confiscated his revolver soon after the incident. According to the police, Patil has three sons and he stayed with his wife and the elder son (who is physically challenged) at sector 2, Airoli. The second son, Vijay, 34, stayed at Vasai and the youngest son Sujay, 32, stayed in a separate house nearby. Yogesh Gawde, senior inspector of Rabale police station, said, “Patil had a troubled relationship with Vijay and Sujay for a long time. He would assault his wife and that led to frequent fights among them. On Monday, Vijay received a call from an insurance company, which was related to Patil’s car. He then called Patil to discuss it, but they got into a heated argument.” “Vijay along with Sujay came to their parents’ house around 6.30pm. The three got into a scuffle again. In a fit of rage, Patil fired three shots at his sons,” he said. The first two bullets hit Vijay in his stomach and shoulder. “Vijay died while he was under observation at the hospital. We arrested Patil and also confiscated his .32 revolver.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-retired-cop-shoots-at-his-two-sons-after-fight-one-dies-101623699765498.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Covid second wave: 3.8mn new cases, 61K deaths in 4 months in Maharashtra||The second wave that started in Maharashtra on February 10 has so far led to 3,868,319 new Covid-19 cases and 61,336 deaths within four months, compared to the first wave from March 9, 2020 to February 9, 2021, which saw 2,048,802 cases, along with 51,360 deaths in approximately 11 months. Maharashtra recorded 8,129 new cases on Monday, along with 200 deaths. Avinash Supe, chairman, state deaths audit committee, said various factors led to high death rates in the past four months. “There were more Covid-19 cases in the second wave compared to the first wave, which was directly proportional to the death rate. In addition, we saw more deaths as the virus spread to rural areas, which had poor hospital infrastructure. Other reasons include shortage of oxygen as well as late reporting of the symptoms, which led to delayed treatment, contributing to higher death rate,” he added. Dr Jeevan Jain, general physician from Lalbaug, who is credited with treating more than 15,000 Covid-19 patients, said, “The first wave was mild compared to the second one as we saw very few patients admitted to the hospital and a majority got well through home quarantine,” said Dr Jain. “The virulence and potency of the Covid-19 mutant in the second wave was more lethal than the first one. We saw people suffering from high fever for seven to 10 days. In contrast, in the first wave, people got well within five days. Another reason for higher mortality rates was labs could not cope with the sheer number of patients and the results used to be delayed, directly delaying the treatment,” he added. Another factor which pushed up the deaths was that since May 1, Maharashtra has added almost 17,388 deaths from Covid-19 under the category of reconciliation deaths. “These are due to delayed reporting especially from the rural parts of the state which fail to upload the data in time on the centralised portal,” said Dr Supe. Mumbai on Monday recorded 530 new Covid-19 cases with 19 deaths, taking the total toll to 15,202. There are currently 18,205 active cases in Mumbai and the number of citizens who have contracted the virus till date stood at 716,190. There were 168,902 tests conducted on Monday, while the patients who recovered stood at 14,732. The death toll has now reached 112,696, with Pune leading with 15,464 deaths, followed closely by Mumbai with 15,202 deaths. The number of active cases recorded was 147,354, with Pune again leading with 19,047, followed by Mumbai with 18,205.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-second-wave-3-8mn-new-cases-61k-deaths-in-4-months-in-maharashtra-101623699705518.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Centre to give free Covid vaccine doses to all adults from June 21: BMC to double centres||Starting next week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will double the number of vaccination centres across the city, anticipating a rise in demand for inoculation. The civic body’s move follows the Centre’s recent decision to provide free vaccination to everyone above 18 years of age from June 21. Currently, there are a total of 259 vaccination centres, which have a capacity to vaccinate over 31,000 people daily. With plans to expand vaccination centres to more than 500, the inoculation capacity will be pushed to more than 55,000 in Mumbai. Public health officials said increasing centres will also mean a tough competition to private hospitals, which are inoculating more beneficiaries than civic-run centres. “Since the start of the mass vaccination process in January, we have been continuously working on the logistics. We have the infrastructure to expand the total number of vaccination centres to over 500. We are hopeful that the arrangements will be completed before June 21,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC. Currently, BMC has over one lakh vaccine doses. Priority will be given to beneficiaries waiting for their second dose. In fact, healthcare and frontline workers can only come for the second dose. As of June 12, 3,722,261 people have been vaccinated with Covishield, of which 697,231 have been administered both doses. While a total of 294,777 individuals have been inoculated with Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, 115,575 have got both the shots. SUPPLY WORRY Last week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared that the Central government would procure and supply Covid-19 jabs to states for free to inoculate all above 18 years of age from June 21. Of the total availability of vaccine, 75% will be procured by the Centre, the remaining 25% will continue to be available for private hospitals. However, if sources from the public health department are to be believed, officials are still in talks with manufacturers, as a back-up plan in case they fall short of vials, like earlier instances. “Earlier, on several occasions, we had to face mass criticism due to unavailability of vials. We had to stop the vaccination programme at several centres. Even though the Centre has promised to supply the vials, we don’t want to close the door of communication with the manufacturers. We have to keep a backup in case, we don’t get an adequate number of vials,” said an official from the state health department. PRICE CAP There are a total 84 private vaccination centres in the city, which have the capacity to inoculate almost 67,000 people daily. Data shared by BMC shows that private hospitals are vaccinating more beneficiaries than civic and government-run centres. For instance, on June 12, private hospitals inoculated 58,629 people. On the same day, BMC vaccinated only 11,023. However, doctors said private vaccination may take a backseat due to the Centre’s new rule that private hospitals can’t charge more than ₹150 per dose as service charge, and it will be the responsibility of the state government to monitor its implementation. Private hospitals said that this would hamper the ongoing inoculation programmes at corporates and societies. “To arrange for vaccination in societies and corporate houses, we need to keep ambulances on stand-by and the arrangements are expensive. These cost more than ₹150 as service charge. Though we completely respect the decisions of the government, holding vaccination camps outside the hospital within the price cap would be problematic,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician, Bombay Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centre-to-give-free-covid-vaccine-doses-to-all-adults-from-june-21-bmc-to-double-centres-101623699585486.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Pvt hospitals from outside city can’t hold Covid vaccination camps here||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief Iqbal Singh Chahal, in his fresh orders issued on Monday, restricted any private hospital from outside Mumbai to hold vaccination camps in the city. BMC officials said the curb is because in case of any kind of adverse effect, it would be difficult to shift the person concerned to the hospital, which ideally needs to keep an ICU bed or other required facilities ready. Currently, private vaccination centres are set up at work places and housing societies. Further, the order also states that the memorandum of understanding must be signed between the private vaccination centre and workplace or housing society will to have details in it like number of medical staff stationed at the vaccination site and also ambulance in case of Adverse event following immunization (AEFI). Meanwhile, reiterating its earlier stance, the BMC in its circular has added political party hoardings, banners and posters are not allowed at any civic, state and private vaccination centres. This comes in the wake of several people from different political parties holding vaccination camps, in some cases, even facilitating it at large housing societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-pvt-hospitals-from-outside-city-can-t-hold-covid-vaccination-camps-here-101623699525420.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Covid second wave: Mumbai’s Dharavi reports 0 cases||For the first time since the second wave hit the city in February 2021, Dharavi, India’s largest slum cluster, reported zero new Covid cases on Monday, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The last time Dharavi reported zero cases was January 22. The first case in Dharavi was reported on April 1, 2020. According to BMC officials, cases in Dharavi are going down, on the lines of the city. As of Monday, Dharavi had 6,861 cases, of which 13 cases were active and 6,489 have been discharged. Of the 13 active cases, six are under home isolation, four in hospital and three in quarantine centres. Further, according to BMC officials, over 22,000 Covid vaccine doses have been administered in the city, as of Monday. Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner, said, “The focus is on testing, tracing, treating, similar to during the first wave. However, this time, we are looking at vaccination. The only way to control the spread is aggressive vaccination.” Dharavi falls under G-North ward of the BMC and its neighbouring areas include Dadar and Mahim. Initially, both Dadar and Mahim had fewer cases when compared to Dharavi. However, as the spread shifted to high-rises from slums, cases in Dadar and Mahim overtook Dharavi. As of Monday, Dadar has 9,557 cases, of which 152 are active and 9,221 have been discharged, whereas Mahim topped the ward with 9,876 cases, of which 300 are active and 25,249 have been discharged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-second-wave-mumbai-s-dharavi-reports-0-cases-101623699409973.html
15-06-2021||Other||ESIC approves scheme for dependents of Covid victims||The Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) has approved the “ESIC Covid-19 Relief Scheme” for dependents of beneficiaries who died of Covid, which will be effective for a period of two years from March 24, 2020.The dependent family members will receive periodic payments upto 90% of the average daily wages of the deceased, directly to their bank account. The minimum relief under the scheme will be ₹1,800 per month.It is necessary that the person who died of Covid must have been registered on the ESIC online portal at least three months prior to the date of diagnosis. Also, the deceased ought to have been employed on the date of diagnosis and contributions for at least 70 days should have been paid or payable during a period of maximum one year immediately preceding the diagnosis.For those availing of maternity benefit (MB), extended sickness benefit (ESB) or temporary disablement benefit (TDB) and fall short of the required 70 days of contribution, the number of days they were on MB, TDB or ESB during the period of one year prior to the diagnosis will be counted for their eligibility for relief under the scheme.The claimant will be required to submit their claim for relief under the scheme in a prescribed form enclosing the Covid positive report and death certificate of the deceased at the nearest ESIC branch office.Proof of age and identity of dependents shall be given by means of Aadhar or birth certificate. The spouse of the deceased shall be eligible for medical care at ESIC institutions on depositing ₹120 lumpsum for one year.In the event of death of an insured, a sum of ₹15,000 is paid either to the eldest surviving member of the family or the person who actually performs the last rites of the person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/esic-approves-scheme-for-dependents-of-covid-victims-101623699405506.html
15-06-2021||Other||3 held for printing fake currency in Ludhiana||Khanna police arrested three men for printing and circulating fake notes. Counterfeit notes amounting to ₹3.04 lakh were recovered from their possession. The arrested accused were identified as Ashu of Krishna Nagar of Bhagat Singh Colony; Mandeep Singh alias Mani of Basant Nagar and Vikas alias Vicky of Uttar Nagar. The accused are between 25 to 27 years of age. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Khanna) Rajan Parminder Singh, said that the cops arrested the accused from the military ground in Khanna on Sunday. He said the accused confessed that they had been printing counterfeit notes for the past six months. They indulged in the illegal activity to make easy money. To avoid attracting attention, they had started printing notes of different denominations. They used to mix the fake currency notes in bundles of original currency notes and make payments with the same.The DSP added that the computer and printer used for printing the notes were seized.A case under Sections 489 A (counterfeiting currency-notes or bank-notes), 489 B (using as genuine, forged, or counterfeit currency notes or bank-notes), 489 C (possession of forged or counterfeit currency notes or bank-notes), 489 D (making or possessing instruments or materials for forging or counterfeiting currency notes or bank-notes) and 489 E(making or using documents resembling currency notes or bank-notes) of the IPC has been lodged against the accused at City-2 police station of Khanna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-held-for-printing-fake-currency-in-ludhiana-101623699348753.html
15-06-2021||Other||Burglars target factory in Ludhiana, decamp with cash, electronics||Five masked burglars targeted a factory in Geeta Colony extension, Tibba, on the intervening of Monday and Tuesday and decamped with cash and electronics.Inspector Parmod Kumar, SHO at Tibba police station, said that the police lodged an FIR against the unidentified accused.According to factory owner Inderjit Singh Chawla, he has incurred a loss of ₹20 lakh. Inderjit said usually the factory runs in both day and night shifts however, on Sunday, they had both the shifts off. At around 1 am, five assailants barged into the factory after breaking open the locks of the main gate and stole ₹5 lakh in cash from the locker. While fleeing, they also took along a refrigerator, an LED TV, a microwave, shawls, and other goods. The theft was captured on the CCTVs installed at the factory.The police are scanning them to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/burglars-target-factory-in-ludhiana-decamp-with-cash-electronics-101623699347697.html
15-06-2021||Other||1 lakh Ludhiana govt school students to appear in online evaluation tests from July 5||The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has directed teachers to conduct bi-monthly assessment tests online from July 5 to evaluate the performance of 1.17 lakh students of Classes 6 to 10 of the district government schools.The teachers have been asked to get in touch with the students amid the ongoing summer break and inform them regarding the same. Over 24,992 students of Class 6, 23,505 of Class 7, 23,558 of Class 8, 22,671 of Class 9, and 22,628 of Class 10 will appear for the tests comprising 50 marks each.According to the date sheet, the first exam will be held on July 5, including English for students of Class 6, Punjabi for Class 7, math for Class 8, Hindi for Class 9 and science for Class 10. The last exam will be held on July 16. The results of these tests will be declared online by July 22. Virtual parent-teacher meetings will be conducted on July 26 and 27 for updates on the students’ performance.The council will send exam links to the information and communication technology (ICT) district mentor on the examination days to further share with the students. For subjects such as physical education, national skills qualifications framework, and drawing, the teachers will conduct the exams online on their own.The council has directed the teachers to not send any daily assignments to the students on exam days. As per instructions, these marks will be considered for the continuous and comprehensive evaluation process.Lakhvir Singh, district education officer, secondary, said, “The students have been attending classes via television and internet since April. There was a need to evaluate their performance. The students will get to know the areas they need to work on. We will share the children’s performance with the parents through virtual parent teacher meetings”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-lakh-ludhiana-govt-school-students-to-appear-in-online-evaluation-tests-from-july-5-101623699346630.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Door-to-door vaccination not possible, Centre reiterates||Reiterating its stand that door-to-door vaccination was not possible, the Central government informed the Bombay high court (HC) that it was expected that the Maharashtra government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) would follow the ‘near-to-home policy’ for vaccinating severely ill and bedridden persons. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocates Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, seeking directions to the Centre, state and BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination for people over 75 years of age, the specially-abled and the bed-ridden. In response to a letter by BMC commissioner IS Chahal, the Centre, through additional solicitor general Anil Singh, submitted that as it was recommended by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) and agreed upon by representatives of various states, the decision was akin to a national policy. When asked by the court whether it was incumbent on states to follow the policy, the Centre clarified the recommendations were advisory in nature and did not prohibit any states or corporations from implementing the door-to-door vaccination policy. After the HC was informed that the state was contemplating the door-to-door vaccination policy as health minister Rajesh Tope has announced it, the court asked the BMC whether it would comply to which the civic authority responded in the affirmative. The letter addressed to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) had expressed willingness of the civic body to conduct door-to-door vaccination for the needy provided the Centre gave it the go-ahead and issued guidelines. The response by Manohar Agnani, additional secretary, MoHFW, stated door-to-door vaccination could not be adopted at present stage due to Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) and cold-chain protocols. The MoHFW further stated that Near to Home Covid Vaccination Centres (NHCVC) for elderly and specially-abled persons could be set up in schools, old-age homes, sub-health centres and panchayat offices, among others. When questioned by the bench as to how some states and corporations had already started door-to-door vaccination, Singh said it was a fact as the national policy of near-to-home vaccination was advisory in nature. “We have clarified that national policy is for time-being and in future we will have some arrangement and issues raised by the petitioner will also be sorted out,” submitted Singh. Singh added the Centre had not prohibited the states namely Kerala, Orissa and Jammu and Kashmir that were carrying out door-to-door inoculation for the needy as health was a state subject. When Kapadia drew the attention of the bench to a news report wherein Tope had said that his department was working on allowing home vaccination for the bedridden and those who could not go to vaccination centres, the court asked the state advocate on the progress of the same. The advocate sought time to respond to the query. The bench then directed the authorities to respond and posted the hearing on June 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doortodoor-vaccination-not-possible-centre-reiterates-101623699345419.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Covid, lockdown hit licensed tourist guides badly, many take up odd jobs||At times when India’s unemployment level has further increased due to the second wave of Covid-19, India’s 3,500 licensed tour guides are among the worst hit with many forced to take odd jobs over the past year and a half. With next to nil footfall of domestic and international tourists in the past year, guides like Nutan Kanade have seen a major drop in their earnings, and the situation is nowhere close to improving. The Mulund-based 45-year-old has been a guide for 17 years, introducing travellers to the wonders of Mumbai and its surrounding islands, including the centuries-old Elephanta Caves as well as weekend destinations like Nashik. Before the pandemic, her earnings would be ₹50,000 on an average. After the lockdown was announced last year, Kanade began to take online classes, but the earnings are severely affected. “I am a postgraduate in German, and I have started taking online classes to teach the German language. However, I am not even earning 10% of my original salary,” Kanade said. Few state governments have come forward to help guides. Kerala and Jammu and Kashmir extended financial support; Uttarakhand government announced a relief package of ₹29 crore for the tourism sector, which included ₹10,000 aid to registered tour and rafting guides. However, in Maharashtra – which saw 5,528,704 international tourists in 2019, for instance – guides have seen little respite. Jerroo Bharrucha, president of Tourist Guide Association of Mumbai said that a majority of the income comes from international travellers. “It is important to note that all tourists do not hire guides and for us no foreign tourists mean zero income. We work approximately four to six months and on an average earn ₹4 to 6 lakh annually depending on the tours we do.” There are 120 regional level guides (RLG) in Mumbai, 35 in Aurangabad and eight in Pune, Barucha said. Regional level guides are tourist guides licensed by the ministry of tourism. There are five regions: North, South, East, West and Central. West and Central include Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.“While tour operators bring first business, their rolling business is thanks to us, RLGs, who spend maximum time with the tourists.“We have paid our colleagues’ rents and even small sum of medical bills. Many of our guides have died throughout India due to the pandemic. With no work and money, we are going through a lot of stress,” she said. “A majority of the guides are facing severe financial crisis situations consequent to cancellation of all the tours and visits to the monuments,” Sanjay Sharma, president of Tourist Guides’ Federation of India (TGFI), said. “The $28 billion industry has been brought to a grinding halt at the peak of the tourist season. And we have been the worst hit, with no financial backing as we, the government of India approved licensed Guides, are neither paid employees by the Ministry of Tourism nor given any insurance cover or provident fund support to tide over such situations,” he said. TGFI, the national apex body of regional level guides approved and licensed by the Ministry of Tourism & Culture, with a combined strength of guides across India says that guides in their federation are historians, research scholars, trekkers, mountaineers, ornithologists, botanists, archaeologists and astronomers. “People don’t even know that the guide community exists. Moreover, we are a forgotten lot for the authorities,” Mogan Rodrigues, who has been working as licensed tour guide since 2004, said. Apart from the historical sites in the city, Rodrigues also hosted heritage walks, Bollywood tours and walkthroughs of the city’s temples, mosques and churches. “Our licenses are valid throughout western India including in Goa, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh. With no regular income coming in, one has cut down on expenses drastically. I am forced to survive on savings which are depleting. There is a complete indifference on the part of the government. We also do not have provident fund or any medical insurance facilities. Things are extremely tough for us and I have absolutely no idea when things would return to normal.” Rodrigues now makes East Indian food that he home delivers. “We are a family of four and my wife runs a salon, but due to the pandemic neither I am able to earn from my profession, nor is she. Thankfully for me, the word spread through social media, and it has proved to be fruitful. Today, I am earning around 25% of what I used to earn being a guide.” “The situation has been grim from the start of the pandemic. I had to sell off one of my properties to meet my daily needs. Currently, I am yet to pay my kids school fees from the amount, but I am worried as the situation for tourism and especially for the guides community is not expected for at least a year. I have a cancer patient in the family, and I have to take care of those expenses too. Our community needs the government’s immediate help,” Ajay Paliwal, a Delhi-based RLG said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-lockdown-hit-licensed-tourist-guides-badly-many-take-up-odd-jobs-101623699225460.html
15-06-2021||Other||65-yr-old held for molesting mentally ill woman in south Mumbai||After being on the lookout for a man, accused of allegedly molesting a mentally ill woman, for a month without any leads, Worli police arrested the accused from Karnataka on Sunday. According to Worli police officers, the accused has been identified as Abdul Gani Sayyed Bagwaan, 65. The accused, who lived on the footpath at Gandhi Nagar in Worli, had been absconding after locals reported the case to the police on May 2. Assistant inspector Liladhar Patil from Worli police station said the locals had reported that a mentally ill woman staying in their locality had been molested by an unidentified man. After the medical examination, the police tried to talk to the woman but she was unable to provide the description or name of the accused. “The locals just knew that the accused lived on a footpath and did not have an address,” said Patil. The officers alerted their informers and rounded up several footpath dwellers from Gandhi Nagar and the neighbouring areas to find out if any of them was missing. “We then found out that Bagwaan was missing since the incident,” said Patil. The officers then began tracing people who knew Bagwaan and then tracked him to his village Ukkeri in Karnataka. On Sunday, Worli police officers reached Karnataka and arrested Bagwaan.0||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/65yrold-held-for-molesting-mentally-ill-woman-in-south-mumbai-101623699165365.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Woman, 6-year-old daughter die in Ludhiana road mishap||A 34-year-old woman and her six-year-old daughter died in a road mishap after a car hit the motorcycle they were riding pillion in Kubbe village near the toll barrier close to Neelon canal bridge on Monday morning. The deceased have been identified as Inderjit Kaur of Lalton and her daughter Gagandeep Kaur.  Inderjit’s husband Jasvir Singh, 36, is undergoing treatment at a hospital, where his condition is stated to be critical. In the mishap, car driver Ravinder Singh of Dugri, a banker, has also suffered injuries.As per Samrala police, the family was going to Machhiwara to meet Jasvir’s cousin. Jarnail Singh, brother-in-law of Jasvir Singh, said the trio had left their house around 8am. “At 10am, we received a call from police, informing us about the accident. We rushed to the spot, but by the time we reached there, the police with the help of passersby had taken the victims to hospital,” he added. Jarnail said Jasvir worked as a carpenter. According to an eyewitness, the motorcycle was tailing a truck. On reaching near the toll barrier, the truck driver applied brakes and Jasvir also slowed down his bike. However, car driver Ravinder, who was behind the motorcycle, lost control over his vehicle and rammed it into the victims. The impact of the collision was so strong that the motorcycle got stuck in the chassis of the car. People rushed to their rescue, but the woman and her daughter had died on the spot. They rushed the injured Jasvir to Samrala civil hospital from where he was referred to Ludhiana.Samrala station house officer Kulwant Singh said a case of reckless driving and causing death due to negligence has been registered against Ravinder, who works in a private bank in Samrala. The police will arrest the accused after he is discharged from the hospital, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-6-year-old-daughter-die-in-ludhiana-road-mishap-101623699106129.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Newly married woman commits suicide in Ludhiana||A 25-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself at the house of one of her male friends in Gagan Nagar.The police have recovered a purported suicide note from the spot wherein she has mentioned that she is ending her life as she was mentally disturbed and her friend should not be blamed or harassed for her extreme step. Sub-Inspector Ranjit Singh from Daba police station said that the woman had got married a month ago and committed suicide on Sunday when her friend and his family members were not present at home. The couple were having a discord and her husband had confiscated her mobile phone. Around a week ago, the woman had left the house of her husband and gone to Delhi to one of her friends’ house. Meanwhile, her in-laws had lodged a missing complaint at a police station in Mansa.The woman had returned to Ludhiana from Delhi two days ago, but she didn’t go to her parents’ house and contacted her male friend. The police have informed her family members and asked her husband to handover her mobile phone for further investigation.The woman had completed her MBA while her husband is a contractor. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/newly-married-woman-commits-suicide-in-ludhiana-101623699046760.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Interim relief for ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir and Rashmi Shukla till June 22||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday adjourned the hearing of the petitions filed by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and ex-commissioner of state intelligence Rashmi Shukla till June 22 after the state gave an assurance that it would not take any coercive steps against the two till then, as the regular bench that was hearing the petitions was not available.Singh through his petition has sought quashing of the first information report (FIR) against him by police inspector BR Ghadge in an SC, ST Atrocities Act case. Ghadge has alleged that Singh in 2015 order had directed him to drop the names of some developers from an FIR registered at Thane. After he refused to do so, FIRs were registered against him at Singh’s behest, Ghadge alleged. While the FIR on Ghadge’s complaint was initially lodged at Akola, it was transferred to Thane police as the alleged excesses by Singh had occurred there. The case is now being investigated by the state crime investigation department (CID). Shukla’s petition sought quashing of the alleged illegal phone-tapping case against her. Shukla is accused of leaking sensitive documents related to police postings in Maharashtra. The alleged tapping of phones had taken place when Shukla headed the Maharashtra intelligence department.  After senior counsel Darius Khambatta for the state informed the bench that the earlier statement of the government of not taking coercive steps till the next date, the bench posted hearing to June 22. The intervention application by Khar-based developer Kartik Bhatt in the petition by Singh, alleging that the former top cop through two police officers had tried to extort ₹200 crore from him for a slum rehabilitation authority (SRA) project undertaken by him in Chembur, will also be heard on June 22. Bhatt’s application has alleged that he had already paid Singh extortion money in 2018 for the same project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/interim-relief-for-param-bir-and-rashmi-shukla-till-june-22-101623699045473.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana teen bludgeoned to death over monetary dispute||An auto-rickshaw driver thrashed a 19-year-old vendor to death with an iron rod following a dispute over a petty sum of money. The victim was undergoing treatment and succumbed to his injuries on Monday morning. Koom Kalan police have registered a murder case against Mohammad Suleman of Kohara on the statement of Pappu Shah of Sahnewal, who is brother of victim Suraj Kumar.Suraj used to sell cigarettes, tobacco and eggs at a roadside vend on Kohara road. The accused had bought some boiled eggs from Suraj and promised to pay the money later, but he did not. When Suraj sought his money back a couple of days ago, the accused indulged in a verbal spat with him. The complainant said the amount could have been ₹20 or ₹30. Pappu said Suraj was attacked when he passing through the lane of the accused. He said Suleman was consuming liquor while sitting outside his house. Koom Kalan SHO Harshpal Singh said efforts are on to arrest the culprit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-teen-bludgeoned-to-death-over-monetary-dispute-101623698986016.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus: Rajindra hospital conducts 15 surgeries, saves eye in 12 cases||The department of ENT at Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, has conducted surgeries on 15 black fungus patients so far. The hospital reported 53 cases of black fungus of which 14 died due to complexities. Medical college principal Dr Rajan Singla said eye of 12 patients was saved by performing advanced endoscopic surgery. Eye of three patients had to be removed to save their life, he said, adding seven patients have been discharged and are under regular follow-up. Dr Singla said the hospital is looking after 12 mucormycosis patients, who have been operated upon in private hospitals but were referred here for various reasons.“Preoperative and postoperative care of mucormycosis patients are done by the medicine department led by Prof RPS Sibia. All patients are monitored daily and are receiving anti-fungal medications,” he said.A new ENT operation theatre is being set up in the isolation building for Covid positive mucormycosis patients, he said. Head of the ENT department Dr Sanjeev Bhagat said the hospital has latest equipment to take care of mucormycosis patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-rajindra-hospital-conducts-15-surgeries-saves-eye-in-12-cases-101623698927483.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid claims 1 life, 52 test positive in Ludhiana||The district continued to breathe easy as far as number of fresh cases and fatalities due to coronavirus are concerned with one death being reported and 52 people testing positive in Ludhiana on Monday.There are 1,267 active patients in the district at present. The deceased is a 71-year-old woman of Samrala, who succumbed to the contagion in SPS hospital.The total number of coronavirus cases in Ludhiana since the beginning of the pandemic is 86,317, including 2,064 deaths.The fatality rate is 2.39% while 27 patients are on ventilators in various hospitals in the city. It was in the last week of February this year that the daily count of cases was below 60. Meanwhile, two fresh cases of mucormycosis were reported in the district while two patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours, as per the health department officials. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the district has increased to 116, out of which 17 patients have succumbed to the disease in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-claims-1-life-52-test-positive-in-ludhiana-101623698926138.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Noise-free environment part of right to life, its violation criminal offence: NGT||Noise-free environment is part of the right to life and its violation is a criminal offence, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has said while directing authorities to look into a plea alleging noise pollution at gurdwaras in Hoshiarpur district of Punjab.A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that the Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the states of Punjab, Haryana and Union Territory of Chandigarh to ensure that no loudspeaker or public address system shall be used by any person including religious bodies in temples, mosques and gurdwaras without written permission of the authority.“Noise-free environment being part of the right to life and binding statutory rules having been framed on the subject, violation of which is a criminal offence and the high court has given binding directions, no further adjudication is required. Only compliance is to be made by the executive authorities concerned. Accordingly, the district magistrate and Hoshiarpur SSP need to look into the grievance of the applicant in accordance with the law,” the bench said.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Balwinder Kaur against the failure of the statutory authorities to regulate noise pollution at gurdwaras in Hoshiarpur district.The plea alleged failure of the statutory authorities to regulate noise pollution in Hoshiarpur, particularly at Hamja village in Dasuya tehsil. According to the applicant, the management committee of Gurdwara Chhevi Patshahi, management committee of Guru Nanak Dukh Bhanjan Satsang Ghar, pastor, Amanat Khan Memorial GN Church, Kotli Khurd, Gurdwara Singh Sabha and Gurdwara Sahib Kala, Kullian, are using loudspeakers at high volume. In spite of the complaint to the Dasuya SDM and to the state pollution control board, remedial action was not being taken, the plea alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/noisefree-environment-part-of-right-to-life-its-violation-criminal-offence-ngt-101623698867140.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Yogi ministers asked to camp in development blocks, connect with party cadre||After chief minister Yogi Adityanath sought “guidance” at meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior leaders in New Delhi last week, the ministers of his government have been asked to work for a greater connect with the BJP workers and reach out to people ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh.The ministers have been asked to camp in development blocks in districts under their charge in June and July 2021, connect with party workers at the grassroots level, obtain feedback about government schemes, attend International Yoga Day programmes there on June 21 and join the booth level workers in listening to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Maan Ki Baat” programme at booths on June 27. The directives were communicated to them at a meeting of the council of ministers that Yogi presided over here on Monday. UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh, who was present at the meeting, briefed the ministers about the details of the outreach programme.Minister of state for stamps and registration (independent charge) Ravindra Jaiswal said the ministers would also review the preparations for the speculated third wave and visit the families of those who may have died of Covid-19. He said ministers would take feedback whether the government relief had reached them.Much significance is being attached to the directives as it coincides with the forthcoming district panchayat chairpersons’ and block panchayat elections in the state.“Minister incharges will camp at the blocks in districts under their charge in June and July 2021. The ministers will try to cover most of the blocks in the districts under their charge and will cover about two blocks every day. The ministers will visit ration shops, PHCs (primary health centres), CHCs (community health centres) and hospitals, attend plantation drives, along with making spot visits, and reviewing implementation of development schemes,” said minister for khadi and village industries and MSMEs Sidharth Nath Singh while briefing media persons about the meeting of the council of ministers.Singh said ministers would hold organisational meetings in smaller groups keeping in view the Covid-19 protocol. He said there would also be programmes, especially plantation drives from June 23 to July 6.Minister for medical education Suresh Khanna and minister for health JP Singh made a presentation about the state government’s Covid-19 management. Animal husbandry minister Chaudhary Laxmi Narain spoke about the arrangements made at the cow shelters in the state.When contacted, Khanna said the BJP’s directives were communicated to the ministers and he would leave for Ghaziabad on Tuesday evening. Khanna said he would begin camping at the block level and attend various programmes there from Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-ministers-asked-to-camp-in-development-blocks-connect-with-party-cadre-101623698866104.html
15-06-2021||Other||Shiv Sena MP seeks President’s nod on law to revamp Mhada buildings||Shiv Sena Member of Parliament (MP) and former Union minister Arvind Sawant has appealed to President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi seeking the President’s assent to a legislation passed by the Maharashtra legislature. Last September, the state legislature had passed an amendment allowing the Maharashtra Housing Area and Development Authority (Mhada) to redevelop or repair dilapidated and cessed buildings to protect the interest of the occupants of such structures.Both the Houses of the legislature had passed an amendment in the Mhada Act, 1976, empowering the authority take over the cessed buildings, with consent of 51% occupants, if the owners and housing societies fail to redevelop them within a year of notification. In two separate letters dated June 12, the Sena MP from south Mumbai said, “…this amendment will definitely protect the lives of the people who are residing in these dilapidated buildings. Nearly 16,000 buildings fall under the category of cess buildings in Mumbai. Some of these cess buildings, [some of] which are nearly 100 years old, are on the lands of MbPT (Mumbai Port Trust), NTC (National Textile Corporation), LIC (Life Insurance Corporation) and other organisations which neither repair nor redevelop them and do not allow even the government authorities such as Mhada to carry out the redevelopment.”Cessed buildings are old, tenanted properties that were built before 1969, for which residents are required to pay a cess to Mhada for maintenance. The city witnesses collapse of such dilapidated structures, especially during monsoon. The letter was written after a building in Malvani area killed 12 people, including eight children.Referring to the Malvani tragedy, Sawant said, “This proves how essential is the approval to the amendment of the Act and how the Act is important as the lives of citizens living in such structures are at stake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shiv-sena-mp-seeks-president-s-assent-on-law-to-revamp-mhada-buildings-101623698745377.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 629 Covid cases, lowest in 110 days||ChandigarhPunjab on Monday witnessed 629 fresh Covid cases, lowest in 110 days. On March 3, the state had witnessed 642 Covid cases in a day. The state’s positivity rate also dropped to 1.45% against 1.78% on Sunday. The infection tally in the state reached 5,88,525, while 33 more fatalities pushed the toll to 15,602, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases dropped to 11,913 from 12,981 on Sunday.Deaths were reported from several districts, including Amritsar, Barnala, Fazilka, Bathinda, Jalandhar and Ludhiana. Jalandhar reported 98 infections, followed by 55 in Amritsar and 52 in Ludhiana, among the fresh cases. With 1,650 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,61,010, according to the bulletin.There are 188 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 586 other critical patients and 2,529 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 1,00,83,279 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-629-covid-cases-lowest-in-110-days-101623698686776.html
15-06-2021||Other||Maharashtra government will complete full term: Minister||The Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will complete its full term, state cabinet minister Yashomati Thakur has claimed. She remarked that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre is bestowing a step-brotherly treatment on Maharashtra. “Even though the Congress is ready to fight solo, the MVA government will remain stable for five years,” she said. Thakur was in Thane to meet the children who were orphaned due to Covid-19. She said that the state will follow-up with the children every 15 days to ask about their well-being. She also said that strict action will be taken against all those who have adopted children through illegal means. “There are 284 children in the state who have lost their parents to the pandemic, of whom the maximum – 42 – have been orphaned in Thane district, as per our records. We will take a decision over the welfare of these children in the upcoming cabinet meeting. We’ll be using technology to keep in touch with them and call each of them every 15 days to ask about their well-being.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-government-will-complete-full-term-minister-101623698567143.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura firing: Badal expresses inability to join probe on health grounds||Former Punjab chief minister and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch Parkash Singh Badal on Monday wrote to the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura firing case expressing his inability to meet the panel on June 16 on health grounds and sought rescheduling of the date for appearance.Badal said he has been advised complete bed rest for 10 days by doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Bathinda. The 93-year-old Akali patriarch didn’t specify his ailment.Badal offered to join investigations at his current residence at MLA flats in Chandigarh as soon as his health gets better. An official of the three-member SIT hinted that the panel members may approach Badal at his place of convenience. “We will take a decision on Tuesday,” he said.The SIT had summoned Badal, asking him to appear before it with records on Wednesday at a rest house in Mohali.Since its constitution last month after the Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the report of a previous SIT, the new probe panel led by additional director general of police (ADGP) LK Yadav, has held three rounds of questioning of a couple of police officials and politicians in two politically-sensitive cases of police firing on crowds protesting over the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib in 2015 when Badal was at the helm of the state.In his latest communication to the SIT, Badal underlined his intent and commitment to “fully cooperate with the law”, saying he had “complete faith in the judiciary”. Stating that he hoped that the new SIT, unlike the previous one, would conduct a fair investigation, Badal added that “the entire process of investigation already stands compromised because of political interference and vendetta”. The former CM said the very need for the present SIT had arisen out of the brazen politicisation of the case by the previous SIT, alleging that one of its members had tried to politicise the issue and subvert the entire investigation process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-firing-badal-expresses-inability-to-join-probe-on-health-grounds-101623698566577.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||You can get learners’ licence, vehicle registration online at Maharashtra||Those who wish to apply for learners’ licence do not have to go to a regional transport office (RTO) anymore as the Maharashtra transport department on Monday launched an online learners’ licence system. Aspirants wishing to apply for a learning licence can visit the road transport ministry’s Sarathi 4.0 website and take an online test using Aadhaar-based authentication. Besides this, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray also launched an online vehicle registration system for vehicles across the state by the dealers. Dealers will be able to complete all formalities and payments of taxes online and there will be no need to bring the vehicle to RTO premises, said transport department officials.The move, according to CM, will not only be convenient for citizens, but also reduce the burden on around 200 government officials at RTOs. Every year, 1.5 million learning licences are issued, and 2 million vehicles are registered in the state, the transport department said.While inaugurating the two online systems, CM said that the transport department through this mechanism has put forward an ambitious step towards people’s welfare. “The system will not only help citizens avoid long queues [at RTOs] and save time and energy, but also about 200 government officials who have to deal with citizens queued up for driving licences,” he said. State transport minister Anil Parab called it a “revolutionary” move and said, “These are important steps taken during the corona times by ensuring the functioning of the department while providing online services. So far, 85 services of the department have been made available online for citizens.”CM also appealed to the state departments to adopt a new approach based on e-governance to make available facilities online in the future as well. He added that though the vehicles increase, the roads remain the same, the issue of parking needs to be addressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/you-can-get-learners-licence-vehicle-registration-online-at-maharashtra-101623698446643.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Delhi HC asks for status, medical report of 1984 riots case convict||The Delhi high court on Monday asked authorities concerned to file the status and medical report of a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case convict, who has sought interim suspension of sentence for 18 weeks.A division bench of justices Navin Chawla and Asha Menon said that it will hear the matter on July 5.In his plea filed through advocate Dharam Raj Ohlan, convict Naresh Sehrawat urged the court to grant interim suspension of sentence to him for 18 weeks.Advocate Ohlan told the high court that Sehrawat needs immediate liver and kidney transplants and in these medical conditions, the petitioner needs a special diet and care.The petitioner said that his medical condition is deteriorating and he is not able to speak, stand and eat properly.He also said that Sehrawat needs an attendant, which is not possible in jail, and denial of proper treatment puts the life of the petitioner at risk.On June 1, 2020, the Delhi high court granted relief to Sehrawat and allowed his plea seeking interim suspension of sentence for 12 weeks on medical grounds observing that he is a stage IV kidney patient and is hence highly vulnerable to Covid-19.Later, it was extended from time to time and at last the appellant Sehrawat had surrendered on April 5, 2021, following the direction issued by the court.Sehrawat was sentenced to life imprisonment by a trial court. He, along with Yashpal Singh, were convicted by a trial court for murder, attempt to murder, dacoity and voluntarily causing hurt with dangerous weapons.Sherawat and Yashpal were accused of killing Hardev Singh and Avtar Singh in the Mahipalpur area of south Delhi during the riots that followed the assassination of then prime minister Indira Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delhi-hc-asks-for-status-medical-report-of-1984-riots-case-convict-101623698446053.html
15-06-2021||Other||Contrary to ‘heavy showers’ forecast by IMD, Mumbai sees sunny weather||Despite initial forecasts predicting very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall till Tuesday (June 15), Mumbai has seen relatively drier and even sunnier weather since Sunday. The city received only 4mm of rainfall in the 24-hour period ending at 8.30am on Monday, and received no rainfall in the subsequent nine hours, as per data from the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station in Santacruz.Officials confirmed on Monday that dry weather is likely to continue in Mumbai for at least another three to four days, along with a slight increase in both daytime maximum and nighttime minimum temperatures. The daytime maximum temperature on Monday touched 33.6 degrees Celsius (a degree more than normal), up from 32.6 degrees Celsius recorded the day before. The minimum temperature was recorded at 27.4 degrees Celsius (also one degree above normal), up from Sunday’s 26.4 degrees Celsius.As of 8.30am on Monday, the city has received 719mm of rain (as per the Santacruz weather station, which is representative of both Mumbai city and suburbs), which is 42% in excess of the normal rainfall for the month of June (505mm). This is also 422% in excess of the normal rainfall for the first two weeks of June, which stands at 137.8mm.Mumbai has been placed by the weather bureau under a green category storm warning (light to moderate rains) till Wednesday, and a yellow category storm warning (heavy rain at isolated places) for Thursday and Friday. However, independent meteorologists have warned that Mumbai is likely to see another spell of heavy rainfall between Thursday and Saturday, with another cyclonic circulation beginning to form in the north Arabian Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/contrary-to-heavy-showers-forecast-by-imd-mumbai-sees-sunny-weather-101623698205435.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||SSR case: CBI should come clear on its probe outcome, says Congress||A year after the much-talked-about investigation into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, the Congress has raised questions over the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) probe and demanded that the central agency come clear on its outcome.Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant on Monday said that 310 days after it took over the investigation, the central agency has not been able to throw light on outcome of the case. “When is the CBI going to make its probe report public in Rajput’s death case? The AIIMS (All India Institute Of Medical Science) had, around 210 days ago, clarified that it was a case of suicide and there was no poisoning involved. Is there any pressure from the political bosses on CBI to not reveal the outcome of the case,” he said.Sawant also alleged that Rajput’s death case was used by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to defame the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and gain political ground during the Bihar Assembly polls. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) also did not take the investigation of the drug racket related to the death to logical end, he said.BJP leader Ram Kadam said that the central agency could not prove anything because the evidence was hushed up by the state police. “Before CBI took over the investigation, the state government destroyed key proofs in the room where the actor died by suicide. Maharashtra Police neither registered the complaint of Sushant’s father nor did it allow Patna Police to investigate in the state. For strange reasons, the state police stood by [actor] Rhea Chakraborty [against whom his family has lodged abetment to suicide case] and did not even investigate the [alleged] drug deals related to the case despite having clear proofs on WhatsApp chats. It was NCB which interrogated 35 people and arrested 20 of them,” he said. Chakraborty’s lawyer had earlier denied all allegations against his client. Meanwhile, the Congress has also questioned why former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has not been summoned by the (National Investigation Agency) NIA in the Antilia explosives scare case.“It has been established now that the main accused in the Antilia case, former police officer Sachin Vaze, was directly reporting to Singh. The officers involved in the case were from Singh’s office. By not summoning Singh for investigation, the Centre is safeguarding the mastermind of the entire case,” Sawant said, adding that the central agencies have probed the allegations levelled by Singh without any proof, but the cases in which evidence are against him are not being investigated.Singh did not answer HT’s calls or messages seeking his response on Congress’ allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssr-case-cbi-should-come-clear-on-its-probe-outcome-says-congress-101623698085463.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai varsity colleges reopen amid Covid-19, confusion||Several city colleges affiliated to the University of Mumbai (MU) reopened amid confusion on Monday. While colleges depended on an old MU circular stating that the academic year 2021-22 will begin on June 14 (Monday), a fresh circular confirming this and the fact that colleges will continue lectures online only came around 4pm on Monday, hours after colleges had already opened for the new year.“The university had released an academic calendar for the 2020-21 academic year towards the end of 2020 and in that it was clarified that the next academic year will commence from June 14. However, no one gave us any clarity on whether to conduct lectures online or not. We started assuming that lectures will be held virtually,” said Marie Fernandes, principal of St Andrew’s College, Bandra. By Monday afternoon, the university released a circular signed by the registrar, addressed to all affiliated colleges. “Lectures of undergraduate and postgraduate, except for first year (first part) will begin on the online platform after the completion of admissions process,” stated the circular. While clarity on online lectures has now come through, MU is yet to respond to queries about teacher and staff attendance in colleges. “We didn’t get any information in the previous circular. So we contacted the university officials and were told that MU itself is working on the 50%-attendance rule for the time being. So we have decided to follow the same rule and call the staff on a rotational basis,” said Anju Kapoor, principal of UPG College, Vile Parle. HT had previously reported how colleges were preparing for the 2021-22 academic year in advance, even though the varsity gave very little clarity on the reopening. From purchasing new online software to conducting lectures smoothly, to hiring new service providers and conducting exams online without errors, colleges wanted to be better prepared for the new year. “However, starting classes without the final go-ahead from the university is never a good idea. So we decided to hold off the commencement of lectures unless we heard from the authorities. Now that the circular has come through, we will reopen at the earliest,” said the principal of another suburban college on the condition of anonymity.For the past one year, students from across MU-affiliated colleges have been stuck to their computer screens for lectures. While everyone got used to the routine, many students found practical sessions difficult to understand through the online mode. “We would see several experiments being conducted on the screen, but unless one participates in a laboratory and understands the experiment, it’s very difficult to get the concept. Thankfully, our final-exam practicals were based on oral exams and not physical exams, so we could pass them,” said a third-year student of BSc (chemistry). She added that the college, on request from several students, had agreed to hold offline practical sessions in college in March, but had to call them off after Mumbai started recording an increasing numbers of Covid-19 cases. “Hopefully, this semester we will have a mix of online and offline classes because as third-year students we will need to be better prepared for the final exams,” she added.While most colleges depended entirely on conducting practical sessions online, some tried creative ways to allow better involvement of students. “As soon as our term practical sessions started, our department created a separate Google Classroom where practical material were posted either in PPT or doc forms, which were then explained during the lecture,” said Chitra Lahoti, a third-year student from the microbiology department of KC College, Churchgate. She added that the college made videos for every experiment such as protocol, precautions and results, and also managed to conduct practical sessions for some experiments.Final-year exams, along with the practical sessions, were also conducted online last academic year. “Two students were examined by one professor at a time. For each practical experiment, the problem statements were displayed on the screen and we were supposed to solve it at that moment and answer them. Our journal work was asked to be displayed on screen as well. Additionally, some set of multiple choice questions (MCQs) were also asked as part of the exam,” added Lahoti.This year, colleges are hoping for a hybrid teaching module to ensure that students do not miss out on important sessions. “Our hospitality students have been suffering from the past one year. But this year, we hope to make changes to include more physical sessions, with safety precautions in place, of course,” said Fernandes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-varsity-colleges-reopen-amid-covid-19-confusion-101623697965490.html
15-06-2021||Mumbai||Diesel nearing ₹95-mark in Mumbai, petrol priced at ₹102.58||aroosa.ahmed@htlive.comDiesel prices are close to reaching the ₹95-mark in the city as fuel prices surged on Monday. At an all-time high, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹102.58, while diesel was available for ₹94.70 per litre after witnessing a surge of 28 and 31 paise, respectively. In neighbouring Thane, petrol was available for ₹102.70 per litre, while diesel was priced at ₹94.82 on Monday. Fuel prices in Mumbai have been on a rise since May 3. Transporters’ bodies have called for an all-India transporters’ meeting on Wednesday to take a decision on protesting against the rise in fuel prices in the country. “Every day, the increase in prices of diesel and petrol is tightening the noose for the transport sector. We will be conducting a pan-India meeting on Wednesday and decide our next course of action. The government has refused to take cognisance of the pathetic situation and the time is not far when there a chakka jam (blockade) of vehicles will be forced due to the economic conditions created by the government’s reluctance to give up its avarice for easy revenue from taxation on fuel,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/diesel-nearing-95-mark-in-mumbai-petrol-priced-at-10258-101623697905399.html
15-06-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Azad Park welcomes visitors after 45 days||A large number of morning walkers were back to get their routine of exercise at the Chandra Shekhar Azad Park that reopened on Monday after being shut for over 45 days due to the corona curfew restrictions imposed by the state government on April 30. According to the district administration, the park timings have been changed as the park will now be open for visitors from 7am to 7pm and would remain closed on weekends like other establishments of the city owing to the weekend curfew. The arrival of monsoon in the city and overcast conditions turned the weather pleasant because of which there was a good presence of locals in the park. Although the opening timing of the park has been set as 7am, many morning walkers gave it a miss as a chunk of them do their routine walking between 5am to 6am. However, Monday witnessed many youngsters who arrived at the park for jogging. The park authorities said they were hoping for a higher turnout as the day progresses.“As we knew that the park would open from Monday, my entire family was ready for the day. However, many of our friends had to cancel their plans due to the rain but we did manage to come amidst the drizzle,” said Manisha Singh, an avid morning walker and a regular at the park. Earlier, the entire park was sanitised, and every visitor had to undergo a thermal scan before being allowed inside. The park authorities had decorated the premises to welcome visitors. Appeals to visitors urging them to follow social distancing and wearing facemasks were regularly made via the sound system all through the day. The guard at the main gate Abhimanyu Shukla said, “We have made all arrangements and are letting visitors enter only after ensuring that they are wearing the facemasks and making them undergo a thermal scan.” The president of the morning walkers’ association Kishore Varshney said, “It is important that we maintain our health and visiting the park for exercise is vital for that, which is why we are thankful to the administration for reopening the park. However, we demand that the opening time be shifted to 5am as it would suit most morning walkers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-azad-park-welcomes-visitors-after-45-days-101623697727576.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Retired IAS officer to be RTS commissioner||The Haryana government on Monday decided to appoint retired IAS officer, TC Gupta as chief commissioner of Right to Service Commission.He will be administered oath of office by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday.The commission constituted under the Haryana Right to Service Act aims to provide delivery of service to citizens in a time-bound manner.Gupta, who had retired in May from the government service, was picked from among 17 applicants, many of whom are retired IAS officers, by a committee headed by the CM and having leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda as a member.The culmination of the selection process however has not been without its share of disagreements over the candidature of the former IAS officer.Chief secretary Vijai Vardhan is learnt to have raised the issue of a pending CBI case in a land release matter of Gurugram against the officer, incidentally in which Bhupinder Singh Hooda also figured.The matter was handed over for a CBI probe on directions of the Supreme Court. The CBI though has not named the IAS officer and Hooda in the chargesheet presented before a special CBI court in Panchkula.Also, registration of a first information report, as per the Right to Service Act, is not a disqualification for appointment in the commission.The Act says that the chief commissioner or commissioner can be removed from the office if he has been convicted of an offence which in the opinion of the governor involved moral turpitude.The state government subsequently sought legal advice from advocate general BR Mahajan and went ahead with Gupta’s appointment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/retired-ias-officer-to-be-rts-commissioner-101623697668375.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Oxy van year: Haryana to plant 3 crore saplings||The Haryana government has set a target to planting three crore saplings in ‘Oxy van year’ and growth of every plant will be monitored through geo-tagging.While reviewing the plantation campaign and geo-tagging scheme of the forest and wildlife department, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that this year will be known as ‘Oxy van year’. Haryana forest and wildlife minister Kanwar Pal was also present in the meeting.An official spokesperson said with the help of geo-tagging, every sapling will be monitored, besides drone mapping.Khattar has directed officers to formulate plan to ensure survival of maximum saplings.The CM has asked officers to implement the scheme pursued last year in which students were involved in the plantation campaign and asked officials to fix an incentive amount so that children act as caretakers of these saplings.The CM was told that 2,800 villages are selected for the plantation drive and that sites for this campaign have also picked in these villages. A detailed report was prepared regarding availability of varieties of plants in different plant nurseries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/oxy-van-year-haryana-to-plant-3-crore-saplings-101623697667924.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Amid demand for cancellation, AKTU final year exam schedule out||The examination for the final year students of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) will be held from July 20 to August 7, said Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak. AKTU announced the tentative examination schedule for all the disciplines of the final year on Monday.“The technical education department in its guidelines to the vice-chancellors of three technical universities has suggested a mock test to help students prepare for the online exam which will be multiple choice based,” according to a letter issued by Sunil Kumar Chaudhary, special secretary of the state government.The department has issued guidelines to the technical universities to procure software required to conduct online examination through the GeM portal that has been approved by the government, the letter reads. The administrations of the universities have also been asked to help students to get accustomed to the new software by conducting mock exams ahead of the final semester exam. Students can give the exam from home or anywhere at their convenience, said secretary technical education, Alok Kumar.He said it was decided to keep the exams only objective type and appearing in exams is in the interest of the career of students.He further added, “Today we discussed with the director of technical education, joint directors and nodal principal of all district polytechnics regarding completion of syllabus within next five weeks. The classes will be held on weekends also. If the need arises, extra classes will be taken in the evening.”The technical education department on Monday sent a letter to the vice-chancellors of three technical universities- Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU), Harcourt Butler Technical University (HBTU), Kanpur and MMMUT, Gorakhpur- directing them to conduct final semester examinations in online mode between July 15 to 22 and remaining semester exams between July 23 to 31 as recommended by a five-member committee formed by the department.The vice-chancellor of AKTU, Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak said, “We are all gearing up for conducting online exams for final year students.” He said, “I am very sure students will prepare well for the exam.”Students demand cancellation of examinationsMeanwhile, even before the exam schedule was announced by the university administration, a large number of students of AKTU jointly raised their voice, on Twitter, demanding the cancellation of examinations and promoting students to the next level. They asserted that appearing in the online test is next to impossible owing to the poor internet connectivity especially in the rural areas.Anshul Kumar, a student said, “There is a huge network problem at our place. I was unable to attend online classes properly. In these circumstances, it is nearly impossible to appear in the online examinations.”Priya Chaudhary’ tweet reads, “For solving the objective question paper, in-depth knowledge is a must. But in a short time, it is not possible. Hence it is unfair to conduct the examination in this situation.”Another student Ajay Singh is now demanding the university to return the examination fees. He said as there is no offline exam then the university should return their fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amid-demand-for-cancellation-aktu-final-year-exam-schedule-out-101623697605314.html
15-06-2021||Other||Pvt school owner shot dead in Jind village||The owner of a private school at Jind’s Alipura village was allegedly shot dead by three unidentified bike-borne assailants on Monday, said police.The deceased has been identified as Suresh, 48, a resident of Aleva village and who ran a private school in Alipura village for the last two decades.The incident took place when he had gone for a walk. The assailants intercepted his path and fired shots at him. Victim’s brother Karambir said his brother was prime witness in his son Sahil’s murder case, who was stabbed to death outside Neki Ram College in Rohtak in 2018.“The accused had been mounting pressure on my brother not to appear in the court and make a compromise. We have asked police to provide security cover to our family as we have life threat from the accused,” he added.Demanding arrest of the assailants, the family and residents of Alipura village blocked the Jind-Patiala highway from 2.30pm to 5.30pm and lifted the blockade after police assured of arresting the assailants at the earliest.Uchana DSP Jitender Khatkar said the assailants had fired shots at Suresh from a close range and he had died on the spot.“The assailants pumped five bullets into the private school owner’s body and threatened other walkers to stay away. We have registered a case of murder, Section 34 of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act against 11 persons on the victim’s brother’s complaint. Five teams have been formed to nab the assailants,” the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pvt-school-owner-shot-dead-in-jind-village-101623697485985.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid trajectory going downward in Haryana, number of cases come at par with December 2020 decline||The coronavirus in Haryana carried on with its downward trajectory for the fifth successive week with the state recording 3,570 cases last week (June 7-13).The last time the state saw a near similar weekly infection number of 3,263 in December-end 2020 during a fall in cases which continued for 11 weeks before the second wave hit the state.The state had hit the virus spread peak at the start of May, recording more than one lakh cases. Since then, there has been a steady decline in infection with 78,350 cases reported in May, the second week, 43,601 in the third week, 17,361 in the fourth week. The first week of June saw another massive reduction with 6,902 cases being reported.The number of active cases on Monday was about 4,000 and 3,180 patients were kept in home isolation (on June 12).FATALITY CURVE ALSO BENDSThe number of deaths which had peaked in May first week with 1,119 fatalities has also dropped down to 280 last week (June 7-13), showing that the mortality curve is also bending now.Of the 8,992 deaths reported till Sunday, 39% have been from rural areas and 37% of the dead were women.Hisar, with 955 deaths, leads in the fatality rate followed by Gurugram (869), Faridabad (712), Bhiwani (542), Karnal (517) and Ambala (498).KURUKSHETRA EXITS CRITICAL CATEGORYKurukshetra has made an exit from the critical positivity rate category last week after its cumulative positive rate fell to 5.86%.Now, 15 districts have a cumulative positivity rate of more than 6%.Only Nuh district with a positivity rate of 1.81% has a desirable positivity rate of less than 2%.RE-SCREENING OF RURAL POPULATIONThe state government, after screening 1.73 crore rural population for presence of influenza-like illness and testing 1.31 lakh villagers for coronavirus using rapid antigen test in the last one month, also did re-screening of about 13 lakh persons.The screening was done under the Haryana Villagers General Health Check-up scheme.About 3,744 positive cases were detected during the initial screening with a cumulative positivity rate of 2.8%. During re-screening, 19,800 persons from rural areas were tested and 76 were found positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-trajectory-going-downward-in-haryana-number-of-cases-come-at-par-with-december-2020-decline-101623697436051.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||40 deaths, 268 new Covid cases reported in Haryana||Haryana on Monday reported 40 deaths, 268 fresh Covid-19 cases and 4,077 cumulative active cases, according to the health bulletin.The single-day infection tally of the state has been coming down every day and the recovery rate is registering improvement. It reached 98.29% on Monday. The recovery rate of Gurugram, Faridabad and Sonepat has gone past 99%.Similarly, Charkhi Dadri has the lowest of six active cases and Hisar reported 425 active cases on Monday. At least seven districts have less than 100 active cases in a clear indication of the second wave of Covid ebbing.At least 821 patients recovered on Monday. The state has recorded 7,53,020 recoveries of 7,66,129 positive cases and 9,032 fatalities so far.The fatality rate on Monday rose to 1.18% from 1.17% a day earlier.Among the 40 fatalities on Monday, the highest of five were recorded in Sirsa, four each in Hisar and Panipat, three each in Gurugram, Karnal, Kaithal and Jind, two each in Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar, Bhiwani, Jhajjar and Fatehabad, and one each in Faridabad, Rohtak, Mahendergarh, Palwal and Nuh.Palwal recorded 29 new cases, Hisar 27, Karnal 23, Yamunanagar 22, Gurugram 21, Fatehabad 16, Ambala and Bhiwani 15 each, Sirsa and Rewari 14 each, Faridabad 11, Panipat 10, Sonepat Kurukshetra and Kaithal eight each, Rohtak seven, Jind and Charkhi Dadri six each, Jhajjar three, Panchkula and Nuh two each, and Mahendergarh one.The bulletin stated that 86,659 people were vaccinated on Sunday across 22 districts, increasing the cumulative coverage to over 66 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/40-deaths-268-new-covid-cases-reported-in-haryana-101623697313451.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana aerospace, defence policy to be rolled out soon: Dushyant||Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala on Monday said that the state government is moving in the direction of making Haryana a leading MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) hub in north India in the field of aerospace and defence equipment production.Presiding over a meeting of senior officers regarding the Haryana Aerospace and Defence Policy-2021 in Chandigarh, he said the policy will soon be finalised and is being prepared to attract industries in the field of aerospace and defence equipment production.He said in the proposed policy, special concessions will be given to industries investing in this field in state.Dushyant, who also holds the charge of civil aviation, said a committee consisting of representatives of Haryana civil aviation department, MSMEs department, industries and commerce, PHD chamber of commerce and industry was formed.The draft policy has been prepared after taking suggestions from all stakeholders. He said the policy will be beneficial for civil and defence aircraft and reduce maintenance cost of all airlines.He said in the next five years, Haryana government’s is to generate employment opportunities for about 31,000 youth, directly and indirectly, through ₹7,000 crore investments in aerospace and defence equipment production sector.He said three months ago, a conference of stakeholders was organised to take suggestions for formation of the policy in which representatives from reputed companies in the field (from across country) took part.“The state will formulate a dynamic and comprehensive policy by incorporating all suggestions,” Chautala said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-aerospace-defence-policy-to-be-rolled-out-soon-dushyant-101623697245833.html
15-06-2021||Bangalore||₹1 lakh for K’taka families that lost earning member to virus||Bengaluru In a bid to help poor families who have lost an earning member due to Covid-19, chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday announced that the government has decided to provide ₹1 lakh compensation, one person per family. “Several working people have died due to Covid-19 that has caused distress to several families. Several such families have come to the streets. Keeping this in mind, we have taken a decision to give ₹1 lakh to those BPL (below poverty line) families if anyone has died due to Covid-19, one per family,” Yediyurappa said in Bengaluru on Monday.The decision to provide compensation comes over a year since the pandemic wreaked havoc in the southern state and other parts of the country, claiming thousands of lives and many more livelihoods.Yediyurappa said that the financial relief would cost the government around ₹250-300 crore and the number of possible beneficiaries would range between 25,000-30,000.The Congress, however, urged the government to consider deaths due to Covid as a natural disaster and announce a compensation of ₹5 lakh one person per family “@CMofKarnataka has announced ₹1,00,000 compensation to all those BPL families where at least one member has succumbed to #Covid19.I urge @CMofKarnataka to consider this as a national disaster and announce compensation of ₹5,00,000 as per disaster relief norms,” Siddaramaiah, former chief minister and leader of the opposition said in a post on Twitter on Monday.According to official government data, there have been 32,913 deaths due to Covid-19 in Karnataka since March last year. There are at least 21 more dead that the government lists in its daily bulletin as deaths due to non-Covid reasons. The state government has ordered for a death audit of Covid-19 but there has been little progress on the same so far, people aware of the developments said.The announcement made on Monday comes at a time when Yediyurappa is trying to salvage the Covid-19 health crisis, which he is accused of having sidestepped to prioritize politics.Yediyurappa said that this move to compensate poor families is likely to be the first such attempt anywhere in the country.The 78-year-old has been at the receiving end of sharp criticism from all quarters, including members from his own government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) who have accused the chief minister of mishandling the health crisis in the southern state.Yediyurappa has so far announced ₹2,100 crore financial package during the first wave and around ₹1,750 crore in two parts during the second wave. The chief minister also held a meeting to check the state’s finances on Monday.Yediyurappa said that despite the hardships in funds, the state has announced compensation which he said meant that among the others, Karnataka’s financial situation is in much better shape.However, the financial assistance announced by Yediyurappa has come under criticism as activists, trade union, unorganised workers and opposition parties have called it “inadequate” which was unlikely to provide any relief.Though Yediyurappa has seen rising demands for his removal from within his own partymen, the chief minister is fortifying his chair ahead of the BJP’s general secretary’s visit, scheduled on Wednesday.Arun Singh, Rajya Sabha member and BJP’s national general secretary incharge of Karnataka, had earlier dismissed speculation when he said that Yediyurappa will continue as the chief minister, which had bolstered the 78-year-old.Legislators within the BJP have now formed sides for and against Yediyurappa, widening the growing differences within the saffron outfit and denting its chances of consolidating its powers ahead of the 2023 assembly elections in Karnataka.Arvind Bellad, a two-time BJP legislator has been camping in Delhi for the past three days and met senior leaders of the party in the nation’s capital ahead of Singh’s visit.Singh is expected to meet all legislators who have raised grievances against the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/rs-1-lakh-for-k-taka-families-that-lost-earning-member-to-virus-101623696885318.html
15-06-2021||Bangalore||CM pulls up civic agencies for failing to finish pending road work during lockdown||Bengaluru: Even as Bengaluru went into a lockdown, the Karnataka government allowed civic works and the industries remain functional in a bid to ensure pending civic works in the city are completed during the period. However, a review meeting conducted by Karnataka chief minister last week revealed that most of the civic projects in the city are behind schedule. During the review meeting held on June 11, chief minister BS Yediyurappa pulled up the city civic body officials. “Though I have instructed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to complete the 27 smart city projects by May 31 before the monsoon sets in, the works are incomplete, as evident from piles of mud and craters on both sides of the roads,” he said at a review meeting with civic officials. As the southwest monsoon has arrived and is set to intensify in the ensuing weeks, the chief minister sought a reply from BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta by when the pending works would be completed. “I have daily observed that the incomplete road works in the city’s central business district are a hindrance to the public and for VIP movement. They are a hurdle for the movement of people and vehicles,” he said. The smart city projects chief engineer, however, assured him that the works would be completed by June 30. The chief minister however said that he has given a priority list to the BBMP following his inspections in February, March. Expressing his disappointment over the slow progress of the projects, CM asked these projects to be completed within the deadline. Yediyurappa also reviewed the expansion of the metro rail network across the city and the suburban train service project, which have been delayed due to the lockdown. The second phase of the metro rail project is under construction to extend the service by 66 km at a cost of ₹33,070 crore. “As the metro service cannot become profitable only through fare collection, commercial spaces along its lines and stations should be utilised to generate income,” Yediyurappa told the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd officials. However, a BBMP official said that the lack of contract workers has delayed construction works. “Even though the government allowed the construction work to continue, as soon as the lockdown was announced several migrant workers left the city. There was a shortage of workers across the state, and this slowed down work. The numbers are slowly coming back now, and we hope to finish the work in time,” said the official who didn’t want to be named. Meanwhile, the Bengaluru police raised the matter of delay in construction works in the city with the chief minister. A senior officer said that since several industries are opening up in phase one of the unlock, the unfinished civic work will result in slow-moving of traffic. “In several areas, our officers had to worksites to get material removed from the road. But since a large portion of the road is occupied by this work, it is difficult to manage the traffic,” said a senior traffic police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/cm-pulls-up-civic-agencies-for-failing-to-finish-pending-road-work-during-lockdown-101623696827297.html
15-06-2021||Lucknow||Aggressive monsoon reaches UP, mid-June records excess rainfall||: Heavy rainfall on Monday across Uttar Pradesh caused by the arrival of monsoon resulted in101% excess rainfall in the state till mid-June, said state MeT department officials. The state recorded 47.9 mm rainfall between June 1 and June 14 which is more than double than the normal rainfall of 23.8 mm during the same period. Most of the rains were recorded in the last 72 hours with the arrival of Monsoon. “Uttar Pradesh recorded 12.6 mm rainfall on Monday which is 471% more than normal 2.2 mm expected. This shows that the Southwest monsoon has covered all parts of the state in a short duration contributing to the excess rainfall,” said JP Gupta, director, state MeT department. Forty of the 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh recorded rains in the last 24 hours. 17 districts received excess, five districts recorded normal rains and 13 districts received slightly deficient rainfall during the period. “All districts of Uttar Pradesh received rainfall between Saturday night and Monday evening. While majority of districts received excess rains, only a few districts of Bundelkhand and Agra region recorded less than normal rainfall,” said Gupta. As per IMD forecast, the state is expected to receive more rains in next 48 hours. “The rainfall will be scattered across the state. However, East and central UP districts will receive above average rainfall,” said Gupta. Considering this, the state government has put districts administration on alert advising them to take measures to prevent damage caused by heavy rains. In districts prone to flooding following rains, teams of district and state disaster management committees have been put on standby. While the arrival of monsoon resulted in problems of water logging in cities, they provided a welcome relief to farmers in the rural areas. The rains will benefit farmers by aiding them in Kharif cropping. Paddy is the major Kharif crop which is sown in Uttar Pradesh. Beside paddy the rain will also benefit sugarcane and maize farmers. The rains also provided relief form scorching temperature across the state with mercury plummeting over 8 to 10 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aggressive-monsoon-reaches-up-mid-june-records-excess-rainfall-101623696105213.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD bets on BSP’s Dalit vote bank to boost poll prospects||In an alliance with the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Shiromani Akali Dal is betting on 2,500-10,000 votes that the Mayawati-led party used to get in the previous Punjab assembly polls as a game changer in the 2022 elections. In the 2017 assembly elections, the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) contested on 111 seats and managed a vote share of 1.59%. Finding its utility, top leaders in the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) are hopeful that the newly stitched alliance will boost the party’s beleaguered poll prospects by consolidating the Dalit vote bank, which comprises one-third of the state electorate. Also Read: SAD lost core vote bank, even BSP alliance futile, says Dhindsa“In 2017, we lost at least 20 seats by a margin of less than 1,000 votes. In case we were in an alliance with the BSP, we could have been in a much stronger position,” said a SAD leader, who did not wish to be named.The tactical change comes after the party lost its traditional Panthic vote bank post sacrilege incidents in 2015, and also lost the peasantry support for backing the Centre’s contentious farm laws in 2020 even as it took a U-turn later.Having severed ties with its old ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the farm issue, the Akali Dal started attempts to touch base with the BSP to boost its poll prospects. Of the 20 seats given to the BSP as an alliance arrangement, 12 were with the BJP during its alliance with the SAD. In all, the saffron party used to contest on 23 seats and the SAD on the remaining 94 out of the total 117 assembly seats in the state. “In Punjab, the government can be formed with 35-40% vote share, and if it’s a triangular fight, even a lesser number of votes can turn political fortunes, provided the polls are contested intelligently,” said BSP’s Punjab president Jasvir Singh Garhi, hoping for a pro-coalition buildup when the state goes for the polls early next year. “Since our party came into existence 37 years ago in 1984, we have had aspirations to be part of the government in the state as our founder Kanshi Ram hails from here,” he said. Seats of BSP’s choice in SAD strongholds Most of the 20 seats given to the BSP are of its choice, even as the SAD performed well on them in 2017, said SAD general secretary Pawan Tinu, who represents the Adampur seat and was in the BSP in the late 1990s. Tinu said the Doaba region has 44% Dalit population (against 32% in the state), and out of the eight seats given to the BSP in this belt, three — Kartarpur, Jalandhar West and Phagwara — are reserved for scheduled caste candidates. Also read: Mayawati reacts to SAD-BSP alliance in Punjab, calls it a ‘historic step’“These seats are our party’s stronghold; still we agreed to hand them over to our new alliance partner to boost the morale of Bahujan Samaj. I have been in the BSP and understand their psyche. They vote en masse when they can see that the candidate will win; otherwise, the votes get divided,” said Tinu, hoping that the BSP will get a vote share of 16% as it got in the Lok Sabha polls of 1996 that it contested in alliance with the SAD and jointly won 11 out of 13 seats. The MLA said that other seats in the SAD’s stronghold, such as Anandpur Sahib, Chamkaur sahib, Mohali and Tanda, have also been allotted to the BSP. Sukhbir pacifies agitated party workers SAD president Sukhbir Badal on Monday met party leaders, workers and halqa in-charges of Nawanshahr, Payal, Bassi Pathana, Kartarpur and Tanda, which have been given to the BSP. As some questioned the logic of allotting seats to the BSP when it has failed to win on any of them in the past elections, Sukhbir and party secretary general Balwinder Singh Bhunder pacified them and told them to support the BSP nominees. Also Read: Jakhar terms SAD-BSP alliance opportunistic tie-upThe BJP used to contest on 12 seats given to the BSP — Sujanpur, Bhoa, Pathankot, Amritsar North, Amritsar Central, Phagwara, Jalandhar West, Jalandhar North, Dasuya, Hoshiarpur City, Anandpur Sahib and Ludhiana North — and the remaining eight — Kartarpur, Mohali, Tanda, Chamkaur Sahib, Bassi Pathana, Mehal Kalan, Nawanshahr and Payal — were with the SAD. These seats are spread across the state: BSP stronghold Doaba (8), Majha (5) and Malwa (7). Talks on with Left as well SAD secretary general Balwinder Singh confirmed that the party is also in talks with the left-wing parties CPI and CPI (M) for a pre-poll alliance. “We are in talks with both the parties and there are positive signals. We are hopeful of a positive result shortly,” he said. According to Bhunder, the Left has a strong support base in Sangrur, Barnala and Mansa, which needs to be channelised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-bets-on-bsp-s-dalit-vote-bank-to-boost-poll-prospects-101623695926309.html
15-06-2021||Other||Bypass channel won’t affect the shape of the river: Kashi DM||: District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma on Monday said that the water route bypass channel - parallel to the Ganga river from Ramnagar to Rajghat - will have no effect on shape of the ancient river in Kashi.Some social workers had expressed concern that the bypass channel will affect the crescent shape of Ganga in Kashi. However, Sharma allayed these apprehensions and said the exercise aimed at checking erosion of iconic ghats by balancing the water flow of the river.Sharma reiterated that there will be no change in the shape of Ganga. “It will remain the same,” he emphasized and added that experts had been expressing concern that the ghats were getting hollow due to the flow of the Ganga.“This hollowness is causing erosion at the ghats, and experts had suggested that this (erosion) could be prevented by developing a bypass channel to balancing the flow of the Ganga. This was done after testing by the technical experts of the irrigation department,” he said.The 5.3-kilometer-long bypass channel project is worth over ₹11 crore, officials said.The bypass channel is 45 meter wide and 6 meter deep. It has been designed in such a way that 25 percent water of the river water in over five-kilometer-long stretch will flow through it. “This will ease pressure on the ghats and will stop the erosion. The work on the project started in March and is likely to be completed in next couple of days,” Sharma said. Sharma said that Assi nullah (drain) won’t fall in river Ganga. “The wish of the people of Kashi will be fulfilled soon,” he said.The DM also inspected pumping station at Nagwa from where the sewage of Assi nullah will be sent to STP Ramna.During inspection, Sharma instructed the engineer of Essel Infra to complete the construction work of retaining wall in fifteen days to tap the drain. “With the completion of this work, the Ganga water in Varanasi will be really pure, which people were waiting for decades,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bypass-channel-won-t-affect-the-shape-of-the-river-kashi-dm-101623695925143.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Man claiming to be rope skipping champion arrested for firing gunshots||A man who claimed to have represented his school at the 2019 inter-school rope skipping championship in Dubai was arrested for firing gunshots outside a man’s house in southwest Delhi last month, police said on Monday. “He was arrested with a country-made pistol and two live rounds. The motorcycle which he used to carry out the crime was also seized. He told us that he is a professional sportsman (rope skipper) and has participated in several national and international tournaments, winning several gold and silver medals. In 2019, he claimed to win a silver medal at the World Inter-school Rope Skipping Championship, held in Dubai. Due to bad company, he was attracted to the crime. A few days before the incident he quarrelled with one Nikhil. During the tussle, a man named Gautam supported Nikhil. In order to vent his ire and to terrorize Gautam, he fired at Gautam’s house,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka), Santosh Kumar Meena.Pankaj, 22, identified only by his first name in police records, claimed to have participated in several national and international tournaments, winning medals.The police did not mention the name of the tournaments. Records of the tournament, available on public search engines, showed that the tournament was held in Belgium and not in Dubai. The officials said they are verifying his claims.DCP Meena said Pankaj claimed to have won a silver medal at the 2019 world interschool rope skipping championship in Dubai. The police were on the lookout for Pankaj for the last month after they received a call at the police control room about a firing outside a man’s house in Bhagwati Garden extension near Dwarka.The gunman had come on a bike and fired at the iron gate outside the man’s house. “We later came to know that the gunman was Pankaj alias Goli. He was also called Rahul Tiwari. We then launched a manhunt and activated our sources,” the officer said.Police said that on June 8, they received a tipoff about Pankaj who was in Mohan Garden. He was arrested subsequently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-claiming-to-be-rope-skipping-champion-arrested-for-firing-gunshots-101623695865793.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdwara hosts stone-laying ceremony of mosque in Punjab||In yet another example of communal harmony in Punjab, a gurdwara opened its doors for the foundation stone-laying ceremony of a mosque at Bhaloor village, 35 kilometres from the Moga district headquarters. The function was to take place at the site of an old mosque that is being rebuilt, but it rained on Sunday. Consequently, the ceremony was shifted to the local gurdwara, and village sarpanch Pala Singh laid the foundation stone.“There are just five Muslim families in the village and we are trying to rebuild the mosque. As it started raining, we immediately contacted the gurdwara committee and it welcomed us. It is a fine example of love and brotherhood,” said Kanwar Khan, 33, a local.Also read: Sikh family donates ancestral land to build mosqueThe sarpanch said all village residents took part in the ceremony and made donations to construct the mosque. Even tea and jalebis were served. “There used to be a mosque in the village, which had collapsed many years ago. We all wanted to rebuild it at the same site. Though the Muslims are in a minority in the village, we all live like a family,” he said.Naib Shahi Imam Maulana Usman Rehmani Ludhianavi, a Muslim cleric, said: “This day will be written in golden letters in history. A true Sikh and a true Muslim will never harm anyone. Serving humanity and guarding the truth are actual teachings of our Gurus.”Last week, a Sikh family had donated its ancestral land to build a mosque at the centre of a village in Punjab’s Malerkotla district. They took the step as around a dozen Muslim families residing in the village, Jitwal Kalan, had to go to neighbouring villages to offer prayers during Eid and other occasions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurdwara-hosts-stone-laying-ceremony-of-mosque-in-punjab-101623695807234.html
15-06-2021||Other||Militant found dead in Srinagar’s Anchar lake||A local militant, hailing from Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian district, was found dead in Anchar lake here on Sunday evening, officials said.Locals spotted a body in Anchar lake, an area falling under the jurisdiction of Soura police station, the officials said.They said an identity card was found on the body which recognised him as Amir Ahmad Malik, a resident of Zainapora in Shopian.The deceased was reported missing in October 2020 and he joined terror outfit the Resistance Front, a shadow outfit of Lashkar-e-Toiba, the officials said.They said the circumstances of the militant’s death are being ascertained.Meanwhile, police recovered a decomposed body from Sopore area. The case has been registered and investigation taken up, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/militant-found-dead-in-srinagar-s-anchar-lake-101623695747275.html
15-06-2021||Other||Religious body urges Srinagar residents to get Covid jabs||With just half of the 45-plus population vaccinated in Srinagar district, Mutahida Majlise Ulema (MMU), an amalgam of influential religious clerics and institutions of Kashmir, on Monday asked the people to shun reluctance and get vaccinated against coronavirus.Srinagar is among the districts with lowest percentage of vaccination despite being the worst-affected in terms of Covid cases and deaths.Led by Hurriyat leader Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, MMU in a statement said the members of the medical fraternity have conveyed their serious concern to them over the reluctance of many people to take the jabs.“This is putting them, their family members and the community at great risk of contracting and spreading the virus and also jeopardising the attempts to overcome the pandemic,” said the amalgam of 28 religious groups and institutions.The body said that out of the 7,00,000 people of Srinagar who are aged 18 and above, around 2,90,000 have been vaccinated – less than even 50% of the population. The figure crossed 3 lakh till June 13.“Of the 798 people who died due to Covid in Srinagar, 98% were not vaccinated. This goes to show that vaccination is a protection against complications and death,” the body stated.It said that of the 15,000 healthcare and 50,000 frontline government staff who received both doses of vaccine after February 2021, none developed Covid pneumonia and no one died or had any vaccine reaction.“If we compare it to last year, 15 health staff members died because of Covid. So, the effectiveness of vaccination, as a means of protection from the virus, is well established,” it said.MMU said the reluctance was “unreasonable” and needed to be shunned by one and all.“This is imperative so that normal life in terms of business, education, religion, travel that has been severely curtailed by the pandemic is resumed, and the population of the valley is well protected (and prepared) for a possible third wave,” it said.Mirwaiz Umar Farooq, who is under house detention, urged the people to get vaccinated as soon as possible and follow the SOPs by wearing masks and maintaining social distance.“By the grace of almighty we will overcome this pandemic, be protected from it and resume our normal life activities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/religious-body-urges-srinagar-residents-to-get-covid-jabs-101623695745796.html
15-06-2021||Other||Visitors to be monitored through e-pass portal in Himachal||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Monday said though the government has removed the condition of RT-PCR negative report entering the state they must follow Covid-19 guidelines. Nobody will be allowed to flout the norms fixed by the government to check spread of the coronavirus, said Thakur while replying to a media query about heavy rush of tourists seen on state’s borders.Thakur said people visiting the state would be monitored through registration in Covid e-pass software. Pass applicants have to enter their particulars in the online system and details of their arrival were being shared with all the stakeholders concerned.The CM said hoteliers have been directed to strictly follow the SoPs. He also urged the tourists to adhere to Covid guidelines, wear masks and maintain social distancing.About the state’s vaccination campaign, he said about 25.17 lakh doses of vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries and efforts were on to complete the drive timely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/visitors-to-be-monitored-through-e-pass-portal-in-himachal-101623695688258.html
15-06-2021||Other||J&K’s Covid fatalities drop below 10 after 53 days||Jammu and Kashmir on Monday recorded 599 Covid-19 infections taking the overall total to 3,07,412.For the first time in 53 days, the daily fatalities owing to coronavirus in the UT were in single digits with nine deaths taking the toll to 4,195.There were 438 cases and five deaths in Kashmir valley. Jammu division saw 161 infections and four fatalities.From Monday, the UT has mostly recorded below-20 daily fatalities. The second Covid wave peaked in May in the UT with the highest daily cases of 5,443 on May 07 and the highest daily deaths of 73 on May 17.The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Monday was 2,139 including 1,410 from Kashmir and 729 from Jammu. The active cases dropped to 13,532 from the highest ever count of 52,848 on May 13.A total of 2, 90,284 people recuperated prompting the recovery rate to climb to 94.24%.The officials said that 41,309 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests crossing 9.21 million. Officials said with 161 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections. All other 19 districts had below 100 cases with single-digit cases in four districts.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.20 lakh cases and 1,932 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,117 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 815 deaths.The month of May was most devastating for Jammu and Kashmir recording the highest 1,14,382 Covid-19 cases and 1,625 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jks-covid-fatalities-drop-below-10-after-53-days-101623695687192.html
15-06-2021||Other||Tourists breathe life into hospitality sector as Himachal unlocks||With the easing of Covid-19 curbs, tourists from the neighbouring states have started flocking to the hill stations of Himachal Pradesh to beat the sweltering heat in the plains, giving the hospitality sector a reason to cheer.The tourist inflow had stopped in April after the state imposed restrictions to contain the second wave of coronavirus. As the cases and deaths have now ebbed, the government has exempted travellers from carrying RT-PCR negative report to enter the state.Over the weekend, more than 1,200 vehicles entered at the interstate border at Parwanoo, officials said. Similarly, rush was witnessed at other state entry points, including Bilaspur, Mehatpur in Una and Kandwal barrier of Kangra district.The hotel occupancy in Shimla has risen to 30% from zero. “The year was terrible for the industry so far as we were unable to meet even capital expenses. We hope that the ‘unlock’ will revive the sector,” said Sanjay Sood, president of Shimla Hotel and Restaurateurs’ Association.However, tourist footfall was insignificant at the hill-stations of Dharmashala and Dalhousie on the first day of unlock. Vijay Inder Karan, a hotelier from Dharamshala, said they are hoping that the business will pick up in the coming days.Karan said tourists were keen to come to the hill-stations, but maximum queries are for homestays or secluded properties. Hotels have few online bookings or walk-ins, he said, suggesting that tourists should prefer places with better health infrastructure like Shimla and Kangra.Follow guidelines, say police The state police in a press statement advised the tourists to wear masks, practice social distancing and follow other Covid-related guidelines issued by the Himachal government. It said that first-time offenders will be fined ₹500 under sections 114 and 115 of the HP Police Act, 2007.Repeat offenders may be arrested, sent to court and may face up to eight days imprisonment or fine of ₹5,000 or both. “Therefore, all tourists are requested to kindly follow all Covid guidelines in letter and spirit during their stay in HP,” said police.Confusion at Mehatpur border To their dismay, tourists without Covid test reports were sent to home quarantine by the police at the Mehatpur border in Una district.The police personnel deployed at the checkpost said they were yet to receive fresh orders from the nodal officer concerned. “We are checking RT-PCR reports of the people coming to stay in Una district as we haven’t received orders against it,” said a cop on duty at Mehatpur.He said those who don’t have Covid-19 report or are not vaccinated are being sent to home quarantine.Rohtang Pass opens With Manali buzzing with tourists, the local administration has opened the Rohtang Pass.As per the arrangements, tourists will be allowed to visit Rohtang Pass with a permit. The offline permits, costing ₹550 each, can be obtained at Manali. However, online permits have not been started. A maximum 1,200 vehicles — 800 petrol and 400 diesel vehicles — will be allowed towards the pass per day.President of Manali Hotel Association Anoop Thakur welcomed the administration’s decision to open the Rohtang, a major tourist destination. He said it would help the ailing tourism industry get back on the track.Manali sub-divisional magistrate Raman Gharsangi said the administration has made complete arrangements at the Gulaba barrier. He said the tourists will have to comply with Covid guidelines and only local taxis will be allowed for Rohtang visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tourists-breathe-life-into-hospitality-sector-as-himachal-unlocks-101623695627659.html
15-06-2021||Other||Positivity rate drops to 2.47% in Himachal Pradesh||The weekly positivity rate in Himachal has come down to 2.47% over the past week — a decline of about 3%.As per the health department data, the positivity rate dropped to 2.47% between June 7 and June 13.A total of 1,42,357 tests were conducted in the state in last seven days — more than 20,000 per day. This is the highest number of tests in a week since the virus outbreak last year.Of the total samples tested, 3,154 turned out to be positive.In the week before the last, 1, 06,203 tests were conducted, and 5,634 positive cases were reported. The positivity rate was 5.3% The positivity rate had hit the grim high of 28.9% in the week from May 10-16.It was at a low of 0.67% in February and started rising in March when the second wave hit the state.During the last week, all 12 districts reported less than 1,000 cases. Kangra, the worst hit district in the second wave recorded 723 cases and was followed by Mandi with 62 cases and Shimla 336 infections. Lahaul-Spiti reported only 47 cases.The case fatality ratio (CFR) also dropped slightly from 3.0% to 2.74%.A total of 94 deaths occurred due to Covid-19 last week as compared to 170 in the week before.Solan recorded the highest CDR of 5.4%. A total of 12 people died in the state as against 220 cases.Shimla followed with 13 deaths and CFR of 3.8%. Hamirpur recorded 3.1% CFR.In terms of absolute number of fatalities Kangra topped the chart with 25 deaths.326 fresh infectionsThe state recorded 326 fresh Covid-19 infections on Monday taking the tally to 1,98,876, while the death toll mounted to 3,382 after seven patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 79 were reported in Kangra, 54 in Mandi, 38 in Chamba, 37 in Hamirpur, 28 in Shimla, 22 in Bilaspur, 21 in Sirmaur, 13 in Kinnaur, 11 in Solan, 10 in Una, nine in Kullu and four in Lahaul-Spiti.Recoveries reached 1,91,041 after 664 people recuperated while the active cases have whittled down to 4,432.Three fatalities were recorded in Mandi and two each in Kangra and Shimla.In terms of the cases, Kangra remains the worst hit district with 45,292 cases followed by Mandi where 26,684 people have been tested positive to date and Shimla with 24,731 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/positivity-rate-drops-to-2-47-in-himachal-pradesh-101623695625866.html
15-06-2021||Noida||Four days on, Noida police yet to trace flat from where gold biscuits were stolen||Police are yet to make any headway in the ₹25 crore theft case that they had discovered after nabbing six persons four days ago.The suspects had allegedly revealed that they had stolen the money, gold biscuits and jewellery from a flat in a high-rise in Surajpur. But till now, the police haven’t been able to locate the flat or its owner who had a case of extortion of against him in Gurugram. Police suspect the stolen items could be contraband as no one had reported the theft even though it had happened last year.“The mastermind of the theft, Gopal, who knew the house they were targeting is yet to be arrested. The robbers in custody are not aware of the exact details. The society is also unable to retrieve the flat details and share them with us. We are working on tracing the house,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.Police identified the flat owner as a senior advocate who, along with his father, is outside the country. The family was not cooperating with the investigation, police had said.“There is a probability that Gopal may have planted a tenant in the house to gather information about the target after which the robbery was planned. We have a few leads that we are working on. Appropriate action will be taken soon,” said the official.The Noida police commissionerate has written letters to the income tax department and the enforcement directorate as well for an investigation in the matter of this being unreported income or black money.“Once we have details about the flat, we will share them as well with the respective agencies for further probe,” said DCP, Rajesh S.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-days-on-noida-police-yet-to-trace-flat-from-where-gold-biscuits-were-stolen-101623695445814.html
15-06-2021||Noida||Noida may have to wait longer for monsoon rain||Noida: The south-west monsoon which was likely to arrive by Tuesday — a fortnight ahead of its usual schedule in the region — has slowed down even as the weather department speculates its new tentative arrival date.Earlier, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had forecast that the south-west monsoon would hit the region by June 15. However, as rainfall activities in western Uttar Pradesh were delayed, the IMD speculated that there is a possibility that the monsoon is likely to get delayed by a few days.“The monsoon has slowed down between eastern and western Uttar Pradesh. Apart from a few isolated places in West UP there is no rainfall activity there. We are still speculating the new arrival date of the monsoon arrival in NCR. If there is some weather activity on Tuesday then we can confirm a date; it may delayed by three to four days,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.He added that the generally the monsoon, after traversing through Bihar, Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Western UP, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, enters the NCR via Punjab and Haryana.“This is a general trend and not a fixed route. This time, the east UP and Himalayan states of Uttrakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, the northern part of Punjab, and Haryana had already received the monsoon. So it’s slowed between Eastern and Western UP. We will be in better position to forecast based on the activities of the next few days,” Srivastav added.As a ripple effect of the slowing progression of the monsoon, the mercury soared in several areas of the National Capital Region, including Noida. On Monday, the daytime temperature in Noida soared by three degrees Celsius (°C).According to the IMD, Noida saw a maximum and minimum temperature of 36.6°C and 25.7°C, respectively, on Monday against 33.9°C and 25.7°C a day earlier. At the Safdarjung observatory, considered an average for the NCR, the mercury was recorded at 38.6°C and 25.5°C.The Southwest monsoon hits the region late June, with 65cm (long period average) of rainfall expected between June 1 and September 30, considered normal for NCR (average based on old records). Last year, however, the region received 57.6 cm of rainfall which was about 88% of long period average (LPA). For the entire country, the IMD has forecast the southwest monsoon to be normal — 96 to 104% of LPA, which is 88cm.Last year, the monsoon arrived in NCR on June 25, which according to the IMD, was the first time in the past four years it came earlier than usual. Usually, monsoon rains arrives on June 29 in this part of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-may-have-to-wait-longer-for-monsoon-rain-101623695445184.html
15-06-2021||Pune||Unfinished gateway at Vetal Baba chowk makes commuting a nightmare for Pune residents||PUNE It is a daily nightmare for thousands of residents from Narhe, to commute past the main Vetal Baba chowk in the area. A gateway (Kaman) has been under construction for the last four months and the debris and construction material is now eating up valuable road space. With the monsoon officially here, vehicles have to use a path off the main road, with two-wheelers prone to skidding on water or crashing into potholes. “For the last four months this construction of the Kaman is going on at the main Vetal Baba chowk in Narhe, which comes under the Narhe gram panchayat. The work should have been completed within a couple of months. It has blocked the entire main road. Construction material and other debris needs to be removed immediately,” said Keshav Iyer, a resident of Narhe. Another resident, Priti Shintre said, “Last week, I slipped on the side road in the water. If the road under the Kaman is cleared, then vehicles can pass easily and there will be no traffic jams. Every day in the evening rush hours, there are long queues of vehicles just to pass Vetal Baba chowk.” Narhe is one of the villages which has merged into the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits, though the handover has not been finished yet. There are 10 small and big educational institutes in this area and over 100 residential housing projects. Most of the students live in private hostels and as paying guests, while many snack centres and hotels have come up to cater students. B R Gawade, gram sevak of the Narhe gram panchayat said, “The work is coming to an end now. It was started by a private firm in the memory of one of their family members who passed away. We will clear the road clear as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/unfinished-gateway-at-vetal-baba-chowk-makes-commuting-a-nightmare-for-narhe-residents-101623695265146.html
15-06-2021||Pune||Pune parents reluctant to send children for offline coaching classes||PUNE As schools in the city reopened, online, on Monday, private coaching classes have also re-started, in person, with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) allowing them to operate at 50 per cent capacity. Owners and operators of the private classes, however, claim that parents are not willing to send their children for offline classes, due to a fear of Covid infection. Several discounts are currently on offer, especially for students appearing for CETs and for those in Class 11 and above. “We have started classes for students and initially we are urging parents to allow students to join the offline classes. Around 60 per cent of the parents are not willing to send their children to class. So it won’t be completely offline, we are going to have online classes as well. For class 10 students who are going to give the new CET exams for admission to Class 11, our classes will be free. But, till we get the syllabus of this CET exam, classes will not be started,” said Prof Kedar Takalkar, founder director of Takalkar Classes. Another private class owner, Prof Sandeep Bendre, said, “We take from Class 5 to Class 12 for all subjects. Students are already overburdened by online classes. It is good that private offline classes are allowed. We will call our students in batches on alternate days. Teachers will take the same topic and subject for two days for separate batches”Payal Khatri, a parent, said, “My daughter has gone to Class 9 this year and her school is going to start from June 15. Along with the online school classes, we are planning for her to join private coaching classes for science and mathematics. We won’t send her immediately for physical classes and risk infection. We will see after couple of months as per the Covid situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-parents-reluctant-to-send-children-for-offline-coaching-classes-101623695205284.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||60-yr-old woman raped, killed in east Delhi; 1 held||The disrobed body of a 62-year-old woman, with visible signs of sexual assault, her throat slit and multiple stab wounds to her chest, abdomen and legs, was found at her rented home in east Delhi’s Dallupura village near Mayur Vihar Phase-3 on Sunday afternoon, the police said. Later in the evening, the police arrested her 30-year-old neighbour, whom the police said was the last person seen entering and leaving the woman’s house in the CCTV footage.Police said during his interrogation, he admitted that he sexually assaulted the elderly woman and later killed her to protect himself. The arrested man reportedly told the police that he was drunk at the time of the crime.The woman was a vegetable vendor and lived with her 33-year-old son, who works as a security guard in a private company in Noida, and a 13-year-old grandson, the police said. Since the case also involved sexual assault, the names of the dead woman, her son and grandson, the arrested man as well as the exact locality where they live have been withheld to protect her identity, the police said.“Through technical investigation and inputs received from our informants and locals, we arrested the suspect within four to five hours of the crime. Prime facie, it appears to be a case of sexual assault and murder. The autopsy is being conducted. Further charges would be added as per the findings of the autopsy,” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Priyanka Kashyap.Police said the crime was reported to them around 2pm on Sunday, after the elderly woman’s son returned home after work, and found his mother’s body in their single room rented accommodation on the ground floor. He raised the alarm and a neighbour informed the police.Her son said a sickle was used to slit her throat while a knife was used to stab her. Both weapons were recovered from the scene of crime. “The body was on the bed and the door ajar; the water tap in the kitchen was running, and vegetables were burning in a pan when I returned home,” he said.“The woman’s throat was slit and there were 8-10 stab wounds to her chest and abdomen. The condition in which the body was found pointed to sexual assault. The body was later shifted to a government hospital mortuary for autopsy,” said a senior police officer, adding that a case of murder was registered and investigation was launched.During the investigation, the officer said statements of the woman’s son and grandson were recorded. Her son told the police that he left for work in the morning while she and the grandson went to sell vegetables from a shop in the neighbourhood. The woman’s grandson told the police that around noon, his grandmother left for home to cook lunch. Around 2pm, the woman’s son returned home and discovered her body, the police said.As there were no signs of a forced entry into the house, the police suspected the role of someone known to the woman. They inquired with locals and also scanned the CCTV cameras installed around the woman’s house. In one of the cameras, the suspect was seen entering the house around 1pm and leaving around 1.30pm, the police said.“The beat officers showed the suspect’s image to locals who identified him. The suspect was arrested and interrogated during which he admitted to the crime,” the officer quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/elderly-woman-sexually-assaulted-and-stabbed-to-death-in-east-delhi-neighbour-arrested-101623694366346.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Monsoon arrival to take ‘a few days’ more in Delhi||Delhi residents may have to wait a little longer before monsoon finally hits the national capital as its progress -- which was ahead of its typical schedule -- has slowed down over western Uttar Pradesh, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in a fresh forecast on Monday.However, IMD said that parts of the city are expected to receive light, patchy rain on Tuesday, which might bring down the temperature by 1-2°C though it will increase the humidity levels.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that as opposed to the earlier forecast, which predicted rain from Tuesday, rainfall activity is yet to intensify in western UP. “We have received rain in eastern UP, but it is yet to cover western UP. This might delay the monsoon by a few days in Delhi. We are not committing on a date yet, but we are observing the progress,” Srivastava said.On Friday, IMD announced that monsoon will hit Delhi by June 15, almost 12-13 days ahead of schedule. Further, on Sunday, in a fresh update, Met officials announced that there was a possibility of further advancement of monsoon by around 48 hours, indicating that monsoon showers will start in the Capital from Tuesday.Senior IMD officials attributed this to the formation of a low-pressure area over the northern Bay of Bengal. According to Met officials, when a low-pressure area is formed on the onset of monsoon, it creates conducive conditions for its advancement.On Monday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker of the city, was 38.6°C, a notch below what is considered normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature here was 25.5°C, three degrees below normal.At the Palam observatory, the maximum temperature was 38.7°C, while the minimum temperature was 25.9°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-progress-slowed-down-delayed-by-a-few-days-says-met-dept-101623694365202.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Sisodia reviews two projects to develop govt schools as community schools||In order to track the progress and development of each student of Delhi government schools, to bring about “one-to-one mapping”, and to develop public schools as community schools, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday reviewed two key initiatives by the education department, a mentorship programme and the parent outreach programme.While the Youth For Education (YFE) programme is a voluntary initiative, wherein students pursuing their higher education, working professionals and entrepreneurs may mentor students in Delhi government schools, the Parent Outreach programme aims to build a network of school management committee (SMC) members and ”school mitras” to help other parents.As a part of its pilot phase, the YFE initiative had roped in around 4,000 mentors this March for giving career guidance to students of 46 schools in east and south-east Delhi. As a part of the second phase, the state education department plans to mobilise about two lakh mentors for around 5.5 lakh class 10 and 12 students of Delhi government schools with each mentor guiding about two to four students.Sisodia said the government had introduced these programmes in an effort to keep track of the over 16 lakh students enrolled in Delhi government schools. “When we look at how education is imparted in high-performing nations abroad, we see that the practice of one-to-one marking is used. Our Delhi government school teachers who visited Finland or Cambridge University also mentioned the same. One-to-one mapping of each child and understanding their individual profile were practices that our teachers commended but they expressed concerns regarding the scale in Delhi,” the education minister said on Monday.Pointing to the generation gap between children and parents, Sisodia said it was often difficult for children to find someone attuned to their interests and the best way to help them was to connect them with those who have graduated recently.The education minister also asked heads of schools to form an alumni group in schools and encourage “localised mentoring.”“A child might think (s)he wants to get into acting or music or become a police personnel, but our teachers don’t have the bandwidth for handholding every child. However, if we have mentors attached to these children, mentors would be able to talk and guide them, and help them get jobs. We made it happen with 600 students and mentors and they are quite happy. These mentors have become an emotional support for these children,” Sisodia said.As a part of the parent outreach programme, 560 SMC members have been trained so far along with 41 heads of schools on how to engage in different school activities and connect with the larger school community. Continuing its focus on involving parents in the education of their children, the state government will now work towards building a “supportive environment” and “network of parents”, the minister said.“The parent outreach programme has been designed with the idea to make changes in how communication takes place between schools, children and parents. The SMC parent network can be used for establishing a better connect by involving the parent community in school activities,” he said.Awadhesh Kumar Jha, head of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Sector-8 Rohini, said, “We had taken up both programmes during its pilot phase itself. The parent outreach programme particularly helped us in staying connected to several students during the pandemic. We had provided the school mitras with a list of contact numbers of students following which they reached out to students and their families and brought their problems, if any, to us. It helped us address student concerns. Similarly, connecting our students to those studying technical courses in higher education institutes has inspired our female students to dream bigger.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sisodia-reviews-progress-of-two-projects-to-develop-govt-schools-as-community-schools-101623694306378.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Restaurants reopen with a mouthful of caution, footfall low at Delhi malls||Several people stepped out cautiously for outings at malls and restaurants across the city as dine-in services reopened after nearly two months on Monday.As part of the unlock process, all shops in malls were allowed to run from 10 am to 8 pm from Monday. Restaurants too were also allowed to open their doors for dine-in patrons, restricted to 50% seating capacity to ensure physical distancing, while salons and barber shops also catered to customers from Monday.While eateries at some of the popular malls in Saket and Vasant Kunj saw people eating out, footfall at other places remained thin. A mall located at Andrews Ganj wore a largely deserted look with only a handful of people visiting the premises for shopping.Among the visitors at a Saket mall were Pulkit Sehgal (31), a businessman, who had stepped out with his wife and toddler “for lunch after a long time”. “I decided to step out for an outing since malls are reopening fully for the first time. This also happens to be the first mall outing with my 19-month-old child,” said Sehgal. “We have started going out since we recovered from Covid a few months ago. We are banking on antibodies and have also received the first dose of the vaccine,” said Sehgal.Unnati Joshi (28), another visitor, said that she had came to the mall for a “long-pending lunch outing with family”. “After months of staying inside, we felt the need to get a breather. We are following the SOPs and Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Joshi.Ajay Upadhyaya, the manager of Sattvik restaurant, Saket, said the restaurant had seen a good crowd on Monday. “We saw a good response. Until last week, we were offering only takeaway services. It’s good to see people back. If the government expands the timings, our business will bounce back to normal within a month,” said Upadhyaya.Sandeep Tanwar, general manager-operations at Andrea’s Eatery in Saket, said that the restaurant had seen nearly 50% occupancy on Monday, adding that he expected it to increase with the gradual reopening. “I think a slow and steady approach to reopening will work. We need to prioritise safety as well,” said Tanwar.Besides restaurants, there were many others who stepped out for retail therapy. Megha Kapoor (51), a visitor at Select Citywalk in Saket, said that she had come to buy essentials. “Compared to pre-lockdown months, the malls are largely deserted. I have been going out only to buying important things, not for pleasure or recreation. It’s too early to do it that,” said Kapoor.Shopkeepers at malls said that while the crowd was good for the first day of reopening, it might take some time for business to bounce back.“While people have started returning slowly, the footfall isn’t significant and it might take a while for it to return to normal. We can only wait and watch as there is uncertainty. Last time, we were hoping for business to bounce back but before that could happen, lockdown was imposed again,” said a vendor of a gadget kiosk at a South Delhi mall, who did not wish to be named.Gajendra, the manager of a food kiosk in a Saket mall, said that a majority of business was taking place through online orders now as “people are still stepping out cautiously“.Not all restaurants across the city reopened on Monday as they were making changes to adhere to new guidelines.SN Kaushal, senior manager of Kwality restaurant at Connaught Place, said that the restaurant had been shut for the past two months and would reopen in two-three days. “We are undertaking cleaning and sanitisation until then, besides ensuring that our staff members get vaccinated before they come back,” said Kaushal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unlock-delhi-malls-restaurants-reopen-after-two-months-101623694307063.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||ASI-protected monuments and museums to reopen from June 16||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on Monday said all centrally protected monuments, sites, and museums across the country will reopen for visitors from June 16. In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, the ASI closed all monuments and museums under its care on April 15.“Considering the prevailing situation, now, it has been decided that all centrally-protected monuments, sites, and museums (under ASI) shall be reopened from 16.06.2021 (Wednesday),” the central body said in an order on Monday. The opening, however, shall be in strict compliance with orders issued by state/district disaster management authorities, the order added.Delhi has over 70 monuments under ASI, including Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb, Qutub’s Minar and Purana Qila.An ASI official, who did not wish to be named, said the order announcing reopening of the monuments should be read in conjunction with orders issued by the local administration. “From our end, the monuments are open. The rules of various district administrations will determine the reopening of heritage buildings in different cities,” said the official.Ratish Nanda, CEO of Aga Khan Trust for Culture India, said monuments and public parks are relatively safer spaces that can be reopened. “With the movement of people now being allowed in Delhi, it makes sense to open the safer spaces --- monuments and public parks. It is also important for the mental and physical well-being of Delhi citizens. It’s great that the ASI has pro-actively heeded a major demand of Delhi’s people. Hope parks are permitted to open immediately as well,” said Nanda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/asiprotected-monuments-and-museums-to-reopen-from-june-16-101623694305057.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi residents, docs say parks should reopen||Residents and experts have questioned the continued closure of public parks even as Delhi has moved a step closer to reopen completely after a lockdown was imposed on April 19 with the Capital slipping into its worst phase of Covid-19 pandemic.From Monday, the Delhi government has allowed malls, markets and restaurants to reopen, prompting questions as to why big parks were not being allowed with even experts suggesting that they were far safer than closed, indoor spaces with regard to the transmission of infection.Vedant Gidra, 15, a resident of Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh, has not visited a park since the pandemic struck last year. The Class 11 student said he used to spend hours playing outdoors in the park with friends before the pandemic. He said that the government could lift restrictions on the park since they were important for recreation. “Earlier, I used to spend a lot of time playing outdoors. The government should consider reopening the parks just like other places are open now. If not for the whole day, parks should be open to visitors during the morning and evening hours for walks and recreation,” said Gidra.Last month, the Union government’s principal scientific adviser K Vijay Raghavan’s office had issued a new set of guidelines to combat the pandemic. According to the document, titled “Stop the Transmission, Crush the Pandemic”, infection transmission risk is lower in outdoor areas, as virus particles get dispersed quickly.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said public parks should have been reopened much earlier. “Parks should have been reopened when the government first started easing restrictions. Rather, they shouldn’t have been closed in the first place. People visit parks for walks and exercise which is essential to remain fit,” said Kishore. He said the reopening of parks was also crucial for children who had been stuck at home for a very long time. “Children are fed up now. It is affecting their physical and mental development,” said Kishore.Dr Rahul Nagpal, director, Pediatric and Neonatology at Fortis Hospital Vasant Kunj, said if everything else was reopening, there was no reason as to why parks couldn’t be reopened. “We all know that the concentration of the virus cannot be so much outside as compared to what it is inside. In my personal opinion, I don’t see any reason for keeping the parks locked,” said Nagpal. He said parks could be reopened provided that people stuck to proper distancing and wear masks along with other Covid-appropriate habits.Resident welfare associations, however, demanded that parks should be opened at least in the morning and evening hours.Major (retd) Ranjit Singh, president of Defence Colony RWA, said keeping the parks closed does not make sense since people are already visiting malls and markets. “The timing can be fixed. People could be allowed to visit the parks during the morning and evening hours. Due to the heat, they are unlikely to visit during the day anyway,” said Singh.Sanjay Rana, president, Greater Kailash-II RWA, said parks offer a better scope for distancing than markets. “If the markets and malls are open, parks can be opened too. Some people have a habit of visiting parks daily. They find it difficult to cope up, if they can’t continue their routine. Parks at least have space for distancing,” said Rana.Reena Ramachandran, 80, a Saket resident, said she has stopped going for a morning walk since the lockdown was imposed. She said that while her daily routine had changed, she was taking precautions. “There might be some merit if the government has decided to keep parks closed till now. While I used to go for morning walk prior to the lockdown, I am avoiding public places,” said Ramachandran.Om Parkash, assistant information officer, New Delhi Municipal Council, said parks across the city were closed in line with DDMA orders. “Parks are closed as per the government directive. However, there are some parks that do not have gates where people could still be seen. Our employees also visit the parks for maintenance but they remain closed to the public,” said Parkash.A senior DDMA official said they will review the situation next week. “We have assessed the situation. We felt at this point it would be unsafe to open public parks. They may witness huge gatherings. We will assess the situation again next week,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/if-malls-can-open-why-not-parks-residents-question-continued-closure-of-parks-in-capital-101623694186444.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt approves single window process for setting up EV chargers||The Delhi government on Monday approved a single window process for hassle-free installation of electric vehicle chargers in private and semi-public spaces, the government said in a press statement.“Delhi will soon get an innovative, single-window process for installation of slow and fast EV chargers. The decision was taken at the charging infrastructure working group to empanel vendors through discoms for smooth roll-out of EV chargers in private and semi-public places,” said Jasmine Shah, vice-chairperson of Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC), a think tank of the Delhi government.“We received requests from many apartment societies, residents, welfare associations, mall owners, etc. evincing interest to install EV chargers but we did not know how to go about it. Today, the Delhi government has approved an innovative, single-window process for quick and efficient installation of EV chargers,” Shah said in a statement.“In line with the vision set by CM Arvind Kejriwal of making Delhi the EV capital of India, Delhi will soon be the only city in the world where anyone can get an EV charger installed, net of Delhi government subsidy,by making a single phone call or applying online. The single-window facility can be used for rapid installation of thousands of EV chargers at residential spaces like apartments and group housing societies, institutional buildings like hospitals and commercial spaces like malls and theatres,” the statement read.Delhi currently has around 9,000 registered electric vehicles, which include cars, two-wheelers and e-autorickshaws. Other than that, there are around 60,000 electric rickshaws operating in the city, government records showed. Also, there are currently 77 functional EV charging stations in the city.Last year, the Delhi government launched the EV policy which aims to ensure that in five years, 25% of all vehicles registered in national capital are e-vehicles. Declaring e-vehicles to be a part of the government’s long-term action plan to fight air pollution, the Delhi government had also launched a campaign, “Switch Delhi”, to get more and more people to switch over to electric vehicles from their current CNG or fossil fuel-based models.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-approves-single-window-process-for-setting-up-ev-chargers-101623694185736.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Vendors heave a sigh of relief as weekly markets reopen in the Capital||Arvind Kumar meticulously arranged the products – plastic soap cases, shaving razors, small bathroom mirrors and combs of different size – in his makeshift shop as two government officials approached him and collected his swab samples for a Covid-19 test. Around 4pm, visitors started trickling in at the weekly bazaar in west Delhi’s Mundka which reopened on Monday.Weekly markets in the city were allowed to reopen, subject to a long list of conditions concerning location, space, capacity and random Covid-19 tests of vendors and customers, after eight weeks on Monday, according to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) directions to scale down lockdown restrictions.“The last two months were difficult. Without any work, I had to go back to my village. I returned with my family last week and started visiting the labour chowk looking for daily wage work. But I hardly managed to get any. It is a relief that the government has allowed the weekly markets to open. We can open our shops again,” said Kumar.Yusuf Khan, a vendor at a weekly market in northeast Delhi’s Gokalpuri, said: “It is a major relief. Last year, the government had allowed weekly markets to resume functioning only after months of lockdown. This time we have been allowed to resume business in eight weeks. We will ensure that all regulations are strictly followed.”Among the restrictions are limiting opening of weekly markets to just one per day per week in each zone. “Only one authorised weekly market (upto the limit of 50% of the allowed vendors at a normal time) per day per zone… shall be allowed subject to the strict compliance of SOP and all instructions/ guidelines issued by government of India/ government of Delhi from time to time,” said the DDMA order.“No weekly market shall be allowed to function on roadsides. The weekly markets can be allowed to function at nearby suitable public and school grounds, where SOP/guidelines of DDMA can be strictly implemented. No unauthorised weekly market shall be allowed to function… RT-PCR/rapid antigen tests of vendors/customers of weekly markets shall be conducted on random basis by the district magistrate concerned regularly,” the DDMA order added.While Delhi has a total 12 municipal zones, indicating that only a maximum of 84 weekly markets will be allowed to open this week, as per Brijesh Goyal, president of the chamber of trade and industry, the Capital has around 2,700 weekly bazaars which collectively engage around 400,000 people in different roles -- vendors, suppliers, and labourers, among others.Weekly market associations, however, expressed confidence that restrictions will ease in the coming weeks. “It (the DDMA order) has come as a major relief. This week, only few big weekly markets are likely to receive permission to open under the given rules. But, we hope, in the coming weeks, the rules are further relaxed and more weekly markets are allowed to open. Vendors are in deep distress and they will strictly adhere to all Covid-19 regulations,” said Sanjay Kumar, a vendor and member of town vending committee in charge of a weekly market in the Yamuna embankment area in east Delhi.Dhanik Chand, vendor and member of town vending committee in charge of a weekly market in Mandawali locality, echoed similar opinions. “We hope more markets are allowed to open in the coming weeks even if under stricter enforcement,” he said.Delhi government officials said that weekly markets have been allowed to open on a “trial basis”. “The one market per day per municipal zone rule is likely to be further relaxed in few weeks if Covid-19 cases stay under control,” said a DDMA official.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s announcement on Sunday regarding the re-opening of weekly markets came as a major relief for tens of thousands of people who are associated with these markets scattered across the city, which specially cater to lower-income and middle-income group people, offering products ranging from soaps and utensils to toys and garments. Delhi has around 2,700 weekly bazaars which collectively engage around 400,000 people in different roles – vendors, suppliers, labourers, etc -- said Brijesh Goyal, president of chamber of trade and industry.In east Delhi’s Gandhi Nagar wholesale market, Akashdeep Balli pulled out a stack of neatly folded jeans from a shelf in his stall as a few eager customers asked him about the possibility of a stock clearance rebates. As Balli wholeheartedly agreed, his neighbouring stall owner barged in promising higher discounts in light of “a lockdown” which, he said, can be imposed “any time due another surge in Covid-19 cases in Delhi in the coming weeks”.The fear of a potential fifth wave is palpable, even though the government allowing shops in markets in the city to operate seven days of the week has come as a major relief, as against last week’s relaxation which allowed only 50% of shops to operate in a day.Devraj Baweja, general secretary of the confederation of Sadar Bazar traders’ association, said: “Traders have faced huge losses due to the pandemic. The market will take time to recover. We pray that another lockdown does not happen. We have to make sure that we strictly follow all safety measures.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vendors-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-as-weekly-markets-reopen-in-the-capital-101623694125106.html
15-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD lost core vote bank, even BSP alliance futile: Parminder Dhindsa||Former Punjab finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa said on Monday that Shiromani Akali Dal has lost its traditional vote bank and even workers of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), with which it has forged an alliance, will not vote for it in the 2022 state assembly elections. “The SAD always took decisions against the interests of its core voters, including farmers and Panth. Even the BSP cadre will not vote in its favour as they are not happy with this opportunistic alliance,” said Dhindsa, who represents Lehra assembly segment and is a leader of the newly floated SAD (Sanyukt). Also Read: SAD bets on BSP’s Dalit vote bank to boost poll prospectsDhindsa said that though the Badal faction claims to represent the SAD, there is “nothing like Akalis” in their policies. “We will give Punjab the real Akali Dal,” he said. His father and Rajya Sabha member Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa floated SAD (Sanyukt) along with Ranjit Singh Brahmpura last month after the dissolution of SAD (Democratic) and SAD (Taksali). The senior Dhindsa is its president.To escalate party activities, Parminder Dhindsa kicked off a greenery drive by planting saplings at Mastuana Sahib, around 10 kilometers from Sangrur, on Monday, and announced that its youth cadre will run the drive across the state for one month in the memory of farmers who died during protests against the three contentious agriculture laws.Dhindsa said the party is still in talks with like-minded parties, even as Sukhpal Singh Khaira moved to the ruling Congress from the Aam Aadmi Party and the BSP forged an alliance with the SAD.“All avenues are always open in politics. We may go in alliance with anyone except Badals, Bharatiya Janata Party and Congress,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-lost-core-vote-bank-even-bsp-alliance-futile-parminder-dhindsa-101623676484900.html
15-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi aspires to become a 24*7 city. But it needs to ramp up infra and safety||The area around Jama Masjid in the Walled City transforms into a vibrant space after sunset during Ramzan with shops, eateries and street vendors open till the wee hours of the morning.“It is not just local residents, people from different parts of the city come here during Ramzan. It is a major tourist attraction, as people get to experience a completely different side of the city,” said Abu Sufiyan, a resident of old Delhi and founder of Purani Dilli Walo Ki Baatein (a cultural platform).Sufiyan said that even on regular days, the narrow lanes are bustling with activities as street vendors set up their food stalls after market hours. “People come with their families till late at night,” said Sufiyan.While there is a demand for night time activities, especially from a tourism point of view, the national Capital has very little to offer to those who want to enjoy and experience the city at night.Also Read | Delhi Metro to continue with 50% capacity, standing travel bannedFor years, ice-cream vendors at Rajpath, India Gate, a restaurant at Nizamuddin railway station and few roadside eateries have been some of the options for late night outings for the public at large, as most markets close by 9.30-10pm.The rationale of night economies Keeping pace with changing times, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has for the first time proposed a major change in the draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041 to promote night time economies and nightlife in the national Capital.This is in sync with the Delhi government’s decision last year to allow only high-tech and service industries in Delhi’s new industrial areas. The decision was aimed at reducing pollution levels in the city in the long run. The Union housing and urban affairs ministry issued a notification on October 29 last year in which the definition of industries was changed.A DDA official, who did not wish to be named, said, “The new developments will bring about a change in the way the city operates right now. World over, cities are moving today becoming 24-hour cities and this is a step in that direction.”Hitesh Vaidya, director National Institute of Urban Affairs (which has helped DDA in preparing the vision document), said, “Cities should consciously support night-time economies and active nightlife. This has several potential positives. It will support numerous economies that can thrive at night, for instance, cultural activities, certain industries, logistics, etc. thereby helping to stagger work timings and reduce congestion on roads. This will also substantially increase productive use of city resources by utilising city infrastructure throughout the day, resulting in higher economic output.”MPD-2041, the blueprint of city’s development in the next two decades, proposes development of nightlife circuits around cultural precincts, heritage areas, central business districts etc to provide the city a “vibrant nightlife”. It proposes for restaurants and commercial establishments to remain open 24x7. DDA officials said that this is a step towards making Delhi a “24-hour city”, just like London, Paris, New York, Amsterdam, among others.A second DDA official said that several states have started implementing the Model Shops and Establishments (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act, 2016, thereby allowing shops to open 24x7. “Indore, Mumbai, Ahmedabad are some of the cities where shops are allowed to open 24x7. Most cities world over are moving towards the 24-hour concept. It is about time Delhi, being the national Capital, also moves towards becoming a 24-hour city,” said a DDA official.The infra deficit While urban development experts and civil society members welcome the move, they say that a major infrastructure overhaul is required to achieve this. From transportation to safety, all aspects have to be relooked at to ensure people’s convenience.Arunava Dasgupta, head of the department, urban design, School of Planning and Architecture, said that to make Delhi a 24x7 city, the focus should be to first take strategic measures and provide the infrastructure to make the city liveable and convenient for people to perform their daily, necessary activities during the daytime and then extend those qualities into the night.Dasgupta said, “Nightlife of a city is an add-on quality. It can happen or be promoted if the daytime needs related to transportation, safety, livelihood, etc have been taken care of efficiently and equitably. The most important thing is to have a robust infrastructure before we plan for a 24x7 city. Also, while every part of the city cannot have an active night environment, every corner of the city needs to be safe, barrier free and accessible for all.”To ensure that the provision gets implemented, experts say there are a few things which must be kept in mind.Public safetySafety of people, especially women, experts say, is the biggest concern. Kalpana Viswanath, co-founder and CEO of Safetipin, said, “It is an interesting idea and would be great to explore the city at night. But there is a need to address issues related to women’s security. Well-lit streets, proper public infrastructure such as toilets, good public transportation facility, quick emergency response and provisions to encourage women vendors and others to work at night are essential to ensure women feel safe at night. Addressing the gender dynamics should be at the centre of planning provisions for a 24-hour city.”Citing the example of Bangkok’s flea markets, Viswanath said that there are so many women who work in these night markets. Street vendors, especially women vendors, are essential to address the safety-related issues.Activating frontages of buildings, creating public spaces and redesigning streets, experts say, are measures which can address the safety issue to a large extent. The draft MPD-2041 mentions these urban design concepts to have more eyes on the streets, said the first DDA official quoted above.Good public transport systemA good public transport system during night time is critical for the success of this concept. London, New York, Seoul, Barcelona, Tokyo are some cities where public transport is available 24x7.The draft plan proposes that low-frequency Metro and bus services should be available at night time.Amit Bhatt, director transport, WRI India, “For a city to have a vibrant nightlife, well-planned public spaces are essential apart from a good public transportation system. There is a need to have such commercial activities on the frontages which can work 24x7. There is a need for landuse regulation to change provisions to achieve this.”Nightlife around heritage assets; need for a cultural calendarThe draft master plan talks about developing nightlife circuits around cultural precincts, heritage areas. Promoting tourism, cultural activities can help in developing these circuits.Vaidya, the director of National Institute of Urban Affairs said, “A city’s nightlife can provide interesting options for citizens to participate in recreational, cultural and creative activities after standard work hours. Cities like Paris have experimented with ideas like ‘Nuit Blanche’ literally meaning white night, which takes the form of a festival where the city explodes with cultural activity.”But not all areas can be developed at nightlife hubs. Urban designer AGK Menon said, “In Shahjahanabad, the concept of night life during Ramzans exists. It has to be encouraged and part of the cultural circuits. When we talk about promoting nightlife, the policy document has to be clear on what it means. It will depend on the policy decisions taken in this regard. It is not an easy decision to make. We will have to see the details of it.”Ratish Nanda, CEO of Aga Khan Trust for Culture, said, “Potential for creative economies creating wealth for people of Delhi and improving the quality of life in our city is unimaginable. Illumination of monuments, access for longer hours, cultural events - music, theatre, food - at some of our little-known heritage sites would be an attraction not only for tourists but also Delhi’s own people.”He added, “The enabling environment that the master plan aims to create should be extended to abolishing of the licenses required for cultural events when these are held at select venues and allowing greater private sector initiative.”Pedestrian-friendly and accessible nightlife circuitsSufiyan said that there is a huge demand for night time activities, especially in the Walled City. But due to the present norms, not much can be done. “Shahjahanabad is a major tourist attraction. There is a need to make the area more pedestrian-friendly, upgrade sanitation service, limit the number of e-rickshaws, provide street furniture etc,” said Sufiyan.Another case in point in Connaught Place. The heritage market sees a very high footfall, especially during the winter season due to its location, cultural events planned at the Central Park, large number of restaurants etc. But the heritage market starts closing down from 8.30-9 pm onwards. Only restaurants operate till 1pm. The market, many say, has the potential to become a vibrant place at night.Manpreet Singh, the owner of Zen restaurant in Connaught Place and the treasurer of NRAI, “The idea to promote nightlife in the city is fantastic. We should keep pace with changing times. There are so many cities which are 24x7. There is a growing demand for recreational spaces, eateries to open till late. Though it can’t be done in all the areas, especially markets which are located in residential areas or abutting it, it can easily be done in CP, which is surrounded by offices.But the market association says that before promoting nightlife, basic infrastructure has to be put in place. Atul Bhargava, president of New Delhi Traders Association of CP, said, “there is a lot which needs to be done first to make the market safe and accessible. The street vendors encroach upon public space. We have to first ensure the safety of people. Before the 24x7 concept, let’s see if the idea is sustainable or not.”The nightlife concept will help the informal sector as well, said Arbind Singh, national coordinator, National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI). “World over cities flea markets, especially at night, are extremely popular. It is one place where you can experience their culture, food etc. A similar concept if promoted in Delhi will not only help the vendors earn their livelihood, it will attach a new dimension to the city’s cultural experience,” said SinghA new authority Bhatt said that for the success of this concept, there is a need for a commission or a regulatory body to look into the night time economic aspect and plan for the nightlife circuit just like in London. London has a Night Time Commission and a “night czar” to look into all aspects of the night time economy and ensure community involvement in it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aspires-to-become-a-24-7-city-but-it-needs-to-ramp-up-infra-and-safety-101623655963584.html
