16-06-2021||Other||Delhi’s monuments receive few visitors on Day 1 of reopening||The monuments in the Capital, protected by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), reopened their doors for visitors on Wednesday after staying shut for two months following the second wave--fourth for Delhi-- of Covid-19 in April that crippled the health care system and effected a lockdown that stayed in place for around six weeks. On Monday, the ASI had issued a notification allowing monuments and museums under its watch to reopen. The footfall, on the first day, remained tepid with many tourists stating that they were unaware of the reopening or the online ticket mechanism. Delhi has over 70 monuments protected by the ASI, including Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb and Qutb Minar, which are also on the list of UNESCO’s world heritage sites. At least 13 monuments under the ASI in Delhi requires tickets for entry. The Red Fort saw visitors after nearly five months. The 17th century fort was closed on January 19 on account of the bird flu scare. The closure was further extended after violence broke out at the monument on Republic Day during a tractor rally taken out by farmers protesting against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre. An ASI official, who did not wish to be named, said while most of the repair work had been completed, some minor tasks were left. “Turnstiles need to be placed again. Our vendors will be supplying the same but due to the lockdown, the consignment got stuck near Jaipur. Once the consignment reaches us, work will be completed soon,” said the official. Nasir Ali Khan (33), a businessman from Kolkata, said he was visiting Chandni Chowk when he decided to check if the fort was open for visitors. “This was my first visit to the Red Fort. It was largely empty, so I enjoyed exploring the place,” said Khan. Jitender, a resident of Delhi who also visited the fort on Wednesday, said he was disappointed since there were no tour guides. “It took a while to reach the fort since there were many traffic diversions. Entry is not being allowed from all gates. There were no signboards to inform visitors about the same,” he said. Abhishek Babu (22), a student from Andhra Pradesh, visited Humayun’s Tomb along with his family of five on Wednesday. Though he was not aware of the reopening, he was glad that the family’s efforts didn’t go in vain. “My family enjoyed the experience since we stepped out together after a long time. While there were no crowds, announcements regarding Covid protocols should be made,” said Babu. At Humayun’s Tomb, visitors could only book tickets online and no physical tickets were being issued. Tickets could be purchased from the counters at Red Fort. The lack of information regarding issue of tickets miffed some people. “The online system here is not working well and physical tickets are much more expensive. We saw the tomb from outside and decided to pay another visit on some other day,” said a visitor at Humayun’s Tomb.While the overall footfall remained low for the first day, shopkeepers in and around the vicinity of monuments were relieved. Arvind Jain (60), who owns a souvenir shop inside Red Fort premises, said that something was better than nothing. “We have not earned anything since January. There were no sales today (Wednesday) as well. Tourism needs a push from the government for people to return. Many people are also confused about the ticketing system. Not everyone can purchase online tickets. There are no signboards. People from outside are not able to figure out if the fort is open or not. These issues need to be resolved,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-monuments-receive-few-visitors-on-day-1-of-reopening-101623868152820.html
16-06-2021||Noida||To curb air pollution, UPPCB asks Kaushambi high-rises to comply with DG-set norms||Ghaziabad: The regional office of the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) has written to 22 high-rises in Kaushambi to increase height of the chimneys of the diesel generator (DG) sets and also to convert the electricity generating units from diesel-based fuel to CNG fuel in order to curb pollution in the township. The Kaushambi township has an estimated population of about 20,000 and it is adjacent to a high pollution area surrounded by Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area, ISBT Kaushambi, and ISBT Anand Vihar. “We have written to all the 22 high-rises to convert their diesel-based generators to cleaner CNG fuel and also to raise the height of the chimneys which should be over the rooftop. These issues cause noise and air pollution. The high-rises have been asked to prepare a work plan and send it to us within 15 days,” said Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UPPCB. “The chimney height should be 2-3 metres above the rooftop from the nearest building. The DG set should be sound-proof and should not be generating noise. The Central Pollution Control Board is also trying to come up with guidelines for retro-fitting options for DG sets. If the guidelines come in the meantime, the residents will have option for retrofitting as well,” he said. The communications also apprised the high-rises that operation of the DG sets is not allowed during the Graded Response Action Plan, except for essential services. “Many high-rises also use DG sets for non-essential services which is not proper. In view of the requirement of residents during the GRAP period and also during the pandemic when many people work from home, it would be proper to convert the diesel-based gensets to CNG fuel,” Sharma added. The communications served to high-rises also mention a petition which is in the Supreme Court. Kaushambi Apartment RWA (Karwa), the apex body of Kaushambi high-rises, is contesting the petition against several agencies for providing residents with a clean environment. Karwa moved the National Green Tribunal in 2015 with the petition and later moved the Supreme Court in September 2020 against the polluted surroundings near Kushambi. “Our 22 high-rises will be responding to the communications sent by the UPPCB and all are in support to curb air pollution in and around Kaushambi. However, converting the DG sets to CNG and raising the height of the chimneys requires a huge investment of about ₹40-45 lakh and the RWAs have no such funds available with them. In such a case, we asks the government to provide us 90% subsidy,” said VK Mittal, president of Karwa. He further said that when the township was constructed in 1980s by the Ghaziabad Development Authority, the DG sets (250 KVA each) were also handed over to RWAs. “The height of the chimneys goes to a maximum of about five metres (up to two storeys) while most of the buildings are up to 13 storeys. Since the norms have changed over years, it will be a tough task to raise the height of chimneys. We have an average consumption of about 150-200 litres of diesel per day due to power cuts,” Mittal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/to-curb-air-pollution-uppcb-asks-kaushambi-high-rises-to-comply-with-dg-set-norms-101623868152179.html
16-06-2021||Other||Delhi skill varsity to open sustainable livelihood programme centres for urban youth||The Delhi government said on Wednesday that in order to help disadvantaged youths earn a livelihood, the Delhi Skill and Entrepreneurship University (DSEU) will be establishing multiple centres for a sustainable livelihood programme for the youths in the urban areas. The programme will be developed in collaboration with a Pune-based non-profit organization Lighthouse Communities Foundation. “DSEU entered into an agreement with Pune-based non-profit Lighthouse Communities Foundation to set up lighthouses near slum clusters of Delhi,” read a statement issued by the government on Wednesday.The first four lighthouses will be set up in Kalkaji, Malkaganj, Matia Mahal and Patparganj and will serve as skill centres for the youth. The memorandum of agreement was signed at a virtual event hosted by DSEU on Tuesday Through the Lighthouse intervention, youth in low-income and slum communities will be able to make more informed life choices and acquire the necessary skills that will increase their chances of getting employment. DSEU vice-chancellor Neharika Vohra said, “While education and inculcating skills are expected to lead to individual and community transformation historically, it has led to individual transformation. We wish that at DSEU, we are able to make education a means for community growth and change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-skill-varsity-to-open-sustainable-livelihood-programme-centres-for-urban-youth-101623868091906.html
16-06-2021||Other||DU’s law faculty question paper repeated, officials call for probe||The first-year students of Delhi University’s Faculty of Law were in for a surprise on Wednesday when they found that the question paper they received for their Law of Contract paper was the same as the one given to another batch of students during the semester examination in December last year.Neha Khatana, a first-year LLB student who was appearing for the online open-book examination for the first time, said students were confused when they saw the question paper on Wednesday. “We recognised the paper because we had come across it while practising the previous years’ question papers. Many students were confused if they had downloaded the wrong paper,” she said.Khatana said she pointed out the issue to her teachers. “Our teachers too didn’t know about it till we pointed it out to them. They said they will look into the matter. I have done my undergraduate degree from DU but this has never happened that we have received the same paper,” she said.The 100-mark question paper had six questions, of which students had to attempt any four. All the questions were exactly the same as the one in the question paper for the Law of Contract examination in December 2020.University officials condemned the incident and demanded an inquiry into the same. J L Gupta, a member of Delhi University Court and a former executive council member, said, “This is a complete lapse on the part of the examination branch as either the paper has not been moderated or the moderation committee has failed to discharge its duty judiciously.” Gupta has demanded that an inquiry committee be instituted to probe the “grave lapse causing utter confusion among students.”Dean (examinations) DS Rawat said the matter has not been brought to his attention so far. “We have not received any complaints in this matter so far. I will talk to the Faculty of Law dean and an appropriate decision will be taken on the basis of it.” When questioned on the possibility of conducting the paper again, Rawat said, “If there is a mix-up, we will take appropriate decision at the university level.” Despite calls and messages, the Dean of Faculty of Law did not comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dus-law-faculty-question-paper-repeated-officials-call-for-probe-101623868031492.html
16-06-2021||Other||Sisodia reviews 7 entrepreneurial projects by govt school students||From selling madhubani paintings to refurbished mobile phones, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday reviewed the seven entrepreneurial projects undertaken by 41 students of a Delhi government school under the Entrepreneurship Mindset Curriculum started by the government in 2019.The projects were executed by 41 students from the School of Excellence in Khichripur, who were mentored by 11 MBA students of Delhi Technological University (DTU), and were given seed money of ₹1,000/student. Last year, the government had announced that students of classes 11 and 12 in Delhi government schools would get the seed money to develop and execute their projects.Reviewing the projects on Wednesday, Sisodia said, “..It is a matter of pride that all these projects have earned profits. Divine Creations project sold madhubhani paintings and earned a profit of ₹3,100. Similarly, a project called ‘Mobisite’, led by eight Delhi government school students, sold two refurbished phones worth ₹3,500 each and earned a profit of ₹570.”The education minister also said that mentors from DTU played a significant role in “streamlining projects of students and building their confidence.” Speaking to the mentors, Sisodia said, “We began with piloting this field project and despite several hurdles caused by Covid-19, our children and mentors have made these projects into successful enterprises.” The education department will also hold a one-day exhibition to exhibit the projects of students along with DTU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sisodia-reviews-7-entrepreneurial-projects-by-govt-school-students-101623867971481.html
16-06-2021||Other||Centre dismissed the Delhi govt’s panel to audit oxygen deaths: Sisodia||New Delhi: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday alleged that the Centre has dismissed a committee constituted by the Delhi government to investigate Covid-19 deaths that took place due to a shortage of oxygen in the city over the past two months, as the Capital dealt with a brutal fourth wave of infections. The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, justified the move, since a similar committee was constituted weeks ahead of the city administration’s order, on the directions of the Supreme Court.Addressing a digital press briefing, Sisodia said the Delhi government on May 27 issued an order setting up its own six-member committee to assess every Covid-19 deaths that took place due to a scarcity of oxygen and approve compensation of up to ₹5 lakh for their families. The committee comprised five doctors from Delhi government hospitals and one member from the state director general of health services’ office.“As all of you know, there was an oxygen crunch during the previous Covid-19 wave in Delhi. Oxygen supply was diverted to other places [states]. There were also some deaths due to the lack of oxygen supply in the city. Following the court’s directive, the Delhi government constituted a committee of health experts to look into the incidents and ascertain what led to these deaths. It is extremely saddening that the central government has dismissed this committee. I don’t understand why the central government has an issue with this,” he said. Central government spokespersons did not respond to requests for comment.Delhi struggled with a severe shortage of medical oxygen during a crippling fourth Covid-19 wave between April and May, forcing the Supreme Court to step in and order the Centre to ensure the Capital’s oxygen requirements were met.Sisodia on Wednesday also accused the Centre of regularly interfering with state governments, and preventing them from doing “good work”. “As a responsible government, the Delhi government wants to offer compensation of up to ₹5 lakh to the families of those who died and investigate and confirm what led to these deaths. The central government is not letting this happen. Why does it like to obstruct any good step taken or work being done by the state governments? This is not just about Delhi. Many other states including West Bengal, Maharashtra, and Jharkhand are facing different kinds of obstructions from the Centre,” he said. “This decision to dismiss the committee is unreasonable and has no logic. I appeal to the Centre to stop their childish practices. The people of Delhi want the government they elected to work without any obstructions, but the Centre has continued to act as an obstruction to the rights of the people,” he said. The Delhi unit of the BJP accused Sisodia of “dirty politics” over compensation for families of Covid-19 patients who “died due to the negligence of the Delhi government.” “The Supreme Court of India already formed a committee with regards to oxygen deaths compensation on May 6, 2021, comprising Dr Randeep Guleria (director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi), Dr Sandeep Budhiraja (director, Max Healthcare) and one joint secretary-level officer each from the Centre and Delhi government. This Supreme Court committee was working for 10 days when the Delhi government jumped in to form a separate committee on May 27,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.The BJP instead appealed to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Sisodia to focus on preparing for a potential third wave of Covid-19 and augmenting health infrastructure accordingly. “Today (Wednesday), in light of the fact that a high powered four-member committee with the Delhi government’s representation is working on the matter, the city administration has been asked to disband its committee,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-dismissed-the-delhi-govt-s-panel-to-audit-oxygen-deaths-sisodia-101623867853401.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 10,107 new cases; 4 districts continue to log high numbers||While the Covid-19 cases continue to decline across the state with 10,107 new cases recorded on Wednesday, districts like Kolhapur, Sangli, Pune and Satara, continue to report a high number of cases.There were 1,146 new cases in Kolhapur, while Sangli recorded 924 cases on Wednesday. Satara witnessed 915 new cases, while Pune which included Pimpri Chinchwad recorded 1,186 cases.There were 2,23,509 tests done on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries was 10,567.There are currently 136,661 active patients across the state, of which Pune tops with 17,820 patients followed by Mumbai with 17,782 active patients.The death toll in the state stands at 115,390. Pune leads with 15,744 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,227.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor, government of Maharashtra on Covid-19 management, cites various factors for the rise. “The authorities are not able to effectively implement the mechanism to contain the virus. The pace of vaccination has also been very slow. In addition, we saw the virus arriving late there and hopefully, in the coming days, the cases will be contained and the downward trend will start,” said Dr Salunkhe. He said that though the cases in Pune city has been contained, the problem is in the outskirts of the city.Dr Ishwar Gilada, secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild blamed the negligent behaviour of the people in those regions for the surge of cases. “We have seen the people in these districts hardly wearing masks or observing social distance. In addition, the current mutant of the virus is very lethal and spreading rapidly,” said Gilada.Meanwhile, on Wednesday Mumbai clocked 821 new Covid-19 cases with 11 deaths. The total number of cases in Mumbai reached 717,172 with 15,227 deaths to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-10-107-new-cases-4-districts-continue-to-log-high-numbers-101623867731991.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Third Covid-19 wave could see double the infections of second, projects Maharashtra||Maharashtra, which reported over four million Covid-19 cases in the second wave, could see double the cases in a possible third wave of infections, stated a presentation made by the state health department to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday. The cases could double due to the new Delta plus variant of Covid-19, it said. The health department has also projected that the state’s active cases could go up to 800,000, while infants and children could amount to around 10% of the total cases. However, state Covid-19 task force members said that the mathematical projections in the first two waves of Covid-19 infections have not been accurate. The task force also said that Delta plus variant may not play a major role, adding that vaccinating the susceptible population is the key to take the sting out of the third wave.Thackeray, on Wednesday, held a meeting with senior bureaucrats, health department officials, and members of the state Covid task force over the preparation for the third wave, which could hit between August or September. Thackeray directed officials to prepare for the possible third wave by ramping up hospital infrastructure, beds, medical equipment, and liquid medical oxygen.A statement from the chief minister’s office said, “Compared to the first wave, the number of cases doubled in a smaller period. With the threat of the Delta plus variant, the number of cases could double in the third wave again. In the first wave, the state had 1.9 million, while the second wave saw over 4 million cases. In a presentation made by the health department, the number of active cases could go up to 800,000 and of the total cases [in the third wave], around 10% cases could be among children.”The Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has further mutated to form the Delta plus or ‘AY.1’ variant. The B.1.617.2 strain or the Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 was identified as one of the main drivers of the second wave of Covid-19 infections that devastated parts of India, including Maharashtra, earlier this year.The task force also said that a large chunk of the population needs to be inoculated to reduce the impact of the third wave. Task force member Dr Shashank Joshi said, “The faster we are able to shrink the susceptible through vaccination, lesser will be the impact of the third wave… We cannot be complacent; we need to go ahead with aggressive testing and saturate at least 70% of the population with vaccination. If the Government of India can provide 1 crore vaccines a day in the next three months, we should be able to target [inoculating] 10 lakh people per day. We will be able to vaccinate a large population of 12 crore in the state.” The state Covid task force members in the meeting suggested that serosurvey should be carried out in all the districts to find out the susceptible population versus exposed population. Dr Joshi said that talk of delta plus variant hitting hard is “premature”. He said that the virulence part of the delta strain has not been well documented so far. “Delta plus variant is epiphenomenon as every variant has some sub-types. So, that does not worry us much,” he said. He also said that the projections should not worry the people as most mathematical models have failed to predict Covid-19 wave. “All projections are dependent on models, up till now, none of the models have been able to make reasonable predictions… Virus does not follow any mathematics. One should not get scared with such models,” he said.Globally, third wave of covid-19 infections have hit after a gap of eight to 12 weeks between the second and third wave. State health department is anticipating that the third wave could hit by August or September. The task force members believe that next wave of infections could hit the unexposed population and in areas where vaccination in poor, as opposed to being a wave hitting the minor population of the state. “We believe that it may not be a paediatric wave, but it may be a wave [impacting] the less exposed population, which could be in the lower socio-economic strata, like an urban slum, where the vaccination is poor. Wherever there is vaccine hesitancy or poor vaccination, there is a likelihood of the wave to occur... In this [third] wave, we anticipate that the number of hospitalisations, critical cases and deaths will reduce dramatically as a large population will be vaccinated,” Dr Joshi said after the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/third-covid-19-wave-could-see-double-the-infections-of-second-projects-maharashtra-101623867731408.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Talks with Maharashtra govt fail; 70,000 Asha workers to continue indefinite strike||Around 70,000 Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers in Maharashtra will continue their indefinite strike for a third consecutive day (on Thursday) as their talks with the state government for an increase in the monthly honorarium failed.Asha workers have claimed that the state government has refused to hike their honorarium on the grounds that they are facing a financial crunch.Currently, the Asha workers receive around ₹6,000 per month, which includes ₹1,000 as Covid allowance from the Centre. They want the honorarium to be increased up to ₹18,000.State Asha Workers Action Committee president MA Patil held a meeting with the state health minister Rajesh Tope and reiterated the demands. “We asked the state government to hike the honorarium. The health minister too admitted that the demand made by us is reasonable and expressed sympathy to the hardship being faced by Asha workers. But also said that they are not in a position to increase burden owing to the financial crisis,” Patil said.It was the second meeting with the health minister in the last three days. The first meeting was held on Monday. “We want a sum as remuneration which will help Asha workers to survive at least as they are working for eight hours a day,” he stressed.Asha workers are considered the backbone of the rural healthcare system in the state. They have been playing a significant role in the state’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.“The health minister didn’t even assure to consider the demands or offer any proposal,” Patil said, adding that they want the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to intervene and get them justice.Asha workers are on indefinite strike since Tuesday.Asha or Accredited Social Health Activist was formed under the National Rural Health Mission to provide every village in the country with a trained female community health activist. They have played an important role in implementing various health schemes across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/talks-with-maharashtra-govt-fail-70-000-asha-workers-to-continue-indefinite-strike-101623867671384.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: After zero cases for 2 days in a row, Dharavi sees 1 Covid case on Wednesday||Dharavi recorded one new Covid-19 case on Wednesday, after reporting zero cases for the past two days in a row. There are now 10 active cases in the slum pocket. However, the other adjoining areas of the G/North ward, Dadar and Mahim recorded two and three new cases, respectively, on Wednesday, fewer than Tuesday’s case count of 11 and 12, respectively. There are 149 active cases in Dadar, and 129 in Mahim.On Monday and Tuesday, Dharavi had reported no new Covid-19 cases, for the first time since February 2 this year. On Tuesday, Dharavi had 11 active Covid-19 cases, and two patients had recovered and discharged in the past 24 hours.Dharavi had recorded its highest-ever single day spike - 99 cases - on April 8. Similarly, last year, Dharavi had reported its then highest single-day spike - 94 cases - on May 3.During the spike due to the second wave, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) kickstarted its Mission Dharavi yet again, which was first launched when Dharavi was a hotspot last year. It included measures such as conducting fever camps, operating mobile testing vans, door-to-door check-ups, and immediate institutional quarantine of high-risk contacts of Covid-19 positive patients.In June, Dharavi recorded a total of 37 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 6,862 cases, while Dadar reported 118 cases, taking the tally to 9,570 Covid-19 cases. Mahim reported 47 Covid-19 cases in June and its tally stands at 9,770 cases, so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-after-zero-cases-for-2-days-in-a-row-dharavi-sees-1-covid-case-on-wednesday-101623867611964.html
16-06-2021||Other||Went to ask about vax, got cert sans jab, alleges Thane man||A 64-year-old Thane resident has alleged that after he merely went to inquire about vaccination slots at Wadia Hospital Vaccination Centre, of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), he got a certificate of receiving his first dose from the Co-WIN app, even without being administered the jab. TMC, however, claimed that it is impossible to get a certificate without getting vaccinated and said that they will probe the matter. Sudhakar Ratnakar, a resident of Sawarkar Nagar, has drafted a letter to the civic body regarding the same. He has also alleged that the vaccinator at the centre claimed that he will have to pay a fine of ₹500 if he does not get vaccinated. Prasad Ratnakar, his son said, “My father went to Wadia Hospital along with one of his friend who had an appointment with a doctor there. While waiting, he casually went to the vaccination kiosk to enquire about the availability of the vaccine. The person at the booth asked him if he carried any documents. My father had a photo of his Pan card on his mobile, which he gave it to the person.” The employee then asked Ratnakar to go and get vaccinated as there was no crowd at the centre. Prasad said, “My father, however, had accompanied a friend and did not want to get vaccinated at the moment. The vaccinator then claimed that he will have to pay a fine of ₹500 if he does not get the jab immediately. In the evening, he received a message and a certificate that he took his first dose. We have written a letter to the civic body to inquire the matter.” Ratnakar is now worried about getting his first dose of the vaccine as the application has already has updated his vaccine status. Vaijayanti Deogekar, health officer, TMC said, “We got the letter today. I have asked the medical officer at the centre to inquire into the incident.” Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, however, claimed that there could not be any mix-up. “There is no way that a certificate will be uploaded on the portal, without the person being vaccinated. There is some misunderstanding by the resident, as we upload the details only after vaccination. However, we will conduct an inquiry into his allegations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/went-to-ask-about-vax-got-cert-sans-jab-alleges-thane-man-101623867611396.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body sends notice to housing society for vax drive details||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday sent a notice to Hiranandani Heritage, Kandivli, seeking detailed information about the vaccination drive conducted on their premises on May 30 for internal inquiry. Preliminary investigation has also shown that the housing society didn’t sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with any hospital before the drive, which is in violation of the civic body’s rule. “Through social media, we got to know about the incident where residents alleged that they did not receive vaccination certificates. Also, there are claims that of the 390 beneficiaries, not a single person developed minor side effects such as fever or body ache after being administered the jab. So, we need to know the nitty-gritty of the drive for our own investigation,” said Sanjay Kurhade, assistant municipal commissioner of R-South ward.When asked how vials were procured for the vaccination drive and logged into the centralised CoWIN app with the login details of employees of other hospitals, he said, “We can’t comment until we get the details. We have also written to the police who are already investigating the matter,” he added. Later, the BMC in a statement announced that they will submit the report of their internal inquiry on the incident within 48 hours. The civic body also urged citizens to follow guidelines while conducting vaccination drive, and to check ID cards of coordinators visiting their societies from other hospitals or vaccination centres. “In addition to signing an MoU with the concerned private vaccination centre for immunisation, the identity card of the employees who have come for immunisation from the centre should also be verified. Beneficiaries should be urged to get digital certificates immediately after vaccination,” read the statement. BMC urged the public to inform the health officer from their ward if they observe any suspicious matter. The Kandivli beneficiaries have received vaccination certificates in the names of Nanavati Max Super Speciality and Lifeline Hospitals along with the civic-run NESCO jumbo centre, Goregaon who weren’t involved in the vaccination drive. So, the civic body has asked for the vaccination certificates received by the beneficiaries for cross-verification.However, around 120 beneficiaries are yet to receive the certificates. “Since the time we have raised the issue about the dubious role in the vaccination drive, the remaining beneficiaries have stopped receiving messages about their pending certificates,” said Hitesh Patel, a resident of the society. Society has violated BMC’s ruleIn May, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) issued detailed guidelines permitting housing societies and workplaces (private) to tie up with private hospitals/ Covid vaccination centres (CVC) to hold vaccination drives on their premises. So, on May 30, Hiranandani Heritage held a vaccination drive for the residents. As alleged, a person named Mahendra Singh who claimed to be associated with Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Andheri promised to conduct the drive in association with the hospital. But primary investigation into the “spurious” vaccination drive revealed that the society didn’t sign an MoU with the hospital. Also, in violation of BMC rules, the society didn’t even inform the Local Health Authority (LHA) and the ward officer. “It is mandatory to sign a MoU with the hospital and inform the local health officers. But in this case, they haven’t done anything. So, we didn’t even know about the vaccination drive that was conducted on May 30,” said Vishwas Shankarwar, deputy municipal commissioner (DMC).As alleged by the residents, the vaccinators and coordinators didn’t register them on the centralised Co-WIN portal on the day of inoculation. This also stands as a violation of the guidelines of BMC.“The vaccination centres need to have nodal officers who are responsible for checking all the required documents. They are responsible for registering the beneficiaries on the Co-WIN portal on the day of vaccination. However, now we are being informed that these beneficiaries were registered on the portal after 7-8 days of vaccination,” he added.BMC has allowed private hospitals to vaccinate in society premises to ease the rush at vaccination centres. But public health officers said this kind of unauthorised vaccination drives can prove fatal if a beneficiary develops any Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI) after vaccination. “We have clearly stated in the guideline that private societies will be treated as sub-vaccination sites and it should be linked to a nearby health facility for the management of AEFI,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.Following the incident, BMC has also decided to spread awareness among citizens on rules to hold vaccination in private societies. “Societies need to be aware of the guidelines before going ahead with the vaccination drive,” said Shankarwar.‘Vaccinators were called from another hospital’A few residents of the society claim that on the day of vaccination, the accusers got vaccinators from a private hospital in Charkop. Later, when they visited the hospital, they saw those staffers who were present at the society as vaccinators and coordinators on May 30.“When the two hospitals (Nanavati and Lifeline) informed us that they didn’t send vials or vaccinators to your society, we visited the Charkop hospital for inquiry and saw the staffers. But when we asked the officers at the hospital, they also refused their involvement in the drive,” said Patel. Despite repeated calls and messages, the founder of the hospital didn’t respond.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-sends-notice-to-housing-society-for-vax-drive-details-101623867552030.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC junks plan to purchase vaccine directly as Centre announces free vax for all||As the Central government has announced the distribution of free Covid for all above 18 years of age group, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to junk its plan of purchasing vaccine directly from the manufacturers in the international market or domestically.According to BMC officials, considering the Central government is giving free vaccines, it will not be financially sound for the civic body to spend money and procure vaccine doses. Earlier, the BMC had floated global tenders and was also in talks with Dr Reddy’s laboratory for procurement of the Russian Sputnik vaccine.The BMC had invited a global expression of interest (EoI) on May 12 for the procurement of 10 million Covid vaccines directly from the international market. Followed by this, it extended the application window twice on May 18 and May 25 for a week. On June 1, 2021, the BMC closed the application window stating that it had received nine proposals, of which eight were for supplying Sputnik and one company had offered to supply any approved vaccine. However, on June 4, the BMC announced cancelling the bidding process considering none of those who had shown interest submitted documents to prove their connection with the manufacturer.Following this, BMC had said that based on its discussion with Dr Reddy’s Laboratory who is sole distribution rights for the Russian Sputnik vaccine in India, the firm has agreed to supply Sputnik vaccine on an experimental basis by the end of June 2021. But three days later on June 7, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that vaccines will be given for free to all above the age of 18 years.Hence, the BMC has now decided to not procure vaccines directly. Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “The Central government has announced that vaccines will be given for free and in this case, even if we procure, there might be an audit query that why did we buy vaccines when we were going to get free vaccines from the government. Hence, we have decided to not procure vaccines from the market directly.”Chahal added, “In a way, I think it was better we did not have to qualify anyone for the global bids that we had floated. This is because if we would have shortlisted suppliers from that tender, we would have ended up spending around ₹1,000 crore. So, in a way, I feel we have saved ₹1,000 crore. However, we will help private hospitals in the city get the Sputnik vaccine. We will aim to conduct aggressive vaccination in the city once there is appropriate availability.”Meanwhile, on Wednesday 68,565 citizens were vaccinated in the city. Overall, in the city 4,256,312 citizens have been vaccinated since January 16, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-junks-plan-to-purchase-vaccine-directly-as-centre-announces-free-vax-for-all-101623867491938.html
16-06-2021||Other||Sanitation worker dies of black fungus, a first in Bhiwandi||A 44-year-old woman sanitation worker of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) died of mucormycosis (black fungus) on Tuesday. This is the first death reported in Bhiwandi due to the disease since the Covid-19 pandemic began last year. “The sanitation worker was admitted to Thane civil hospital a month ago. We are yet to receive all her reports. Only after checking reports, we can ascertain if she was suffering from Covid previously or some other ailment at the time of admission,” said KR Kharat, medical health officer, BNCMC. Deepika Ghadge, 44, was admitted to Thane civil hospital after she complained of symptoms of mucormycosis four days ago. A day later, she was shifted to Sir JJ Hospital, in Mumbai. As her condition deteriorated, she was shifted to St. Georges Hospital on Tuesday. However, on Tuesday night, she succumbed to the disease. She is survived by a husband and two children. “We are also yet to know what all symptoms of mucormycosis were reported. The report from all the hospitals will reveal more,” added Kharat. “Earlier, only one case of mucormycosis was reported in Bhiwandi. That person had minor symptoms and was discharged after treatment,” said Kharat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sanitation-worker-dies-of-black-fungus-a-first-in-bhiwandi-101623867432016.html
16-06-2021||Noida||Nearly 80K ‘jan-dhan’ bank accounts in GB Nagar are ‘dormant’||With no transaction in the last two years, nearly 10% of the 879,000 Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan yojana (PMJDY) bank accounts in Gautam Budh Nagar district have been declared dormant forming over half the total dormant accounts.According to officials, the accounts were across 47 banks in the district. The scheme does not require the account holder to have a minimum balance in the savings account and was instituted in 2014 with an aim to increase banking coverage.To make it operational again, the account holder has to do the deposit and withdrawal. The total number of dormant bank account in GB Nagar district is nearly 150,000District magistrate Suhas L Y also found 12 banks having a credit-debit ratio (CDR) at 40% when the optimum level should have been 60%. The overall CDR was 54.5%.“These banks have been asked to speed up their financing process, to bring the economy of the district back on track, which had suffered a setback due to Covid-19,” said Suhas, also the ex-officio chairperson of the district level review committee, which looks at the pace and quality of the implementation of various programmes by different banks in the district. .However, in terms of loan disbursement, the district achieved more than the stipulated target - under the Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP), which aims at generating employment through self-employment ventures, was nearly 160%, while in ‘one district one product (ODOP)’ scheme, in which a key product would be encouraged in the district, was nearly 120%.The DM further said that at present, 635 housing loans in the district have been found non-profitable assets (NPAs). “The overall worth of these housing loans is ₹102 crore,” said Suhas.Meanwhile, the lead bank manager (LBM) in the district, Ved Ratna, said that GB Nagar has over 536 branches of 42 banks. “For the ongoing financial year 2021-22, the government has set a target of disbursing loans of ₹19,020.5 crore in GB Nagar district.Out of it, ₹14,280.02 crore will be given to the priority sector and ₹1,239.71 crore to the agricultural sector,” he said.The lead bank has the responsibility to monitor the performance of different banks in the implementation of various government schemes at the district level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nearly-80k-jan-dhan-bank-accounts-in-gb-nagar-are-dormant-101623867071923.html
16-06-2021||Noida||Noida authority to improve portal to serve better to residents||Noida Authority will work to improve the functioning of its portal - pis.mynoida.in - to help property owners do their business more easily.Its chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari has directed all department heads to update ongoing project’s current status online and also address public grievance via its portal.“We want to further strengthen and improve the online service delivery mechanism. To make that happen we will upload Geographic information system or GIS details of each public utility and each property on the portal for the use of needy. We want to make sure all property allottees pay their bills online and get work done smoothly via this portal,” said Ritu Maheshwari chief executive officer of the Noida authority.On the portal, property allottees can fill up their ‘know your customer (KYC)’ details and generate a registration number and password to do their business.She said details of unsold or unallotted or vacant properties will be uploaded on the portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-to-improve-portal-to-serve-better-to-residents-101623867071378.html
16-06-2021||Other||Meerut to adopt cluster model to achieve vaccination target||In a bid to administer vaccines to more people, the health department plans to divide the population of the district into 200 clusters of 20,000 people each and give them jabs accordingly.Under this system, people would not require booking of slots, said officials.Despite their best effort, the health department has succeeded to vaccinate only 56.3% people under 45 plus age group.In view of the situation, it has been decided to adopt the formula of dividing the population into clusters of 20,000 persons each and vaccinate them.District vaccination officer Dr Pracewn Gautam shares that a pilot project of three clusters are already in progress in the district.“We have received good outcome of it therefore the same cluster model would be implemented in the entire district from July 1 onwards,” said Dr Gautam.Explaining the cluster model, he said till now people were coming to vaccination centers to get themselves vaccinated. Besides, 18-45 years age group was also needed to book their slot online for vaccination.In cluster model, the entire district which had approximate population of 40 lakh would be divided into clusters and each cluster will cover a population of 20,000 people.One booth will be set up for 200 persons in each cluster and team deputed on each booth will approach families to administer vaccines.Dr Gautam said, “We are hopeful that by adopting this cluster model teams would be able to reach all families in their respective booth areas”.Under this cluster model vaccines would be administered to people of 18 plus age group and there would be no need of booking slot for vaccination.Dr Gautam said that no compulsion of slot booking would benefit rural population who has no access to internet.Against the target of 7,44,572 ( age 45 plus) only 4,19,549 people had taken vaccines which is 56.3 percent of the target and only 7,0187 persons had taken booster dose which is only 16.7 percent of the target.In age group 18-45 years 1,71,836 persons had taken jabs between May 1 to June 15 against the target of 2,09,800 which is 81.9% of the target and only 17,124 have been administered booster dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meerut-to-adopt-cluster-model-to-achieve-vaccination-target-101623866836678.html
16-06-2021||Noida||Most e-consultations on Sanjeevani portal pertain to vaccine queries, say doctors||Doctors from Gautam Budh Nagar who are engaged in online consultations via the e-sanjeevani portal said in the past one month -- since the nationwide online out-patient service offered by the ministry of health was launched in Uttar Pradesh on May 8 -- queries about vaccinations have been the foremost concern among patients seeking their services. The service is currently available across 23 medical colleges in the state, officials said. The online out-patient department (OPD) services are available from 9am to 5pm, while specialty consultations are open from 9am to 2pm on weekdays.The doctors provide online prescription to patients through the portal and the consults are free of cost.In Gautam Budh Nagar, the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) and Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute (also known as Child PGI), are registered on the portal. Nineteen doctors from GIMS and 14 from Child PGI are providing online consultations. The service helps doctors as well as patient connect virtually without risk of infection.Till June 16, GIMS has completed 1,506 consultations, which is the highest in the state while Child PGI has completed 1,011 consultations, which is the third highest in the state. Dr (major) BP Singh from Child PGI hospital has been giving video and tele consultations on the portal since May 10 to general out-patients.“I do around 40 consultations in a day of which around 20 are mostly about vaccinations. People who get fever or weakness after vaccination books slots for consultations. We prescribe them regular medicines and tell them that the ailments are harmless side effects,” said Dr Singh.He said some book a consult for dispelling myths and misinformed notions about vaccines. “The service is available to people from all over the state and, hence, people from rural and remote areas also often connect with doctors on the portal. They often ask us to confirm whether a particular rumour they had heard about vaccinations is true or not and we educate and inform them that getting vaccinated is safe and beneficial to them,” said Dr Singh.Meanwhile at GIMS, most consultations in the general OPD are regarding post-Covid complications or the common flu.“Since there is a lot of awareness regarding symptoms, most consultations in the general OPD are regarding common flu, fever, headache, cough and so on. Some patients also report mild post-Covid complications such as weakness, loss of appetite, diarrhoea and sleeplessness,” said Dr (brigadier) Rakesh Gupta, director, GIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/most-e-consultations-on-sanjeevani-portal-pertain-to-vaccine-queries-say-doctors-101623866831389.html
16-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to start with ‘cluster vaccination’ pilot project from June 21||The Ghaziabad health department will launch a pilot cluster vaccination project at two locations for all adults from June 21.The project will see the district testing its preparations ahead of the planned mass vaccination campaign from July 1 when every district in the state will be required to vaccinate 1 million people daily. Central to the pilot project will be the door-to-door awareness campaign at the clusters in two areas - Indirapuram (urban) and Bhojpur block (rural). Each area will have a number of clusters made of a number of urban residential wards and rural villages. “The cluster mobilisation teams will start its awareness drive three days prior to the pilot. They will work to remove people’s doubts about the vaccine and encourage them to come forward to get the jabs. From June 21, two teams will be assigned a central location at each cluster like community halls or any similar place for the vaccination drive,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer.As per the Cowin portal figures till 6pm on Wednesday, the district vaccinated 785638 beneficiaries of which 672697 were given first dose while 112941 were also provided second dose. The district health department‘s data available till June 15 read that over 75% of these were from urban segments. From January 16 when the drive began, the district has clocked 5,168 vaccinations a day. About 60% of the district’s 4.7 million people are adults.“In rural areas, a cluster may have three or four neighbouring villages, while in urban segments we decided that several of adjacent residential wards will form a cluster. The vaccination teams will continue to work at the cluster locations till the population in the selected cluster is saturated with vaccination. People need not register through Co-WIN,” Dr Gupta said.The UP government, in its June 14 order that spelt out the mass vaccination drive, said that vaccination centres needed to be ‘near-to-home’. It also said that the vaccination teams may stay for four to six days in a cluster before moving on. If anyone is left out, the vaccination teams will visit the cluster again, it said.“Use of hybrid model should be taken up in urban segments where beneficiaries will also be encouraged to register and take up vaccination at static vaccination booths while urban slums may be subjected to cluster vaccination. Workplace vaccination and near-to-home approach should also be used widely at such places,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-to-start-with-cluster-vaccination-pilot-project-from-june-21-101623866773331.html
16-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Man arrested for raping woman on pretext of marriage||Greater Noida: A 30-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raping a 28-year-old woman on the pretext of marriage in Greater Noida West. Police said that the man befriended the woman by hiding his identity and then allegedly tried to force her to undergo religious conversion. The suspect, Murtuza from Moradabad, had met the woman two years ago and introduced himself as Mrityunjay, police said. Anita Chauhan, station house officer, Bisrakh police station, said that the suspect lived in a rented accommodation in Shahberi. “The woman is a divorcee and lives in Greater Noida. The two worked at a pharmaceutical company in Noida Sector 62 two years ago. The suspect had identified himself as Mrityunjay. The woman believed him and they started a live-in relationship,” she said. Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women safety), said that when the woman recently asked him to marry, the suspect revealed that he was a Muslim. “The suspect started mounting pressure on her to convert to marry. The woman refused and filed a complaint with police on Monday,” Shukla said. According to police, a case was registered against the suspect under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult), 376 (rape) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 5(1) of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. “The police launched a search and arrested him from Shahberi village on Wednesday. The police checked the suspect’s Aadhaar card and found that his real name is Murtuza,” the SHO said, adding that the suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-arrested-for-raping-woman-on-pretext-of-marriage-101623866772694.html
16-06-2021||Noida||Okhla Bird Sanctuary reopens for visitors after two months||Noida: The Okhla Bird Sanctuary and Surajpur reserve forest, which were closed for visitors two months ago due to the second wave of Covid-19, will reopen on Thursday, the forest department said. The move comes nearly 10 days after the Gautam Budh Nagar administration announced to lift the partial Covid curfew as the district had recorded below 600 active cases on June 7.The Okhla Bird Sanctuary (OBS) and Surajpur reserve forest were closed on April 17 — second time due to the pandemic since March last year. The OBS and Surajpur forest were earlier closed from March 2020 to September 15, 2020. “We have decided to open the OBS and Surajpur reserve forest for tourists and birders from Thursday as the number of active cases has continued to drop. The entry will be allowed with masks and we expect the visitors to maintain social distancing,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer (DFO), GB Nagar. He said that the department’s focus is to enhance facilities at the OBS, including providing cycles and installing a water ATM, while the space for a parking lot is being worked out with the department concerned.“A water ATM will be made functional by next week. Two new bio-toilets will be constructed and we have also issued tender to repair the bamboo bridge towards the first watch tower. Besides, we are working on procurement of 20 cycles through a state government agency. The cycles are likely to arrive in the sanctuary by the next month. For the parking, we have identified an area near first gate of OBS that is enough to park over 150 vehicles. Talks are on with the department concerned that holds the land,” added Srivastava.The Okhla sanctuary is home to about 350 species of birds. The sanctuary is spread over an area of 400 hectares, of which about 60% is water body and attracts a number of migratory birds during winters and passage migrants during summers. The migratory birds start arriving in the sanctuary in October, while their strength reaches the peak in December. According to the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC)-2021 held by Wetlands International South Asia and the GB Nagar forest department in January, as many as 8,068 birds of 73 species -- 27 were local migratory species and 46 migratory species -- were counted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/okhla-bird-sanctuary-reopens-for-visitors-after-two-months-101623866711375.html
16-06-2021||Noida||Five labourers injured as shuttering at under construction mall collapses||Noida: Five labourers sustained injuries when the shuttering they were on collapsed at the site of an under construction mall in Sector 75 on Tuesday night. Police said that they have not received any complaint in the case. The incident took place at the Spectrum mall near Sector 5 metro station around 9pm. Police are yet to take any action for the violation of the night curfew.According to the labourers at the site, at least 10 of them were present there and were putting up lintels. “We had been working at the site for the past two weeks. Four of us were present on the fourth floor while the rest were standing below. All of a sudden, the shuttering collapsed and we fell down. One of our co-workers was seriously injured,” said an injured labourer.The injured were identified as Lachhu, Rajesh and Sarvesh, all natives of Sonbhadra, Vinod from Aligarh and Moiuddin who hails from West Bengal. Police officials said that a team from the Sector 49 police station was immediately rushed to the spot. “Moiuddin sustained severe head injuries and was taken to a nearby private hospital where he is in the intensive care unit. However, he is now out of danger. The others were taken to the district hospital where they received first aid,” said a police official.None of the workers was wearing any safety harness, said the officials, adding that an NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) unit also reached the spot.“We received information that nearly 150 square feet shuttering has collapsed after which a team was dispatched at 10.10pm. By then five of the injured workers had been sent for treatment. The search and rescue operation came to an end around midnight and nobody was found in the debris,” said an NDRF spokesperson.Even though the incident occurred in the night, no action has been taken for violation of the night curfew. When asked, Shyamjeet Singh, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1, said, “We have identified the contractor who is from Dadri. He has been called to our office. We will take the appropriate action against any erring party.” The spokesperson of the builder did not provide a comment on the situation despite multiple attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-labourers-injured-as-shuttering-at-under-construction-mall-collapses-101623866651369.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||UP plans to train newly elected pradhans in stubble management||Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari on Wednesday directed officials to make all necessary preparations to stop the repeat of incidents of stubble burning by farmers in the state with special focus on areas where the crop residue burning incidents were reported most last year.Holding a meeting here, he asked officials to chalk out an action plan to make farmers aware of harms caused to the environment by stubble burning and benefits of the stubble management.“Newly elected village pradhans should also be given proper training in the stubble management with the help of NCC, NSS, Bharat Scout guides and other NGOs,” he told officials. The CS pointed out that the ‘parali do, khaad lo’ campaign was successfully launched in the Unnao district last year and stressed the need for launching the similar campaign throughout the state this year. He said the practice of waste decompose should also be encouraged considering good results of last year. He asked officials to think of digging compost pits in the corner of farmers’ fields under the MNREGS. Earlier, additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi said in the meeting that the government made free distribution of 2.66 lakh waste composers to farmers last year apart from taking several other steps to discourage stubble burning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-plans-to-train-newly-elected-pradhans-in-stubble-management-101623866593494.html
16-06-2021||Noida||FASTag on Yamuna Expressway likely to start from today||Thousands of commuters are likely to have the facility of paying the toll on the 165km Yamuna Expressway via FASTag from Thursday as the toll operator, Jaypee Infratech Limited (JIL), has completed all formalities to make the facility operational. The implementation will take place after multiple delays in the past few months. Earlier it was supposed to start on April 1.The electronic toll collection system has already been implemented on all national highways, which are maintained by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). But, unlike the national highways in the country, the Yamuna Expressway is managed by a private operator, JIL, which had not been using FASTag for collecting toll payments from commuters. Since the toll collection was manual, commuters were facing inconvenience and long queues on the expressway. “We have put in place all required infrastructure on the expressway so that we can start charging toll via FASTags. Now the process to integrate the Yamuna Expressway with rest of the national highways system is underway. If all is completed as planned, then toll collection via FASTag will start on Thursday, hopefully,” said Ashok Khera, vice-president, JIL.The JIL had started installation of cameras and other equipment on the expressway after the Yauma Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) received complaints from commuters that JIL is yet to install safety features as recommended by a safety audit. The Yeida had repeatedly warned the toll operator that it should either install FASTag at the earliest or face action.“We had wanted the operator to start toll collection via FASTag at the earliest because a safety audit conducted following the orders from the Supreme Court had suggested so. The toll collection via FASTag will provide huge relief to thousands of commuters, who have to face inconvenience in paying toll manually unlike the other national highways. We hope now since all formalities related to the installation of censors and cameras are over, FASTag will start working,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.The NHAI has recently issued guidelines for toll plazas with FASTag facility which will not allow queues longer than 100 metres from the toll gates. The new guidelines aim to reduce time taken to process toll fees to just 10 seconds per vehicle, even during peak hours. The rules also say that in case a queue gets longer than 100 metres, the vehicles at the front of the queue will be allowed to pass the toll gate without having to pay toll charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fastag-on-yamuna-expressway-likely-to-start-from-today-101623866594062.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||11 kin of corona warriors get appointment letters||Minister of urban development Ashutosh Tandon ‘Gopalji’, on Wednesday distributed appointment letters to the dependants of corona warriors who died while serving the community during the first and the second Covid-19 wave. Speaking on the occasion Tandon said, “During the last one year, 40 LMC workers had died, out of which appointment letters were given to dependents of 11 workers. For the appointment of rest of the corona warriors’ kins, the process is on. The LMC has released all the funds of the employees who lost their lives while fighting corona.” He said, “The LMC employees have contributed to cleaning of the city, sanitization work, distribution of medicines in containment zones and some of them lost their lives while saving lives of others. The state government is committed to the welfare of such employees. Now, it’s the duty of the state government to reward their families for their outstanding work during the pandemic.” Mayor Sanyukta Bhatia, who was present on the occasion, said many LMC employees were infected with corona; some are still down with infection and are in the process of recovery. “LMC has been writing for the release of a compensation of ₹50 lakh announced by the state government to the family of those workers who died while serving during the pandemic. Some of the LMC workers have received the compensation amount but some are still waiting for it.” Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi and other senior officials of LMC were also present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/11-kin-of-corona-warriors-get-appointment-letters-101623866291273.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||Ruling party, govt start showcasing unity ahead of UP polls||When state BJP chief Swatantra Dev addressed ministers of the Yogi government on Monday about the party’s outreach plan at Lok Bhawan in the presence of the CM, it was to many within the BJP, yet another indication that the party and the government had begun making visible moves to showcase unity ahead of the 2022 UP polls. During his unprecedented three-day feedback sessions in Lucknow that ended June 2, BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh had in his one-to-one meetings with UP ministers and party functionaries, stressed on the need for putting up a united front ahead of the assembly elections. Thus, the presence of state BJP chief at the chief minister’s office, one where the two leaders jointly tasked the ministers with the exercise of camping in villages and blocks under their charge, connecting with cadres and collecting feedback of government schemes has its own significance, a party leader said. A day after this joint meeting, the state government on Tuesday asked all departments to provide list of vacancies especially in boards and corporations. “The party and the government are expected to jointly decide accommodating party cadres to these bodies— yet another example of the government opening to the need of adjusting cadres and keeping them in good humour,” a BJP leader said who described the exercise as “satta aur sangthan ka samanvay (coordination between the party and the government)”. The collective show assumes important as before the assembly elections, the BJP also faces the task of doing well in the indirect leg of the panchayat polls. After having seen the opposition Samajwadi Party do better in direct elections to the 3,050 zila panchayat ward members, the BJP, having stood second, is now looking to even the score in the indirect round of polls where elected zila panchayat ward members would vote for the 75 zila panchayat chairpersons. The BJP has been busy patting its own back claiming as compared to 2015, it had vastly improved its performance in the zila panchayat ward members’ elections. “We reduced the dominance of the Samajwadi Party that used to sweep these polls earlier,” said Swatantra Dev. “We will win majority in these rural polls for zila panchayat chairpersons and then get a majority in the UP assembly polls too,” said deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya who was also present during the Tuesday’s briefing by chief minister and state BJP chief. “It has been jointly decided that ministers and party functionaries would undertake joint or simultaneous tours of the state, connecting with the masses and popularising government initiatives,” a BJP leader said. “While party chief Swatantra ji has already started visiting homes of the cadres who died of Covid-19, UP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal is fine tuning the party’s—seva hi sangathan—the mega outreach initiative, which that has already been rolled out and which gathered steam after BL Santhosh’s feedback sessions,” said the BJP leader. This BJP leader said the programmes of the party functionaries and ministers would be chalked out in consultation with party general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal. “All stakeholders from the chief minister to key BJP leaders and senior ministers would be on board on all key decisions. In the run-up to the elections, you would see more such joint briefings,” another party leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ruling-party-govt-start-showcasing-unity-ahead-of-up-polls-101623865631272.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||Widow of village head shot dead after results wins by-poll||The widow of a man who was shot dead by rivals after being elected as village head in Bareilly, won the by-election with a huge margin, officials said on Tuesday.The results of the counting were declared on Monday.Shakina Bibi, widow of ex-village head of Pargawan Mohammed Ishaq, contested by-election against six candidates, including the wife of the main accused in her husband’s murder case.The by-polls were held after Ishaq was killed on May 22, just five days after being elected as the village head.He was returning home from market with Shakina when some gunmen stopped them near a railway crossing and opened fire. Ishaq sustained four gunshot injuries and died on the spot while a bullet grazed Shakina on her hand.Four people, including political rivals of Ishaq, Ratan Lal and Mohar Sing were made accused in the case of murder.All the accused are currently in jail. Considering that incident involved people of different communities, the local administration deployed heavy police force in the village which has equal population of people from Hindu and Muslim communities.“Shakina got 884 votes in the by-polls of Paragawan village of Cantt area. She has been handed over the winning certificate,” said district magistrate of Bareilly Nitish Kumar.The by polls were held on May 10 under the strict vigil of administrative officials and additional police force. Of the total 1,683 registered voters in the village, 1,411 came out to vote.While Ishaq won the election with a margin of 59 votes, Shakina got 563 more votes than the candidate who stood second. Her rival Reshmi Devi, wife of Mohar Singh only got 13 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/widow-of-village-head-shot-dead-after-results-wins-bypoll-101623865331284.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||BJP, SP wooing each other’s lawmakers ahead of zila panchayat chairpersons’ polls in Uttar Pradesh||Eager to use the July 3 zila panchayat chairpersons’ elections to make a strong statement ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Samajwadi Party (SP) have begun winning over each other’s lawmakers. Earlier this month, former BJP MLA Dilip Verma crossed over to the Samajwadi Party (SP) in Bahraich from where his wife Madhuri is currently a sitting BJP MLA. The BJP didn’t do well in the direct leg of the panchayat elections for 3050 zila panchayat ward members’ posts, falling behind the Samajwadi Party. The scene was no different in Bahraich where the BJP trailed behind the SP. The BJP responded by approaching the “estranged” SP MLA from Sirsaganj in Firozabad, Hari Om Singh Yadav, a relative of SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav to seek his support for the zila panchayat chairperson’s post. Hari Om Yadav’s wife and son are zila panchayat ward members and BJP vice- president Daya Shankar Singh and local MP Chandrasen Jadaun, who visited the SP MLA, said they have been assured of support. The SP has already started declaring its list of zila panchayat chairpersons though the BJP, a touch circumspect, has only just concluded consultations with ministers and lawmakers as well as senior party functionaries about the possible claimants for the post. “Meetings have taken place on these elections at the highest level right up to the level of the chief minister. Ministers and lawmakers in whose regions the party-backed candidates didn’t do well in the zila panchayat ward level elections would obviously want to make amends by helping the party win the zila panchayat chairpersons’ post,” a BJP leader said. Independent candidates are much sought after in these elections and BJP leaders admit that a majority of them are in touch with them. On its part, the BJP has been claiming that it reduced the SP’s clout in these rural polls. “A party that used to win thousands of panchayat wards has to rest content with a few hundred ward wins this time. We would now soon see how the SP fares in the elections to the zila panchayat chairpersons’ posts,” said UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev. “These elections were always known to go with the ruling party. Now that the BJP has tested which way the wind is blowing, they are coming up with explanations,” said SP leader IP Singh. An SP delegation also met senior officials in Lucknow to complain that the SP cadres were being targeted. Beyond such posturing, political observers say the rural polls will impact the assembly elections. “The BSP leadership expelled its two top leaders who were known to enjoy the confidence of party chief Mayawati on the grounds that they didn’t cooperate with the party in the zila panchayat ward level polls. The BJP and SP are wooing each other’s lawmakers. Defections are common in an election year, but these rural polls have added an interesting new dimension to the poll battle,” said veteran journalist Irshad Ilmi. “Newer political players in UP like AAP (Aam Aadmi Party) and AIMIM (All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen) and newer political combinations like Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha have also used these elections to test themselves ahead of the big battle,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-sp-wooing-each-other-s-lawmakers-ahead-of-zila-panchayat-chairpersons-polls-in-uttar-pradesh-101623864491963.html
16-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka logs 7,345 new Covid-19 cases, 148 deaths||Karnataka has reported 7,345 new cases of Covid-19 and 148 fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 27,84,355 and the deaths to 33,296, the Health Department said on Wednesday. The day also saw 17,913 people getting discharged and the tally continued to outnumber the fresh cases. The total number of recoveries so far is 25,99,472. Out of the 7,345 new cases, 1,611 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 5,526 getting discharged and 19 deaths. The total number of active cases in the State is 1,51,566. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 4.35 per cent, case fatality rate (CFR) was at 2.01 per cent.Out of 148 deaths, 28 were from Mysuru, 19 from Bengaluru Urban, 14 from Belagavi, 10 from Dakshina Kannada and nine from Dharwad followed by others. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,611, Mysuru 841, Dakshina Kannada 790 and Hassan 531 followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases with a total of 12,00,754 followed by Mysuru 1,59,797 and Tumakuru 1,12,917. Among those discharged, Bengaluru Urban topped with 11,06,138 followed by Mysuru 1,48,306 and Tumakuru 1,06,013. Cumulatively, a total of 3,20,92,313 samples have been tested in the State so far, out of which 1,68,712 were tested today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-logs-7-345-new-covid-19-cases-148-deaths-101623863614704.html
16-06-2021||Gurugram||12 passengers injured as driver rams Faridabad-bound bus into pole due to brake failure||At least a dozen people were injured and one person suffered a severe injury after a Haryana Roadways bus bound for Faridabad collided with a pole near Sukhrali on Tuesday evening. According to the police, the driver of the bus claimed brake failure as the cause of the collision.The incident took place when the bus was descending the MDI flyover around 4.45pm on Tuesday.“The bus collided with an electrical pole head-on and as a result, the front half of the bus was damaged in the incident. A two-wheeler rider and pillion rider, and an autorickshaw driver, also got injured in the incident as their vehicles came in the path of the speeding bus,” a police official said.The driver of the bus, on realising that the brake had failed, alerted the passengers, asked them to move to the back of the vehicle and hold on to the seat in front, the police said. “The driver, in the interim, tried to find a spot where he could collide with an object and stop it from moving further. The driver intentionally collided with the electric police to stop it. A motorcycle and autorickshaw travelling on the side of the bus also got hit when the bus driver suddenly turned towards the direction of the electric pole,” said the police official cited above.No case has been registered in the incident.“The motorcyclist was severely injured in the accident and was taken to Medanta Hospital for treatment. He is still not in a fit condition to give a statement. Depending on his response, we will register an FIR in the matter. Besides the motorcyclist, the conductor of the bus suffered severe injuries. However, he was discharged after first aid. The remaining suffered minor injuries in comparison,” said inspector Sudhir Kumar, the station house officer of Sector 17/18 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/12-passengers-injured-as-driver-rams-faridabad-bound-bus-into-pole-due-to-brake-failure-101623864132540.html
16-06-2021||Gurugram||Waterlogging-prone spots on MCG’s radar||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram is creating a database of waterlogging spots by roping in residents to report details of such spots through a web hyperlink. Officials said the initiative, a first in which residents have been included in monsoon preparedness, will help them execute remedial measures to mitigate waterlogging this monsoon season and subsequently, carry out large-scale measures for a long-term solution.The hyperlink — http://bit.ly/report-water-logging — is being circulated by the MCG on social media platforms and also pinned to the home page of its website, www.mcg.gov.in. By clicking the hyperlink, residents can report the location of the waterlogging, the extent of it, average duration, type of waterlogging, causes, and possible solutions, along with their basic details, on a web document and submit to the civic body for perusal.All such details will be based on the observation of residents over the last three years, said officials.“Besides the basic details, residents will have to list key details, such as the depth of water stagnation, ranging from less than a foot to more than five feet. Similarly, they will also have to list out the type of water stagnation, such as rainwater, greywater, sewer overflow, industrial waste, or any other type of stagnation. For time duration, residents can report about waterlogging ranging from less than an hour to more than a week,” said a senior MCG official privy to the matter.The official cited above said that the rationale behind the move is to deal with the waterlogging crisis at a micro-level.“Waterlogging has been a persistent problem in Gurugram, especially over the past decade. Instead of tackling it in isolation, MCG wants to solve it on a citywide scale. Hence, support from residents has been sought,” said Chahat Sanghvi, consultant to the MCG commissioner.The development evoked mixed reactions among residents.Sandeep Kumar, a resident of Sector 10, said that the MCG already has various social media platforms on which complaints are not being addressed. “I have seen various complaints on MCG’s Twitter and Facebook pages going unanswered while even in the ones that are acknowledged, the user who had uploaded the original complaint posts a fresh complaint regarding inaction. As the MCG has failed on this repeatedly, this new move of asking residents to report waterlogging is also likely to be a futile exercise,” said Kumar.Harshit Shukla, a resident of Sector 50, said that there are many areas in his sector where waterlogging takes place. He said that often, residents are unaware of ways to approach the MCG and the civic body’s move to seek help from them will address this missing link. “There are several parts across the sector where waterlogging occurs. Usually, rainwater stagnates there for one to two hours. By the time residents manage to contact MCG and officials come for inspection, the rainwater recedes. Through the online document, we can list details of such points and prompt MCG to take action,” said Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/waterloggingprone-spots-on-mcg-s-radar-101623864133084.html
16-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 cases down, elective surgeries resume in Gurugram hospitals||Elective surgeries restarted in all private and government health facilities, after the district health department issued orders in this regard on Wednesday. Officials said that the decision has been taken based on a state government directive as the Covid-19 wave has waned across the state. At the district level, 10 coronavirus infections were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the active case count to 314.The chief medical officer for Gurugram, Dr Virender Yadav, on Wednesday issued an order directing all private hospitals, urban primary health centres and government hospitals to start elective surgeries, including eye, ENT and dental works, with immediate effect. Hospitals have been asked to strictly observe safety protocols of mask discipline, social distancing and sanitisation.“Dental surgeries have been put on halt since last year. It will be resumed after a long time as daily cases of coronavirus infection are on a constant decline. Hospitals will have to ensure basic precautionary norms are followed to avoid transmission of infection in case of heavy footfall,” said Yadav.Elective surgeries were suspended in the last week of March when the district started reporting a surge in daily new cases of Covid-19. As new cases started declining since the beginning of May, hospitals, earlier this week, were allowed to start routine outpatient departments (OPDs) under different medical departments.To prevent the spread of infection, hospitals are continuing with tele-consultation and are issuing slots to patients for visiting hospitals based on urgency.Dr Anjali Kaul, medical superintendent of Artemis Hospitals in Sector 51, said, “With Covid-19 active cases going down, the hospital has started OPDs, and now is the time to resume elective surgeries. All the patients planned for surgeries are screened, appropriately evaluated for Covid-19 status. We are also following the no visitors’ policy so that hospital is less crowded.”Dr Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, said, “There are many patients who have been waiting to undergo their planned surgeries and it is very important to get it done now, without any delay, to prevent further disease progression. At the hospital, we are ensuring all safety protocols for patients and their attendants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-cases-down-elective-surgeries-resume-in-gurugram-hospitals-101623864131217.html
16-06-2021||Gurugram||Khori village: 70-year-old kills self ahead of demolition drive, situation tense||A tense situation prevailed in Khori village of Faridabad on Wednesday morning after a 70-year-old resident allegedly killed himself upon finding out that his property would be demolished in the upcoming drive in the Aravallis. Residents gathered in large numbers at the house of the deceased and pelted stones at the police, following which 100 people were booked for disturbing the law and order situation, the police said.The police also registered a case against a property dealer who had fraudulently sold a plot to the 70-year-old man. His 36-year-old son, who works as a security guard, told the police that the family was living in the village for the past 14 years and his father had bought the land from a property dealer about 15 years ago.The 70-year-old man had recently completed the construction of his house by investing around ₹3 lakh. However, last week, the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of about 10,000 houses in the area as they encroach on the Aravalli forest area.“The property dealer had sold the land to my father saying that the ownership of this land would remain his and there would be no problem. When my father came to know that his house would also be demolished, he committed suicide,” the son told the police.The Faridabad police, in a statement on Wednesday, said, “On the above complaint, police station Surajkund has started an investigation by registering a case against the property dealer. The property dealer selling government land to gullible people will be traced and arrested.”Anshu Singla, the deputy commissioner of police (NIT), appealed to people to maintain law and order. “The police is continuously working to identify all accused and arrest them at the earliest. We appeal to residents to maintain law and order; legal action will be taken against those trying to disturb the situation,” said Singla.On Monday, the Faridabad district magistrate released an order prohibiting the gathering of five or more persons “within a radius of 200 metres of village Khori” fearing heavy protest by occupants and the possibility of unrest.Locals in the area said that the 70-year-old man used to run a grocery shop, but had not opened his shop in the past week.Ravindra Prasad, a 48-year-old resident of Khori and a neighbour of the 70-year-old man, said, “We all knew him as he had a small shop and we would purchase items regularly. He had been tense since last week, when the Supreme Court ordered all our houses to be demolished. He kept worrying about his children and where they would live as he had spent all his money to build the house and did not have the financial strength to rent another room.”Residents of the area said that the man’s wife had also died around five months ago, due to health issues.Residents of Khori village had been protesting since last week, seeking rehabilitation, after the SC ordered the eviction of slum dwellers encroaching on the Aravalli forest area in the Faridabad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khori-village-70-year-old-kills-self-ahead-of-demolition-drive-situation-tense-101623864073178.html
16-06-2021||Gurugram||Khori residents: We are living in constant fear||Sitting under the shade of a tree, braving the heat with makeshift hand fans and listening to a local god-man, residents of Khori village in Faridabad on Wednesday were trying to keep their mind off the impending demolition of their houses built illegally on Aravalli land. The residents do not know the date of the demolition but wake up with the fear of eviction every day as electricity and water supply have already been discontinued. Meenakshi, a 43-year-old resident who earns a living by tailoring after her husband lost his job due to the lockdown, said, “With my little savings I was finally able to build a house with a proper roof. I also did a house warming ceremony on June 6 and the very next day, I learnt that all houses in this village will be demolished. I have no money left and there is hardly any work. There is a constant fear that the house will get demolished.” On June 7, the Supreme Court ordered the demolition of houses encroaching on the Aravalli forest area in Faridabad district, holding that “there cannot be a compromise or concession on forest land”. Since then, residents have been demanding temporary rehabilitation, but haven’t received any response from the authorities. The news of a suicide on Wednesday morning turned the mood darker, with many residents saying they have no other option as they cannot afford to live elsewhere. They said that water tankers are also not being allowed to enter. Shabana, a 35-year-old mother of three, while returning from a neighbour’s house where she went to take bath, said, “Today (Wednesday), there was one suicide in the village; in the coming days, there might be more. Our houses will be demolished, but we are already living in unliveable conditions as there is no water supply. Whatever water was stored in my house for the past three days, that is over now. What do I give my children for drinking and how will I cook meals for them?” Families with pregnant women and infants said that they are unable to look for houses elsewhere due to the impending demolition drive. Umesh Kumar, a 35-year-old autorickshaw driver, whose wife is due for delivery in 10 days, said, “For the past two months, I was not able to earn anything because of the lockdown, and now that the situation has improved, I cannot go out to work leaving my wife and two other children behind. If I am here while they come to demolish our house, I will be able to do something to help them, but if it happens when I am away, we don’t know what will happen.” During a visit by HT on Wednesday, some villagers were seen shifting their valuables to other places, either rented accommodations or to their relatives’ houses in nearby areas. Locals said that almost half of the residents have shifted their valuables to other places, but will continue to live in Khori. Shifting a small fridge, bed, cooler and cupboard with documents, a man with a family of eight, said, “I am taking these to my sister’s house in Tughlakabad. But, we will stay here only, as there is not enough space for all of us to live there.” Women from the village also said that people have sold iron doors of their houses to earn money for survival. Many families were seen selling off old almirahs, coolers and auto parts to scrap dealers to get money for making alternative living arrangements. Meanwhile, officials said that they have not received any orders from the administration regarding providing rehabilitation to the residents. Pankaj Kumar, the subdivisional magistrate of Badhkal, which comprises Khori, said, “We have not received any order from the administration regarding rehabilitation, but residents have been given more time to vacate the area. I will also look into the matter of tankers not being allowed inside the village as water is important.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khori-residents-we-are-living-in-constant-fear-101623864072073.html
16-06-2021||Pune||Credai president: Effects of second Covid wave trickling onto economy||Credai- Pune Metro president Anil Pharande believes the second wave of Covid-19 was more frightening than the first, and the effects are now beginning to show on the economy. “The construction business, which is in full swing, needs the help of the government to revive the business in the near future,” he said.Pharande added that the shortage of construction workers, rising prices of essential materials and delays in getting building permits have affected the construction sector in Pune.The survey conducted across North, East, West and South zones between May 24 and June 3, 2021 with stratified sampling method at various levels witnessed a first-of-its-kind extensive participation /’of 4,813 developers from 217 cities, providing crucial insights on the industry sentiment and the range of challenges faced by the real estate sector.Speaking on the findings, Pharande said, “This was a very important survey done by us to measure the actual impact of the second wave and it was very well received by members. Today, we are selling at the lowest possible rates and rates of real estate are bound to increase in the near future due to steep hike in construction material cost like cement, steel, copper, aluminium and PYC. Accordingly, we want the stamp duty reduction scheme to restart in Maharashtra and input tax credit in GST. Faster clearance of sanctions will also help us optimise our cost and timelines. If the projects are approved as soon as possible, we can have some control over the timing and alternative cost of completing the projects. The government should also look into the issue.”“On the one hand, the prices of steel and cement required for construction are steadily rising, while on the other hand, the number of consumers is declining. In such a situation, the central government should intervene and control the prices of steel and cement,” Satish Magar, national chairman, Credai said.Harsh Vardhan Patodia, president, Credai national said, “Based on the report of this survey, we request the government to infuse urgent financial stimulus and initiate quick progressive measures to assist recovery, one-time restructuring of loans and 6 months extension of completion date by Rera, stamp duty reduction or waiver, moratorium extension on principal & interest for 6 months, and freezing of SMA classification for another year. We are hopeful that the government will consider our appeal and will make urgent interventions this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/credai-president-effects-of-second-covid-wave-trickling-onto-economy-101623863471260.html
16-06-2021||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot loyalist Congress MLA: ‘No one is bargaining for posts merely asking for what is due’||Sachin Pilot loyalist Congress MLA Deependra Singh Shekhawat on Wednesday said that the Rajasthan deputy chief minister and his supporters are not bargaining for power or position and demanded the Congress workers who have worked hard for the party should be honoured. The former speaker and MLA from Srimadhopur (Sikar) denied reports that MLAs are bargaining for posts in the cabinet, boards and corporations.“It is absolutely not a bargain for position or power. It is a question of pride, respect and honour of the party workers who have fought for the party for years. They fought against the BJP to bring the Congress to power,” Shekhawat was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“Pilot and all of us have been striving to seek honour and respect for the grassroots congress workers in Rajasthan,” he further added.Shekhawat also said that political appointments should be given to those who have worked at the polling booths and should not be assigned to retired bureaucrats and officers. The five-time MLA said that partymen who faced the Vasundhara Raje-led government in the elections should be given their due.Murmurs of discontent among MLAs loyal to Sachin Pilot has led to concern in the Congress. These MLAs have said that the chief minister Ashok Gehlot has not given them their due. On Tuesday, MLAs who defected from the Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) to Congress said that it was they who saved the Congress government in Rajasthan and should be considered for their contribution rather than the Pilot camp who threatened to abandon the government.Sachin Pilot on several occasions have denied reports of a rift between the chief minister and him and said that the Congress remains united in Rajasthan and is set to form the next government in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/pilot-loyalist-cong-mla-no-one-bargaining-for-posts-only-asking-what-s-due-101623862547928.html
16-06-2021||Other||Police to attach properties of absconding IPS officer soon||PRAYAGRAJ: Prayagraj crime branch has identified properties of the suspended and absconding IPS officer Manilal Patidar in Rajasthan and Gujarat. Now, after court’s nod, the police will attach the properties of Patidar who is a prime accused in the abetment to suicide of businessman Indrakant Tripathi in Mahoba. He has a cash reward of ₹1 lakh on his head, said police. Officials said that the identified properties are worth several crores. Earlier police teams have traced three properties of Patidar including a shop. However, despite efforts by two teams of special task force, Prayagraj crime branch and teams of Mahoba police, Patidar is still absconding. The teams are making continuous raids at Patidar’s native place in Rajasthan and his relatives houses in other states but are still clueless about his location. After failing to arrest him, police officials took help from revenue department to trace properties of Manilal Patidar. Officials further said that investigations were also underway to identify unnamed assets of Patidar. “Before the next hearing in the case, we will try our best to arrest Patidar,” said official. SP (crime) Ashutosh Mishra said after identification of his properties, further action will soon be taken in this connection. It is worth mentioning that former Mahoba SP Manilal Patidar is absconding for eight months now. He was suspended in connection with harassment of crusher owner Indrakant Tripathi who was found dead in his car with a bullet in his head. A case of abetment to suicide and corruption was lodged against Manilal Patidar at Mahoba. Recently, ADG Zone Prem Prakash has increased the cash reward on Patidar’s arrest to ₹1 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-to-attach-properties-of-absconding-ips-officer-soon-101623862751119.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||Rural polls: SP delegation meets DGP, alleges atrocities on party cadres||: A Samajwadi Party delegation met director general of police (DGP) HC Awasthi and handed over a memorandum regarding alleged atrocities on SP workers and registration of fake cases against SP supported candidates in district panchayat elections. A Samajwadi Party press statement said the delegation led by SP spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary met the DGP following directives from SP chief and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav. The SP delegation said the law and order situation was at its lowest ebb in the state. The delegation demanded action against the officers for alleged atrocities against the SP workers. Meanwhile, former BSP MLA from Sahibabad in Ghaziabad Amar Pal Sharma joined the SP on Wednesday. Sharma said he had taken a resolve to ensure that Akhilesh Yadav becomes the UP chief minister in 2022 assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rural-polls-sp-delegation-meets-dgp-alleges-atrocities-on-party-cadres-101623862631162.html
16-06-2021||Pune||Pune’s Bharosa cell receives lesser complaints from senior citizens in 2021 as compared to 2020||Pune: The Bharosa Cell has received 450 cases of harassment to senior citizens during the past six months and of them 282 are related to mental harassment. Some of the cases are related to physical and economic harassment. Around 19,050 senior citizens are registered with the city police and of them 650 stay alone. Last year, the police had received 662 complaints during the corresponding period of which 245 cases were related to physical and mental harassment, while 41 were related to property and 23 related to economic reasons. Former police commissioner Rashmi Shukla had launched a dedicated helpline for senior citizens in Pune. The helpline (1090) can be accessed round the clock and receives good response from residents. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said, “The drop in cases is because of professional counselling done by the Bharosa team in attending calls and helping the senior citizens. Over a period of time, we have developed good relations with them. Our work has positively impacted the numbers and lockdown due to Covid pandemic is also another factor. We will continue with our networking with the elders through our mission of care and concern.” During the lockdowns, the Bharosa cell staff had attended to the concerns of the senior citizens and provided them with food, domestic gas cylinder, medicines and even celebrated their birthdays as part of their citizen connect programme. Pune houses many retired persons who are provided assistance by the Pune city police. According to the police, there are over 5 lakh senior citizens living in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Meanwhile, the Chatuhshrungi police station on May 3 had arrested six persons for allegedly looting senior citizens at Sindh Society in Aundh and the Panchawati area off Pashan road. One of the accused, identified as Sandip Bhagwan Hande, was a habitual criminal who worked as a caregiver for senior citizens through nursing bureaus and then planned robberies. The police seized valuables worth ₹17.5 lakh from the accused. Hande and his associates had assaulted an elderly couple in their 70s along and their cook at Sindh Society on the night of April 25 and looted valuables like jewellery, cash, watch, dollars, worth ₹15.5 lakh. Problems that elders face Lack of walking space at public areas Difficulty in getting medical help for those who live alone PMPML buses do not halt for long duration at bus stops, autorickshaw drivers often refuse to ply Women face chain-snatching incidents Depression due to loneliness Due to low eyesight criminals cheat them Complaints regarding gas agency, cheating, pension, BSNL Need help for evening and morning stroll Authentic caretakers to look after senior citizens staying alone Source: Pune police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-bharosa-cell-receives-lesser-complaints-from-senior-citizens-in-2021-as-compared-to-2020-101623861791060.html
16-06-2021||Other||A year after Galwan clash, slain soldier’s family awaits power, gas connection||Twenty one-year-old Ganesh Hansda of 16 Bihar Regiment laid down his life to secure India’s border during Galwan clash with Chinese army on the night of June 16 last year. His family members are still awaiting the promised electric and cooking gas connections in their thatched house at Kosaphaliya village under Baheragora block in East Singhbhum district, a year after his martyrdom. The state government also promised a government job to a member of the family on compensatory grounds, five acres of land at a location of the family’s choice and recommend a petrol pump for them to the Central Government. However, it was yet to fulfil its promises.Lamenting the same, his elder brother Dinesh Hansda (26) said “We are hurt that my brother , who sacrificed his life for the nation at such a young age, is not getting the honour he deserved. Chief minister Hemant Soren promised government job to a member of the family, five acres of land and a petrol pump for us. None of the aid has reached us as of now.” Last year, the then Ghatshila SDO provided a gas stove and an LPG cylinder to the family when the entire district administration came down to the village. Besides, the family also got the ₹10 lakh compensation from the state government, while Ganesh’s mother Kapra Hansda has been getting his pension from the Indian Army. “But my 67-year-old father Subda Hansda is still not getting old-age pension. We just want to lead our life with self-respect,” said Dinesh.A Jamshedpur-based NGO Sampoorna Manavta Kalyan Sangh (SMKS) convenor Sanjay Giri said they planned to set up a statue of Ganesh Hansda at Bansda chowk. “Governor Draupadi Murmu gave her consent to unveil it on Wednesday, but it has been postponed due to Covid-19 restrictions. We will hold a massive programme with 10,000 people to unveil the statue after two months when situation improves. The Governor has also agreed to our proposal,” said Giri. Meanwhile, Congress national spokesperson Dr Ajoy Kumar wrote to CM Hemant Soren, requesting him to fulfil the promises of a government job, land and petrol pump to families of Ganesh Hansda and another slain soldier Kundan Kant Ojha of Sahibganj district.“Both were sole bread earners of their families. The state government has given ₹10 lakh compensation, but Covid-19 pandemic delayed the process of government job and five acres of agricultural land. I hope the Jharkhand CM will also write to the Government of India for petrol pumps for the national heroes from Jharkhand,” said Dr Ajoy.Former Baheragora MLA and BJP state spokesperson Kunal Sarangi blasted the state government for failing to honour it’s promises. “Leave aside, government job, land or petrol pump, Ganesh Hansda’s elderly father Subda Hansda is not getting old-age pension. The state government has forgotten all its promises,” said Sarangi. Shourya Chakra winner Md Javed and Sainik Parishad, local JMM MLA Samir Mohanty also paid their respects to the slain soldier on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-year-after-galwan-clash-slain-soldier-s-family-awaits-power-gas-connection-101623861611724.html
16-06-2021||Other||Jamshedpur opens vaccine window for foreign-bound people||The Jamshedpur district administration has started a special Covid-19 vaccination window for foreign-bound students and workers, people returning to Jharkhand after taking the first jab in other states and people going to other states for treatment, officials said on Wednesday.“We have started a vaccination window at Project Director Integrated Tribal Development Agency (PDITDA) for people falling in four categories. People studying abroad, working in foreign countries, people going to other states for treatment and people who took the first dose in other states and need the second dose here in the district or our state. We received 88 applications for the same and 18 were inoculated Tuesday,” Suraj Kumar, East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) deputy commissioner (DC), said. The DC said foreign-bound people are being given WHO-approved Covishield vaccine, for which the 84-day period gap between the first and second doses has been relaxed to 28 days. “We are trying to achieve full vaccination in the district and we are number one in terms of vaccinating 45-plus people, with 46% such people already vaccinated. Besides, 60% people above the age of 60 years have been vaccinated in the district so far. This is far above the state and national average. We are expecting 14,500 doses of Covaxin to cover more 45-plus people soon,” added Kumar.Meanwhile, vaccination of people in the age group of 18-44 years will also start without online slot booking in the district from Friday, the DC said. The district, however, was struggling with shortage of vaccines. As per officials, It was left with 50 doses of Covaxin and 2,320 doses of Covishield for 45-plus people, while 50 doses of Covaxin and 1,060 doses of Covishield for 18-44 year group on Tuesday. “We received 900 doses of Covaxin for 18-44 year group Wednesday. Moreover, 700 doses of Covaxin were also available for 45-plus people at vaccination centres of Red Cross, Tarun Sangha (Kadma), and MGMMCH,” said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jamshedpur-opens-vaccine-window-for-foreign-bound-people-101623861611047.html
16-06-2021||Other||60-yr-old dies in accidental firing||A 60-year-old man died in an accidental firing at a wedding ceremony in Gyanpur under Gidha police station late on Tuesday, SHO of Koilwar police station Kunwar Prasad Gupta said.The police have identified the victim as Vikrama Yadav.Yadav’s son Chandan Kumar said that at the time of a ritual, a relative gave his rifle to Yadav to keep it safe. Suddenly, the rifle slipped and fell, resulting in accidental firing, in which the victim got hurt.He was taken to a private clinic in Ara. From there, he was referred to Patna. But the victim died on his way to the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/60yrold-dies-in-accidental-firing-101623861555496.html
16-06-2021||Other||Latehar: Middle-aged man found with slit throat near his home||A middle-aged man was found dead with his throat slit near his home in Latehar district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place at Aizamar locality under Manika police station area of the district late Tuesday night.Police suspect that some unidentified assailants attacked him with a sharp weapon when he came outside his house. However, the motive behind the killing was yet to be ascertained, officials said, adding that the body was sent for postmortem examination.According to daughter-in-law of the deceased, the incident took place after the man went out around 10pm Tuesday following dinner to smoke. “We all went to sleep. An hour later, when we came out, we found him in a pool of blood,” she said, adding that the wife of the deceased was at her maternal home at the time of the incident.Manika police station officer in-charge Shubham Kumar said, “We are investigating the case and hope to arrest the culprits soon.”Another police official, who was part of the team who visited the spot, said, “It is intriguing as to how the other family members were unaware of the killing, while the man was brutally being murdered at the threshold of his own house.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/latehar-middle-aged-man-found-with-slit-throat-near-his-home-101623861554857.html
16-06-2021||Ranchi||‘Restriction on buses hitting farm job prospects of migrant workers’||Restriction on bus transportation is now impacting farm job prospects of migrant workers during the ongoing kharif sowing season, as they are facing problem in returning to their villages, food activists have alleged.The state trade body, Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), has also demanded to permit bus services in the state, as it claimed that non-operation of buses was causing huge loss in trade activities.“Migrant workers, who work at construction sites, brick kilns and other temporary projects in cities and outside the state, return to their villages during this period to participate in farming in a bid to ensure food security for their families. Due to restriction on bus transportation, these workers are stuck and struggling to return their villages,” said Ashrfi Nand Prasad, a member of Right to Food Campaign (RFC).This comes even as the state government recently on Tuesday announced a slew of relaxations in the weeklong Covid-19 lockdown from Thursday. It allowed malls, departmental stores, government and private offices to open till 4pm. However, restrictions on bus transportation remain in place, as per the government order.Meanwhile, the monsoon season has set in well in Jharkhand. Farmers have started sowing process of kharif crops in backdrop of excessive rainfall across the state.Raju Oraon (32), who worked at a construction site in Ranchi for past six months, wants to return to his home at Balumath in Latehar district,but is due to non operation of buses. “The construction work has slowed down due to rainy season. Usually, we go back to our village in this period to participate in family farming. But, I am stuck here due to the lockdown,” he said.Lakhs of migrant workers returned to Jharkhand in April and May this year, following lockdown imposed across the country in wake of the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic. However, food activists have claimed that many were still stuck outside state and different cities of Jharkhand.Prasad said, “We request the government to allow atleast interdistrict bus service or arrange transportation for such workers. The state control room can be used for the service. This is a crucial period for rural migrant workers.”Meanwhile, FJCCI demanded that bus transportation and restaurants be placed under relaxation category. “Like airways and railways, bus transportation also has significant role in boosting the economy. Local traders are impacted in absence of bus service. Buses are the most preferred service of local people. We demand the government to start at least interdistrict bus service with 50% sitting capacity,” said FJCCI general secretary Rahul Maroo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/restriction-on-buses-hitting-farm-job-prospects-of-migrant-workers-101623861554054.html
16-06-2021||Other||Four of 5 accused in sexual abuse of girl at Jamshedpur shelter home arrested||The police have arrested the absconding director of a government-approved shelter home, his wife, and two others for the alleged sexual abuse of the institute’s minor inmates, officials familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.A fifth accused is still on the run. On June 5, two girl inmates aged 16 and 17 had escaped from the children’s home run by an NGO called Mother Teresa Welfare Trust (MTWT) and were later rescued by the police. They had then levelled serious charges of rampant sexual abuse at the shelter.Jamshedpur city superintendent of police Subhash Chandra Jat said a special team led by assistant superintendent of police Kumar Gaurav arrested MTWT director Harpal Singh Thapar (46), his wife Pushpa Rani Tirkey (45), warden Geeta Kaur (45) and her son Aditya Singh (20) with the help of Singrauli police on Tuesday. Tirkey was also the chairperson of the East Singhbhum district child welfare committee. They were all booked under various sections of the Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act and the Indian Penal Code on June 6.“The four of the five named accused have been absconding since June 7 and the team led by ASP Kumar Gaurav tracked them down through their cellphone locations with the help of Singrauli police. They were brought here this morning on transit remand and sent to jail after Covid-19 test,” said Jat, adding that raids are on to nab the fifth accused, Tony David.The city SP said the investigation has found charges of sexual, physical, and psychological exploitation of the two rescued girl inmates and further probe is on to find out “how many more victims were there in the shelter home, actual number of total inmates, how such crimes were suppressed and how girl inmates were used to implicate people in fake cases”.Jat added that two such allegations levelled by a Mango (a Jamshedpur suburb) resident and the wife of a panchayat member are being investigated.Earlier, the two rescued girls had given details about the abuse of other inmates at the children’s home in recorded statements on video. Then on June 11, two more girls went missing from the MTWT home at the time of shifting 41 inmates from there to another children’s home in Patamda.Meanwhile, the Jharkhand government has cancelled the registration of MTWT (not in any way linked to the Missionaries of Charity of Mother Teresa) and terminated the appointment of Tirkey as CWC chief with immediate effect, said D K Saxena, member secretary of Jharkhand State Child Protection Society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-of-5-accused-in-sexual-abuse-of-girl-at-jamshedpur-shelter-home-arrested-101623861553217.html
16-06-2021||Other||Chatra police seize huge liquor consignment headed for Bihar, 2 held||The Chatra police on Wednesday seized huge consignment of foreign-made Indian liquor while being transported to neighbouring Bihar, officials said, adding that two persons were arrested in this connection. Police also seized the car in which the consignment was being transported. Chatra subdivisional police officer (SDPO) Avinash Kumar said, “We received information about movement of a vehicle through Rajpur police station area carrying illegal liquor towards Bihar. A special team tacked the Scorpio and found 985 bottles of different brands of foreign-made India liquor from the vehicle.”Further investigation was going on in the matter, the SDPO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chatra-police-seize-huge-liquor-consignment-headed-for-bihar-2-held-101623861552464.html
16-06-2021||Other||Remdesivir ‘scam’: FIR against 3 pvt hospitals in Bokaro||The Bokaro district administration has filed FIR against three private hospitals for alleged irregularities in use of Remdesivir injection, used in treatment of Covid-19 infection, provided by National Health Mission (NHM) for free-of-cost treatment of patients, officials said on Wednesday.The complaint has been lodged against Devansh Multi Superspecialty Hospital, City Care Hospital and Walmark Hospital in the district.According an inquiry undertaken last month by the drugs department and NHM, the three hospitals failed to provide details of the free Remdesivir injection given to patients. “The scam is being probed at three levels. If its proved that the hospitals charged the patients for the injection, a fresh FIR will be lodged against them,” an official said.Following the submission of the probe report, DC Rajesh Kumar Singh on Monday directed to lodge the FIR against the hospitals. However, manager of Walmark Hospital Dr Nishant Kumar denied the allegations, saying that Covid-19 patients were given health services as per guidelines of the health department. “The drug inspectors who came to probe were satisfied with the stock details and gave a clean-chit after checking all relevant documents,” he said. Managements of the other two hospitals did not respond for comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/remdesivir-scam-fir-against-3-pvt-hospitals-in-bokaro-101623861551869.html
16-06-2021||Ranchi||CM Soren stationed in Delhi, likely to meet PM||Chief minister Hemant Soren was likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi, besides top leaders of ruling ally Congress, with whom he is expected to discuss contours of his government and certain key decisions such as appointment of chairman of board and corporation of the state government. In a sudden development, Soren left for the national capital on Monday night for a three-day visit, sources said. Earlier on Monday, Jharkhand Congress chief and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon also flew to Delhi, stoking speculations that the alliance partners could discuss filling the vacant eleventh berth in the Cabinet. The party leaders, however, ruled out any such move. “The chief minister could meet the PM during his stay, besides meeting senior Congress leaders. Any discussion on Cabinet expansion is unlikely at this stage. However, discussions with Congress leaders are expected for appointment of board and corporation chairman,” said JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya on Tuesday. Insiders in Congress party also ruled out any discussion on Cabinet expansion as of now, even as the Jharkhand Congress chief is also in New Delhi and holding meetings with senior party leaders. On Monday, Oraon met AICC general secretary K Venugopal along with Rajya Sabha member Dhiraj Shahu. “He was scheduled to go for a routine health check-up, especially after having recovered from Covid-19. However, during his stay, he is also meeting party leaders. There are certain issues of the state unit that have been pending for approval from the central leadership. It includes re-induction of atleast two former PCC chiefs, Pradeep Balmuchu and Sukhdev Bhagat, in the party,” said a senior state Congress leader. Both Balmuch and Bhagat quit Congress ahead of the 2019 assembly elections and contested polls on AJSU Party and BJP ticket, respectively. However, both have applied to return to the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cm-soren-stationed-in-delhi-likely-to-meet-pm-101623861551107.html
16-06-2021||Other||Bijbani panchayat in E Champaran first to be fully vaccinated||PATNABijbani South in Bankatwa block of Dhaka subdivision in East Champaran district became Bihar’s first panchayat where entire eligible target population above 18 years of age were vaccinated against coronavirus, officials said. The team of vaccinators completed inoculation of 4,676 people above 18 years of age on Tuesday. Those vaccinated comprise 54% of the population of the panchayat, which has an estimated population of 10,182, said officials. Of those vaccinated, 2,133 were in the 18-45 years of age group and the remaining 2,543 above 45 years of age. It took the team over two months to saturate the panchayat after having launched the vaccination drive on April 10. Bihar has as many as 8,406 panchayats, which are a cluster of villages. The vaccinators had to brave initial vaccine hesitancy, as only 70 people turned up for vaccination on April 18. The highest number of vaccinations recorded in a day was on June 12, when 2,187 people were inoculated. The increased vaccination on June 12 was also attributed to better availability of vaccines in the district. “We received a communication from the East Champaran district magistrate that all the available eligible population of Bijbani South panchayat had been vaccinated. This was the first such communication received from any of the 38 districts in Bihar. There are some other panchayats in the pipeline where 80%-90% vaccination of the target population has been vaccinated,” said a senior official in the health department. East Champaran district magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok said that barring children and some migrant workers, the available eligible 18-plus population had been vaccinated against Covid-19. “The vaccination drive at Bijbani was taken up on an experimental basis, on the pattern of Swachch Bharat and open defecation free campaign. For the first time, we involved the panchayati raj institutions by engaging their local representatives like the sarpanch, the mukhiya, even the past sarpanch and mukhiya and village elders. They came forward to motivate the masses. There were also issues with booking vaccination slots, where we stepped in to help the villagers before the facility of on-spot registration was extended to all categories of people,” he said. Ashok said the mini milestone would hopefully now set off a healthy competition among panchayats.“During the mega drive today, we exhausted the available dose of 34,000 vaccine shots by 12 noon. If we were given 1 lakh doses, we may have even achieved that,” added Ashok. Vaccination driveBihar was on course on Wednesday to surpass its highest single-day vaccination figure of 3.64 lakh inoculations in mid-April. Though it had achieved 3,53,606 vaccinations, as per the provisional vaccination figures, released for the day by the state health department, officials said the number would increase when the final figures are reconciled later in the evening. As many as 3.05 lakh beneficiaries in the 18-45 years age group and 47,860 above 45 years of age had taken the shot on Wednesday, as per the provisional figures. Around 6,000 vaccination sites, both static and mobile, were set up across the state on Wednesday, the highest so far in a day since the Covid-19 vaccination campaign was launched o January 16. Bihar received 11 lakh doses of vaccines on Tuesday and had decided a mega vaccination drive on Wednesday. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has asked his officers to complete the vaccination of 6 crore people, still to get the shots, in the next six months. The state has so far administered 1.26 crore doses of vaccine to the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bijbani-panchayat-in-e-champaran-first-to-be-fully-vaccinated-101623861492521.html
16-06-2021||Patna||Gold hallmarking becomes mandatory in 13 districts of Bihar||The new hallmarking policy has become effective in 13 districts of the state, including Patna, from Wednesday. According to the guidelines issued on June 15 by the Ministry Of Consumer Affairs, Food And Public Distribution, hallmarking will be made mandatory only at the places having hallmarking centres. In Bihar, only 13 districts, including Patna, Bhagalpur, Bhojpur, Darbhanga, Gaya, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Rohtas, Samastipur, Saran Begusarai and Nawada, have the hallmarking centres. While Patna has 12 such centres, the remaining 12 districts have one centre each. Under the new policy, hallmarking of jewellery is now mandatory. On June 15, the Ministry announced that the policy would be effective only in 256 districts having hallmarking centres across the country. “It has offered great relief to the thousands of jewellers who needed the hallmarking facility. They were worried about how to get their jewellery hallmarked during the pandemic,” Ashok Verma, the state convener of the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), said. Besides, the new policy has come up with a much-needed relief to the small traders also. “Most of these small budget traders get jewellery on loan from big traders for business. They do not use hallmarking while many small traders have not even registered themselves with the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS),” he said. Out of over two lakh jewellers in the state, which includes 7,000 in the state capital, only 1,000 jewellers have registered with the BIS. “The rest of the jewellers have been doing it without the licence. They were mainly worried about how to cope up with the requirements of the new hallmarking policy. Under the new hallmarking scheme of the BIS, jewellers would register for selling hallmarked jewellery,” he said. However, traders with turnover below ₹40 lakh have been spared even from this mandatory registration with the BIS, he added. Premnath Gupta, the All India Jewellers and Goldsmiths Federation (AIJGF) secretary, said the new policy is far more beneficial for the buyers. “There will guarantee of quality and purity of the precious metal at every gold shop. This facility is essential for those gold buyers who prefer to purchase gold from the jewellers who have been close to their families, he added. “There’s no chance of any tampering as the small traders will get only hallmarked precious metals from the wholesale dealers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/gold-hallmarking-becomes-mandatory-in-13-districts-of-bihar-101623861491810.html
16-06-2021||Other||Ward members to run rural water supply system||PATNAThe state panchayati raj department has come out with a self-sustaining model to operate and maintain rural water schemes, which have been set up in around 58,000 gram panchayats across the state under the CM’s flagship programme — Har Ghar Nal Ka Jal mission. As per the new mechanism, which got the state cabinet’s nod on Tuesday, each ward member would be getting a monthly incentive of ₹5,000 for running and maintaining the water supply installations. This is beside the grant ₹2,000, which the ward members would get for payment of electricity bill and carry out routine repair of the water stations. Panchayati raj minister Samrat Chaudhary said,“The department would offer extra financial help to the ward members for expansion of the supply network in rural areas on the recommendations of the respective ward management committee upon proper verification.” Additional chief secretary (panchayati raj), Amrit Lal Meena, said the department resorted to a new mechanism to ensure proper running of water supply schemes in rural areas following complaints of irregularities in their operations. “Now, the ward members would be given the responsibility to run and maintain the water supply operation so that they are accessible to villagers,” said Meena. Explaining the modalities for funding, the minister said ward members, who would be given the responsibility to run the supply system, would be authorised to collect water tax of ₹30 from each household per month. “Half of the total water tax collection would be given to the ward members as remuneration, beside monthly honorarium of ₹2000 per month,” said Chaudhary. As per the existing norms, each water supply system is supposed to cater to nearly 200 households. Hence each ward member collect ₹6000 from the water consumers every month. “Of the total sum, 50% would be given to the local panchayati raj institutions, while the rest would be given to the ward members,” said the minister, adding that the department had allocated nearly ₹1.40 lakh as annual expenditure on running each supply system, carry out repairs and pay the electricity charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ward-members-to-run-rural-water-supply-system-101623861491150.html
16-06-2021||Other||Traffic suspended on new bridge where approach road caved in last year||PATNAVehicular traffic on Sattarghat bridge over river Gandak, which connects Gopalganj and East Champaran districts, has been suspended since Wednesday night following huge discharge of water in the river from Nepal. All vehicles will be directed to take Bangra ghat bridge route, which is located about eight kilometres downstream, to cross the river. The decision to suspend vehicular traffic on Sattarghat bridge was taken in view of the last year’s disaster, in which approach road to the newly constructed bridge was washed away due to heavy current in the river. Additional chief secretary (road construction) Amrit Lal Meena said it had been decided to demolish parts of the approach road to Sattarghat main bridge in the length of 800 metres to give smooth passage of water in Gandak.“About 4.25 lakh cusecs of water was released in the river from Valmikinagar barrage on Wednesday. The approach road to small bridges was damaged last year in the similar kind of flooding,” said Meena, adding that traffic would be restored once the flow normalises. Meena said that a detailed project report (DPR) to build additional bridges, as recommended by the expert committee last year, were being prepared. “The work on additional three bridges in approach road would start after the rainy season,” he said. Around 4,000 vehicles cross the river through the two-lane Sattarghat bridge daily. Meena said that Bangra ghat bridge was a suitable alternative as it was opened last year and has four-lane passage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-suspended-on-new-bridge-where-approach-road-caved-in-last-year-101623861432513.html
16-06-2021||Patna||18 rescued after boat capsizes in Ganga||National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rescued 18 people after their boat laden with sand capsized in river Ganga near Bhadra ghat in Patna on Wednesday. NDRF head constable Maniram said that the incident occurred around 11 am. The boat, which was coming from Koilwar, collided with a pontoon bridge at Bhadra ghat.“As we came to know about the incident, we jumped into the river and saved 18 people,” he said..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/18-rescued-after-boat-capsizes-in-ganga-101623861431691.html
16-06-2021||Patna||MeT issues lightning warning for next two days in Bihar||Large-scale lightning activities are likely across the state over the next two days, warned Patna Meteorological Centre through a special bulletin on Wednesday.MeT officials said very heavy rain lashed western parts of the state while northern and southeast parts received heavy rain in the past 24 hours. As per the daily bulletin, Ramnagar, Triveni and Valmikinagar recorded 170mm rain each, Chanpatia 140mm, Triveniganj, Barauli, Chatia 120mm each, Bagha, Jalapur and Nirmali 100 mm each.Meteorological scientist Anand Shankar said, “Active monsoon associated with cumulonimbus clouds is favourable for lightning strikes. The current numerical model indicates a high probability of intense lightning till June 18.”“All open fields, rivers, waterlogged areas, litchi and mango orchards are vulnerable to lightning strikes. In such circumstances, both the direct and indirect strikes of lightning can prove fatal and cause loss of lives and property,” Shankar cautioned.Vivek Sinha, director at Patna Meteorological Centre, said, “The geographical location of Bihar and Jharkhand is prone to lightning and thunderstorm activities, which claim around 150 to 400 lives in Bihar annually. Last year, over 459 lightning deaths were registered in the state.”Deliberating weather forecast, meteorologist Uday Shankar Sinha said, “Widespread rain accompanied with thunderstorm is likely in the state for next three to four days. The state has recorded 242% surplus rain this week. Rain intensity may reduce after June 29.” Meanwhile, the Bihar disaster management department denied any lightning death on Wednesday. “No death has been reported in the state till 4pm. Fifteen deaths were reported on Tuesday due to lightning while more than 25 people have died due to lightning this month so far,” said a duty officer at (disaster) emergency control centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/met-issues-lightning-warning-for-next-two-days-in-bihar-101623861431024.html
16-06-2021||Pune||Gender parity in vax: For every 10 women, 12 men got the jab in Pune district||Pune: As per the information from Covid vaccination app Co-WIN, more men have got the vaccine as compared to women. For every ten women who got the jab in the district, the data shows 12 men have got the vaccine. Multiple reasons, including illiteracy and lack of awareness of even the lower decision-making capacity among women may make them less accessible to the vaccine, according to experts. The skewed ratio between men and women beneficiaries is almost the same across the state and the country with fewer women as compared to men getting protection against the deadly virus despite the fact that it is equally fatal for all genders. As of Wednesday evening, over 28 lakh people have got the vaccine as per the Co-WIN app, of which over 1.581 million are men and 1.311 million are women. Hence, about 10 women for 12 men. Multiple data also show that more men have been infected and even fatalities among men have been higher than women. However, when it comes to vaccination, it is essential that all beneficiaries get the jab. As per the 2011 census, the district’s sex ration dropped from 919 female for every 1,000 men to 915 women for every 1,000 men. In 2011, Pune had a population of 9,429,408 of which male and female were 4,924,105 and 4,505,303 respectively. The skewed sex ratio could also reflect on the gender disparity. Multiple factors especially in rural areas could have caused this, including vaccine hesitancy over myths about menstruation or fertility and added illiteracy makes it difficult to create awareness. Women also have less accessibility, mobility and also decision-making powers compared to men and this comparison is more stark in rural areas. Digital illiteracy among more women makes it difficult for them to get registered or book a slot on the Co-WIN platform, especially for the younger population aged between 18-45 years who would get the jab only upon online slot booking, the experts added. The vax beneficiary count For every 10 women who got the vaccine, 12 men got it in Pune district. As of Wednesday, Co-WIN portal shows that in the district the total number of men and women who received the vaccine Men: 1,579,675 Female: 1,310,549||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gender-parity-in-vax-for-every-10-women-12-men-got-the-jab-in-pune-district-101623860951047.html
16-06-2021||Other||Punjab SC panel seeks probe report in Mansa sexual abuse case||Bathinda Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission member Tarsem Singh Sialka on Wednesday directed the Mansa police to submit a status report of investigation in a case of sexual abuse within a week. Sialka also met the dalit victim at her residence and assured justice. On June 14, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes had also asked the DC and the SSP to submit an action taken report in the complaint within a week.In a press note, Sialka expressed satisfaction at the initial police probe. On June 10, Mansa police had registered a case against Prem Garg, a BJP leader for allegedly sexually exploiting a dalit woman. Upset over the incident, the victim had allegedly consumed a poisonous substance.The victim’s sister is the complainant with Budhlada DSP Prabhjot Kaur heading the probe. Garg is absconding. The complainant had alleged that Garg had taken pictures of her sister in a compromising position and blackmailed her into establishing a physical relationship with him. A case has been registered under Sections 354 (use of criminal force on a woman, intending to outrage her modesty), 306 (abetment to suicide) and the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-sc-panel-seeks-probe-report-in-mansa-sexual-abuse-case-101623860652605.html
16-06-2021||Pune||Police hunt for 38-year-old as wife, child found murdered||The Pune city police and Pune rural police are looking for a 38-year-old man as a suspect in two separate murder cases - his wife, and the other of his seven-year-old son. The deceased woman was identified as Aliya Shaikh while the deceased child was identified as Ayan Shaikh (7), her son. The prime suspect in the case is Abaid Abdul Shaikh (38) who lived with the two in Pride World City on Brooklyn road in Charholi Budrukh area of Pune. The woman was found on Saswad-Jejuri road on Tuesday morning around 8am in the Pune rural police jurisdiction. Her son was found in a pit near the Katraj tunnel on Tuesday night in the Pune city police jurisdiction. Their relation was ascertained by joint work of the Pune city and Pune rural police. “We found the body near Surya hotel along Saswad Jejuri road. Early on Tuesday morning, we received calls from people living near that area that a body has been found. For her murder, we have registered a case and the husband is a prime suspect,” said police inspector Annasaheb Gholap of Saswad police station. The woman was found with a slit on her neck and blood stains on her person, according to the police. “There is a CCTV camera that belongs to the hotel, but the night-time visuals are of no help as nothing is visible in them,” said PI Gholap. A case under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at the Saswad police station for the murder of the woman. Hours later, the boy was found in a pit dug along the road opposite Maratheshahi hotel near the New Katraj tunnel that connects Satara to Mumbai. The child was found with facial injuries and was taken to Sassoon General Hospital, as was his mother, for post-mortem. “We have formed five teams and the crime branch has two to three teams. A total of eight teams are working on this. He will be found very soon. He has gone to multiple locations and we have some technical support to map it,” said senior police inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. The man and his wife, both have master’s degrees, according to the police. The man is found to be a regional manager in an insurance company and the woman had left her job a few years ago. The man’s car, which is suspected to have been hired temporarily, was traced as far as Kapurhol, according to the Pune city police. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (destruction of evidence) of IPC was registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. The Bharti Vidyapeeth police have released a picture of the man along with contact details for tips if anyone knows about his whereabouts. People in the know can contact the police on 020-24365100 or 9823653777.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-hunt-for-38-year-old-as-wife-child-found-murdered-101623860470988.html
16-06-2021||Other||Power engineers join chorus against PPAs, PSPCL seeks detailed plan of action||Patiala Engineers dealing with power sector across the state have joined the chorus against Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) that the state government had signed with Independent Power Producers (IPPs). The state’s politicians, including some rebels within the ruling Congress, have sought the scrapping of the PPAs The state’s power utility, Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), is bearing the burden of fixed charges payable to the IPPs, even without using the power generated. Ultimately, this amount is recovered from consumers through hike in tariff. On June 10, the Punjab State Electricity Board Engineers Association (PSEBEA) held a meeting with the PSPCL management and emphasised the need for cancellation of PPAs with the three private power producers. Three directors from the PSPCL, RP Pandov; Jatinder Goel and Gopal Sharma, attended the meeting with PSEBEA president Jasvir Singh Dhiman and seven of his office-bearers. According to the minutes of the meeting released on June 15, the management has asked the association to submit a detailed proposal for revision of the PPAs with at least one private power plant. The PSPCL management also assured that it will look into the matter. In its recent letter to the Punjab government, however, the PSPCL has said that the termination of PPAs would lead to severe power crisis in the state. The utility also claimed that it would not be able to meet the peak demand of 13,000 MW during the paddy season.In 2006, Punjab decided to have two private sector thermal plants of 1,000 MW capacity each, with coal allocation from the Pachhwara coal mine in Jharkhand. After a change of regime in 2007, the proposed capacity was enhanced, based on peak demand and round the clock supply to farmers. This ignored Central Electricity Authority (CEA) guidelines that state that the installed capacity has to be based on average predicted demand (base-load). The result has been high fixed cost. An average consumer in the state has, thus, been burdened with an expense of at least ₹1,000 per year. This has also meant that the PSPCL has been paying ₹1,500 crore a year starting 2019-2020 towards fixed cost against surrendered power.The PPAs also stipulate that the PSPCL has to pay fixed charges for three years (around ₹10,000 crore or ₹275 crore per month), if it terminates the contract. “The peak power demand of 13,000 MW during paddy season is only for a month. This cannot be an excuse for not cancelling or renegotiating these contracts to PSPCL’s advantage,” said an engineer, not wanting to be named. He added that after the peak season, power demand reduces to a 6,000 MW.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/power-engineers-join-chorus-against-ppas-pspcl-seeks-detailed-plan-of-action-101623860231918.html
16-06-2021||Other||A year on, Galwan braveheart’s kin wait for govt to keep its word||Sangrur A year after sepoy Gurbinder Singh, 22, of Tolawal village near Sunam was killed in a clash with Chinese troops in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley on June 16, 2020, the grieving family is waiting for the state government to honour its promises. Neither has a government job been given to a member of the family, nor has the sepoy’s niece been admitted to an army school. The family, however, has been given ₹50 lakh compensation. A memorial, a playground and a library in his name have all been buried in government files, with nothing on ground. The local government school has been named after him, but it has not been upgraded to Class 12. Gurbinder was recruited in the army in 2018, after passing Class 12. He was unmarried, but had been engaged eight months ago, when he visited the village. He is survived by his parents and two elder siblings, a brother and a sister. The family spent the entire Wednesday in mourning to remembers his sacrifice, but no political leader or administration official joined. “A year has passed, but we have not received any government job. A gate, library and stadium named after him was promised,” said Gurpreet Singh, Gurbinder’s brother.Jasmeen Kaur, Gurbinder’s niece, said Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had made a video call to family members and assured them that she will get admission in an army school, but nothing had happened. “I am proud of my uncle and wish to join the army as an officer, but we are not getting support from the government,” said Jasmeen, a Class-9 student. Sunam sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Manjit Kaur said, “We are following up on Gurbinder Singh’s case. I will look into the matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-year-on-galwan-braveheart-s-kin-wait-for-govt-to-keep-its-word-101623859691704.html
16-06-2021||Pune||IMA to hold protest in Pune against assault on doctors||Pune: Five cases of violence against doctors in Pune and 57 similar cases in Maharashtra were reported during the pandemic, said representatives of Indian Medical Association (IMA) at a press meet on Wednesday. The medical body will be wearing black bands and displaying placards to sensitise the public as part of protest against attacks on doctors, on June 18. However, medical services will be functional on that day. IMA doctors are demanding a strict provision to address the rising violence against doctors and Covid insurance cover for private doctors. Dr BL Deshmukh, IMA president for Pune chapter, said, “We demand that the government should ensure that the offenders are penalised under the Central Hospital and Health Care Professionals Protection Act with Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). Also, there should be standardisation and augmentation of security in each hospital. Hospitals should be declared as a protected zone. Culprits shall be punished by fast-track courts.” “All health services will be functional as our motive is to spread awareness about the issue and pressurise the government to take action to ensure that medical workers are safe,” said Dr Deshmukh. Dr Meenakshi Deshpande, president-elect of IMA Pune chapter, said, “Multiple incidents of assault against doctors are seen across the country. While the cost of medicines and medical equipment saw a gradual rise over time, doctors’ fees remained the same throughout the pandemic. Families should not forget that we save lives and work round the clock.” Dr Sunil Ingale, secretary, IMA Pune chapter, said that IMA teams will be visiting government hospitals on June 18. On Covid insurance, Dr Avinash Bhondwe, former IMA president Maharashtra chapter, said that till November 2020, around 42 doctors have died due to the virus in Maharashtra. “We meet Maharashtra government officials to ensure that their families get the insurance cover of ₹50 lakh. However, it was denied as the scheme only covered government doctors. After regular follow-ups, families of two doctors got the insurance amount from the government. The authorities have not shared details of families of government doctors who received insurance.” Bhondwe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ima-to-hold-protest-against-assault-on-doctors-101623859510988.html
16-06-2021||Other||Citing pandemic, Pak denies permission to Sikh jatha||Amritsar Pakistan has denied permission to a Sikh jatha (group of pilgrims) that was scheduled to visit it via the Attari-Wagah border on June 21, citing the covid-19 pandemic. The jatha was to stay in Pakistan for 10 days and was to commemorate the death of Maharaja Ranjit Singh at Gurdwara Dehra Sahib in Lahore on June 29, besides visiting Sikh religious places. Previously, Pakistan had denied permission to a Sikh jatha that was to visit historic gurdwaras there on the martyrdom day of the 5th Sikh master, Guru Arjan Dev, on June 6, again citing the pandemic.According to a bilateral agreement signed in 1950 to guarantee the rights of minorities in both countries, around 3,000 Sikh pilgrims are allowed to visit gurdwaras in Pakistan on four religious occasions. These are the birth anniversary of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak, the martyrdom anniversary of Guru Arjan Dev, the foundation day of Khalsa Panth (Baisakhi) and to commemorate the death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh.Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) assistant secretary (media) Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, said, “The yatra department of the SGPC spoke over phone with Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Satwant Singh, who confirmed the decision of his government.”He added that the pilgrims who had submitted their passports to the SGPC office for going to Pakistan can get back their documents from the yatra department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/citing-pandemic-pak-denies-permission-to-sikh-jatha-101623859151592.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||Aligarh widow and 5 children go without single meal for 5 days||A widow in Aligarh who had lost her job due to the coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) was admitted to a hospital on Wednesday along with her five children, apparently after going without food for days.Doctors treating her at Malkhan Singh District Hospital said the family of six were barely able to talk or stand up when they were admitted to the hospital on Wednesday by non-governmental organisation Good Samaritans, according to a report by news agency PTI.Guddi, 40, said that after losing her husband to Covid-19, she somehow made a living by working in a factory that made locks. She said the factory shut down due to Covid-19 lockdowns. The district magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh has formed a team to investigate the matter and has extended relief to the family.The woman narrated her ordeal and said that her eldest son who worked as a daily wage construction worker also lost his job due to the lockdown following which all sources of income dried up. Guddi said that she survived on chapatis given to her by her neighbours for eight weeks but after eight weeks the neighbours also stopped giving her and her children any more food. The entire family went without a single meal after that, the woman said.A team consisting of three officials have been sent to investigate the matter. The team led by sub divisional magistrate Kunwar Bahadur Singh to investigate the issue and provide immediate assistance including foodgrain, other food items and a sum of ₹5,000 to the affected family. NGOs like the Hands for Help and the Manav Upkar Sanstha have come forward to help with food grains and ration. Vishnu Kumar Bunty, who heads the Manav Upkar Sanstha, said that the probe is necessary and a door-to-door survey should be held to trace hard-hit livelihoods during the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aligarh-widow-and-5-children-go-without-single-meal-for-5-days-101623856725407.html
16-06-2021||Pune||126 displaced families protest against Slum Rehabilitation Authority||As many as 126 families who temporarily moved out of plot number 334 in Wadarwadi in Shivajinagar area for construction of a new residential project under the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) scheme in 2017 are now demanding homes. According to the resident, the SRA had committed that the work for the new building which will house them will be completed in 18 months but the construction is incomplete and has not progressed. Fed up with the callous attitude of the civic body, the residents staged a protest outside the project on Monday condemning the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) for playing fraud and levelling cheating allegations against the administration. The residents are currently staying in another make shift location where they are being paid ₹3,000 per family. However, residents alleged that the prevailing rent of ₹5,000 to ₹6,000 in the area was making living difficult for them every day with rising inflation amidst Covid-19 crisis. Meanwhile, the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) has maintained that a meeting will be held with the developer seeking an early resolution to the dispute. The families in their complaint alleged that Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) officials were not positively responding to their problem and false promises of development at the earliest and completion of the project had been made to them. Social worker Rahul Bhosale said that the project has been put in the cold storage and no work has progressed except the incomplete foundation work. “The families are facing severe financial issues and they must be given ₹5,000 instead of the current ₹3,000 to meet their daily expenses and livelihood. Regular meeting between the residents, builder and SRA authorities for convenience of every and the project should be completed at the earliest,” he said. Housewife Chayya Adsul said, “The current rental of ₹3,000 is very less and living costs have gone up due Covid-19 crisis. Our family members have lost their jobs due to the ongoing crisis and the source of earnings has been lost. We cannot sustain any longer. We request the authorities to carry out the project completion work at the earliest,” she said. The residents have threatened to go on hunger strike if their demands are not met. Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) chief Rajendra Nimbalkar said, “The residents are only protesting and not meeting me along with the developer for their problem which can be sorted out. There was no deadline project for completion of the project and some projects take even 20 years to complete. If these people come to us, then I can understand their problem in a better way and a solution be found out. We have many ongoing projects and a meeting can be arranged. Due to Covid-19 crisis, developers are facing financial issues and projects are stopped. I will hold a common meeting and their problem can be sorted. If the builder is not ready, then we can take over the project. Government has also directed us to lenience and labour issues are there due to Covid-19 crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/126-displaced-families-protest-against-slum-rehabilitation-authority-101623856152013.html
16-06-2021||Pune||PMC uncertain on financial assistance distribution for students||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is uncertain on the disbursement of financial assistance for the year-2020-21 to students of Classes 10 and 12 as the state government has decided not to conduct a board exam due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. PMC’s social development department provides financial assistance of ₹15,000 each for students with distinction in Class 10 and ₹25,000 for distinction in Class 12 under the Abul Kalam Azad and Lokshahir Annabhu Sathe schemes. Under this scheme, a student must have obtained a minimum 80 per cent in SSC or HSC examination in the year February-March-2020-21 and if a student belongs to Backward Category (BC) or studied in PMC regular/night school, he /she is required to have obtained minimum 70 per cent. For 40 per cent handicapped students, he or she should require a minimum 65 per cent in SSC and HSC examination. The scheme was introduced in 2009-10 by Shiv sena party corporator and standing committee chairman Shyam Deshpande. The PMC social development department disburses financial assistance to student’s accounts through Real Time Gross Settlement (RTGS). Hemant Rasane, chairman, standing committee said, “We will discuss the issue in the meeting as there is no examination of SSC and HSC this year. Our scheme considers student’s marks obtained in percentage. If there is no examination, how can the state board calculate marks and percentage of students? And how can you disburse the amount to students. It is a challenging task for us.” Ramdas Chavan, program officer of social development department said, “We will have to discuss the issue with standing committee and senior officials to take final call because SSC and HSC examination-2020-21 cancelled due to Covid-19 pandemic. Normally, we give financial assistance to students based on the percentage obtained in SSC and HSC examinations.” He further said, “In 2019-20 year, we disbursed around ₹17.50 crore of amounts to 11,500 students under the financial assistant schemes. The number of students was less as compared to the year 2018-19. The number was 13,500 in 2018-19 year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-uncertain-on-financial-assistance-distribution-for-students-101623856030698.html
16-06-2021||Pune||Elder brother in custody for impregnating minor sister||A 21-year-old third year engineering student was remanded to six days in custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Wednesday by a local court for allegedly sexually assaulting his younger sister in Pimpri-Chinchwad two months ago. The assault came to light after the girl was found by the doctors to be eight weeks pregnant, according to the complaint. “He is the elder brother of the girl, and they live in the same house. The family got to know about it when the pregnancy came to light. They went to check at YCM after she had started experiencing stomach aches and the doctors found out that she is pregnant. Then the hospital informed the parents and filed a medico legal case, and it was sent to us. Meanwhile, the parents started asking questions to the girl and that is when they both revealed what had happened and we have now arrested him,” said assistant police inspector (API) Neeta Ubale who is investigating the case. The complainant girl is 17 years 5 months old and a student of Class 12 and lives in the same house as the arrested man along with their parents, according to the police. “He lives in a college hostel in Mumbai where he is a student. Their parents own a small kiosk outside their house and pay for the education of their three children. The middle child is also in college and lives in the college hostel,” said API Ubale. As per her complaint, the abuse began on the night of April 15 in the living room of their house, where both of them slept, and continued until May. A case in the matter was registered under Sections 376, 506 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4, 5(j)(2), 5(l), 8, and 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at Chinchwad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/elder-brother-in-custody-for-impregnating-minor-sister-101623855970718.html
16-06-2021||Pune||32-year-old arrested for sexual assault of minor||A 32-year-old man was arrested by Pune police on Tuesday for sexual assault of a 15-year-old under the guise of buying him a meal in a garden near Swargate area of Pune on Tuesday morning. The arrested man was identified as Ravindra alias Balli Kamble (32), a resident of Dias plot area of Gultekdi in Pune. A complaint on the matter was lodged by a 15-year-old boy. He has been sent to Sassoon General Hospital for a medical test while the accused is being produced in court. The boy told the police that the man offered to buy him a meal around 9am and took him to a tin shed near the Poonawalla garden at Seven Loves Chowk. The boy told the police that he tried to resist the sexual advances when the man tried to strangle him to death. The 32-year-old threatened to bury the boy in the nearby graveyard if he resisted the attack, according to the complaint. “A third man saw him near the garden after the accused had left and brought him to the police,” said assistant police inspector DS Jamdade of Swargate police station who is investigating the case. The boy was found at least three hours after he said he was picked up by Kamble. A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 307 (attempted murder), 377 (unnatural offences) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at Swargate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/32yearold-arrested-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-101623855850721.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 10,107 new Covid-19 cases, takes tally to over 5.9 million||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 10,107 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections, with the death of 237 people, according to the state health bulletin. The state infection tally and toll after new cases and fatalities reached 5,934,880 and 115,390 respectively, the data from the bulletin showed.The previous 24 hours saw a rise of 757 new cases, as the state reported 9,350 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. While, new fatalities fell by 151, as 388 had died of the disease on Tuesday, the bulletin showed.Also read: How Mumbai, India's most crowded city, beat the odds and the Covid-19 pandemic999 deaths from the virus were reconciled in the data on Wednesday, in addition to 237 deaths registered in the last one day.As many as 10,567 patients recovered from the disease on Wednesday, according to the health data in comparison to 15,176 recoveries recorded the previous day. The total recoveries from the infection so far stand at 56,79,746.Around 2,23,509 samples were tested to detect the spread of the virus since Tuesday. 3,86,41,639 tests have been conducted in the state for Covid-19 so far, as per the data.The case fatality rate of the state stood at 1.93% on Tuesday, however, it rose to 1.94 per cent on Wednesday, according to the state data.Mumbai on Wednesday logged 821 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 7,17,172, according to the data. The state capital reported 11 deaths, down by three from Tuesday. The new fatalities took the toll to 15,227, as per the data.Also read: Mumbai housing society residents raise doubts over Covid-19 vaccination campThe financial hub of India reported 572 new cases and 14 deaths from the virus on Tuesday. The positivity rate stood at 2.81% on Wednesday, up from the previous day's 2.53%.The doubling rate of infection in Mumbai was at 702 days on Tuesday and it has increased to 727 on Wednesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data showed.The recovery rate of the state now stands at 95.7% while that of Mumbai stands at 95%, according to the data on Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-10-107-new-covid-19-cases-takes-tally-to-over-5-9-million-101623849980608.html
16-06-2021||Patna||Alliance with NDA main point of contention between rebel MPs, Chirag Paswan, says Pashupati Kumar Paras||Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Pashupati Kumar Paras on Wednesday said that the alliance with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the 2020 Bihar Assembly election was the main reason behind the power tussle between him and his nephew and party leader Chirag Paswan. “We wanted to contest the election in alliance with NDA but he (Chirag Paswan) didn't agree to it. This is the reason why LJP is on the verge of an end,” news agency ANI quoted Paras as saying.He also said that Paswan removed him as the state president of the party despite not holding any power. “You must ask Chirag Paswan why he removed me from [the] state president's post. He did it even when he didn't hold power. We contested Bihar elections under my supervision and all 6 MPs won. We received the highest percentage of vote as per election commission's report,” Paras further said, while talking to reporters.Also read | Was Chirag Paswan betrayed? Latest updates on crisis within LJPEarlier on Tuesday, the LJP’s national executive committee expelled all the five rebel MPs -- Pashupati Kumar Paras, Prince Raj, Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Keshar -- for anti-party activities. Similarly a working committee meeting was convened at Paras’ residence in Delhi, which decided to remove Paswan as the party’s leader. It also made senior leader and party vice-president Suraj Singh alias Suraj Bhan as the national working president.Singh said that the two leaders, Paswan and Paras, would come together and stay in the party, earlier on the day. “Both (Chirag Paswan & Pashupati Kumar Paras) will come together & stay in 1 party, don't ignite this issue. Chirag should understand that it's been long that his uncle worked under him & now he should let uncle lead,” ANI quoted the party’s national working president as saying.Meanwhile, Chirag Paswan said that the Janata Dal (United) party had been attempting to divide the LJP since the Bihar state assembly elections last year. “During the Bihar elections and even before that, there was a constant attempt by some people and especially by the Janata Dal United (JDU) to break our party,” ANI quoted Paswan as saying, earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/alliance-with-nda-main-point-of-contention-between-rebel-mps-chirag-paswan-says-pashupati-kumar-paras-101623854367399.html
16-06-2021||Other||Power firms offer sugar industry warehouse space in exchange for setting up solar plants||PUNE The sugar industry in Maharashtra has been offered a proposal by private solar power firms, wherein, if the sugar factories allow the setting up of solar panels for power generation, the power firms will give them warehouses to store sugar in return.This push by solar power firms was revealed by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in a meeting at the Vasantdada Sugar institute on Tuesday, held to review various proposals before the sugar industry.Pawar said, “Now some private firms have given the proposal to promote solar energy in rural areas. Most of the factories are in rural areas do not have enough storage space. These industries offer to create storage free of cost, in exchange for allowing them to erect solar panels in the sugar factories.”Pawar did not disclose further the details of the proposal, but said, “We have asked experts in the field to study the proposal.”A senior officer at the institute, on condition of anonymity said, “It is good that solar energy will be generated. These companies can also sell the energy and get revenue. It is good to save costs for all.”Pawar also said that the Vasantdada institute’s new campus is coming up in the Marathwada region, to help sugarcane farmers from Marathwada learn new techniques in sugarcane farming.Pawar said, “There are many issues with sugar industries as rates are low and production is high. The sugar industry is doing a lot of experiments to get higher rates for farmers.”Pawar added, “Earlier, sugarcane was only used for making sugar. Now the sugar industry has added many components like ethanol, molasses, distilleries and is creating other by-products.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/power-firms-offer-sugar-industry-warehouse-space-in-exchange-for-setting-up-solar-plants-101623853690597.html
16-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records four new Covid-19 fatalities, 184 fresh cases||Jharkhand reported four new Covid -19 deaths and 184 fresh cases during the last 24 hours, a health department bulletin said on Wednesday.The Covid-19 death toll in the state rose to 5,089 with state capital Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Lohardaga and Khunti district reporting one death each.The 184 fresh Covid-19 cases pushed the tally in the state to 3,43,793, the bulletin said.East Singhbhum district reported the highest of 31 new cases followed by Hazaribag (25) and Saraikela 17.Jharkhand now has 2,646 active Covid-19 cases.The mortality rate in the state now is 1.48 per cent, higher than the national average of 1.30 per cent.The Covid-19 recovery rate in the state has improved to 97.75 per cent, better than the national average of 95.60 per cent.In the last 24 hours 596 Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease, taking the total number of recoveries to 3,36,058, the bulletin said.Altogether, 91,75,094 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, including 34,684 since Tuesday, it added.In a bid to combat the second wave of Covid-19, the government has extended the lockdown like restrictions in the state till June 24 in the state. PTI NAM RG RG||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-records-four-new-covid-19-fatalities-184-fresh-cases-101623852986603.html
16-06-2021||Other||Yuvak Kranti Dal claims it has 5,000 letters from students wanting college fees reduced||PUNE The admission process for graduate and post-graduate college courses has begun and the soundtrack accompanying the online hullabaloo, once again, has to do with the lowering of fees. The Yuvak Kranti Dal, a students’ organisation is spearheading the demand for fee reduction and has collected 5,000 letters of complaints and demands from students and parents across the state concerning the issue.“The condition of students is not at all good. There are students who belong to farmers’ families and they are struggling for their daily bread and butter. Then we have got calls from students whose parents - either both or one - has died of Covid. Some students were working and studying. Most are not able to pay the college fees. Our demand is that state government should immediately consider this sensitive issue which is related to lives of lakhs of students and their families,” said Jambhuvant Manohar, state convenor of the organisation, at a press conference held on Wednesday. “There are various items included in the last year’s college fees - like maintenance charges, laboratory fees, gymkhana fees, computer lab fees, uniform fees, etc. Nothing was used by students last year. Fees should be reduced or some concession needs to be given to students who are not able to pay now. Colleges cannot stop them from appearing for examinations,” said Sachin Pandule, Pune city president of the oranisation. “We are already in talks with the state education director’s office and have sent our demand letter to them. If the college fees are not reduced then we are planning an aggressive state-wide protest,” he added. Dhanraj Mane, director, state higher education department, said, “There is no decision taken yet by the state government over reduction of fees. We are also getting demands from student organisations. Once we get clear orders it will be worked accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yuvak-kranti-dal-claims-it-has-5-000-letters-from-students-wanting-college-fees-reduced-101623852791797.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s 3 municipal corporations get new mayors, deputy mayors||The three municipal corporations of Delhi elected their mayors and deputy mayors on Wednesday. Raja Iqbal Singh was elected the North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor, Shyam Sundar Agrawal as that of East Delhi Municipal Corporation, and Mukesh Suryan of South Delhi Municipal Corporation.Archana Dilip Singh, Kiran Vaidya and Pawan Sharma were elected as deputy mayors.Singh is a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor. His election as mayor comes months after the SAD severed its ties with the National Democratic Alliance at the Centre over the issue of the farm laws.The Bharatiya Janata Party and SAD contested the 2017 municipal elections together. SAD had won five seats. Last year, when SAD broken its alliance with the BJP, its councillors resigned from their posts. But Singh, who was then the chairman of Civil Lines Zonal Committee, did not toe the party line. He continued his association with the BJP and was nominated for the post of mayor.Also Read | IIT-Delhi to set up centre for transportation research and injury preventionThe outgoing mayors are Jai Prakash, Anamika Mithilesh and Nirmal Jain.The BJP has a clear majority in all three municipal corporations. So, the nominees for the posts of mayor and deputy mayors were elected unopposed.The Delhi Municipal Corporation Act provides for the election for the posts of mayor and deputy mayor from among the councillors of the civic bodies in the first meeting of the corporations every year. Mayors and deputy mayors get a year-long term.Elections of mayor and deputy mayor were to be conducted in April, but the process was delayed by two months due to coronavirus pandemic.Singh said, “Our priorities would be to save Delhi from the third wave of Covid-19, proper sanitation facilities, good education, and health care facilities. The stress would be on making the corporation self-reliant and the ongoing projects would be given a boost.”Suryan said his foremost priority will be effectively dealing with the pandemic. “Due to Covid, the civic body is facing financial challenges, so we need to focus on a better revenue generation plan to deal with the situation,” he said.Aggarwal said it would be his priority to make the corporation self-reliant. “I will work for the improvement of the sanitation system and public health. The primary responsibility of the corporation is to keep the area clean so sanitation work will be improved to keep East Delhi clean.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-3-municipal-corporations-get-new-mayors-deputy-mayors-101623852011781.html
16-06-2021||Other||Sarasbaug “khau galli” road officially no-parking zone||PUNE The next time you visit Sarasbaug, or Peshwe Park, ensure your vehicle is parked in a legal area. On Wednesday, the Pune traffic police declared the entire stretch, from the main entrance of Sarasbaug (Khau Galli road) till the Peshwe Park entrance, a “no parking” area. A Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) parking lot, operated on as a pay and park in the area is now meant to be used instead.The Dattawadi traffic police division had, in February, proposed this no-parking zone to deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Rahul Shrirame. Suggestions and objections from citizens were then invited, before the final order was issued on June 16. There are at least 50 hotels, vendors and games’ parlours on this stretch, popularly known as “Sarsabaug Khau galli”. Hence, this road is often crowded with a traffic jam, especially in the evening. “We had issued a circular to declare this road a no- parking zone in February and had asked for suggestions and objections. There were no major objections. The final order to make this road a no-parking zone has been issued. Citizens have the option of the PMC parking lot near Peshwe park,” said DCP Shrirame. Joggers coming to Sarasbaug are happy with this decision. Suhas Chintal, a senior citizen said, “We come to the park for a walk in the evening and there is any hardly space to walk, as vehicles are parked everywhere. This decision will certainly reduce down traffic jams and allow ambulances or other emergency vehicles to have access from here from now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sarasbaug-khau-galli-road-officially-no-parking-zone-101623852010478.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Relief for BCCI, HC sets aside order to pay ₹4,800 Cr to DCHL||The Bombay high court on Wednesday set aside an order which directed the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to pay ₹4,800 crore to Deccan Chronicle Holding Ltd (DCHL) in lieu of the termination of the Deccan Chargers team franchise in the Indian Premier League (IPL).The July 2020 order by an arbitrator had been challenged by the BCCI on the grounds that the conclusion that the termination was illegal was based on wrong contractual and perverse interpretation of the contract and the method of computation to arrive at the figure was not mentioned in the order.A single-judge bench of justice Gautam Patel heard the appeal by the BCCI against the July 2020 order of the sole arbitrator, who was appointed in 2012 to ascertain whether BCCI’s termination notice to Deccan Chargers was illegal.Also Read | Bombay HC: No stay on screening test for medical graduates with foreign degreesSolicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for BCCI, told the court that the condition of the contract for payment to players, support staff, etc had been substantially complied with, but the tribunal proceeded contrary to the facts while declaring termination to be bad.In 2012, after DCHL was declared a successful bidder for the Deccan Chargers team franchise. An agreement was drawn between DCHL and BCCI for 10 years. In August 2012, the BCCI issued a show-cause notice for termination to DCHL. The termination was confirmed a day before the expiry of the 30-day period granted to respond to the notice.DCHL approached the high court and sought compensation as per the contract clauses. In September 2012, the court appointed retired Supreme Court justice C K Thakker as the sole arbitrator.In July 2020, justice Thakker passed the award in favour of DHCL directing BCCI to pay ₹4800 crore plus interest and held the termination of franchise illegal. The amount included damages of over ₹600 crore and compensation of nearly ₹4150 crore. Thereafter, BCCI challenged the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/relief-for-bcci-hc-sets-aside-order-to-pay-rs-4-800-cr-to-dchl-101623851651138.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||GST dues of Punjab, other Cong-ruled states not cleared: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is “wrong” in claiming that GST dues of states have been cleared and cited the example of Congress-ruled Rajasthan, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. Citing an interview given by Sitharaman, he said the finance minister “angrily rebuffed the interviewer and snapped: ‘What dues, I have cleared the GST (Goods and Services Tax) dues of all states’”. “The FM was wrong. The anger was unjustified,” the former Union finance minister said in a statement. Chidambaram said he has gathered data about GST dues from three states which stand at ₹7,393 crore for Punjab as on June 1, 2021, Rs. 7,142 crore for Rajasthan as on May 21 and ₹3,069 crore for Chhattisgarh as on June 1. “I am trying to gather data from other states,” he said. Opposition-ruled states have been at loggerheads with the Centre over GST dues in the past also and have demanded that they be paid at the earliest so that they can keep funding pandemic-related spending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gst-dues-of-punjab-r-sthan-other-states-not-cleared-pc-101623851230541.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||IIT-Delhi to set up centre for transportation research and injury prevention||The Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Delhi will establish a Transportation Research and Injury Prevention Centre (TRIP-C) which will offer academic programmes and strive to develop standards for safe transport and urban mobility options in India and regions with similar socio-economic conditions.According to officials, the centre will also train professionals who are equipped with the skills for developing and maintaining safe transport infrastructure.The institute runs Transportation Research and Injury Prevention Programme (TRIPP) since 2002 as an interdisciplinary programme. The programme was founded by Dinesh Mohan, a world-renowned expert on traffic safety and human tolerance to injury, who died due to Covid-19-related complications last month.The centre would be training the human power and produce specialists in safe and sustainable transport. It aims to attract the best faculty, students, and staff."The forthcoming centre has a unique template on how to run an interdisciplinary programme successfully and would aim to achieve greater heights through core research themes that would endeavour to develop standards for safe transport and urban mobility options," said K Ramachandra Rao, Coordinator, TRIPP."Besides continuing with the existing PhD programme, the new centre would offer a Master of Science (MS) Research programme, which would train the students/ professionals in the field of the transportation safety and prepare the students for the research careers," he added.Rao explained that the Master's programme will offer a unique blend for professionals from varied backgrounds (Engineering/ Planning/ Medical/ Science/ Humanities) to be trained with the knowledge of developing safe and sustainable mobility leading to the enhancement of overall human life quality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/iitdelhi-to-set-up-centre-for-transportation-research-and-injury-prevention-101623850100331.html
16-06-2021||Bhopal||MP couple hires guards to protect rare, expensive Miyazaki mangoes||When orchardist couple Rani and Sankalp Parihar planted two mango saplings years back, they thought they will grow like other trees in their orchard in Madhya Pradesh’s Jabalpur. The saplings developed and bore unusual ruby-coloured mangoes. To the couple’s pleasant surprise, the mangoes turned out to be Japanese Miyazaki. Miyazaki mangoes are among the most expensive in the world and sold at ₹2.70 lakh per kilogram in the international market last year, according to the Japanese media reports.Parihar said thieves last year broke into their orchard and stole the mangoes after it became locally known that they have started growing this rare fruit. He said they somehow managed to save the trees. Parihar added they have this year employed four guards and six dogs to guard the rare trees and seven mangoes, which are rarely grown in India and are also known as an egg of the sun.Parihar said he was on his way to Chennai to buy some saplings when he met a man on a train, who offered him what later turned out to be Miyazaki. “He offered these saplings to me and asked to take care of these plants like our babies. We planted in the orchard without knowing what variety of mangoes it will produce.” He added last year when the saplings started bearing fruits, they found them to be very different. “As I did not know the name of this variety, I named the fruit after my mother Damini. Later, we researched about this variety and found the real name. But it is still Damini for me.”Rani said mango cultivators and fruit lovers were contacting them and a businessman has offered ₹21,000 for a mango. “...a jeweller from Mumbai is ready to pay whatever price we quote. But I have clearly said that we will not sell it to anyone. We will use the fruits to grow more plants,” said Rani Parihar.Madhya Pradesh horticulture department joint director RS Katara said he has inspected the orchard and found the fruit is rare in India. “It is costly because its production is very low, and its taste is very sweet. It looks very different. People abroad give these mangoes as gifts.” He said they will check the fruit again before promoting it among the farmers.G S Kaushal, a former director of Madhya Pradesh’s horticulture department, said after Noor Jahan variety of mangoes of Afghanistan, this Japanese mango has been hitting headlines due to cost not due to taste. “I asked some local scientists to go and inspect the tree and fruits to know whether it is a real one or a hybrid one and why it is so expensive,” said Kaushal. “People should grow it only after scientists approve the quality of this mango.”Jabalpur’s Jawaharlal Nehru Agriculture University scientists were planning to study the mangoes, said its registrar Rewa Singh Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-couple-hires-guards-to-protect-rare-expensive-miyazaki-mangoes-101623850211132.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||BJP and Shiv Sena workers clash over alleged scam in Ram temple land purchase||Workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s youth wing (BJP) and the Shiv Sena clashed in front of the Shiv Sena’s headquarters in Dadar on Wednesday over comments made by Sena leaders regarding the alleged scam in purchase of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. At least 40 Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha workers have been detained by the police.Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday had said that the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust in Ayodhya should clarify regarding the allegations levelled against them. He also said that he spoke to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP Sanjay Singh, who had originally levelled allegations of corruption and said that he found the evidence provided by the AAP lawmaker ‘shocking’.“The Trust formed for the construction of the temple should clarify if the allegations are true or false. The temple's 'bhoomipujan' ceremony was also attended by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat. They should also speak out,” Raut had said. He also said that the Shiv Sena was always committed to the building of the grand Ram Temple and it was a matter of faith for them as well as the people of the nation. Raut said that the members of the Trust were appointed by the BJP and Shiv Sena should have been made part of the body.Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant called the protests a ‘stunt’. Speaking of the clashes between both parties he said for ‘every action there is a reaction’.Another Sena lawmaker said that the BJP workers were warned against protesting outside the party office. “They came with stones outside our office and you cannot expect us to sit inside. It is wrong to protest outside party offices,” Shiv Sena MLA Sada Sarvankar, who is also a Vibhag Pramukh from the area, said.AAP’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and a former minister in the Samajwadi government, Pawan Pandey claimed that the Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai purchased a piece of land worth ₹2 crore at an inflated price of ₹18.5 crore for the Ram Temple premises and was aided by member Anil Mishra.(with inputs from Swapnil Rawal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-and-shiv-sena-workers-clash-over-alleged-scam-in-ram-temple-land-purchase-101623849375458.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Virtual summer camps, a breather for kids and parents||For young parents, being confined at home amid the pandemic has been all about juggling between household chores, office work and managing their time with children. And with the onset of summer break, it has become all the more important to keep the young ones engaged and healthy. Consequently, many parents are enrolling their kids into virtual summer camps. “My eight-year-old son is at a stage where he wants to stay entertained. And sometimes I run out of ideas to keep him busy without the use of screens,” rues Prerna Kishore, a marketing professional from Noida, who has registered her son for art and crafts class online. She adds, “The classes are thrice a week, but it keeps him busy, away from screens, for the rest of the week.”Another parent, Kushal Saluja, an entrepreneur from Delhi, believes that these virtual activity classes also lend a hand in building communication skills. “My 11-year-old daughter makes friends and talks to other kids she hasn’t met before in real life; it contributes to her social skills and peer relationships,” he says.With a goal to not only keep the child busy but also help out fellow parents facing challenges, Bhavya Wadhera, a home baker who runs That Baker Mommy kick-started her virtual cooking classes at pocket-friendly prices. “I found my son always grabbing packaged food when I’d be busy. The concern for his health sparked the idea to do something for kids of his age group (6-12 years),” says Wadhera, whose classes don’t involve the use of stove for the safety of the younger ones. She adds, “The aim is to build their interest in home-cooked meals and keep them motivated.” Apart from developing culinary interests in children, some have introduced simple yet effective arts and crafts activities. Kritika Daksh Mehra, from south Delhi who owns Krafty Kids by Merak is taking part-time art and craft workshop says, “There’s a structured plan wherein the child is both physically and mentally involved and active... Amid the pandemic, kids are turning into lazy screen addicts, so, I wanted to help tackle that.” Switching to online route has also helped these workshop organisers expand their reach. Gurugram-based Devika Kaur Dhingra, who runs Nitco School Of Music & Dance has been conducting dance sessions for the 3.5-11 years age group, says, “My online summer camp experience last year made me realise that virtual classes give the chance to bring together students from all over India as well as international students. The audience is definitely bigger (in online classes), but to ensure individual attention, we try to take limited students per session to be able to fully concentrate. It’s challenging but still a learning experience.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/virtual-summer-camps-a-breather-for-kids-and-parents-101623847580293.html
16-06-2021||Patna||LJP's Chirag Paswan slams rebels: 'Wheels set in motion after my dad’s death'||LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who has been sidelined by five party rebels, on Wednesday aimed to take control of the event as he described himself as ‘sher ka beta’ and said that will fight for the causes his father championed while addressing a press conference.He also blamed the Janata Dal (United) (JD(U)) led by Nitish Kumar for recent issues in the LJP. “During the state assembly polls or maybe even before that there were efforts made by some people and especially by the JD(U) to break our party,” Chirag said.Chirag also said that efforts to create a rift within the LJP were going on when Ram Vilas Paswan was hospitalised. “People were attempting to break the party when my father was hospitalized. My father had even spoken to my uncle about these incidents,” he further added. He said that people within the party were not ready for the struggle the party is going through following its founder’s death.Five rebel MPs of the Loktantrik Janata Party - Pashupati Kumar Paras, Prince Raj, Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser - on June 14 removed Chirag Paswan as the national president of the party. These rebel leaders had claimed that they had ‘saved’ the party.“The appointment of the leader of the House is a parliamentary committee's decision, not sitting MPs. There have been reports that I have been removed as the party's national president. As per party's constitution, the national president can only be removed if they die or resign,” Chirag said.Chirag also said that his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, Ram Vilas Paswan’s younger brother, had betrayed him. He lamented that Pashupati was a person he looked up to and did not expect to backstab him. “All of this had conspired when I was unwell. I tried to speak to my uncle at that time but I failed. I looked up to my uncle after my father’s demise,” Chirag said.“I felt I was not orphaned after my father’s death but now I am after my uncle did this (to me),” he further added. The LJP leader Raju Tiwari said that these five MPs have been dismissed at the party's national executive meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/wheels-set-in-motion-soon-after-my-father-s-death-chirag-slams-ljp-rebels-101623847095921.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 212 fresh Covid cases, 25 deaths; positivity rate at 0.27%||Delhi recorded 212 fresh Covid-19 cases and 25 fatalities on Wednesday, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.27%, according to data shared by the health department here.According to the latest health bulletin, these new fatalities pushed the death toll due to Covid-19 here to 24,876.On Tuesday, 228 cases with 0.32% positivity rate, and 12 deaths were recorded.On March 8, Delhi had recorded 239 cases and on March 9, the tally was 320, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-212-fresh-covid-cases-25-deaths-positivity-rate-at-027-101623846225883.html
16-06-2021||Gurugram||Got the jab? Eateries all set to reward you!||Foodies were in for a treat as recently the Haryana government allowed reopening of restaurants and bars in Gurugram for dine-in at malls and hotels from noon to 8pm. The move comes with restrictions of operating at 50% capacity and adhering to safety norms. And in a bid to entice customers and rebuild confidence in dining out, many restaurants are offering freebies, discounts and deals to those who have got their jabs against Covid-19. For they believe these incentives will encourage more people to get inoculated.For instance, Varun Puri, director, Imly and Duty Free Bar, is offering a 50% discount to vaccinated customers for dine-in. Elaborating on the initiative, he says, “We have to get customers back to our restaurants. From last March, the industry is fighting to regain the trust of customers, people have stopped going out due to the situation. We [the industry] have to collectively come forward and help generate confidence in customers.”Punjab Grill is offering dine-in only discounts of 10% for those who got their first vaccine dose and 20% to those who got the second dose too. And Cyber Hub Social is offering a free shot to those who’ve got their first jab, and two free shots to those who’ve gotten both. “This is our way of appreciating those who are taking responsible steps to slow the spread of Covid-19. The incentives are being offered in both Gurugram and Chandigarh”, says Satyajit Dhingra, chief regional officer - North, Impresario Handmade Restaurants. But if you’re still hesitant to visit a restaurant, Rollery, a delivery joint is supporting the cause by offering 25% off for those who’ve got their vaccination, one or both the doses. “The customers need to send their certificate on WhatsApp while placing the order,” says Debashish Yadav, CEO, Licorne Hospitality Pvt Ltd. Moreover, fast-food chain McDonald’s North and East India has also started a limited period discount offer for those vaccinated that can be availed through the website. Similarly, The Beer Café is promoting the inoculation drive with their “you got the jab, we got your tab” offer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/got-the-jab-eateries-all-set-to-reward-you-101623846131843.html
16-06-2021||Bhopal||In Madhya Pradesh, CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan announces new plan to promote Covid-19 vaccination drive||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday said that he would visit some areas in the state to promote the Covid-19 vaccination campaign on June 21. Chouhan also said that the ministers, MLA, crisis management committees and prominent personalities in the state would also visit different areas for the immunisation campaign.The chief minister’s announcement came after he met with Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the day. The two BJP leaders discussed a range of issues regarding state development, public welfare and Covid-19 control in MP.In a series of tweets about his discussions with Modi, Chouhan made his announcement on the vaccination campaign. “On June 21, I myself, all the ministers, MPs, MLAs, Crisis Management Committees, prominent personalities from different areas will go out for the vaccination campaign in Madhya Pradesh,” he tweeted. He also said that he sought the Prime Minister’s guidance regarding the completion of Covid-19 vaccination within the given time frame.Also read | Amid pandemic, a building called Quarantine in Madhya Pradesh’s SagarRegarding the possibility of a third wave of infections in the state, Chouhan said that the state is working with “full force” and will be able to control the spread of the disease. “Increased testing, isolating if tested positive, contact tracing, continuing the ‘Kill Corona’ campaign, keeping the Covid care centres functioning and following Covid appropriate behaviour by the public will continue,” he tweeted.Chouhan also said that in his state the crisis management committee took all decisions on measures to control the coronavirus disease. “Today 160 positive cases have been reported in Madhya Pradesh. The positivity rate is only 0.2%,” he further said.Among other topics, Chouhan also requested Modi to allow states to borrow upto 5.5% of the GDP so that works regarding infrastructure and development would not halt. “The economic condition of the states have been shaken due to the Covid-19 crisis. Last year, states were allowed to take loans up to 5.5% of GDP, which came down to 4.5% this year,” Chouhan tweeted.Following the meeting, the CM also expressed confidence that the Union government would consider his requests. He also said that under the PM’s guidance, development works in Madhya Pradesh could be taken forward more quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/in-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-announces-new-plan-to-promote-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101623843703720.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal education dept issues guidelines for online classes||The Himachal Pradesh education department has issued guidelines to schools after complaints that long hours of online classes during the Covid-induced lockdown are taking a toll on the health of students. “There were complaints that children are facing ophthalmic issues and postural problems so the department has issued a circular to school heads to limit the number of hours of online classes,” state education secretary Rajeev Sharma said in Shimla on Wednesday. Also read: India adaptable and agile even in middle of pandemic: PM ModiThe circular issued by the state director, higher education, Amarjeet K Sharma asked all deputy directors of education and heads of schools said: “It has been observed by the authorities that private schools are imparting excessive online teaching to students which is affecting their physical and mental health. In this regard, all concerned (principals/headmasters/ teachers) are directed to impart online learning classes that should be based on play way methods of teaching and also by organising quiz competitions to make teaching and learning interesting and joyful for students.” Digital education guidelines on website The notice said that the central government’s department of school education and literacy has circulated Pragyata Guidelines for Digital Education that concerns planning of online and digital education and factors in duration, screen time, inclusiveness, balanced online and offline activities. It recommends stage-wise intervention for physical health and mental wellness for all stakeholders, so that children do not get stressed or affected (postural defects, ophthalmic issues, and other physical problems) owing to prolonged use of digital devices. It provides dos and don’ts regarding ergonomics and cyber safety for students. These guidelines are also available on www.education hp.gov.in. Behavioural change in kids noticed Dr Dinesh Dutt, who heads the psychiatry department at Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital, said: “In many cases, we have found that children working for long hours on computers and other electronic gadgets being used for online classes have developed behavioural changes. Irritability is a major issue parents are facing. Children are becoming more habitual to gadgets.” The digital education guidelines specify that in case of online and offline mobile and laptop applications for children below Class 2, parents must be a bridge between the digital device and the child. For students from Classes 9 to 12, not more than four sessions of 35 to 40 minutes will be held and attention should be paid to children with special needs. Different online studies should be formulated for classes and students of different age groups through consultation between teachers and parents. Teachers should take into consideration learning styles, while planning group-wise sessions as some students learn by reading, some by listening and some by doing things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-education-dept-issues-guidelines-for-online-classes-101623843610656.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police challenges HC order granting bail to Pinjra Tod activists in SC||The Delhi Police on Wednesday filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) before the Supreme Court challenging the Delhi high court's order granting bail to Pinjra Tod activists in connection with the 2020 violence in north-east Delhi, news agency ANI reported.The Delhi Police, through advocate BV Balram Das, approached the top court and called the HC's judgement "perverse".“The high court has commented on facts outside the jurisdiction of the bail plea that will impact every National Investigation Agency (NIA) investigation under the UAPA. In stating that the accused being students whose dissent is sought to be stifled by the state is not borne from the evidence or charge sheet submitted to Court. In doing so, the high court has gone beyond its limited jurisdiction of dealing with the bail applications of the accused,” police officials familiar with the development said.Also Read: Pinjra Tod activists, Jamia student get bail in northeast Delhi riots caseJNU students Asif Iqbal Tanha, Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal were granted bail by the high court on Tuesday."We are constrained to say, that it appears, that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the State has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed 'right to protest' and 'terrorist activity'. If such blurring gains traction, democracy would be in peril," the HC bench comprising Justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambani said.The bench further noted that protests against governmental and parliamentary actions are legitimate and even though such protests are expected to be peaceful, it is "not uncommon" for them to push the limits permissible in law. It also said that the UAPA must be invoked only with regard to acts threatening the “defence of India” and not crimes covered under public order.Also Read | Right to protest is not a terror act: Delhi high court"The making of inflammatory speeches, organising chakka jams, and such like actions are not uncommon when there is widespread opposition to Governmental or Parliamentary actions. Even if we assume for the sake of argument, without expressing any view thereon, that in the present case inflammatory speeches, chakka jams, instigation of women protesters and other actions, to which the appellant is alleged to have been a party, crossed the line of peaceful protests permissible under our Constitutional guarantee, that however would yet not amount to commission of a 'terrorist act' or a 'conspiracy' or an 'act preparatory' to the commission of a terrorist act as understood under the UAPA," the Delhi high court noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-challenges-hc-order-granting-bail-to-pinjra-tod-activists-in-sc-101623837466471.html
16-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka Congress asks BJP to resolve feuds later, focus on helping common man||Ahead of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh’s visit to the state, the Congress on Wednesday alleged that the ruling party was busy resolving internal feuds instead of focusing on helping the people of the country.Singh will hold a meeting with ministers of the Yediyurappa cabinet on Wednesday, according to a PTI report. He will also meet the MLAs of the ruling party and address the state core committee on Friday.“Dear Arun Singh, you are rushing here to hold a ‘Platform Panchayat meeting’ (Katte Panchayat) but don't you have the time to address the grievances of people? From the day one of coming to power, this government has been making news about squabbling and not any achievements,” the Karnataka Congress said in a tweet.Speculations of BS Yediyurappa leaving his chief minister’s post was quashed by the BJP last week when the chief minister thanked the central leadership for reposing their faith in him. Yediyurappa confidently had said that he will continue to be the chief minister till 2023.There has been some speculation that a section of the BJP wants to unseat Yediyurappa but the party is wary of any such move as it feels that it will lead to a backlash from the support base as well as from the chief minister, according to a news report by HT. Experts have also pointed out that any move made in haste without a proper replacement for the veteran leader can cause damage to the party in the state.“There will be a core committee meeting on June 18. It's BJP, we believe in democracy. Central leaders are sending Arun Singh to listen to the leaders here in Karnataka. It's not like Congress where no one listens or asks,” state minister Eshwarappa fired back at the Congress on Wednesday. The Congress alleged that the party should focus on the problems faced by the common man rather than solving internal squabbles among its lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-congress-asks-bjp-to-resolve-feuds-later-focus-on-helping-common-man-101623840858569.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab SC panel summons Congress MP Ravneet Bittu for casteist remarks||The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes on Wednesday summoned Congress member of Parliament Ravneet Singh Bittu to appear before it on June 22 in connection with a complaint against him for using unparliamentary language. Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur said that the summons were issued after a complaint from Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu against a video being circulated widely on social media and newspaper reports in which Bittu made the casteist remarks. Also read: ‘No discrimination in allotment of black fungus drug’: Centre tells Bombay HCShe said the commission will investigate the matter. “Bittu has been asked to appear before the commission at 11.30am on June 22 under Section 12(2) of the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission Act,” a release quoting her said. A delegation of SAD MLAs Sukhwinder Sukhi, Baldev Khaira and Tinu met Tejinder Kaur on Tuesday and sought her intervention. The Ludhiana MP, according to the MLAs, had criticised the SAD for giving away “pious seats” of Anandpur Sahib and Chamkaur Sahib to the Bahujan Samaj Party after forging a poll alliance with it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sc-panel-summons-congress-mp-ravneet-bittu-for-casteist-remarks-101623840310615.html
16-06-2021||Other||Everyone backstabbed me: Sasikala in clip||Chennai: A day after the dual leadership in the AIADMK expelled 16 party members for speaking to their ousted former interim general secretary V K Sasikala, new audio clips emerged on Tuesday where she reveals that everyone back-stabbed her and that she would have picked O Panneerselvam as chief minister before she went to prison in 2017. She also offers an explanation for her decision to step away from politics before elections and her determination to reclaim the party now.Sasikala’s team released nine audio clips of her telephonic conversations with party functionaries from across Tamil Nadu. In all her conversations, Sasikala is contemplative, consoles the cadre and sometimes expresses vexation without naming Edappadi Palaniswami and Panneerselvam. Palaniswami and Panneerselvam who head the party as coordinator and coordinator and in the assembly as leader of opposition and deputy were Sasikala’s loyalists who turned against her at different points. A cadre, Sivanesan from Theni district from where Panneerselvam hails is heard telling her that if he hadn’t resigned, he could have brought her out and only the two of them can save the party now. To this Sasikala responded, “At that time, he left on his own. If not I would have seated him on the chair before leaving.”Her statement is unexpected as at that point, Panneerselvam staged a dramatic revolt against Sasikala after he resigned as chief minister to make way for her. Palaniswami was in Sasikala’s camp and hence she picked him before leaving for Bengaluru to surrender to serve her for a four year jail term as a convict in the disproportionate assets case.“Everyone backstabbed me. There is no more space left on my back to be stabbed anymore,” Sasikala tells this cadre. “But how can I be a mute spectator if they do this to cadres also?” In her conversations with other cadres, she even goes on to say that the AIADMK would have won had they been united. “I stepped aside because they said they wouldn’t take me in and they would win,” she says. “So I thought, okay, let’s leave it. Let them do it. Now the cadres are crying to me. How can I be quiet?” She criticised the leadership expelling the cadre a day ago. “The selfishness of one or two people is driving them to expel the cadre and they’re making a scapegoat. That is wrong.” The cadre also complained to Sasikala that the party doesn’t have semblance of its past glory but looks like a caste outfit. This is in reference to Palaniswami’s hold over the party and his nurturing of his community, the Gounders over the Mukkulathor community whom Sasikala had cultivated over the years when late J Jayalalithaa headed the party. Panneerselvam also belongs to the Mukkalathor community.Sasikala told a cadre that after AIADMK returned to power in 2016, Jayalalithaa had shared certain plans with her about the things she wanted to do for poor people. “All that’s in my heart and I will do it,” she says. “I’m very upset about the way they are running the party...People didn’t accept them. Along with Amma I’ve worked so hard for the party. Now there is a necessity for me to save the party and cadre. The time for that has come.”On Monday, the feuding leaders Palaniswami and Panneerselvam united together once again like they did before the elections to keep Sasikala and family away. They released a four page resolution warning party cadre from having any truck with her. Panneerselvam who has softened his stance against Sasikala’s re-entry was elected as deputy legislative leader. Experts say that the dual leadership will continue in the AIADMK. “It is clear that EPS has the majority of supporters in the party and OPS barely has any support. But for now they have a 50% power sharing of the 33% votes,” said political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy. “Panneerselvam will not let that go and neither will want an issue with the party symbol if they split and it freezes. Sasikala has no political capital. She is now a paper tigress.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/everyone-backstabbed-me-sasikala-in-clip-101623840189751.html
16-06-2021||Bangalore||No clarity yet on disbursement of ₹1 lakh Covid death relief fund||Bengaluru The BS Yediyurappa-led government is yet to finalise the modalities of the newly announced compensation of ₹1 lakh for the families who have lost their loved ones to Covid-19.Senior officials in the government said that the announcement has just been made but there is still no clarity on who will implement the relief, which political leaders and rights activists say is a case of “putting the cart before the horse” and only for “sake of headlines and publicity”.“It has just been announced and nothing has been worked out yet. The CMs (chief ministers) office will decide which office will implement it and then issue a government order,” said a senior government official, requesting not to be named.Another senior official said that the modalities would not be too difficult to work out since it would require the beneficiary to show their BPL (below poverty line) card and death certificate.The second official cited above said that Karnataka has followed the ICMR death reporting system issued in mid-last year to announce deaths.“We have told very clearly that all Covid deaths have to be covered. Many states, what they are doing, if they are having comorbidities, they are not showing them as Covid deaths,” the official said, requesting not to be named.Yediyurappa on Monday announced that the state government has decided to give ₹1 lakh compensation per family, as a measure to mitigate the hardships due to Covid-19 pandemic.“Several earning members of families have died due to Covid-19 that has caused distress and many of them have come to the streets. Keeping this in mind, we have taken a decision to give ₹1 lakh to those BPL families if anyone has died due to Covid-19, one per family,” Yediyurappa said in Bengaluru on Monday.The compensation, Yediyurappa said, totalled to around ₹250-300 crore and the count of beneficiaries anywhere between 25000-30000.The state government has in total announced over ₹4000 crores worth of financial packages since last year to mitigate the hardships of those affected by the pandemic. But a significant number of these sections are yet to get any relief, adding to doubts if this time will be any different.The state government has at least twice said that they would conduct detailed death audits, but has so far yet to come out with any such report so far.According to official data, over 33,148 persons have died in Karnataka due to Covid-19 since the first death in India was reported in the state on March 11 last year.“The government claims that there are around 30,000 people who have died but the deaths could be double of that. There are those who died without oxygen, people who have died at home. But even going by official government estimates, only 25% are likely to benefit,” Ramalinga Reddy, senior Congress leader and working president of the party, told Hindustan Times.Karnataka has had around five weeks of lockdown-like restrictions which were intensified for nearly a month since the last week of April on account of a surge in new infections and rising deaths.There are over 10 million BPL card holders in the state, Reddy said, and the amount of ₹1 lakh serves as no relief as many of them have paid a lot more as hospital bills for treatment.In May last year, Yediyurappa announced a similar financial package of ₹1,610 crore which, among others, was aimed at providing ₹5,000 each to about 60,000 washermen, 2,30,000 barbers, 7,75,000 auto and taxi drivers among others.However, this time around there has been a sharp decline in the number of beneficiaries too, as per the official statements by the chief minister’s office.For instance, in the case of auto, taxi and maxi cab drivers, a one-time relief of ₹3000 has been announced for 2,10,000 beneficiaries from an estimated 7,75,000 beneficiaries last time around.A senior government official said that last time around the authorities took the entire number of registered persons but were unable to trace them.The problem of identification, registration and quantum of documentation, rights activists said, had already denied even the earlier announced benefits to several sections including domestic help.Geetha Menon from the Domestic Workers Rights Union, which represents over 7,000 people working in this profession, said that not a single member has so far been able to get the relief announced by the government.“The government has made it so difficult even to get this meagre amount,” Menon said.She said that the persons who are in this profession are asked to get certificates not from their employers but different officials, leading to demands for bribes.She said that the excessive documentation demands has led to the activation of the “shadow system” in which political leaders and others approach these workers and demand for ₹200-350 as commission to avail the benefit of ₹2,000.“At one time the Aadhaar was the main assumed ID by the government. Today, you are asked for a BPL card and many of us do not have these cards. Then you are asked for a birth certificate and many of our women do not even know their date of birth,” Menon said.She said that the death compensation is definitely going to impact their members as many of them do not even have BPL cards and it is not the lack of trying but due to bureaucratic hurdles.Other sections, mentioned as beneficiaries like barbers, construction workers and several other professions have people who are not registered with the authorities.Bengaluru, one of the biggest urban centres in the country, attracts migrant workers--blue and white collar--to the city and activists said that these people are entirely left out, leaving much of the so-called relief undisbursed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-clarity-yet-on-disbursement-of-rs-1-lakh-covid-death-relief-fund-101623840009881.html
16-06-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: Pune rises from ashes as young Shivaji enters the scene||Shivaji Maharaj’s father, Shahaji Raje, fought the battle of a lone wolf. He dreamed of autonomy and an independent kingdom. His aspiration for independence and the contrasting political situation put him at the centre of conflict in western Deccan.In spite of his loyal service at the Mughal court, an important part of his jahagir was handed over to Fattekhan, the son of Malik Ambar, by the Mughals.Pune, his home jahagir was ransacked by Adilshahi sardars mercilessly. This left Shahaji Raje disillusioned. As he left the Mughal service to return to Nizamshahi, Nizamshahi was breathing its last. And yet, with sheer grit, Shahaji Raje protected Nizamshahi’s underage heir to the throne, against the joint forces of the Mughals and Adilshahi. He made Pemgiri near Sangamne his capital and continued to defend Nizamshahi for the next four years. Around the end of 1636, Nizamshahi rule ended after a bitter struggle and territory was distributed between the Mughals and Adilshahi. Shahaji Raje returned to Adilshahi and was awarded his original jahagir of Pune, Supe and Chakan pargana by Mohammad Adilshah II. However, as retribution of his actions, he was appointed to conduct the Karnataka campaign along with Adilshahi sardar, Ranadulla Khan, this far from his jahagir.As he could not administrate Pune, Shahaji Raje appointed his trusted official Dadoji Konddeo to accompany his elder wife Queen Jijabai and second son, Shivaji Raje, to govern Pune. In addition, Dadoji Konddeo was the Adilshahi subhedar of fort Sinhagad. A cavalry of 1,000 soldiers, was appointed for their assistance. Pune was in no condition to be inhabited in 1637, so Queen Jijabai and Shivaji Raje sought temporary residence at Kasba Khed (Shivapur) near Pune, at Bapuji Mudgal Narhekar Deshpande’s wada. Dadoji Konddeo was assigned the responsibility of training a young Shivaji in statecraft and military prowess. To resurrect Kasba Pune and the entire Mawal region was no easy task. People believed that the land was infested by ghosts and demons and were reluctant to inhabit it. Queen Jijabai and Dadoji Konddeo decided to conduct an auspicious ritual to purify the land. As per prescriptions of the shashtra, a king should sanctify polluted land by tilling it with a gold-tipped plough, yoking healthy bullocks with gold- tipped horns. This symbolic gesture was conducted to bring fertility and productivity back to the land. When this ritual was conducted by Queen Jijabai and Shivaji Maharaj, jahagirdars of Pune, under the guidance of Dadoji Konddeo, it instilled great confidence in the minds of the public. This meant that the Bhosale family would personally protect the locals and guard their land and interests.The Patils, Deshmukhs, Kulkarnis and village workers, assured of their safety, were brought back to Pune,. They were given the responsibility of agricultural development. Special offers were made to farmers and farm workers to cultivate the land. Agriculture taxes were exempted for five years. Dadoji Konddeo adopted Malik Ambar’s taxation model in a staggered manner, to be executed over three years. The entire land had to be inspected and was classified according to productivity. Eventually, one-fourth taxes were levied on agricultural produce. Several fruit orchards were promoted. Loans and discounts were offered to expedite redevelopment of the land. The “gav pandhar” or residential settlements, were newly laid down as per community preferences. The resettlement of Pune would not be possible without assured sources of water. Expansion of Pune as a city (and most medieval towns), has always been a function of water. In order to ensure guaranteed irrigated supply for newly cultivated lands, a dam was built on the old Ambil Odha (stream) which flowed from the south of Pune to the centre, to meet the Mutha river. A dam was built in a ‘C’ shape near Parvati and named “Seri-Parvatiche Dharan”. The dam was primarily for irrigation purposes and it submerged a large area extending from Sanas ground to the present-day Parvati water works. The remnants of the dam wall can still be seen over Ambil Odha today. Before construction of the dam, the Ambil stream was used by the Mahar community to wash animal hides which polluted the clean water. In order to avoid this, the community was awarded a separate space to process animal hides on the western side of Pune at the time. They were also awarded a space to the northeast of Pune behind Kalbhairav temple (present day Maharwada).The old temple of Ganesha, between Shitole wada and Honap Deshpande wada at Kasba peth, was in a terrible state when Queen Jijabai took charge of Pune. It had suffered great damage after the Adilshahi attack on Pune. Vinayak Bhat Thakar, who was in charge of the Ganesha temple during the Nizamshahi, performed the daily service discreetly, not to invite undue attention. Queen Jijabai ordered Dadoji Konddeo to rebuild the Kasba Ganpati temple and reinstated daily worship with great fanfare. The archival documents of the Thakar family inform us of annual grants given by Queen Jijabai. She also reinstated the Tambdi Jogeshwari temple near “Kale wavar”, at the present-day Appa Balwant chowk. The Bendre family was given a grant for the same. Kasba Ganpati and Tambdi Jogeshwari, along with Nava Kalbhairav, were recognised as the three main Gram devatas of Pune city. Dadoji Kondadeo ensured that the wildlife menace was reduced around the settlement by declaring awards for the hunting of wolves and wild boar. He was also responsible for establishing a peth in the village of Pashan, named after Jijabai, as Jijapur. Under Queen Jijabai’s governance and Dadoji Kondadeo’s supervision, Shivaji Maharaj started gaining experience in statecraft and governance. Queen Jijabai actively oversaw the judiciary functions of the pargana. Pune was finally resurrected from the ashes. These fertile grounds became the first cradle of the Maratha kingdom as a young Shivaji Raje walked his first steps on “Punyabhumi”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-pune-rises-from-ashes-as-young-shivaji-enters-the-scene-101623839651226.html
16-06-2021||Bangalore||Bangalore Talkies: Infighting in apartment complexes||This tiny virus has taught us many things. The illusion of control that we all thought we had about our lives has now been irrevocably shattered. It has showed us the extent of our own fallibility and how the rivers and animals that we once viewed as sacred and since desecrated with mutate and fight back in ways that we cannot even imagine.Who knew that a potent combination of a wet market along with the Chinese penchant for eating wild things could unleash this beast upon the world.The learnings will continue as the world emerges from the virus. Social distancing has created emotional distances and the mental health issues that will ripple out are hard to know or measure.For me, one of the lessons that this virus has taught is about normalcy. One person’s normal is another person’s outrage. This gets compounded in a residential community that can only enforce norms, not laws. Requests, not rules. In 1620, the French polymath Blaise Pascal said, “People are usually more convinced by reasons they discover themselves than by those found by others.” This applies to norms and rules surrounding this virus?Also Read | Bangalore Talkies: Have you exited a WhatsApp group lately?How has your community dealt with social distancing? Are all of your friends and neighbours on the same page? Not so in my community.Bengaluru in May, 2021 had the dubious distinction of being the top city in terms of active Covid-19 cases. In mid-May, we had close to 600, 000 active cases. As the city administration faltered, most apartment communities had to come up with rules of their own. And this is where the variety of responses to rules was on wide display.Take my own community. With 64 apartments, we are not especially large. During the lockdown imposed by the city government pretty much all through May, the volunteer committee that runs our building complex came up with what they thought of as a fairly sensible rule. They banned maids, drivers and other external service people from entering our community. This, I must add, was the norm in many large gated communities in Bengaluru. What happened was a display of the Indian mindset.Indians, as a rule, hate to be told what to do. This isn’t a uniquely Indian trait. Most people don’t like to be dictated to. The difference is that Indians are very creative and imaginative when it comes to breaking rules. Worse, they think that rules apply to everyone else except them.When maids were banned in our apartment, many of my neighbours who I thought I knew came up with novel ways to circumvent this rule.One spirited the maid into the basement in her car and into her apartment. Another fought with the security guards every morning, heaping abuse on them for preventing her maid from entering.A third announced that she would take responsibility if any person entering her home infected the community. This was the opposite of an idle threat. This was an idle responsibility.There was no way that this lady would take charge of our building in case her maid infected the rest of us. In the 1950s, social psychologist Leon Festinger came up with what he called the “theory of cognitive dissonance.”Humans hate to hold two thoughts that are in conflict with each other. So the household that cannot do without maids does not like to hear from their neighbours that these maids are carriers of infection. Their response – to double down and insist that they are right and the others are overreacting. The same applies to parents in a school, workers in a factory and employees in a company. How to protect a community then?When you have to rely on good faith and social norms to influence good behaviour, it becomes an exercise in persuasion. In India, social distancing is an alien concept. Our homes have fluid boundaries with people coming in and out.During Bengaluru’s lockdown, there were families in my community who decided to do without all help: no maids or drivers. And there were families who simply couldn’t do without external help. How to get these two extremes on the same page?In the birdwatching group that I am part of, there are members who believe that going for nature outings is okay as long as all members wear masks. And there are others who believe that such gatherings are very risky. Each to his own may work in normal circumstances but not when you are steering an unruly ship.Values are a nebulous thing. What might hold strong and true for you might seem strange and shifty to others. Do you eschew all outside food or do you order in and say that you will support local businesses? Both views have merit in this situation. Do you gather outdoors with a few friends or not? Do you vaccinate or not?What seems to work is the well placed question, the suggestion without aggression. As Abraham Lincoln once said, in order to persuade people, you have to first befriend them. If it worked for a man who had to heal and bring a country together, why not try it in your community?Shoba Narayan is a Bengaluru-based award-winning author. She is also a freelance contributor who writes about art, food, fashion and travel for a number of publications||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bangalore-talkies-infighting-in-apartment-complexes-101623838510478.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||'No discrimination in allotment of black fungus drug’: Centre tells Bombay HC||The Centre on Wednesday told the Bombay high court that it has allocated Amphotericin B, used for treating mucormycosis or black fungus, on a need-based system and it has not discriminated against any state regarding its allotment including Maharashtra.The additional solicitor general Anil Singh told the high court that the allotment of the antifungal drugs to Maharashtra has been regular despite Amphotericin B being in short supply. He said that the Centre is trying its best to meet the demands raised by all the state governments, according to a report by news agency PTI. He was responding to a previous query raised by the high court where it questioned the Centre if its system of distribution of the antifungal drug was based on a system of ‘equitable distribution.’The high court was listening to several public interest litigations (PILs) on the management of resources related to the pandemic and Maharashtra government’s preparedness ahead of a probable third wave. around 15,000 vials of Amphotericin B to Maharashtra daily in the last few months. He also said that 140,260 vials have been delivered to Maharashtra in the second wave so far.“Nobody can dispute we are allocating as per drug availability in the country and the demands raised by states. The Centre is leaving no stone unturned to see that the drug is available in adequate quantity. A task force is constituted which is being monitored by the Supreme Court. We have granted licenses to six pharmaceutical companies to import the latest and most effective variant of Amphotericin B from a United States-based company,” Singh said.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who appeared for Maharashtra, said the states’ current requirement is 17,500 vials per day. He also highlighted that the in-house production deal with pharma company Haffkine Bio will give the state 40,000 more vials of the drug between June 18 and June 30. Kumbhakoni said that Maharashtra saw 75 deaths in the past week due to mucormycosis. There are currently 7,511 active cases of black fungus in the state. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's advocate Anil Sakhre said that there are 282 active cases of black fungus in Mumbai.The court set the hearing on the plea for June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-discrimination-in-allotment-of-black-fungus-drug-centre-tells-bombay-hc-101623837439512.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||BSP chief Mayawati denies party MLAs joining SP, slams it for propagating lies||Former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh and leader of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) Mayawati on Wednesday denied that her party MLAs joined the Samajwadi Party (SP). She also slammed the SP for propagating lies about the issue and said that her party had suspended the MLAs a long ago.“SP is propagating lies about some BSP MLAs joining their party. We (BSP) had suspended them long back for conspiring with the SP against a Dalit leader to defeat him in the Rajya Sabha polls,” Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi, earlier in the day.The BSP chief also said that the SP specialises in politics of hate, manipulation, malice and casteism and with the help of the media had said that the BSP MLAs have joined their party. “If the SP had been a little honest towards these suspended MLAs, it would not have kept them waiting till now. Because they know that if these BSP MLAs are taken, there will be rebellion and split in SP, by those who are eager to join BSP,” she further said in a subsequent tweet.Also read | Ayodhya land deal: Akhilesh Yadav asks Trust members to resignIn a series of five tweets, Mayawati explained her party’s stance and criticised the SP sharply regarding the incident. She called the episode a “drama” by the Akhilesh Yadav-led party for the president and block-chief elections. “By the way, this new drama of SP yesterday, which they publicized in the media, about meeting the suspended MLAs of BSP seems more like a maneuver done for the election of the president and the block chief after the panchayat elections in UP. BSP has emerged as the party of people’s aspirations in UP which will continue,” she said in a tweet.Earlier on Tuesday, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav acknowledged that a meeting took place with rebel MLAs of the BSP during an interview with a television news channel. He also said that the MLAs would soon join his party and they wanted to contest elections. During the interview, Yadav also ruled out any alliances with the bigger parties in the upcoming state assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-chief-mayawati-denies-party-mlas-joining-sp-slams-it-for-propagating-lies-101623836930592.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Marathi actor Mayuresh Kotkar gets bail 2 days after arrest for Facebook post||Thane: Marathi actor Mayuresh Kotkar got bail on Wednesday, two days after he was arrested for making alleged derogatory comments against Maharashtra urban development minister Eknath Shinde and his family over the naming of the upcoming international airport in Navi Mumbai. His lawyer B Sonawane said, “Court has granted bail on Wednesday to Kotkar. The argument happened on Tuesday, but the court reserved the order; and on Wednesday, he is out on bail.”Mayuresh Kotkar, who has acted in some Marathi serials and films, was arrested on Monday under Section 505 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for publishing a statement with the intent to provoke and cause violence between communities, police had claimed explaining his arrest. However, it was criticised by opposition leaders in the state.Kotkar allegedly used defamatory language against minister Eknath Shinde and his parents while questioning the minister’s suggestion to name the upcoming Navi Mumbai International Airport after Shiv Sena founder and patriarch Balasaheb Thackeray, who passed away on November 17, 2012. Kotkar was demanding that the airport be named after Dinkar B Patil, a former parliamentarian from Maharashtra and a senior member of Peasants and Workers Party of India, who passed away on June 24, 2012. Last week, local villagers protested against the proposal by forming a 12-km-long human chain and threatened to lay a siege on the Konkan Bhavan in Navi Mumbai on June 24 over the issue. Kotkar also supported the protests.Shiv Sena corporator Yogesh Jankar, who filed the police complaint against Kotkar, said use of “objectionable or defamatory” language for any person or his family was not acceptable.“There should be some limitations while arguing or posting anything on social media. Therefore I came forward to lodge a complaint,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marathi-actor-mayuresh-kotkar-out-on-bail-in-derogatory-fb-post-case-101623835930280.html
16-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 era: Gurugram touted as most suitable to live! Celebs assess||For the year gone by battling Covid-19 pandemic has been tough, and how! But if only you were in a city that had the right population density, open area ratio and hospital infrastructure, the experience would’ve probably not been that bad. So when Gurugram stole the top slot as per the recent report ‘Suitability Index: The COVID Perspective’ by Square Yards,the residents of the Millennium City couldn’t agree more! Here’s what some of the popular Gurugrammers have to say to this.Gaurav Gera: I’ve been wanting to shift from Mumbai to Gurugram Actor and stand-up comedian Gaurav Gera, who spent two months with his parents during this lockdown, in April-May, in Gurugram, says, “I was locked up in an independent house with my parents. We didn’t step out, and did a lot of online shopping. We were comfortable and didn’t need too much... But now that it’s opening up, I must say that the New Gurgaon is better planned, has wide roads and open spaces. I’ve been wanting to shift from Mumbai to Gurugram because of this, as the houses are bigger, the roads...everything is. But my work is in Mumbai, so I can only come here spent time with family during breaks.”Kunal Kapur: We’ve access to top hospitals, doctors on call Chef Kunal Kapur is of the opinion that Gurugram handled the pandemic “pretty well”. But, it could have been better! He opines, “Gurugram being one of the new cities in India is beautifully planned and laid out. There is a certain sense of space. I wouldn’t say that’s the case of entire Gurugram, but most of the newly developed Gurugram; whether it’s office, eateries or home. We have access to some top hospitals, and doctors on call. The ease of staying at home and yet working and coupled with good doctors, and school which adapted to a curriculum which was online for kids and engaging them so that education doesn’t get hampered..It’s got a lot of to do with people, area infrastructure. The flip side was that the doctors were overwhelmed, over worked. People of Gurugram also came forward in extending a helping hand to people in need, in terms of supplying food, medicines or supporting each other through different Whats App groups, and where could one find plasma. Looking out for each other was special.” Anshuman Jha: There is definitely room for improvement Actor Anshuman Jha says, “I had three friends’ family reaching out to me from Gurugram, during the month of May, to help them find hospital beds. I had to request Sonu Sood if there is an availability. So there’s obviously more to do; so its great that Gurugram ticks the boxes for Covid times but there is definitely room for improvement. Health care needs to be people centric and patient centric, not capital centric. Maybe Gurugram can lead the path in that direction. It will be even better to have air quality and lifestyle habits mapped into this and have Gurugram as the most suitable city at all times, and not just during Covid times!”Ravinder Singh: RWAs played an important role in getting vaccination Author Ravinder Singh says: “In the entire NCR, the kind of load Delhi would have taken...Gurugram is far better off. It’s a cluster, a millennium city. Given the fact that it comes in a different state, it’s tiny and has got multiple hospitals to take care of the population, vis-à-vis Delhi or any other big city. We are better off in comparison to Delhi, Noida. The real important factor for me was unlike Delhi, Gurugram is a ‘society culture’. During Covid, the entire management was quite functional. For example RWAs played an important role in getting vaccination or RT-PCR test done, camps were organised so one didn’t have to go to hospitals, and even security guards came into action. We laid out an entire process how delivery folks will come, how maids or cooks will come. There were really workable and practical solutions. Gurugram is a society oriented place to live vis-a-vis any other city.”Vijender Singh: In Gurugram, people followed Covid guidelinesElated to see the praise coming for his place of residence, boxer Vijender Singh says, “It’s really nice to see this (recognition). People are educated there and know what to do and what not to do (with respect to rules). In Gurugram, people followed guidelines very well. That’s why they the city is being referred to the most suitable to live during Covid-19.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-era-gurugram-touted-as-most-suitable-to-live-101623832856929.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Lost parent to Covid-19? These Delhi-NCR tutors will teach you for free||When a child looses a parent, it’s not just his/her innocence but also his crucial years of education that get affected. And that’s what the pandemic has inflicted on a many children, who have lost either one or bother parents to Covid-19. Here’s where some good Samaritans have stepped up to play the role of tutors for these kids. A Delhi-based educator, Priyanka N Srivastava is one such kind soul who is providing free of cost education to the children who have lost their parents to Covid and even those young adults who are unable to afford tuition classes since their parents have lost their jobs. Having tied up with NGOs to teach subjects such as science, maths, and chemistry, to such children, she says, “Humko two months ho gaye hain classes chalate hue. Chahe maid ke bachche ho ya peon ke, it doesn’t matter, one is just a student for me. Anybody can join these classes, bas padne ki ichcha honi chahiye! I wanted to personally help school students who are lacking a source of education because of having lost their parents or due to financial constraints. Sessions saare online hain. And we also have counsellors associated with us, to help such kids according to their needs.” While the government authorities are launching various nationalised schemes to sponsor the education of children who have suffered personal loss due to the deadly virus, there are teachers such as Gurugram-based Nitin Yadav, who feels responsible to contribute his bit to the society in his capacity. “This April, we launched an initiative called Free Economics and Business Studies Classes, for all the students who have lost the earning member of their family. The initiative is to waive off the burden of tuition fees from these students, so that their education doesn’t suffer due to the financial crunch,” explains Yadav, adding, “This step was taken to support students’ education during these trying times. The motivation behind the idea was a student from my current batch who lost one of his parents to Covid. Thinking of all such students, I wanted contribute his share to the society as an educator and hence, birthed the idea of waiver for classes.” Yadav is also encouraging the educators to come forward to help students get through these times beyond teaching. And there’s Rima Chainani, who lost her husband to Covid-19, and started a foundation wherein she’s providing online classes to Delhi-NCR based students, in commerce, economics and business studies. “I wanted to use my her knowledge to help the children,” says Chainani, adding, “I’ve been in this field for 10 years now, teaching 10th and 12th. I thought let me help children who have lost their parents or children who can’t afford classes belonging to marginalised class. I see so many people around me fighting Covid-19; losing their only earning member of the family. There are so many struggles one has to go through. I thought let me use my education, and whatever is my financial capacity to help people. I started off with children who can afford the tuitions fee, so that the money can be utilised for helping out others, who can’t afford. I’m now in the process of connecting with NGOs who are working for the same cause, since they are in the field and can help me out. The fund generation has started, and I hope to help as many as I can.” Author t@Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lost-parent-to-covid-19-these-delhi-ncr-tutors-will-teach-you-for-free-101623831792949.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Being social again: Are you vaccinated? It’s new normal!||For normalcy is slowly returning, but things have changed and how, especially after the second wave of Covid-19 in 2021. One can’t think of stepping out without masks (usually more than one), sanitisers and the likes. And this has led a panic and/or anxiety seep in those who are trying to get back to their social life, while following the drastically altered norms of ‘new normal’. Questions like ‘Are you vaccinated yet?’, ‘How many doses of vaccination have you received?’, ‘Let’s get a RT-PCR test done before meeting’ seem to have become part of routine, everyday conversations. Paralympian Deepa Malik, who is based in Gurugram, recently met her friends after ages. And her checklist included shots of vaccine, an anti-body test, temperature and oxygen levels, a negative RT-PCR test, and a limited gathering of six people only. Phew! So much to plan a ‘safe’ get together? “My friend, who was the host, is diabetic and had been low because of frozen shoulder. We felt she needed to meet up. And I believe that ‘vitamin friends’ is a special ingredient for mental well-being. But Covid has taught to celebrate lil joys keeping safety in mind. The idea is to be with each other and celebrate our health. So though we hadn’t been able to meet for a long time — as we were waiting for everyone to get vaccinated — but the day we decided to show up to this meet-up, we all got out RT-PCR test done in the morning of the meeting,” she recalls. But apprehensions before meeting people has set in, thanks to months of staying in, and fear of contracting the virus or getting yet another bad news. Utkarsha Bansal, a Delhi-based college student, shares how flying kisses is history and double masking is the new normal, just like checking the vaccination status of friends before meeting them. “Despite the relaxation in the lockdown, I haven’t stepped out of my house more than once. With the speculation of the third wave, I personally feel this is the time people need to be even more careful. Most of the city’s population can’t afford the luxury of staying indoors and not working. So, the relaxation in the lockdown were inevitable. However, for those of us who are privileged, the risk of stepping out should not be taken even after getting vaccination. The vaccine reduces the risk of one getting severely affected due to Covid-19, but it doesn’t guarantee full protection. So the risk of getting infected persists. I’ve faced the wrath of the virus once and wouldn’t do anything to put myself at risk again. I can’t get vaccinated before I complete 30-40 days of recovery. But I would surely confirm the vaccination status of my friends before I meet them in these times,” she adds. The pandemic has not only forced the human race to put their lives on hold, it has subsequently changed the course of socialising. “Today, one can clearly notice many people practising isolation and cutting off their social ties. Talking about going out, I’ve had only few chances to do the same as mostly all communication, personal or with university and other organisations has been transformed to virtual. Of course if I get a chance to go out with friends, a prime concern would be the status of their as well as my vaccination,” says Yashi Vijayvergiya, another college student. Panicking before socialising? Here’s a tip from expert“Panicking and being anxious simply means that you are over thinking about a particular topic,” says psychological counsellor and therapist Komel Chadha, adding how people are deriving comfort with digital communication more than physical interactions. She adds: “After seeing surge in the number of deaths during the second wave, expectation of normalcy hardly gets seen. People are still trusting digital mode, in fact many are trying to develop more comfort with it. The biggest challenge is the comfort that has already developed by working from home for more than a year now. People have started creating happiness within four walls. For example, if I’m anxious about an upcoming future event, simply means I am making too many images of something that is about to happen in my mind. If you want to control it, you have to be more mindful — reduce to the number of images you create in your mind about that event — and should rather see visuals of making it more successful, then the anxiety will get controlled.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/being-social-again-are-you-vaccinated-it-s-new-normal-101623831012084.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai housing society vaccine scam: 2 held as residents suspect 'fake' shots||Two people have been detained in connection with the vaccine scene that unfolded in Mumbai's Hiranandani Estate Society after the residents on Tuesday raised suspicion over the Covid vaccine dose that they got at a vaccination camp held at the residential complex on May 30. A police complaint was filed by the residents at Kandivli police station after the resident spotted several irregularities in the entire process. None of them developed any side effect after being administered with the vaccine dose.Here is what happened?The residents' welfare association got in touch with some people who organised the vaccination camp at the society complex, as the government has now allowed residential societies to organise camps vaccine camps. The residents were informed that they will receive the shots from Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Andheri. But as they have started receiving the vaccine certificates, they found that their vaccines came from Nanavati Max Super Speciality, Lifeline hospitals and NESCO jumbo centre.None of them had registered on Co-Win app before being inoculated. They were registered after vaccination as they received calls asking for the Co-Win OTP. Following this, they received their certificates which were full of wrong information.-We were later told that the jab was given by a Shivam Hospital, while some said it was from a private agent. -Another point of doubt is that not a single member showed any side effects of the vaccine. Not 1 out of 400?The hospitals apparently involved — Nanavati Max Super Speciality, Lifeline hospitals and NESCO jumbo centre — denied any role. They also clarified that they did not issue those certificates and NESCO jumbo centre, for instance, is run by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and hence its vaccines are free. But it also clarified that it does not have the permission to provide vaccines to residential societies.The residents of the society paid for the vaccine shots and some of them have plans to travel abroad. Now they are not sure whether they received Covishield or glucose water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-housing-society-vaccine-scam-2-held-as-residents-suspect-fake-shots-101623828636797.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||How Mumbai, India's most crowded city, beat the odds and the Covid-19 pandemic||When Covid-19 arrived in India, few places looked as vulnerable as Mumbai. But a year on, South Asia's most crowded city has surprised many by tackling a vicious second wave with considerable success.Gaurav Awasthi even travelled hundreds of kilometres from his home on the outskirts of Delhi to get his ailing wife a hospital bed there, paying an ambulance more than a thousand dollars to drive 24 hours straight."I cannot ever repay my debt to this city," the 29-year-old told AFP, recounting an ordeal that saw him spend five days fruitlessly searching for a bed across several cities, including Delhi."I don't know if my wife would be alive today if it weren't for Mumbai's health facilities."Bodies in wardsThe bodies began turning up early in India's financial capital during the first wave of infections last year -- a man collapsing on a busy road, a rickshaw driver slumped over the wheel, a corpse lying in the street -- in a grim echo of the 1918 flu pandemic.By May 2020, Abhignya Patra was working 18-hour days at the massive Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, better known as Sion."It was non-stop," the 27-year-old anaesthesiologist told AFP.Patients' relatives described distressing scenes inside packed wards, with one man telling AFP he had to change his sick mother's diapers himself because staff were too overworked.A video shot inside Sion and widely shared on social media showed corpses wrapped in black plastic left on beds in a ward where patients were being treated.Every night, the city helpline fielded thousands of calls from desperate citizens, many with no chance of getting admitted to a publicly-funded hospital: Mumbai had just 80 ambulances and 425 intensive care units for a population of 20 million.'Chase the virus'Something had to change fast, said Iqbal Chahal, a no-nonsense bureaucrat who took over as Mumbai's municipal commissioner last May.New field hospitals added thousands of beds, private facilities handed over their Covid-19 wards to the government and 800 vehicles were turned into ambulances.But these efforts could not combat the swift rise in infections."We needed to chase the virus," Chahal told AFP.A proactive approach focused on 55 slums including India's largest, Dharavi, where a strict lockdown was accompanied by aggressive sanitisation of public toilets, mass coronavirus screening and a huge volunteer effort to ensure that nobody went hungry.All positive test reports in Mumbai were routed through "war rooms" manned by doctors who would triage cases and decide where to send the patient, irrespective of "whether he is a minister, a big shot or a slum dweller", Chahal said.Forward thinkingAs 2020 wore on, it looked like India might have miraculously beaten the pandemic and lockdown restrictions were eased.But in Mumbai, authorities didn't dismantle a single bed in the now-deserted field hospitals.This meant that when cases surged in March, the metropolis was much better prepared than many other Indian cities, where the health care system came close to collapse.In the capital Delhi and elsewhere, patients died outside hospitals and crematoriums were overwhelmed. But not in Mumbai.Despite having a much higher population density than many other cities, Mumbai has seen significantly lower mortality rates.The city still suffered close calls, Chahal said, recalling one night in April when six hospitals faced dire oxygen shortages, putting 168 patients at serious risk unless they were shifted to other facilities.Everyone survived."We always expected a second wave," Chahal said.'Wake-up call'Patra recalls getting calls from colleagues in Delhi desperately searching for medical equipment."As doctors, there is very little we can do in the absence of infrastructure," she said.Ruben Mascarenhas, co-founder of Mumbai-based non-profit Khaana Chahiye, said he would get dozens of messages every morning from people begging for oxygen and drugs -- but as the pandemic wore on, the requests mostly came from outside the city.He was, he says, "pleasantly surprised", but is "very cautious about celebrating yet."He is not the only one.An experienced marathon-runner, Chahal is already preparing for a third wave -- expected to hit children hard -- by stockpiling oxygen, building paediatric field hospitals and expanding capacity at public hospitals."This has been a wake-up call for us," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-mumbai-india-s-most-crowded-city-beat-the-odds-and-the-covid-19-pandemic-101623828813524.html
16-06-2021||Noida||NGT calls for report on environmental violations by real estate developer||The National Green Tribunal Wednesday directed a committee to file a report regarding illegal cutting of trees, violation of Environmental Clearance (EC) conditions and illegal extraction of the groundwater by a real estate developer in Ghaziabad and Noida.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel passed the order after taking note that the committee formed to report the violations has not been able to make an assessment of the environmental compensation on the ground that data is awaited from the realty developer.It also noted the committee's submission that it would make the assessment within two months of receiving the data."We find that the approach adopted by the Committee in deferring the matter till the project proponent gives data to be unsound. If the project proponent is avoiding giving data, there should be no difficulty in drawing adverse inference based on 'best judgement assessment', based on inferences from the circumstances."Indicative scale of compensation already stands approved by this Tribunal on the basis of expert Committee report. We also find that with regard to illegal cutting of trees the Forest Department has merely imposed some fine," the bench said.The tribunal had formed a joint committee comprising officials from the Central Pollution Control Board, Member Secretary, State Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority, UP, state pollution control board, Central Ground Water Authority and Ghaziabad District Magistrate.The tribunal said that neither prosecution has been initiated, as required, nor adequate compensation recovered on the principle of restitution, based on value of the ecological services forgone forever."Accordingly, we direct the joint Committee, in coordination with any other expert/institution to take/recommend further remedial action. The statutory authorities may exercise their jurisdiction in the matter to comply with the rule of law and file a compliance report before the next date by e-mail," the bench said.The matter is posted for further consideration on September 23.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by UP resident Mahakar Singh alleging illegal cutting of trees, extraction of groundwater and construction without the EC for the project of Wave City at Ghaziabad and High Tech City at NOIDA by real estate developers.The total project area of Uppal Chadha Hi Tech Developers Pvt Ltd (Wave Hi-Tech Township) is covered 4,494.31 acres in three phases."The first phase of project area having an area 1,671 acres, comprised of sector 1 to 7, which is covered only in Ghaziabad district. The second phase having a project area of 2,333 acres, in which about 80 per cent area is covered in Gautam Budh Nagar district and rest of the area in Ghaziabad district."The third phase having an area 490.31 acres covers almost equally in Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts. As per information provided by the project proponent, total no of proposed units is 20,280, total units constructed as on March 15, 2021 is 5,777, Total units handed over to the customers 1,150, occupancy is 912," the committee told the NGT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ngt-calls-for-report-on-environmental-violations-by-real-estate-developer-101623828382847.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Rains lash Mumbai, suburbs after 3-day gap||After a break of three days, rains started lashing Mumbai city and its suburbs since early morning on Wednesday, although no major water-logging was reported anywhere so far, civic officials said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted light to moderate rain or thundershowers in the city and the suburban areas with the possibility of heavy rainfall at isolated places.The suburban train services as well as the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses are running smoothly till now, the officials said.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that the island city of Mumbai, its western suburbs and eastern suburbs received 28.55 mm, 19 mm and 17.52 mm rainfall, respectively, in the last 24 hours ending 8 am on Wednesday."There was no report of major water-logging in any low-lying areas even as the city and suburbs have been receiving incessant rain since early morning," an official said.Civic officials said a high tide of 4.05 metres is expected at 4.13 pm and low tide of 1.95 metres at 10.23 pm. Heavy rains had lashed Mumbai and its suburbs last week as the monsoon set in over the city, inundating several low-lying areas and disrupting train and bus services. However, no significant rainfall was recorded since Sunday, barring some light rain at isolated places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rains-lash-mumbai-suburbs-after-3-day-gap-101623826431983.html
16-06-2021||Patna||Fire breaks out at Bihar minister’s official residence, no one injured||A fire broke out at Bihar’s minor irrigation minister Santosh Kumar Suman’s official residence in Patna on Wednesday morning when the minister and his family were at home. However, no one was hurt as they rushed out of the house after detecting smoke. The fire department claimed to have brought the blaze under control within a couple of hours, but the cause of the fire was not known at this stage.At 8 am on Wednesday morning, the minister’s family comprising wife Deepa Manjhi, son Aditya and daughter Guriya noticed smoke billowing out of one of the rooms of the government flat and rushed out of the house, said a fire department official. Santosh Kumar Suman is son of former chief minister and the Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) president, Jitan Ram Manjhi.“This is an old building, and I cannot really say what caused the fire,” Suman said.The fire started on the ground floor of the ministerial bungalow, located on Strand Road in Patna, and it burnt most articles such as clothes, furniture, electronic equipment and air conditioners before it was brought under control with the help of two fire tenders. It didn’t cause any injuries or casualties, the fire department said.“It happened in a room at the ministerial bungalow. Though we don’t know the exact reason, as of now, an air-conditioner is suspected to be the cause of the fire. An investigation will be done,” HAM spokesperson Danis Rizwan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fire-breaks-out-at-bihar-minister-s-official-residence-no-one-injured-101623826569862.html
16-06-2021||Patna||North Bihar rivers in full spate; 2 rescued, thousands being evacuated||Two men were rescued in Bihar’s West Champaran district on Tuesday night amid incessant rains and heavy discharge of water from Gandak barrage at Valmikinagar, which resulted in the rise of water levels in majority of rivers passing through northern Bihar.Lauriya circle officer Sanjay Kumar said two car passengers, trapped at a diversion near Ashokan pillar in Lauriya in West Champaran were rescued by the administration, however, their car was still stuck as the current of water passing through the diversion was strong, he added.Narkatiaganj’s sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Sahila Heer said the road connectivity between Lauriya and Narkatiaganj was broken following the Sikarahana river overflowing through the diversion. “The other rivers in Narkatiaganj are in the bed, though the water level has risen,” she said.Disaster management department said the water level rose to 68mtr in Lalbakeya river at Guwabari, followed by Gandak (65.34m) near Chatiya and Sikarahana (58.77m) near Lakbegiya in East Champaran district.In neighbouring West Champaran district, the water level in Gandak river rose to (108.96m) and other rivers: Pandarai, Sikarahana, Harbora, Oraiya and Masan were also in spate following the discharge of 3.8 lakh cusec water from Valmikinagar barrage on Tuesday morning.However, officials described the situation as under control. “The water levels in the rivers are below the danger mark and there is nothing to panic about,” said Anil Rai, West Champaran’s additional district magistrate (ADM) in-charge of disaster management.East Champaran district administration has sounded an alert for people living in the low-lying areas in Paharpur, Sangrampur and Kesariya blocks on the banks of Gandak river. “Around 1,000 to 1,500 people are being evacuated as precautionary measures,” said Shirshat Kapil Ashok, district magistrate (DM), East Champaran.In Gopalganj, a flood alert has been sounded and around 250 residents have been evacuated following the heavy discharge of water from Gandak barrage. “We are expecting the water to reach our district in the next 24 hours. 250 people from Kuchaikote block have already been shifted and 4,000 others may well be shifted, if the situation warranted,” said Dr Naval Kishor Choudhary, district magistrate, Gopalganj.Meanwhile, Muzaffarpur district administration has intensified patrolling of embankments on Bagmati, Gandak and Budhi Gandak rivers. “The water level in the rivers has risen. We are keeping a close tab,” said Pranav Kumar, DM Muzaffarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/north-bihar-rivers-in-full-spate-2-rescued-thousands-being-evacuated-101623824349697.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||AIIMS Delhi to resume outpatient services from June 18 in phased manner||Almost two months after it closed down its OPD services, AIIMS-Delhi has decided to resume the operations latest by June 18 in a phased manner.Heads of Departments of all clinical departments have been requested to provide a proposed number of new and follow-up OPD patients per day who are to be given online/telephonic appointments, according to an order issued by the AIIMS medical superintendent on Tuesday.As of now, OPD registration will be done only for such patients who are having prior online/telephonic appointments and a decision to allow walk-in registrations will be taken later after reviewing Covid situation, it said."In view of considerable decrease in Covid-19 cases, it has been decided by the director AIIMS to re-start the OPD services in a phased manner at the earliest but latest by 18th June 2021 (Friday)," the order stated.All HoDs have been requested to provide the requisite information within two days of issue of the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-delhi-to-resume-outpatient-services-from-june-18-in-phased-manner-101623822417181.html
16-06-2021||Patna||Prime accused in Nawada 'hooch' tragedy case arrested from Mumbai||A special investigation team (SIT) of Bihar Police on Tuesday arrested the prime accused in the Nawada 'hooch' tragedy that claimed 16 lives and left over 10 people sick during the Holi festival this year, from Mumbai. This is the ninth arrest in the case.“In a major breakthrough in the alleged hooch incident, one of the key accused, Vidhan Yadav, a resident of Khemchand-Bigha, has been arrested from Maharashtra and brought here on transit remand. Earlier police arrested his close aide Arvind Yadav from Kolkata and he is being interrogated,” Nawada SP Dhurat Saayli Savlaram said. Arvind is accused of manufacturing the alleged hooch at Kharidi Bigha village in Nawada district.The SP said 10 FIRs have been lodged and nine accused, including two women, have been arrested for 16 deaths caused by suspected spurious liquor on Holi (March 31). Five officials including the station house officer (SHO) of Town police station and an excise sub-inspector have been suspended. He said police were still awaiting test reports from a Patna FSL (Forensic Science Laboratory) to establish if methyl alcohol was used in making the hooch.The SIT formed to investigate the case has so far not been able to identify the person who supplied raw spirit to make the deadly liquor.In a related case of liquor smuggling, Gopalganj police arrested Manjit Kumar from Bhaproda village of Jhajjar district in Haryana and brought him to Gopalganj on transit remand. in connection with an old case of recovery of Chandigarh made 3,492 litres of Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), said Saran range deputy inspector general (DIG) Manu Maharaaj.Police claimed that Manjit, who was a liquor contractor in Haryana and ran three liquor shops in his village, recently confessed to having supplied IMFL consignment for sale in Bihar, a dry state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/prime-accused-in-nawada-hooch-tragedy-case-arrested-from-mumbai-101623821649392.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Thane district records 436 new Covid-19 cases, 25 more deaths||With the addition of 436 coronavirus positive cases, the infection count in Thane district of Maharashtra mounted to 525,973, an official said on Wednesday. These new cases were reported on Tuesday, he said. As the virus claimed the lives of 25 patients during the day, the death toll in the district rose to 10,332. The district's Covid-19 mortality rate is 1.96 per cent, he added. In neighboring Palghar district, the coronavirus case count has gone up to 113,963, while the death toll stands at 2,433, another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-district-records-436-new-covid-19-cases-25-more-deaths-101623820415857.html
16-06-2021||Patna||Darbhanga station to get a royal look similar to Sanskrit university building||Darbhanga railway station’s modernisation and beautification continues with its exterior now being redesigned after the north Bihar city’s famous Lakshmeshwar Vilas Palace, made in 1882 and once the abode of Darbhanga’s Maharaja Lakshmeshwar Singh. It now houses the administrative office of Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University (KSDSU).“Though the work was supposed to be completed last year, it was delayed due to a shortage of labourers triggered by Covid-19”, station manager Ashok Kumar Singh said, adding that it would finish soon. .The redevelopment work was launched three years ago during the tenure of the then Samastipur divisional railway manager (DRM) S K Jain, who earned praise for his redevelopment efforts including promotion of Mithila arts on stations.The Darbhanga junction now boasts of an escalator, lift, improved parking area, wider approach road and landscaping, a senior railway official said. He added that the redesigning of the facade to resemble the royal building-- designed by a French architect on the pattern of Versailles Palace, near Paris—will heighten the station’s beauty by several notches.Meanwhile, Darbhanga MP Gopal Jee Thakur, who recently reviewed the progress of other railway projects in the district, said the track doubling work between Darbhanga and Samastipur section was nearing completion and another important project aimed to ease the traffic load on Darbhanga junction by constructing a bypass via Kakarghati station at a cost of ₹298 crores, was also going on smoothly.The MP said that a VIP guest house for senior officials was also being constructed in the city with an estimated fund of ₹1.50 crores, besides the construction of 42 type two quarters for railway staff.Meanwhile, the Bihar government has prepared the final revised estimate for construction of 10 railway over bridges (RoBs) in Darbhanga. It will be followed by cabinet approval and tendering for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/darbhanga-station-to-get-a-royal-look-similar-to-sanskrit-university-building-101623817389235.html
16-06-2021||Other||Man found dead; wife arrested for his murder in Assam’s Cachar||A 39-year-old woman has been arrested in Cachar district of Assam for allegedly killing her husband by slitting his throat with a sharp object Monday midnight. The couple worked in a tea garden and have four children. The incident was reported from Haltia Tea Garden area of the district.On Tuesday morning, the woman claimed that a group of people barged into their house and attacked her husband. However, after police interrogation, she confessed that they had a huge fight after which she attacker her husband in self defence. Neighbours also said that the couple used to fight often and the man would often beat up his wife.The woman’s brother-in-law has also been arrested under the suspicion of being involved in the murder. Also Read | Assam relaxes curfew in districts with declining Covid-19 casesOfficer incharge of Silchar Sadar police station Ditumoni Goswami said, “She has confessed to the crime. We are investigating whether her brother-in-law was also involved in this murder.” A police source said that the woman told them during interrogation that her 45-year-old husband was in an inebriated state and he was verbally abusing her that night. When she tried to get away, he attacked her and she hit back with a sharp object in her defence.Police said they found that one of the woman’s earrings was missing which they found later, outside the house, and stained with blood. This, among other points that the police did not reveal, raised their doubts about the woman’s version of what happened on Monday. The additional SP of Cachar district, Partha Protim Saikia, said, “We are investigating the matter and interrogation of the arrested persons is going on. After we finish the interrogation, case will be registered against the accused under appropriate sections.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-found-dead-wife-arrested-for-his-murder-in-assam-s-cachar-101623815889105.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 9,350 new Covid cases, 388 deaths||The state on Tuesday recorded 9,350 new Covid-19 cases and 388 deaths. However, Pune continued to clock the highest number of active cases as well as fatality rate in Maharashtra.Maharashtra has a total number of 138,361 active Covid-19 cases, of which Pune is leading with 17,623 cases, followed by Mumbai with 17,519.Similarly, in terms of fatalities, of the total 114,154 deaths, Pune leads with 15,593, followed by Mumbai with 15,216.Till now, Mumbai was leading in the number of deaths, however, this changed on June 13 when Pune recorded 15,187 deaths, while Mumbai recorded 15,183. For the last two days, Pune has continued to record a higher number of deaths than Mumbai.Also Read | Covid-19: What you need to know todaySince the outbreak of Covid-19 last year, Pune has recorded 17% of the total cases in Maharashtra with a caseload of 1,037,780, of the total 5,924,773 in the state.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, who is the advisor for the government of Maharashtra on Covid-19 management, and a resident of Pune, said, “Even before Mumbai, Pune had travellers coming from the Middle East and China, who were infected with Covid-19. They infected the locals and it subsequently spread to the semi-urban and rural pockets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-9-350-new-covid-cases-388-deaths-101623814509266.html
16-06-2021||Bhopal||Gang which carried out cyber frauds worth ₹20 crore busted, 8 arrested||Police in Madhya Pradesh’s Balaghat claim they have busted an inter-state gang and arrested eight persons from three states-Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand-for alleged cyber frauds involving around ₹20 crore.Also Read | Madhya Pradesh: 2 held with 4 pistols, revolver, 310 bullets in Indore“The incidents of frauds were spread across 18 states and involved purchase of expensive mobile phones from online shopping websites, as well as fraudulent withdrawal of money from debit and credit cards,” Abhishek Tiwari, Superintendent of Police, Balaghat, told reports. Tiwari further said around 300 mobile phones, ₹ten lakh in cash, 75 debit cards, hard disks, laptops, TV and other electronic devices were seized from the accused.Giving further details, the officer said, “The gang was carrying out its activities through more than 30 bank accounts. Those arrested were involved in activities like e-commerce fraud, credit and debit card fraud, money laundering, purchasing stolen goods, among others. Around 700 people are under our lens for purchasing mobile phones and other goods from the members of the gang.”Among those arrested, he said, four are from Jharkhand, two from Andhra Pradesh and two from Balaghat itself. Tiwari also informed the gang came to light when the two persons from Balaghat, identified as Manoj Rana and Hukum Bisen, were arrested. Upon interrogation, Rana and Bisen named six other members of the gang-Sanjay Mehto, Sushant Agarwal, Prabhat Kumar and Vikas Kumar, all of whom are from Jharkhand, as well as the duo of Hari and Shravan Kumar from Andhra Pradesh.Speaking on the gang’s modus operandi, Tiwari said its members first booked mobile phones through e-commerce websites by giving fake addresses and making the payment through fraudulently obtained one-time passwords (OTPs) from people by posing as bank officials and threatening to close their bank accounts. Later, they sold these phones through fake bills, he said further.The Balaghat Police have estimated the crimes were committed in the last five-six months itself.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/gang-which-carried-out-cyber-frauds-worth-rs-20-crore-busted-8-arrested-101623812862875.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police return stolen valuables worth nearly ₹2 Cr to owners||Mumbai Police on Tuesday returned stolen and robbed valuables worth nearly ₹2 crore to their respective owners. Commissioner of police Hemant Nagrale handed over the recovered valuables at a function in Byculla.Speaking on the occasion, the top cop said, “When the police return lost valuables to the victims then their faith in police force is restored.”Deputy commissioner of police, zone 5 Paramjit Singh Dahiya said, “Valubles worth total ₹1.92 crore have been recovered in 14 criminal cases. These cases included, Worli senior citizen murder with robbery, robbery by fake police at Byculla and chain snatching, housebreaking cases in Dadar, Sion and other parts of central region of the city.”Vivek Kothari, Siddhesh Katkar and Narayan Ambre were among other victims who got their valuables back. They expressed their gratitude and appreciated the hardwork police have put in to recover their robbed valuables.The commisoner of police Nagrale at the ocassion said that when a person suddenly gets his lost article back then he goes into a different world of joy and satisfaction. Hence, keeping this in mind the police officers should take all possible measures to fulfill citizens’ expectations.Pointing out the mental shock and trauma of chain snatching victims, Vishwas Nangre Patil, joint commissioner of police (Law and Order) said, “If the police arrests a chain snatcher soon after the crime, recovers robbed magalsutra from him and returns it to the victim woman then it helps her coming out from the tremendous mental trauma she was going through since the day of the incident.”Dyannesh Chavan, additional commissioner of police, Central region, appealed to the people present in the function, “Citizens should become police in plain clothes in their area and help us with crucial and important information to bring effective check on crimes.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-return-stolen-valuables-worth-nearly-rs-2-cr-to-owners-101623813609042.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Thunderstorm, rain likely today, says IMD||The national capital is likely to see a thunderstorm with rain on Wednesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. IMD officials said that parts of the city are expected to receive light, patchy rain on Wednesday, which might bring some respite from the heat; however, it may increase the humidity levels. IMD experts said that it might take a few more days before monsoon finally hits the city as its progress -- which was ahead of its typical schedule--has slowed. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that as opposed to the earlier forecast, which predicted rain from Tuesday, rainfall activity is yet to intensify in western Uttar Pradesh. Also Read | Monsoon progress over rest of NW India to slow downThe minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 26 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 36 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was recorded as 27.2 degrees Celsius, a notch below the normal, while the maximum temperature settled at 38.7 degrees Celsius, one notch below the season’s average. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6am stood at 110. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 97 in the satisfactory category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), said, “The wind speed is forecasted to stay high for the next three days and isolated rainfall is likely for the next two days in Delhi. Rainfall and aerosol washout are expecting to improve AQI. AQI is likely to stay in the ‘moderate’ to ‘satisfactory’ category for tomorrow [Thursday] and likely to improve further to the ‘satisfactory’ category on June 17 and 18. The dominant influence of dust leading to higher load of bigger particles is now finished after about a month and the ratio of PM2.5 versus PM10 is back to normal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-thunderstorm-rain-likely-today-says-imd-101623812648949.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||Kanpur's Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University vice chancellor collects degree after 30 yrs||The vice chancellor of Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University in Kanpur collected his BTech degree on Tuesday, after a gap of 30 years, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported. He graduated from the university in 1991, according to Livehindustan.The Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University, formerly Kanpur University, has organised a degree distribution camp from June 15 to July 7 for those who have not collected their degrees even after graduating, the Livehindustan report said. The camp was organised after complaints from many former students about the tedious process of getting the degree certificates.Vice chancellor Dr Vinay Kumar Pathak and a former law student Arjun Trivedi were the two people who collected a degree certificate from 1991.Those interested to collect their degrees will have to pay a nominal amount and get their certificates during the duration of the special camp, according to Livehindustan.On the first day, as many as 150 former students collected their degree certificates.Dean (Academic) Prof Sanjay Swarnkar, Registrar Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, Dean (Administration) Prof Sudhanshu Pandya, Dr Sandesh Gupta, Dr Vivek Sachan, Dr Ajay Yadav and others were present during the camp, Livehindustan reported.Dr Pathak was appointed the vice chancellor of Kanpur's Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University in April this year by Governor and chancellor Anandiben Patel. He was the vice chancellor of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, Lucknow before taking up this position.Dr Pathak will remain in office for three years from the day of taking charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kanpurs-chhatrapati-shahu-ji-maharaj-university-vc-collects-degree-after-30-yrs-101623809839709.html
16-06-2021||Noida||Congress leaders, others booked for tweets on Ghaziabad incident||Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad have filed an FIR against nine, including Twitter India and two Congress leaders, for falsely giving communal colour to an incident in Loni where an elderly Muslim man was assaulted and had his beard chopped off.Also Read: Muslim man assaulted in Ghaziabad; beard chopped off by suspects“There is no communal angle to the incident in Loni where a man was thrashed and his beard was chopped off. The following entities-The Wire, Rana Ayyub, Mohammad Zubair, Dr Shama Mohammed, Saba Naqvi, Maskoor Usmani, Slaman Nizami-without checking the fact, started giving communal colour to the incident on Twitter and suddenly they started spreading messages to disrupt the peace and bring differences between the religious communities,” the Ghaziabad Police noted in their FIR.Also Read: Two more arrested for attack on Muslim man in Ghaziabad; not a communal episode, say copsThe Ghaziabad Police, further accusing Twitter of “doing nothing to prevent the video from getting viral,” named the company, Twitter Communications India Private Limited, The Wire, as well as other individuals as accused in the FIR. The case was registered on Tuesday.Among those booked, Ayyub and Naqvi are senior journalists, while Zubair is an author at the fact-checking website Alt News. Dr Shama Mohammed and Nizami, meanwhile, are members of the Congress with the former being a prominent face of the party on TV debates. Usmani, a former president of the students union of the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), was fielded by the Congress as a candidate in Bihar assembly elections in October-November last year. The Wire is an online news portal, whose founding editors include senior journalists Siddharth Varadarajan, Sidharth Bhatia and MK Venu. The controversy pertains to an assault on the 72-year-old Sufi Abdul Samad in Ghaziabad’s Loni on June 5. While assaulting Samad, the accused allegedly made him chant “Jai Siya Ram,” which loosely translates to “Hail Lord Ram and Goddess Sita.” A video, purportedly of the incident, went viral.However, according to the Ghaziabad Police, Samad and the accused knew each other and the former was beaten up over a “personal dispute.” The police have also denied that he was made to chant “Jai Siya Ram.” Thus far, three suspects have been arrested of whom two are Hindus and one is a Muslim, which has prompted the police to rule out any religious or communal angle in the incident.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/twitter-congress-leaders-among-9-booked-for-tweets-on-ghaziabad-incident-101623807925674.html
16-06-2021||Patna||Covid-19 looks up in Bihar, though black fungus remains a cause for concern||Covid-19 situation continued to look up in Bihar where the Nitish Kumar government on Tuesday announced further relaxations as part of the unlock, even though the state appeared to be grappling with rising incidence of the black fungus.According to the health department, at present as many as 311 patients were undergoing treatment at various hospitals across the state for mucormycosis, which had been notified as an epidemic by the government last month.Till date, 582 people have reported post-Covid complication of whom 80 lost their lives while 191 were cured. The number of total such cases has risen by 20 in the last couple of days, while the death toll has increased by four.Meanwhile, the number of patients succumbing to Covid-19 has reached 9,514 with nine fresh fatalities. Since the previous day, 410 people have tested positive raising the total number of cases to 7,17,949 while 7,04,075 people have recovered.The active caseload has plunged to 4,360 while recovery rate is 98.07 per cent.The number of vaccination beneficiaries was over 1.23 crore.Continuing with the unlock process, which he announced a week ago, the chief minister said henceforth the night curfew shall be in force from 8 pm instead of 7 pm.Offices and shops, which were till now required to down their shutters by 4 pm and 5 pm respectively, can now carry out businesses for another hour in the evening.The previous arrangement of shops, other than those dealing in grocery, fruits, vegetables, milk etc., opening only on alternate days will continue till June 22 when the situation will be reviewed afresh for further decisions, a notification issued by the home ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-looks-up-in-bihar-though-black-fungus-remains-a-cause-for-concern-101623807301016.html
16-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand declares black fungus as epidemic||The Jharkhand government on Tuesday declared mucormycosis an epidemic amid the rising number of cases in the state.There are 130 suspected cases of mucormycosis, commonly known as black fungus, in the state. Of them, 79 cases have been confirmed, said a senior official at the Chief Minister's Office.So far, 25 people have died in the state due to black fungus, while 37 have recovered, he said."On the direction of Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren, black fungus has been declared as an epidemic," the CMO tweeted.The decision was taken amid black fungus threat among immune-compromised patients, especially Covid-19 patients being treated with steroids, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-declares-black-fungus-as-epidemic-101623807309086.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Businessman robbed of ₹3L in Mehrauli||Four unidentified men robbed businessman of a bag containing ₹3 lakh at gunpoint in south Delhi’s Mehrauli area, police said on Tuesday.The incident took place on Monday night when Manoj Kumar was returning home in his car from his shop in Chhatarpur Enclave, they said.He was intercepted by the robbers, who were on bikes, near a crematorium.Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said “We have registered a case under section 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and investigation is being carried out.”Police are scanning through footage of CCTV cameras installed in and around the vicinity of the crime scene to identify the accused and establish the sequence of events.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/businessman-robbed-of-rs-3l-in-mehrauli-101623802199828.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Rain lashes various parts of Mumbai, Thane||Moderate to intense spells of rains continue to lash isolated places in parts of Mumbai and Thane. Parts of Thane and Navi Mumbai have been witnessing light rains since Tuesday morning.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an yellow alert indicating heavy rains till June 17 in Mumbai. This year the onset of monsoon was declared on June 9, two days before its official onset date.In wake of heavy rains, a parked car got swallowed by a sinkhole within seconds in a residential complex in Mumbai. The video of the vehicle submerging has gone viral all over social media. Meanwhile, the IMD in its daily bulletin on Tuesday predicted heavy rainfall at isolated places over Maharashtra."Heavy rainfall at isolated places over Uttarakhand, East Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, West Bengal, and Sikkim, Odisha, Assam and Meghalaya, Madhya Maharashtra Telangana, Interior Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Karaikal," it said.Meanwhile, the weather department also predicted light to moderate intensity rain over parts of Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan."Light to moderate intensity rain and winds with speed of 20-40 Km/h would occur over and adjoining areas of isolated places of South- West Delhi, Charkhodadri, Sohna, Rewadi, Palwal, Bhiwani (Haryana), Laxmangarh (Rajasthan) during next 2 hours."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rain-lashes-various-parts-of-mumbai-thane-101623799855980.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A conscientious citizen||His professionalism doesn’t suggest that his stint with the city is ending. As the customer prepares to step inside the excellently maintained auto rickshaw, Som Pal politely asks him to stop. He picks up a large bottle filled with blue liquid, turns around on his driver’s seat, and generously sprays the liquid on the passenger’s seat in the back.It’s the sanitiser.He also sprays the metal railings that people tend to touch while entering the rickshaw. Mr Pal does it all with great concentration.Such attention to safety is rare among auto and cab drivers, even though they are expected to follow these pandemic-era protocols. This becomes more wonderful when Mr Pal says that he buys a 5 litre can of the sanitiser every fortnight, costing a steep ₹700.Why do it, when many other drivers are relaxed about it, and the income has anyway plummeted down since the pandemic began?Mr Pal searches for an answer. “People then trust me, and I feel safer because I don’t know if the previous passenger was infected with corona or not.”This afternoon, Mr Pal is waiting for business outside a closed educational institute in Vasundhara in Ghaziabad. The place would be teeming with auto rickshaws at all times, but right now his is the only one. “People are scared of the virus.”The area is crammed with multi-storey housing complexes. One large piece of open ground, that was empty all these years and in which kids would play cricket, has been barricaded—yet another housing complex is coming up. Mr Pal, who has been driving the rickshaw in the area for 8 years, reports that until two years ago auto rickshaw drivers would never have to wait for customers. “My regulars would have my number in their mobile phones and would call me before leaving their apartment.” But the cab apps are reducing the demand for autos, he says. “Their rates are not very expensive, and they are cars... we are just autos.”In his 30s, Mr Pal’s wife and kids live with his elderly parents in Fatehpur, UP. Both father and mother work as farmers—the family owns two beeghas of agricultural land. Mr Pal is so disillusioned with the auto rickshaw’s earnings these days that he has made a significant decision.“I’ve told my parents to rest at home and I’ll do the kheti (farming). I’m leaving soon.”And the city will lose a conscientious citizen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-conscientious-citizen-101623790062498.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab, Rajasthan CMs management of Covid inept: Anurag Thakur||Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur hit out at the chief ministers of Punjab and Rajasthan, both Congress-ruled states, on Tuesday alleging that the ministers’ handling of the crisis had been inept. “Both CMs, Ashok Gehlot (Rajasthan) and Captain Amarinder Singh (Punjab), were inaccessible to the public as well as legislaters. The rift in Congress is an internal matter. however, legislators are unable to meet the CMs,” he said. Taking a dig at the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government, Thakur said, “In Punjab, the ventilators meant for saving lives of Covid patients were found in dustbins. Later, they sold vaccines to private hospitals.” On Congress MP Digvijaya Singh’s remarks advocating revocation of Article 370, he said, “Congress leaders are singing in chorus with the Pakistan media. Article 370 has been buried forever by the BJP government. If Congress is speaking the language of Pakistani journalists, then it is a traitor.”  Asked about the soaring inflation rate, the BJP leader said, “More inflation was seen during the Congress’ era. The market decides the rate of petrol and diesel. Whether it will be cheaper or expensive in future depends on the market.” Thakur, who was in Shimla to attend a meeting of BJP leaders, distributed approval letters to beneficiaries under the consumer contact programme. “Banks have sanctioned working capital loans of ₹75,426 crore under the ₹3 lakh crore emergency credit line guarantee scheme (ECLGS) for MSMEs, of which ₹32,895 crore has already been disbursed.”The scheme, under which the government offers full guarantee on up to 20% additional and collateral-free working capital loans, was rolled out from June 1 to soften the blow to MSMEs battered by the Covid outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-rajasthan-cms-management-of-covid-inept-anurag-thakur-101623787987522.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Highest monthly deaths: 2nd Covid wave 5 times more fatal in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh witnessed five times more fatalities during the peak of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, a government spokesperson said on Tuesday. With the deadly second wave on the ebb, the state health department conducted a detailed analysis of the number of cases, positivity rate and deaths in the state, which shows that the highest deaths in a month during the first wave was 320, which rose to 1,643 in May, the peak of the second wave of the pandemic, indicating a five times increase in fatalities.  “Three coronavirus cases were registered in March 2020 at the time of the outbreak. The tally had risen to 18,459 by November when the virus was on its peak, after which the cases gradually declined till they reached 1,109 in February 2021,” the spokesperson said. There was a resurgence of cases after February, with an uptick in the positivity rate from 0.7% in February to 3% in March. The state detected 4,960 cases in March against 1,109 in February. The cases hit the peak in May with 91,043 cases in a month. The positivity rate also jumped to 22.1%. The second wave was five times more devastating than the first one in terms of both number of cases and fatalities, the spokesperson said. Vaccination for 18- 44 group only after online bookingA spokesperson of the health department said that vaccination for the 18-45 age group will only be available after online booking. “All those under the age of 45 should book their appointment online through the Co-WIN portal or Arogya Setu app before coming at the vaccination centre. Beneficiaries should visit vaccination centre as per schedule to avoid unnecessary crowding at the centres,” he said, adding that the option of on-site scheduling may be provided in tribal or hard areas.321 fresh infections, 12 more deaths Himachal recorded 321 cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s tally to 1,99,197, while the death toll mounted to 3,394 after 12 more patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 76 were reported in Kangra, 50 in Shimla, 40 in Chamba, 39 in Mandi, 28 in Hamirpur, 20 in Kullu, 19 in Una, 17 in Solan, 10 each in Bilaspur and Sirmaur, nine in Kinnaur and three in Lahaul-Spiti.Three fatalities were reported in Hamirpur, two each in Chamba Kangra and Sirmaur and one each in Mandi, Solan and Una. Recoveries reached 1,91,732 after 691 people recuperated while the active cases have whittled down to 4,050.In terms of the cases, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 45,368 cases, followed by Mandi with 26,723 cases and Shimla with 24,781 cases. Solan has 22,078 cases, Sirmaur 15,165, Hamirpur 14,158, Una 13,124, Bilaspur 12,461, Chamba 10,787, Kullu, 8,696, Kinnaur 3,177 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,679.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/highest-monthly-deaths-2nd-covid-wave-5-times-more-fatal-in-himachal-101623787687712.html
16-06-2021||Other||Preparation for third wave: Sero survey to begin in Chandigarh, Panchkula this week||Preparing themselves for the anticipated third wave, health authorities in Chandigarh and Panchkula are all set to conduct a sero survey, which will help them determine the presence of Covid antibodies in people. The third survey will be different as children will also be screened.During the war-room meeting on Tuesday, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) director Dr Jagat Ram stated that sero survey of persons below the age of 18 will be useful for Chandigarh as this population has not been vaccinated and so the results of the sero survey could be useful in devising the future strategy for vaccinating this age group. He said such a targeted survey for the paediatric group has not been conducted anywhere in the country. With fears about the third wave hitting this unvaccinated population, the study could be used by public health experts in devising a strategy to fight the virus.“In the next two to three days, PGIMER is going to start the survey wherein around 2,700 children aged between 2 and 18 will be involved,” said Dr Ram. GMCH-32 director Dr Jasbinder Kaur said that they are preparing to screen over 1,200 adult population (18+) in the city. Panchkula health department has already started the training of its staff, as they are going to take samples of 400 people in the next two days. Panchkula civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said, “Sero survey is a kind of blood test, wherein blood samples are taken from randomly selected people and are tested for the presence of IgG (Immunoglobulin G) antibodies that determine a past infection due to the virus.”“It tells us how many people have been exposed to the virus and have developed immunity. The survey is important as it tells us how many people have acquired antibodies either via vaccination or by exposure to the virus,” she said.The seroprevalence in the first round, which was conducted in August, was found to be 6%. It increased to 11% in October. The experts are hoping it would be at least 50% this time.When asked how the survey will help plan for the third wave, Dr Kaur said: “It will help us in knowing the areas where people have not developed antibodies, hence, vaccination can be focused in those areas. We want to vaccinate as many people as possible before the third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/preparation-for-third-wave-sero-survey-to-begin-in-chandigarh-panchkula-this-week-101623787507587.html
16-06-2021||Other||Tricity’s fresh infections cross 100-mark again||A day after logging 87 cases, tricity’s daily Covid-19 count crossed the 100-mark once again on Tuesday. Mohali remained the largest contributor to the uptick, reporting 53 fresh infections, against 35 cases the day before. In good news, however, 93 persons recovered bringing the active case count in Mohali down to 710. Chandigarh, with 40 new cases, showed a slight improvement as it had 50 cases on Monday. With 58 more recoveries, the city was left with 486 active cases. As per health officials 1,608 tests were conducted in the city in the last 24 hours and the positivity rate stood at 2.4%. The recovery rate in the city was 97.9%. Panchkula, which had reported only two cases on Monday, added 20 more cases to its tally as 922 samples were collected for testing in the last 24 hours. On Sunday, only 476 samples had been taken. The district now has 136 active cases and its recovery rate stands at 98% while the positivity rate is 2.1%.Nine deaths in 24 hoursThe tricity also reported nine deaths in all, of which four were reported in Mohali, three in Chandigarh and two in Panchkula. The UT’s fatalities include a 65-year-old from Sector 49, a 37-year-old from Faidan and a 45-year-old from Mauli Jagran. In Panchkula, two women –aged 48 and 52 – also succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tricitys-fresh-infections-cross-100-mark-again-101623787449794.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Improving PU’s global image: Involve industry more, resolves new task force||With Panjab University (PU) continuing to slip in various national rankings, the varsity has constituted a special interdisciplinary task force to improve its image.The special panel held its first meeting on Tuesday under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar, which was attended by teachers from various departments. During the meeting it was discussed that the industry should be involved in the board of studies (BoS) and the board of controls for making of the syllabi and teaching to prioritise research areas, which will enable students to be industry-ready.The V-C said, “The thrust areas should be listed out with the interest of society, global perspective and government priority in mind. The task force has been constituted mainly to enhance the global image of PU and to increase outputs for research/teaching for improving PU rankings.”The panel also observed that more scientists should be encouraged for patenting their research work. For this, hiring a professional patent agent was suggested apart from exploring options of hiring government agencies who give free services for filing the patents.“A nodal officer has been appointed to encourage the writing for getting the patents,” said Kumar.During the meeting it was suggested that under the corporate social responsibility programme, the industry should be tapped into for funding research projects. Moreover, it was also outlined to have a science and technology hub on the PU website with thrust areas mentioned therein under which, the links for the faculty to be provided for better coordination. The industrial feedback will be taken for good research work .Raj Kumar urged for more collaborations with the industry to increase PU’s visibility and to integrate interdisciplinary research on environment, health,disaster management, public health and public policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/improving-pu-s-global-image-involve-industry-more-resolves-new-task-force-101623787447563.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Kidnappers let teen go unharmed after 4 hours, fail to collect ransom||A 15-year-old resident of Kishangarh village, who was kidnapped by three men for ₹50 lakh ransom, was released after four hours on Tuesday.The father of the teenager, who is a cook and runs a canteen in Sector 19, told the police that his son had gone with his two friends for cycling to Manimajra. He said that when they reached near a railway crossing, his son was dragged into a vehicle by three persons who came in a white Maruti Suzuki Brezza bearing a Haryana number.The 46-year-old father said that later one of the kidnappers had called him and demanded ₹50 lakh ransom to free the son, threatening to kill the teen if he failed to pay. The police are not ruling out the possibility of the kidnapping being the work of someone known to the family or to the teenager.A case under Section 364A of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Manimajra police station.Teenager unharmedThe police were informed and cash to pay the kidnappers was readied, however, the accused never turned up. The police had laid the trap and even sent the victim’s father and sister to the bridge in Sector 21, Panchkula, to handover the money.The kidnappers were talking to the teenager’s sister, as they kept changing the locations, to hand over the cash. Finally, they had called the father and sister to the Sector-21 bridge in Panchkula, but they did not turn up. At about 8.46am, the kidnappers dropped the teenager near Sector 21. And he was handed over to the family.Technical surveillance being used to track kidnappersThe police had put the phone number being used by the kidnappers on surveillance. The accused were using a local number and had kept moving in the city without stopping at one place for long. The police is now tracing the route and scanning footage to get a clue. Three people have been rounded up for questioning.Discrepancies in statement The teenager told the police that the accused had taken him to Baltana and that they were constantly on the move. The police said they were scanning CCTV footage installed in the area where the 15-year-old said that the accused had stopped to get the vehicle refueled. So far, the police have failed to gather any evidence of the same. The number plate bearing Haryana registration number was a fake, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-kidnappers-let-teen-go-unharmed-after-4-hours-fail-to-collect-ransom-101623787327511.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Black fungus drug out-of-stock in Chandigarh||The drug used to treat black fungus, Amphotericin B, is out of stock in Chandigarh as it has not received a fresh supply from the government. In the absence of the drug, doctors will have to use an alternative drug, posaconazole, which, as per experts, is effective but works slowly.As per protocol, hospitals send their drug requirement to director, health services, who further approaches the central government, which allocates the drug.Confirming that the drug is out of stock, Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh, said, “As per the latest update, we have been allocated 270 liposomal Amphotericin B and 140 conventional Amphotericin. But we have not received the delivery yet. Hopefully, we will get it in a day or two.”She said she has requested for over 2,000 injections, of which 1,600 injections have been given to GMCH-32 and 400 to PGIMER, which also gets its separate allocation from the Centre, Dr Kang said.GMCH-32 doctors are the most worried as there are 43 active black fungus cases in the hospital. Dr Sudhir Garg, medical superintendent, said: “We got the drugs today, but it was not sufficient. We do not have stock for tomorrow. We are hoping that the department gets the drug by morning.”Dr Surinder Singh, head of ENT department, who is managing the patients, said: “Liposomal Amphotericin B has less renal toxicity, which means it can be given in high dose, whereas toxicity of conventional drug is more, hence, it cannot be given in high dose. The efficacy of both the drugs is same, but conventional one, if given in high dose, impact kidneys.”“We do not have any of the two drugs for tomorrow, hence, we will have to switch to alternative drug, which is effective but acts slowly.”PGIMER is also dealing with shortage. PGI director Dr Jagat Ram said: “There is this daily struggle to procure the drug, but we have been managing.” He said the PGI has operated 225 black fungus cases, however, now the cases have started declining. Over the last two days, the cases have gone down from 15 a day to approximately 5 to 6.GMCH-32, which has seen 78 patients, including 30 from Chandigarh, has not reported any decline. Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director principal, said: “Earlier, there would be 35-36 active cases, but now the number is 43. There is no decline.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/black-fungus-drug-out-of-stock-in-chandigarh-101623787267573.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man held for circulating objectionable videos of sister-in-law||A 35-year-old from Kwality Chowk area has been arrested for sedating his younger brother and his wife and later recording objectionable videos of the woman. The accused also circulated those videos, which the woman claimed was done to harass her. She said he was nursing a grudge against her ever since she ‘scolded’ him in front of their family. The FIR in the case has been lodged by the father of the woman. He said his daughter had married the younger brother of the accused two-and-a-half years ago and they had a one-year-old son. He said his daughter had complained to him that the elder brother of her husband, who is unmarried, used to harass her. “I had intervened in the matter. My daughter had even scolded him in front of all family members. The accused had apologised for his behaviour, but he nursed a grudge against her,” he added. He alleged that on Sunday night, the accused had mixed sedatives in their food. “After consuming the food, my daughter and her husband lost consciousness. The accused then removed the clothes of my daughter and recorded some obscene videos. He even shared them in different WhatsApp groups. We came to know about it when we received calls from our friends and relatives,” he added. Inspector Sukhwinder Singh, who is investigating the case, said they have registered a case under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intention to outrage her modesty), 354-B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), and 328 (causing hurt by means of poison with intent to commit an offence) of the IPC and Section 67 of the Information and Technology Act. The police arrested the accused on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-held-for-circulating-objectionable-videos-of-sisterinlaw-101623787089573.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||J&K clocks 715 more Covid cases,10 deaths||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 715 fresh coronavirus infections and 10 deaths on Tuesday, pushing the overall cases to 3,08,726 and deaths to 4,205.The Valley reported 497 cases and four deaths, while the Jammu division saw 218 infections and five fatalities. For the past week, the number of daily fatalities has been below 20. The second coronavirus wave had peaked in May, with a record 5,443 cases reported on May 7 and record 73 fatalities reported on May 17.As many as 1,830 patients recuperated in J&K —1,188 from Kashmir and 642 from Jammu — bringing the active cases to 12,407. So far, 2, 92,114 people have recovered and the recovery rate stands at 94.61 %.Officials said 43,755 tests were conducted in the the UT with the overall number of tests crossing 9.25 million. Officials said with 132 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections. All other 19 districts had below 100 cases with single-digit cases in two districts.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed around 1.20 lakh cases and 1,932 deaths. Jammu district has the highest number of fatalities ( 1,117), followed by Srinagar (815). May had been the most devastating month for Jammu and Kashmir, with the UT recording 1,14,382 cases and 1,625 virus-induced deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-clocks-715-more-covid-cases-10-deaths-101623787088531.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||BJP seeks regularisation of Ludhiana MC’s Class-4 staffers||Slamming the municipal corporation for its alleged failure in fulfilling the long-pending demands of its Class-4 employees, Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders submitted a memorandum with mayor Balkar Sandhu at the civic body’s Zone-A office on Tuesday. Punjab BJP SC wing president Raj Kumar Atwal, district president Pushpinder Singal and BJP councillors among other leaders submitted the memorandum. The demands include regularisation of contractual employees, safety kits for sewermen, filling of vacant posts, stopping outsourcing of employees, cashless life insurance police for sweepers and sewermen, jobs for next of kin of deceased employees on compassionate grounds and ₹10 lakh compensation.Singal said, “The SAD-BJP government regularised a large number of employees in 2011-12 and another proposal to regularise the rest was approved in 2016-17. But, the Congress government has failed to implement the proposal till now. Contractual employees who have been working with the MC for over a decade should be regularised at the earliest and other facilities should also be provided.”Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu said that BJP failed to do anything for the employees during its tenure and the state congress government is already working to regularise them. “Jobs to next of kin of deceased is already provided and MC is also purchasing machinery to put an end to manual scavenging. The state government tis continuously working for the betterment of Class-4 employees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-seeks-regularisation-of-ludhiana-mc-s-class-4-staffers-101623787032256.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Post-matric SC scholarship row: AAP leaders begin hunger strike in Ludhiana, demand action against Dharamsot||As part of statewide protest against the state government, seeking the resignation of cabinet minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot for his alleged involvement in the post matric SC scholarship scam, three leaders of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Ludhiana’s Scheduled Caste wing started a week-long hunger strike at Jalandhar Bypass Chowk on Tuesday. Leader of opposition in the Vidhan Sabha, MLA Harpal Cheema, along with other senior leaders of the party participated in the protest.The leaders who sat on strike were district president of SC wing (urban) Dharminder Singh Fauji, district president (rural) Amanchain Singh and district joint secretary (transport wing) Jagdish Saini.They stated that the government has put the future of over two lakh SC students at stake, as the colleges are not issuing roll numbers to them after the scholarship amount for the previous three sessions was not released.Cheema said, “To protest against the state government’s failure to take action against those involved in the scam, including cabinet minister Dharamsot, AAP leaders have sat on hunger strike at all districts in the state. The hunger strike will continue for seven days and if the government still fails to act, we will further intensify the agitation.” Social distancing goes for a tossA large number of AAP leaders and workers came together for the protest, throwing social distancing norms to the wind and many of them were also seen without masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/postmatric-sc-scholarship-row-aap-leaders-begin-hunger-strike-in-ludhiana-demand-action-against-dharamsot-101623787027578.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC committee to visit Chennai to study solid waste mgmt model||A 12-member municipal corporation (MC) committee, headed by mayor Balkar Sandhu, will be visiting Chennai to study the solid waste management model in the city. The team will leave the city on Wednesday and return on Saturday.As per MC officials, the civic body is working to hire new contractors for solid waste management in the city and the company dealing with waste management in Chennai has invited the committee to look into its working. The committee will also look into the working of the civic body.Apart from Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, councillors Jai Prakash, Sunny Bhalla and Yashpal Chaudhary; secretary Jasdev Sekhon, superintending engineers Rahul Gagneja and Rajinder Singh; nodal officer (health branch) Ashwani Sahota and Harpal Aujla are also part of the committee.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said that MC has decided to hire separate contractors for lifting of garbage from the city and processing the waste at the main dump site. “The committee will look into the working of the company and the civic body regarding door-to-door lifting, transportation and processing of waste. But, the contractor will be hired by following a proper tendering process only. The company is bearing the entire cost of the visit,” said Sandhu.In October last year, an MC team also visited Indore, known as the cleanest city of the country, to study its solid waste management model. But, no concrete steps have yet been taken yet to improve the situation in the city, even as the residents have raised issues like open dumping of garbage and frequent fire incidents at the main dump site..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-committee-to-visit-chennai-to-study-solid-waste-mgmt-model-101623786977189.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||High drama as NGO members get into spat with LIT chief||High drama was witnessed at the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) office in Feroze Gandhi Market on Tuesday after members of different NGOs had a heated argument with LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam over implementation of the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) orders, directing authorities to stop pouring concrete and installing interlocking tiles around a one-metre radius of trees.While members NGOs like Council of Engineers, Naroa Punjab Manch and Wake up Ludhiana accused the LIT chairman of using abusive language against the NGT and forcing them to move out of the office, Balasubramaniam accused them of misbehaving and putting unnecessary pressure on LIT officials.The NGO members, including Kapil Arora, Kuldeep Khaira, Simratpal Kalsi and Apinder Sodhi, also submitted a police complaint after they were forced to move out of the LIT office. Arora said that they had moved NGT against the illegal practice of pouring concrete and installing of interlocking tiles around trees, which damages the roots. The NGT had in March ordered the authorities to leave a one metre radius around the trees.“We had apprised the authorities of the orders. As the illegal practice is still prevalent in areas like BRS Nagar, Model Town Extension and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, we staged a peaceful protest outside the LIT office from 10.30am to 12.30pm on Tuesday. The authorities have even failed to remove concrete poured around trees in LIT’s office. The chairman, however, refused to obey the orders of NGT and used abusive language. He also forced us to leave the office premises, but we continued our peaceful protest.”. The protesting members stated that trees are not able to absorb water and other nutrients after concrete is poured around them. Further, the roots also get damaged, which makes them weak and they fall during thunderstorms and strong winds. Recently, around 80 trees got uprooted in different parts of the city due to strong winds. On June 11, NGOs had also protested against the MC over the issue.The members said that a complaint against the LIT chairman has been submitted with the NGT and a contempt petition will now be filed against the MC and LIT authorities, if they fail to act within a week.However, Balasubramaniam refuted the allegations and accused the NGO members of misbehaving and putting unnecessary pressure on the officials. “I have already issued the orders and we are leaving a one-metre space around the trees wherever possible. The NGO members were putting unnecessary pressure and demanding that the changes be made overnight, which is not possible, as it is a labour and capital intensive job. We are already working to encourage greenery in the city and a number of leisure valleys are being established, while these NGOs have never stepped in to promote greenery or save the environment.” Station house officer of division number 5 police station, Kuldeep Singh, said that no written complaint has been submitted by anyone and a police team was deployed at the spot to avoid any law-and-order situation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-drama-as-ngo-members-get-into-spat-with-lit-chief-101623786968271.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana bizmen protest against PSPCL over fines for extra power usage||City businessmen staged a protest outside the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) office at Ferozepur Road on Tuesday over heavy penalties imposed on several businessmen in the last one year for using more load in their factories than the sanctioned load.Five businessmen sat raised slogans against the corporation officials and demanded that the penalties be rolled back. They said that many of them have received power bills to the tune of ₹5 to 15 lakh for the entire year. They added that they are already facing losses due to Covid-19 pandemic and even the PSPCL chairman has refused to speak to them. Five people will sit on the protest outside the PCPCL office everyday and if the authorities will do not roll back the penalties by Friday (June 18), then all the members will sit on protest outside the PCPCL office in Patiala, they added.Jaswinder Thakrul, president of the Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, said, “We were forced to sit in protest after the chairman PSPCL refused to talk to us. For the last 15 months, the industry is facing a crisis due to the pandemic and now, the PSPCL has imposed penalties worth lakhs on a large number of businessmen. If the decision is not reversed, then we will gherao the PSPCL office in Patiala.” DS Chawla president of the United Cycle and Parts Manufacturing Association (UCPMA), said, “We have been running our factories for 24 hours to support the state government, provide employment and generate revenue. The PSPCL has imposed penalty on many businessmen for using more load than the sanctioned load of the entire year. Many of them have been framed for unauthorised use of electricity (UUE) cases, which is not right. Instead of charging penalty for the duration for which they have used power, the authorities imposed the charges for 12 months, which is not justified.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-bizmen-protest-against-pspcl-over-fines-for-extra-power-usage-101623786914144.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Domestic help steals cash, jewellery from Ludhiana house||The domestic help of a trader allegedly decamped with jewellery and cash in UK and Australian currencies from the latter’s house in South Model Gram. The employer came to know about the theft on Monday, one month after the accused left for his village. Division Number 5 police have registered an FIR against the domestic help, Lovekush alias Chhotu, his father Ganga Ram and his uncle, and asked the employer to provide details of cash and jewellery he has lost to the thieves. The complainant, Harjit Singh, 49, said he had employed Lovekush four years ago as a domestic help. In the meantime, they had renovated their house and the domestic help come to know about the safe. Harjit added that in the past few months, father and uncle of Lovekush had started visiting their house frequently on the pretext of seeing him. “One month ago, Lovekush left for his ancestral house in Uttar Pradesh citing some emergency. On Monday, when I opened the safe, I found jewellery, some pound sterling and Australian dollars kept there stolen. I suspect that Lovekush opened the safe using a duplicate key and decamped with cash, jewellery and foreign currency,” he told the police. ASI Gurcharan Singh, who is investigating the case, said the complainant claimed that he had details and documents of the domestic help, but he had not got his police verification done. The FIR has been registered under sections 381 and 120 B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A police team has been dispatched to Uttar Pradesh to arrest the accused. Previous thefts in cityOn May 6, a woman in quarantine had foiled a robbery bid at her house after a Nepalese domestic help, who was employed just three days ago, served milk laced with sedatives to her entire family and called his accomplices to execute the crime. On April 10, a Nepalese help, along with his three accomplices, had held his employer’s family captive and robbed cash and jewellery to the tune of ₹6 lakh from their house in Model Town. Exactly a month ago, a Nepalese worker had robbed ₹6 lakh from a hosiery factory after offering tea mixed with sedatives to the cashier and also drove away the scooter of his employer. On January 27, a Nepalese domestic help targeted the house of his employer and decamped with ₹11 lakh and jewellery worth ₹18 lakh. The employer had not got the police verification of the domestic help done. On January 2, a domestic help, who was hired just five days ago, had decamped with ₹6 lakh, gold and diamond jewellery from the house of a hosiery unit owner in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar. At the time of the incident, the hosiery unit owner was in his factory, while his family members had gone out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/domestic-help-steals-cash-jewellery-from-ludhiana-house-101623786907872.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: 39 cases of vehicle lifting solved with arrest of two||Division Number 6 police have arrested two two-wheeler lifters and recovered four stolen vehicles from their possession. According to the police, the accused have already sold 35 stolen two-wheelers to scrap dealers, who further dismantled them.The arrested accused have been identified as Surinder Kumar alias Vicky of Daba and Inderjit Thakur of Dhandari Khurd. Two scrap dealers identified as Bhoora and his son-in-law Sonu are yet to be arrested.Division Number 6 SHO Amandeep Singh said they arrested the accused near Tikona Park on Overlock Road following a tip-off and recovered a stolen Activa from their possession.Later, on the basis of information provided by the accused, three more scooters were recovered from the accused.About the modus operandi of the accused, the SHO said that Surinder used to steal the vehicles from different areas by using duplicate keys and then hand over the stolen vehicles to Inderjit Thakur. “Later, the duo used to sell the stolen vehicles to two scrap dealers Bhoora and Sonu who further sold the parts of the vehicles after dismantling them,” he added. A case under sections 379, 34, 411, and 201 of the IPC was registered against the accused at the Division Number 6 police station. “A manhunt has been launched to arrest the two scrap dealers,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-39-cases-of-vehicle-lifting-solved-with-arrest-of-two-101623786847479.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana dairy farmers’ body hikes milk price by ₹3||At the time when people are already reeling under the crises wreaked by the Covid pandemic, another jolt to them has come in the form of a hike in milk prices by the Ludhiana Dairy Farmers’ Association of Haibowal and Tajpur Road. The rate has been increased in all three categories of milk by ₹3 from Tuesday. The revised price of cow milk will now be ₹58 per litre, while the mixed milk will be available at ₹65 per litre. The buffalo milk will be available at ₹73, which earlier would cost ₹70. As per the association president, due to hike in diesel prices and cost of fodder, they were forced to increase the rate of milk. The price of diesel has seen an increment of ₹4.68 per litre and costs ₹89.6 per litre. Currently, there are 800 dairy farmers in Haibowal area and 1.5 lakh litre milk is daily supplied in residential areas, to restaurants, dhabas, and sweets shops. Paramjeet Singh, chairman of Haibowal Dairy Farmers’ Association, said, “Last year, due to the coronavirus outbreak, all dairy farmers had suffered losses following the closure of restaurants, sweets shops and dhabas. For the entire year, we did not increase the price of milk so that people don’t feel burdened. We were planning to increase the price by ₹5, but considering the prevailing situation, we decided to hike it by ₹3.”Out of 1.5 lakh litre daily production, 40% is supplied at doorsteps in residential areas and the rest is sent to commercial outlets. The president of Ludhiana Dairy Farmers’ Association, DS Oberoi, said, “In the last one year, the price of fodder has increased, and dairy farmers have been overburdened. The hike in fuel prices has been another reason for the latest increase in the rates of milk. Last year, due to the pandemic, the association had decided against increasing the price which is usually done in the month of March every year. In 2019, we had increased the price by ₹2 per litre.”Meanwhile, residents are upset with the latest decision of the association. Kapil Khurana, a resident of Haibowal Kalan, said, “Due to the pandemic, many people have lost their jobs and suffered losses in business. A hike in fuel price coupled with the revised price of milk is burning a hole in the pocket of a common man. For the last 20 years, we have been getting milk supply at home from dairy and a hike of ₹3 will affect our monthly budget.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-dairy-farmers-body-hikes-milk-price-by-3-101623786788673.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana cyber cell forms special teams to check child porn||The cyber cell has formed special teams to keep tabs on child pornography on social networking sites and messaging applications in an attempt to trace offenders in minimum time. The cyber cell uses IP address and IMEI number of devices to detect criminals. Though the cyber cell is dependent on US-based National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), which keeps a check on such content shared in private groups and inbox, it also scans social networking sites to identify the offenders who post or circulate such content. Recently, the Ludhiana police had traced and arrested two persons for sharing objectionable content on Instagram, a photo and video sharing platform.Sub-inspector Jatinder Singh, in-charge of cyber cell -2, said NCMEC keeps a check on such content and informs the ministry of home affairs (MHA). “The MHA further informs states about such violations. The cyber cell of states then sends the cases to districts. Police trace the mobile phones of the accused with the help of service providers," he added. “Mostly youths share such content among their friends through WhatsApp groups and as private messages on social networking sites, including Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. As the police have no access to private messages being shared online, they are dependent on the agencies for information,” the cyber cell in-charge added. Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said sharing child pornography is a punishable offence under Section 67-B (publishing or transmitting of material depicting children in sexually explicit act in electronic form) of the Information and Technology Act.The culprits will be punished on first conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years and with fine which may extend to ₹10 lakh and in the event of second or subsequent conviction with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years and also with fine which may extend to ₹10 lakh. Recent incidentsOn June 11, Vikram Singh, 20, of Bhagwan Nagar was arrested for sharing objectionable content. He works as an assistant to a photographer. A case has been registered against him at the police station of Division Number 6. A day before, the police had arrested Ranjit Tiwari , 23, a resident of Gurpal Nagar. Tewari also worked as an assistant to a photographer. He had shared videos containing child pornography from his Instagram account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-cyber-cell-forms-special-teams-to-check-child-porn-101623786787572.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Fee row: Parents again protest outside private school in Chandigarh||With offline classes yet to start for students owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, parents staged a protest outside KB DAV Senior Secondary School, Sector 7, again on Tuesday and demanded that they only be charged for tuition.They held that the school should not ask them to pay for utilities and facilities not being used by students during the pandemic. They had also held a protest on the same issue in April.On Tuesday, parents alleged that the school is asking them to deposit the fee in its entirety.“The school should charge only tuition fee because parents have invested on various facilities on their own level as well during pandemic. We do not want to pay for the facilities which we have not used,” said a parent seeking anonymity.Meanwhile, a few representatives of the protesting parents also met the school principal on Tuesday to discuss the matter.Principal Pooja Prakash said, “The fee structure of our school is nominal as compared to other schools. Parents should also try to understand about what the school is also going through given the present situation and should cooperate.”“If any parent is facing a problem, they should come to us and school will look into that,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fee-row-parents-again-protest-outside-private-school-in-chandigarh-101623786313209.html
16-06-2021||Other||Orphaned man missing for five days from Mohali’s Sector 69||A 28-year-old Sector 69 resident, who lost both his parents in the past year and suffers from depression, is missing for the past five days. His worried sister has approached the police for help and posters with his photograph have been pasted across the city.As per the police complaint, the man, identified as Rahul Singh, went missing on June 10.His sister Vaishali, 29, who is pursuing graduation and is unmarried, said her parents were both senior officers in Union Bank of India. Her father died due to pneumonia in January last year and mother succumbed to Covid-19 last month.Already dealing with the loss of her parents, Vaishali is left all alone since Rahul went missing as there is no other relative around. She has been showing his brother’s photos to people in markets and residential areas, but no one has a clue of his whereabouts. Rahul recently recovered from Covid-19, she said.Area councillor Kuldeep Kaur Dhanoa said, “It is unfortunate what happened with the family, and we are trying our best to find the man. We have even contacted their maternal uncle, who is in Delhi, to visit the bereaved duo, but he cannot travel right now due to restrictions.”Investigating officer Nirmal Singh said a search is on for Rahul.When asked how they are meeting their daily expenses, Vaishali said, “We are spending money from our parents’ savings and don’t know what will happen in the future. Till last year, our family was the happiest, but now we are two orphans, and my brother is missing.”In case of any sightings, people can reach out at 9855822261.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/orphaned-man-missing-for-five-days-from-mohali-s-sector-69-101623786311781.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Woman cop suspended for breaching Covid protocol in Chandigarh||A woman sub-inspector of Chandigarh Police was placed under suspension for breach of Covid-19 protocol and indiscipline on Tuesday.SI Sarita Roy, posted at Sector 36 police station, was suspended and attached with Police Lines.A senior Chandigarh police officer said that Sarita remained on leave for considerable period of time in the past over four months on one pretext or another. She was to join duty on June 10, but sought extension of leave saying that her husband had tested positive for Covid-19.It is learnt that Sarita had submitted a report from PGIMER and stated that she had been asked to stay in home isolation. Her request for extension of leave was granted on basis of recommendation of home isolation by the doctor. However, Sarita, as per the senior officials, attended a party, breaching the Covid protocol of home isolation.The suspension order was recommended by assistant superintendent of police (ASP) Shruti Arora for indiscipline.“I have sought complete report on the issue,” said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh, while confirming that the sub-inspector has been placed under suspension.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-cop-suspended-for-breaching-covid-protocol-in-chandigarh-101623786310440.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police constable suspended over bribe charge||A constable posted at Sector 31 police beat box has been suspended for allegedly demanding bribe from three youths, including a woman, after detaining them from a park here on Monday afternoon.The cop has also been accused of moral policing while his unidentified accomplice, a civilian, allegedly sent obscene text messages to the detained woman and misbehaved with the complainant’s mother.The Chandigarh Police constable has been identified as Mange Ram.His suspension came after the family members of the three youths detained by him laid siege to the Sector 31 beat box and then the police station on Tuesday demanding action against the cop and his accomplice.“Moral policing will not be tolerated at any cost. The constable is accused of seeking bribe. I have recommended a departmental inquiry against the constable along with his suspension,” said Shruti Arora, assistant superintendent of police (ASP), Chandigarh south.However, the police are yet to identify Mange Ram’s accomplice. “He will be arrested soon, and action will be taken against him for sending inappropriate messages to the girl in the night,” the ASP said.Cutting cake in park led to youths’ detentionIn his complaint, Yogesh Manchanda of Sector 26, Chandigarh, told the police that he had come to Sector 31 with his friend to celebrate the birthday of another friend.The trio sat in the park while maintaining social distancing and adhering to other Covid safety protocols. As they were cutting the birthday cake, the constable accompanied by his accomplice arrived at the park around 3pm on Monday. Mange Ram objected to the celebration and started hurling abuses at the youths for sitting in the park. He even confiscated their mobile phones and demanded ₹4,000 threatening to register an FIR against them if they failed to pay up.The cop then took them to the Sector 31 beat box, where he allowed Yogesh to go out and get the bribe money. However, he made his female friend sit in the beat box where there was no woman constable for about two hours. It was only after Yogesh returned to the beat box along with his family that the girl was released.Cop’s aide sent obscene texts to detainee Yogesh stated in his complaint that the constable had jotted down their mobile phone numbers. In the night, the unidentified man, who had accompanied the constable, sent obscene messages to his female friend. He even misbehaved with Yogesh’s mother and used vulgar language against her when she confronted the accused for sending obscene messages to his son’s female friend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-police-constable-suspended-over-bribe-charge-101623786309437.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab registers 38 more deaths, 642 fresh cases||Punjab on Tuesday reported 38 more Covid-related fatalities taking the death toll to 15,650, while 642 fresh cases took the infection count to 5,89,153, according to a medical bulletin released by the state government. Bathinda and Sangrur registered maximum fatalities with six deaths each. Ludhiana reported 67 cases, followed by 53 in Mohali, 49 in Amritsar, 47 each in Jalandhar and Patiala, 46 in Hoshiarpur and 44 in Bathinda. The number of active cases dropped to 10,802 from 11,913 on Monday. The state’s positivity rate stood at 1.56%. With 1,691 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,62,701, the bulletin said.There are 185 critical patients who are on ventilator while 2,342 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 1,01,36,118 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-registers-38-more-deaths-642-fresh-cases-101623785707532.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Capt slams Oppn over charges of profiteering from vaccines||Rejecting the opposition’s allegations on supply of vaccines to some private hospitals and procurement of fateh kits as “politically motivated”, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said there was no question of the state government making profits amid the pandemic, which it was battling hard to save lives. Accusing the Akalis and AAP of spreading misinformation and weakening the state’s war against Covid by raising non-issues, Amarinder said they were making motivated hue and cry to push their electoral agendas with an eye on the 2022 assembly elections. “The state government has not indulged in any wrongdoing. Quick and unusual decisions have to be taken in an emergency war-like situation. All protocols were strictly followed and emergency rules were invoked to meet the crisis,” he said in a statement, terming media reports on alleged scams as sensationalism. The CM said he was with his officials 100% on these issues, adding that no amount of opposition hullaballoo can undermine the true intent of his government. He also took serious note of the large-scale gatherings being organised by the SAD against the state government in brazen violation of the Covid safety protocols and the curbs in place. “In their desperation for power, Sukhbir Badal and his party colleagues were endangering the lives of the people through such gatherings,” he said. He claimed that the 40,000-odd doses made available to some private hospitals was a one-time measure to provide some vaccination options to non-priority groups in 18-45 category. The hospitals were provided the vaccines at the price at which they were to buy from the manufacturers, he said, adding that since the decision was not being taken in the right spirit, it was withdrawn, but there was no question of any irregularity as the entire money went into the health department’s vaccination fund. Health secretary Hussan Lal said that of the 42,000 vaccines given to private hospitals, only 1,300 were used and the remaining had already been returned to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-slams-oppn-over-charges-of-profiteering-from-vaccines-101623785587481.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||Nishad party chief meets Nadda ahead of 2022 UP polls||Four days after meeting union home minister Amit Shah, Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (NISHAD) leader Sanjay Nishad, who has been camping in New Delhi since then, met BJP chief JP Nadda for the second round of seat-sharing talks in Delhi ahead of the 2022 UP polls on Tuesday.He was accompanied by his son Praveen Nishad, currently a BJP MP from Sant Kabir Nagar. The talks were held in the presence of BJP veteran and UP cabinet minister Sidharth Nath Singh who rushed to Delhi especially for the meeting of Nishad party leader whose party has a significant following among the riverine community of boatmen and fishermen in and around Gorakhpur.“The talks were successful,” Sanjay Nishad said over the phone from Delhi after the meeting and admitted he had put up the issue of “ucchit samman (proper respect)” to the community before the BJP leaders.Sanjay didn’t elaborate on what he meant by “ucchit samman” but Nishad party leaders were hopeful of community being accommodated in various corporations besides a cabinet berth.The Nishad leaders also discussed the issue of community being moved from OBC and be given benefits and reservations as scheduled castes and issued certificates as ‘majhwar’ – a term for riverine community of boatmen or fishermen listed in 53rd number in the SC list.Back in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Sidharth Nath had played a key role in ensuring that the Nishads went with BJP and called off their successful alliance with the Samajwadi Party which had with the support of BSP put up Praveen Nishad as a joint candidate against the BJP in the 2018 Lok Sabha by-poll from Gorakhpur and ensured BJP’s shock defeat.“We had cordial discussions with party chief on issues of Nishad community,” Sidharth Nath Singh said even as BJP chief JP Nadda tweeted pictures of his meeting with Nishad community leaders – a gesture that has been interpreted as a message that the BJP and Nishads would contest the 2022 UP polls in alliance.After 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Nishad party leadership, which has again been approached by the Samajwadi Party ahead of the crucial assembly elections, had complained of being neglected and was being wooed by the Samajwadi Party. On the other hand, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav has begun smaller parties like Mahaan Dal whose chief Keshav Dev Maurya said they would contest the 2022 UP polls with the Samajwadi Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nishad-party-chief-meets-nadda-ahead-of-2022-up-polls-101623785348784.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Congress has only itself to blame for crisis in Punjab||The Congress, which is treading cautiously in its attempt to resolve differences between chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and dissenters in Punjab, has itself to blame for the present crisis in the state unit. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, who is now leaning on the three-member Kharge panel’s assessment and suggestions to end their squabbling, had set up two separate committees under former Union minister P Chidambaram and then All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge of party affairs in Punjab Asha Kumari in January 2020, for the implementation of promises made in the election manifesto and improve coordination between the party and the state government. But both these committee did not hold even one meeting in the past 17 months even though murmurs of discontent in a section of the party kept getting louder in the state. At the centre of the ongoing standoff between Amarinder and the dissenting group are a few key unkept election promises, including action in sacrilege and police firing cases, and annulment of power purchase agreements (PPAs), and the chief minister’s lack of accessibility and over-reliance on bureaucrats that had several ministers and legislators openly gripe at party forums and outside from time to time. The committee, which had Chidambaram as chairman and Amarinder, Asha Kumari, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and Haryana Congress president Kumari Selja as members, was set up for “proper implementation” of the party manifesto for the 2017 assembly elections. The 11-member coordination group comprising Asha Kumari, Amarinder, Jakhar, Rajya MP Ambika Soni and cabinet ministers Charanjit Singh Channi, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Vijay inder Singla and Sunder Sham Arora among others, was also constituted following the dissolution of the pradesh and district Congress committees. These decisions were taken when discontent was already brewing in the party over the government’s handling of the Bargari sacrilege cases and the dominance of bureaucracy in the government. Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa was also breathing fire against Amarinder’s style of functioning and the advocate general and the latter met the party MLAs in groups to hear their grievances. “The discontent was building up and the signs were all there but nothing was done by these committees,” a senior Congress lawmaker said. When contacted, Jakhar, whose name figured in both the central committees as member, said he does not recall having received any message or letter regarding any meeting of the two committees. “The state affairs in-charge was the one authorised to convene meetings. I am not sure, but Covid-19 restrictions could probably be the reason for not holding any meeting,” he said. Harish Rawat, who replaced Asha Kumari as the state affairs in-charge in September 2020, did not respond to calls. The Kharge committee, which includes Rawat and former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal as members and had one-to-one meetings with 150 party leaders from Punjab in past two weeks, has, in its report to the Congress president, suggested keeping Amarinder in command, accommodating former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, revamping of the organisational set-up without further delay and giving due representation to all social groups, particularly Dalits, to strengthen the party ahead of next year’s state polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-has-only-itself-to-blame-for-crisis-in-punjab-101623785107478.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Former Canadian Sikh minister ‘sorry’ for backing proposed anti-Muslim bill||TorontoA former Canadian minister of Punjab origin has publicly apologised for having supported in the past a proposed bill that would have banned Muslim women in the country from wearing the niqab, a face-covering veil, while taking their citizenship oath.Conservative Party MP Tim Uppal, a Sikh, was the minister of state for multiculturalism in the government of then PM Stephen Harper in 2015 when he had backed the controversial bill.His apology has come at a time when terror charges have been slapped on Nathaniel Veltman, a 20-year-old, who had mowed down four members of a Muslim family in the city of Hamilton in Ontario on June 6 in an act of Islamophobia.Uppal is currently an MP from Edmonton Mill Woods.Uppal’s mea culpa has come following the attack. In a Facebook post, he said he was the spokesperson for the proposed bill in 2015, but after his party was defeated in that year’s general election by the Justin Trudeau-led Liberals, he spoke with Canadians outside the “partisan political bubble” and realised “how this ban and other campaign announcements during the 2015 election alienated Muslim Canadians and contributed to the growing problem of Islamaphobia”.He posted, “When it came to these policies, I should have used my seat at the table to push against divisiveness that promoted the notion of the other. I regret not being a stronger voice and sincerely apologise for my role.”Referring to the Hamilton attack, he said it has been “a devastating week for many. We are mourning as a nation for a family that was so brutally attacked and destroyed by a terrorist”.The apology came as a federal prosecutor imposed terror charges on Veltman, who drove his truck over the family when they had been out for an evening walk. The charges were upgraded on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-canadian-sikh-minister-sorry-for-backing-proposed-anti-muslim-bill-101623784987358.html
16-06-2021||Other||CR forms team, procures boats for relief work during rain||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) of Central Railway (CR) has formed a railway flood relief team (RFRT) of 15 people to assist commuters in case of waterlogging during monsoon. The team will have five motorised boats and its personnel have been trained by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). The railways has identified vulnerable locations along the central line and the inflatable boats with all the safety equipment have been stationed at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Kurla, Thane and Badlapur stations. The boats can be easily transported to any Western Railway (WR) station in case of an emergency. Each boat has a capacity of eight people. A mock drill on the rescue operation was conducted at Masunda Lake in Thane on Tuesday. The railways started the initiative this year in the backdrop of the 2019 incident, when an outstation train, Mahalaxmi Express, with 700 passengers on board, was stuck near Vangani station in heavy rains and floods,. Arun Kumar, Director General RPF, said, “The suburban rail is the lifeline of Mumbai, and hence there are various infrastructure upgradations made over the past few years by the railways to ensure that flooding does not take place. As part of this initiative, we have introduced the rescue boats and the team. Our first act in any emergency is to ensure passengers do not panic.” As these boats are inflatable it can be easily moved to any location wherever required for immediate response. Each RFRT team consists of one sub-inspector/assistant sub-inspector and six other staff. “So far, we have trained 15 personnel – 5 women and 10 men – and training is being provided to more RPF personnel. These teams will be available during monsoon from June to October every year. A detailed Standard operating procedure (SOP) has been prepared, that will also ensure better coordination among civil administration, GRP, disaster management authorities and control room,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR. The teams will continuously monitor the rainfall, especially during the days of high tide or when heavy rain is predicted by the meteorological department, and move to the location where flooding is reported. There are three alert marks developed by the railways: when the water level reaches four inches above rail level, the team will start preparation for movement and it will be called ‘blue alert’. When the team moves to the location where water level reaches five inches above the rail level, it will be orange alert. Red alert is when the relief operation begins when the train is held up at any location and the water is three feet high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cr-forms-team-procures-boats-for-relief-work-during-rain-101623784446697.html
16-06-2021||Other||Farmers at loggerheads over paddy transplantation in Jhajjar village||Four days after the Haryana government claimed that farmers of BJP state president OP Dhankar’s native village Dhakla in Jhajjar have decided not to cultivate paddy this time after getting influenced by government’s ‘Mera Pani, Mera Virasat Yojana’ and will switch to other less water-consuming crops, two dozen farmers have criticised the government’s statement and announced that they will transplant the water guzzling paddy crop.These farmers said they have prepared paddy nursery in their fields and will go for paddy transplantation in the last week of June.“We can grow three crops – bajra, paddy and sugarcane in our fields. Bajra was damaged due to the upper water table, prices of sugarcane have come down and we have only one option - to grow paddy. If we do not grow paddy, how will we pay our tractor’s loan amount and other expenses? We have not received a single amount for last year’s crop diversification,” said rebel farmer Praveen Dhankar, who was among these two dozen farmers.Jhajjar deputy director (agriculture) Inder Singh said Dhakla village has 3,445 acre land (1,400 of Dhakla village and rest of two hamlets that fall under this village).The villagers said that there are more than 350 active cultivators in the village, of which more than 70 people are in favour not to cultivate paddy this time, two dozen farmers want to grow water guzzler paddy and the remaining are mum on this issue.The 70-odd farmers are in favour of crop diversification as they are facing a waterlogging problem and their houses are damaged due to the upper water table.“Our agricultural land has been losing its fertility and if we will not switch over to other crops, then we won’t be able to grow crops after a span of five to seven years,” said a group of farmers led by Sant Ram, who are in favour of switching over to other crops.The state government had praised Dhakla farmers on June 11 for taking such initiative after two farmers, both former agricultural minister and BJP state president OP Dhankar’s active workers - Sant Ram and Jaipal Dhankar - had uploaded a video on the social media claiming that they have uprooted the paddy nursery in their fields after farmers of their village unanimously decided not to sow paddy this time. The duo urged farmers to go for crop diversification.Under ‘Mera Pani, Mera Virasat Yojana’, the Haryana government is providing ₹7,000 per acre incentives to farmers for switching from paddy to other crops such as cotton, bajra, maize, pulses and vegetables.This year, the government had also announced to give ₹10,000 per acre per year incentive to farmers for growing 400 trees per acre.Sant Ram said they have conducted panchayats six times in the village asking villagers not to cultivate paddy this time but a few farmers have been raising objections.“These farmers have prepared paddy nursery in their fields and are waiting to start paddy transplantation but we will not allow them to do so. How can 10-15 farmers go against the entire village’s decisions? If they do so, we will uproot their paddy plants. We are facing a waterlogging problem and our houses are damaged due to upper water table. We have asked these farmers to go for crop diversification,” he said.Supporting the government’s move, Jaipal Dhankar said they will not go against the decision taken by majority of farmers to not cultivate paddy this time.“We will keep our fields vacant and go for mustard crop in October. We had uprooted our nursery to support the government’s scheme,” he added.Meanwhile, a group of farmers, led by Ashwani alias Sonu Phogat, on Sunday turned rebel and announced that they will go for paddy transplantation.Showing his paddy nursery in his fields, Ashwani, said over 30 farmers have prepared paddy nursery and will go for its transplantation from June 26.“Last year, I was the only farmer, who had sown paddy on four acre but the villagers mounted pressure on me to clear the fields. They had provided ₹70,000 to me for the expenses and then I followed their decision and cleared my fields. I had grown bajra on 25 acre and the entire crop was damaged due to waterlogging. I had to suffer a loss of ₹6 lakh. This time I had sown sugarcane on 4 acre and will transplant paddy on 21 acre,” he added.Sewa Ram, who had taken 60 acre on lease, said he had suffered a loss of ₹10 lakh after he shifted to bajra.“People have political agendas have made announcements to fulfil their aspirations,” he said.Refuting farmers’ allegations that they have not received incentives last year for switching over to other crops from paddy, Jhajjar deputy director (agriculture) Inder Singh said they have given incentives to 120 farmers hailing from Dhakla village and others’ might had not get as they failed to fulfil all criteria.“This time under the Kheti Khaali –Fir Bhi Khushali scheme, the state government is providing ₹7,000 per incentive to farmers, if they do not grow any crop in their fields on which they have been sowing paddy for many years,” he said.“If anyone wants to grow paddy, we can try to convince them to switch but not punish them for it. No one can uproot any farmer’s paddy crop against their wishes,” he added.Meanwhile, BJP state president OP Dhankar refused to comment on this issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-at-loggerheads-over-paddy-transplantation-in-jhajjar-village-101623783672904.html
16-06-2021||Other||100 shelters for cops on patrol duty in Mumbai||Police personnel patrolling the streets of Mumbai in the scorching sun or heavy rains can now get take shelter in the temporary, portable, semi-modular structures put up across the city.The 100 white shelters, sponsored by Reliance Industries and Reliance Foundation, are put up at key check points to provide a safe and relatively comfortable work conditions for Mumbai Police. The project, which kicked off on May 7, was completed on June 10. The shelters not only look attractive, but are also equipped with facilities such as changing rooms, water dispensers and refrigerators. The shelters also include signages on 15-feet high pylons, fully lit up to enable good visibility along bright-coloured barricading, to make it is easy for the police personnel to funnel traffic. According to police officers, the signages will alert motorists about the police presence ahead on the road. “The project was approved to make visible policing more effective,” said a police officer. During the first and second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the personnel on patrol duty faced problems as they did not have facilities to change or relieve themselves. Therefore, such shelters were proposed to be set up.The police officers said that out of the 100 points, the one at Marine Drive promenade has received three shelters, while at Malabar Hill, there are four shelters. “The two areas are vast to man, owing to which they have received the maximum shelters, as more policemen are deployed in those areas for bandobast,” added the officer.Officers said that more such shelters are expected in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/100-shelters-for-cops-on-patrol-duty-in-mumbai-101623783667313.html
16-06-2021||Other||Four arrested for selling newborn in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Kydganj police arrested four persons, including a childless couple, for allegedly buying a newborn for ₹50,000 on Tuesday. The accused were arrested near Gora Kabristan where they had come to finalise the deal. The seven-month-old child has been rescued and Azamgarh police has been contacted to trace his parents. An FIR has been lodged against the accused under sections 367,368 and 369 of IPC, police said. SHO Kydganj Roshanlal said acting on tip off, police team carried out raid and arrested a trader Sunil Kumar Soni and his wife Manju of Krishna Nagar, Shobha Devi of Circular Road and Shashikala of Azamgarh district. A seven-month-old child was rescued from them. Questioning from the accused revealed that Sunil and Manju were childless even several years after their marriage. They met Shobha Devi at a function sometimes back who assured them of providing a child through Shashikala for ₹50,000. After receiving advance money Shashikala reached Prayagraj on Monday. They were near Gora Kabristan when the child started crying. Some locals informed the police after sensing some suspicious activities following which they were arrested. Help is being taken from Azamgarh police to trace child’s parents, SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-arrested-for-selling-newborn-in-prayagraj-101623783666759.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||Over 12 east UP districts on alert after heavy rain warning||: Over 12 districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh (UP) closer to Nepal border have been put on alert after Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday warned of heavy to very heavy monsoon rains over the next 24 hours. The districts for which alert has been issued, include Bahraich, Shravasti, Siddharthnagar, Maharajganj, Kushinagar, Deoria, Gorakhpur, Sant Kabir Nagar, Basti, Gonda, Ballia and Mau along with some parts of adjoining districts. “Officials of the district administration in these districts have been asked to remain alert and make arrangements to minimise damage likely to be caused due to heavy rainfall. Members of districts and state disaster management committees have been kept in standby in the districts,” said director IMD JP Gupta. “We are closely monitoring the weather conditions in the area and communicating with district authorities of these identified districts on an hourly basis,” he added. Located close to foothills of the Himalayan range these districts are prone to flooding in rains and due to this relief outposts have been set up in all these districts to monitor river water levels and provide assistance to the needy. District magistrate of Shravasti TK Shibu said, “We have set up around 40 flood relief outposts in the low-lying areas of the districts. “People of districts disaster management committee are stationed in these outposts. They have inflatable boats, dry rations and communication equipment with them,” he said. The region has recorded more than 23mm rainfall this month which is 20% above normal, officials said. Rest of the state too is expected to have more rains in coming days as monsoon progresses. UP recorded average rainfall of 7mm across the state on Tuesday while Lucknow and nearby districts remained comparatively dry with less than 2 mm rainfall. The maximum temperature in Lucknow was recorded at 30 degrees Celsius. The MeT department has issued similar forecast for Lucknow on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-12-east-up-districts-on-alert-after-heavy-rain-warning-101623783547934.html
16-06-2021||Other||1.8K students not in favour of blended mode||Over 1,800 students from educational institutes across the country have signed a petition to protest against the blended mode of education proposed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The letter with the demands from students is addressed to the President. Students from institutes in Mumbai have also responded to the call for the digital campaign by the All India Forum to Save Public Education, a pan-India group of students and student unions formed to highlight students’ issues during the pandemic.Through the signature campaign, students have made six demands: making higher education inclusive by not adopting blended mode of education; universal vaccination for all stakeholders including students, teachers and staff in academia; immediate disbursal of fellowships and extensions for completing thesis; ensuring that the differential policies for board exams do not affect students’ futures; inclusion of student representatives in the taskforces across institutes to deliberate on academic activities, and special economic help to families of students from marginalised communities.“Right now, students are unable to participate in a physical protest because of the lockdown and as they are busy with online classes. This signature campaign is to mobile the student community across the country and highlight the issues they face,” said Abhishek Nandan, president of the student union at Hyderabad Central University.“The blended policy of having 40% of student population on campus and 60% studying online will only further the digital divide among students. In a classroom, students are in the same environment and have an equal opportunity of learning. It’s not the same with online education as students from different backgrounds lack basic infrastructure,” said an MA (Master of Arts) student from Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/18k-students-not-in-favour-of-blended-mode-101623783547341.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||President of Haryana state consumer commission to get salary equal to HC judge||President of the state consumer disputes redressal commission in Haryana will receive salary, allowances and other facilities at par with a sitting judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court.The Haryana cabinet on Monday gave nod to the Haryana Consumer Protection Rules, 2021 in order to govern the salary, allowances and other service conditions of presidents and members of the state and district consumer disputes redressal commissions.These rules will come in force on the date of their publication in the official gazette. After the Union government published the new Consumer Protection Act, 2019, which came into force on July 20, 2020, the state governments had to make amendments accordingly and frame rules for salaries and allowances and other terms and conditions of service of the president and members of the state and district commissions.Members of the state consumer disputes redressal commission will be paid a fix honorarium of ₹80,000 per month along with other necessary allowances including HRA, conveyance, TA/DA, etc.SALARY, ALLOWANCES PAYABLE TO PRESIDENT OF DISTRICT COMMISSIONThe president of the district commission will be entitled to a salary that is admissible to a district judge, apart from medical allowance as per provisions of the Haryana Civil Services (Allowances to Government Employees) Rules, 2016.Members of the district commissions will be paid a fix honorarium of ₹55,000 per month along with other allowances such as HRA, conveyance, TA/DA, etc.In case of a casual vacancy in the office of president in the state or district commission, as the case may be, the state government will have the power to appoint the senior most members to officiate as president.The president or member cannot practice before the state or district commission after retiring from service of the state or district commission, the state government said in a release.HARYANA GRANTS EXTENSION TO ONE-TIME SETTLEMENT POLICYThe Haryana cabinet gave ex-post facto approval for extension of one-time settlement policy ‘Samadhan Se Vikas’ till September 30 and for extension of the benefit of the policy to CLU permissions. An official spokesperson said OTS commenced on August 10, 2020, for six months to enable recovery of long-time outstanding EDC dues in license cases. The same was extended from time-to-time because of the pandemic. Till date, around Rs. 551 crore was recovered from real estate developers under this policy. The said extension of the policy has been made applicable in case of change of land use permissions also.HPSC MEMBERS REDUCED TO FIVEThe Haryana cabinet on Tuesday approved reduction in the number of members of the Haryana Public Service Commission from eight to five. The five members will be in addition to the chairman of the commission. The reduction was done by approving an amendment in the Haryana Public Service Commission (Conditions of Service) Regulations, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/president-of-haryana-state-consumer-commission-to-get-salary-equal-to-hc-judge-101623783546721.html
16-06-2021||Other||Bombay HC: No stay on screening test for medical graduates with foreign degrees||The Bombay high court (HC) has refused to grant a stay on Foreign Medical Graduate Exam (FMGE) screening test to be held on Friday, June 18, for thousands of students who have secured medical qualifications said to be at par with MBBS degrees from institutes outside India.A group of medical students had filed a petition in HC seeking a stay on the test as the syllabus consisted of curriculum of the entire MBBS programme instead of only the final year, which was posing a problem for them. The court prima facie held that as the exam was intended to test the knowledge acquired by the candidates over the entire undergraduate medical course, and as its criteria was approved by the Union government, National Medical Commission (NMC) (earlier known Medical Council of India) and the National Board of Examinations (NBE) in 2004, it was not staying the test. The court has, however, asked NMC to submit its response to the challenge on the legality of the criteria of the test and posted the hearing of the petition after two weeks. The division bench justice Nitin Jamdar and justice CV Bhadang, while hearing the petition by All India Medical Students Welfare Forum – a group of medical students from across the country – who were challenging the syllabus for the screening test, was informed by advocate Ashok Shetty that students who had completed their MBBS education from Russia and Kazakhstan among other countries, were facing problems as the exam consisted of curriculum of the entire MBBS programme and not the final year only. Shetty submitted that the forum was seeking interim relief by postponing the screening test till the grievances raised by them on the issue of its legality were addressed. However, advocate Ganesh Gole for NMC and NBE submitted that the grievances of the forum was unfounded as the screening tests had been conducted every year and thousands of students had cleared it and had been approved to start their practice. He also placed the minutes of the meeting held in June 2004 following a Supreme Court direction to decide on the criteria and content of the screening test. He added that the minutes were approved by the Centre as well as by the then MCI and NBE, and said that the screening test being conducted now was in consonance with the 2004 decision. Gole then sought time to respond to the issue of legality but urged the court not to postpone the test as the Delhi HC had last week rejected a similar plea which sought deferral of the exam due to the pandemic. He submitted that though there was no irregularity or illegality in the screening test, NMC would file an affidavit within two weeks, which the court permitted. After hearing the submissions the bench said, “Our prima facie reading of the minutes shows that the decision regarding the test was taken not to have syllabus at the level of postgraduate examination, as the difficulty level would be high. According to us, the scheduled test will be carried out to find out if students have acquired knowledge of earlier years of course to reach final year.”The court then observed that the criteria of the test from the minutes indicated that students would have to know the syllabus of the entire course and not only the final-year syllabus. In light of this, the court refused to grant any interim relief and posted further hearing after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bombay-hc-no-stay-on-screening-test-for-medical-graduates-with-foreign-degrees-101623783487322.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Transport vehicles in Haryana allowed registration through dealers||To promote delivery of citizen services in a cashless and faceless manner, the Haryana government on Tuesday put in place a system of registration of new fully built-up transport vehicles through the dealers in state.An official spokesperson said the decision will facilitate vehicle owners to get their new fully built-up transport vehicles registered through the automobile dealer.The cabinet gave approval to a proposal for amendment in clause 33 (3) of the Motor Vehicles Rules, 1993.Now, a firm, dealer or manufacturer of motor vehicles is empowered to perform such functions with such conditions as it considers appropriate with regard to registration of vehicles on their first sale.The spokesperson said registration of fully built-up new transport vehicles will now be possible online as is being done at present in case of new non-transport vehicles.“More than 48.80 lakh new personal vehicles have been registered through dealer point registration in the last seven years. The system is now being extended for transport vehicles. The applicant will apply online along with the required taxes and fee. There will be no offline activity. The registration certificate will be sent to the applicant by the Registering Authority concerned through post and no direct interface will be needed,” the spokesperson said.POWERS TO ENFORCE ROAD SAFETY NORMS GIVEN TO MORE OFFICERSTo create more deterrence and improve road safety, the Haryana cabinet on Monday decided to reconstitute the motor vehicles department having powers of challaning and compounding.The move is aimed at further strengthening the process of checking by the enforcement agencies and to enforce provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act more effectively in state.A government spokesperson said under the new rules (Haryana Motor Vehicles (Amendments) Rules 2021), a battery of officers including transport commissioner, director general/director of state transport, deputy commissioner, superintendent of police, additional DC, state transport secretary, regional transport authority, general manager of Haryana roadways, flying squad officer, traffic manager, motor vehicle officer (enforcement), and police officer not below the rank of ASI have been appointed as officers of the motor vehicles department.“These officers will exercise the powers of challaning for traffic offences,” the spokesperson said.The state government framed new rules in the wake of Centre amending the Motor Vehicles Act and enhanced the amount of fine/penalties for existing offences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/transport-vehicles-in-haryana-allowed-registration-through-dealers-101623783486733.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Relief for real estate sector in Haryana: April to May declared zero period||The Haryana cabinet on Tuesday granted relief to real estate sector including entrepreneurs having change of land-use (CLU) permissions, due to two-month disruptions caused by the second wave of Covid-19.An official spokesperson said the period from April to May 31 will be considered as zero period for the purposes of interest on payment of renewal fee of licence on delayed period, submission of fresh bank guarantee on account of grant of license and interest/penal interest on payment of instalment of external development works (EDC), state infrastructure development charges (SIDC) during this period, letter of intent/permissions/building plan approval/extension of CLU permission and licences and renewal of licenses, and related compliances.This is in line with the relief measures granted by the Union government for economy.The spokesperson said real estate developers have been granted relief of interest on pending dues and for time-bound compliances.Developers will pass on the corresponding benefits to their allottees to ensure that the hardships faced by end-users also get mitigated to that extent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/relief-for-real-estate-sector-in-haryana-april-to-may-declared-zero-period-101623783367497.html
16-06-2021||Other||3 LeT men get 10 years in jail for conspiracy to eliminate leaders||The special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court on Tuesday convicted three suspected Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) operatives and sentenced them to 10 years of imprisonment for conspiring to eliminate prominent right-wing political leaders, their sympathisers and media persons from Nanded, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. The three convicts – Mohammed Muzzammil, Mohammed Sadique and Mohammed Akram – have also been convicted for illegal possession of arms. The special court however, acquitted two other accused, Mohammed Iliyas and Mohammed Irfan, in the case. The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) had arrested the five accused in August and September 2012. The group was headed by Akram. The ATS had claimed that the five had links with LeT. The case was later transferred to NIA in June 2013. According to NIA, Akram went to Saudi Arabia on the pretext of seeking employment but met various operatives of LeT and Harkat-ul-Jihad-e-Islami (HuJI). The agency further claimed that during his stay in Saudi Arabia, Akram along with the other accused, hatched a conspiracy at Riyadh to carry out targeted killings of prominent Hindu leaders, journalists, politicians and police officers in various parts of India. To execute the conspiracy, Akram was returned to India and travelled to different part of the country such as Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Nanded. He was joined by the other accused. NIA claimed that Muzzammil and Sadique acted at Akram’s behest and had conducted reconnaissance (recce) of various monuments and people who they intended to target. The five accused were allegedly part of the module of the LeT operatives busted in Karnataka in 2012, where more than 20 people were arrested by the local police. In 2017, the accused had pleaded guilty claiming that they had already spent the period of minimum imprisonment as under-trial prisoners. However, the plea was rejected by the court on the grounds that the case was at a crucial stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-let-men-get-10-years-in-jail-for-conspiracy-to-eliminate-leaders-101623783367981.html
16-06-2021||Other||CR seeks your opinion on Mumbai’s AC train services||In a bid to increase passengers and understand the opinion of the public on the air-conditioned (AC) local trains, the Central Railway (CR) has started an online survey on Monday for passengers, commuter bodies, road travellers, divisional railway users consultative committee (DRUCC), zonal railway users consultative committee (ZRUCC) and railway officials. The zonal railway has sought suggestions and asked if passengers would prefer partial AC local trains along with first class and second class AC compartments inside the existing AC trains. The online survey, which mentions the details of AC train routes, seeks to know if the train could replace local services, if changes are required in the fare structures, and suggestions on operational timings during peak and non-peak hours and for improving the AC train services.According to CR officials, the feedback received from the passengers will be submitted to the railway ministry and be studied, and decisions regarding the AC trains will then be taken.“We want to understand what commuters want, their opinion on fare structure, introduction of first and second-class AC compartments and their preferred route choices. Changes will be made on the operations of the AC local trains after feedback is received,” said a senior CR official. CR introduced its AC train services between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan railway stations on December 17, 2020. The services were not popular as only 843 passengers travelled on it a month after the trains were introduced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cr-seeks-your-opinion-on-mumbai-s-ac-train-services-101623783252379.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Covid recovery rate stands at 98.33%||Thirty-eight people succumbed to Covid-19 in Haryana on Tuesday, 228 fresh cases were detected and 32,216 samples taken in the past 24 hours across state.According to the health bulletin, no new case was detected in Charkhi Dadri and Jhajjar, while the highest of 33 cases were recorded in Palwal. In Karnal and Panchkula, 20 cases each of the contagion were reported, while in Gurugram and Faridabad the new case tally was 12 each.The 38 deaths were reported in 16 districts with the highest of five patients each losing the battle to the infection in Panipat and Bhiwani, and four patients each succumbing in Hisar and Sirsa.The fatality rate is 1.18% and the recovery rate stands at 98.33%.The bulletin stated that 74,052 people were vaccinated on Tuesday, increasing the cumulative coverage to over 66.82 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-recovery-rate-stands-at-9833-101623783251893.html
16-06-2021||Other||4-yr-old ‘abandoned’ by parents at PGIMS, Rohtak after testing positive for Covid||A couple has allegedly abandoned their four-year-old son, who is undergoing Covid-19 treatment at the Trauma ICU of the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak since June 10.PGIMS doctors said the boy was brought to the emergency ward by his parents on June 3 as he was facing acute respiratory illness. The next morning, he was shifted to modular ICU-cum OT complex.“After the boy tested positive for the virus, he was shifted to the trauma centre on June 10, since then his parents have disappeared and the address provided by them was found to be fake by police and PGIMS authorities,” they said.PGIMS Covid-19 nodal officer Dr SK Singhal said the child has almost recovered from the virus and is on very low pressure oxygen.“We are trying to find his parents. The boy is stable and is under doctors’ observation. We have lodged a complaint with the Rohtak police about the incident. Police had visited a village in Sonepat as per the address given by the parents but it was a fake address. The phone number provided is switched off since June 10. We suspect that the parents are migrant workers and have either migrated from here or are waiting to receive their boy after treatment,” Singhal added.Nurses and female doctors at the trauma centre said the boy was playful after being admitted but started becoming restless.“Taking care of the boy without his parents was difficult. He was scared of the staff wearing PPE kits. We brought toys to distract him,” a nurse, pleading anonymity, said.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said they are waiting for return of the parents.“If his parents do not come back, we will hand him over to the Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR),” she added.PGIMS police station SHO Shamsher Singh said they had received complaint from PGIMS authorities that a couple had abandoned their child.“We had asked the Sonepat police to trace the parents, but the address provided at the hospital was fake. We are making efforts to find them,” the SHO added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4yrold-abandoned-by-parents-at-pgims-rohtak-after-testing-positive-for-covid-101623783246678.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai housing society residents raise doubts over Covid-19 vaccination camp||A “vaccination camp” held on May 30 at a Kandivli housing society, Hiranandani Heritage, has left 400-odd beneficiaries concerned about its authenticity after they started receiving certificates from centres that were not supposed to be involved in the inoculation programme, along with incorrect dates. The police and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are investigating the matter as all the three hospitals and a centre have denied their involvement with the camp. According to residents, they were charged ₹1,260 per dose of Covishield, which they said saw no side effects for any of the beneficiaries. A complaint has been filed by the residents at Kandivli police station.According to residents, the Hiranandani Heritage Residents Welfare Association (HHRWS), a managing body representing three buildings in the residential complex at Kandivli (West), arranged for a vaccination drive for its residents on May 30. The residents were informed that it was in association with Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Andheri. A total of 390 people got inoculated. But they weren’t registered on the centralised Co-WIN portal, as per the rules. After seven-eight days, the residents started getting messages about their vaccination certificates. But to their surprise, they were issued certificates from two private hospitals— Nanavati Max Super Speciality and Lifeline hospitals — and the civic-run NESCO jumbo centre, Goregaon, which does not even hold vaccination in societies. In addition to this, the dates of vaccination were incorrect on the issued certificates. They had paid the Rs1,260 fee between May 27 and 28, while enrolling for the camp. “We didn’t know the rules that on-the-spot registration is compulsory while taking the jab. So, we didn’t demand for spot registration on the Co-WIN portal. After seven-eight days, the beneficiaries started getting calls, seeking the Co-WIN registration OTP received on their phones. Then they received messages of the certificates,” said a resident from the society whose 34-year-old son took the jab. But when he downloaded his vaccination certificate, Nanavati Hospital was mentioned as the vaccinator. “In fact, his date of vaccination is recorded as June 12, which again indicates a spurious activity,” he added. However, the hospital issued an official statement, clarifying that they weren’t involved in the camp. “We wish to clarify that we have not conducted any vaccination camp at the said residential complex. We have informed authorities concerned and are lodging a formal complaint regarding the same,” read the statement. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of NESCO jumbo centre, said no vials of Covishield have been sent out for the camp. “Firstly, we don’t vaccinate outside our centre. Secondly, being a civic-run centre, we don’t charge the public for the vaccination. If certificates have been issued in the name of NESCO, then how are the people being charged?” A senior officer from Lifeline Hospital, Malad also refuted any involvement in the camp. “After the residents got in touch with us, we also investigated the matter. Though the certificates are real, we didn’t issue those,” said the officer. Many of the residents haven’t received their vaccination certificates yet. “We agreed for the vaccination as it was claimed that it would be done in an association with Kokilaben Hospital. But on the day of vaccination, we were being told that due to staff shortage, they arranged for vaccinators from a nearby private hospital,” said another resident. Dr Santosh Shetty, chief executive officer of Kokilaben Hospital, said, “I am aware of the incident. But we don’t know anyone who got in touch with us for the vaccination. We aren’t filing a police complaint so far as the certificates issued to the beneficiaries don’t mention the name of our hospital.”The residents also said that no one has complained of the usual side effects of fever, body aches or other physical discomfort, which is surprising and hence they suspect the genuineness of the vaccine. “There are doubts about whether we were actually given Covishield or was it just glucose or expired/waste vaccine,” a software engineer Neha Alshi wrote in a Twitter thread. Some residents are even planning to take a spike antibody test to check if it was actually Covid-19 vaccine. No FIR yet, but investigation is underwayThe HHRWS has filed a complaint with Kandivli police station about the matter and demanded investigation of the matter. According to the complaint’s copy, they had arranged the vaccination camp through a person named Pandey, who claimed to be the sales representative of Kokilaben Hospital. Another person named, Sanjay Gupta, who was the coordinator for the camp, did not provide receipts for the payment for vaccines. Later, he had asked the association to make payment to the third person, Mahendra Singh, who had arrived at the end of the vaccination camp. When the members from the Management Committee of Associations (MCA) of the society asked about the certificates, they were being asked to wait for three-four days. “If the vaccine is found to be spurious, the people who got vaccinated will have a medical emergency to deal with. Therefore, there is an urgent need to investigate the whole episode so that such fraudulent activities are not repeated at other places,” the complaint of association states.Police have started their investigation into the matter and recording statements of the organisers. When contacted Vishal Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (zone 11) said that they were verifying the written complaint received by them. “We have not registered an FIR yet. We are verifying the complaint,” said Thakur. Another police officer said that the agent involved in the case had claimed that he had received the doses from Kokilaben Hospital, but had actually used vaccination doses from a few other hospitals, which were surplus or unused and gave the society members certificates from some other hospitals. “The certificates are being verified. We cannot reveal any names at this stage as an FIR has not been registered yet,” said the other officer.Meanwhile, the BMC has also initiated an inquiry into the matter. They have asked their department to find out two major concerns— how the vials were procured and how the names of the hospitals were updated on the Co-WIN portal. They have also sought the issued certificates to check for its verification. “At present, we don’t know much about the issue. We will hold our own investigation into the matter to check how the vials were procured and the authenticity of the data uploaded on the Co-WIN portal,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Kandivali MLA Yogesh Sagar raised concern over the allegations and demanded stringent action against the culprits. “There are guidelines that need to be followed. If people are vaccinated on May 30, then why would they get inoculation on another day? This would also reflect on the overall figures of vaccination maintained centrally,” he said. (With inputs from Megha Sood)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-housing-society-residents-raise-doubts-over-covid-19-vaccination-camp-101623783129539.html
16-06-2021||Other||Pillars to mark Haryana-UP boundary along Yamuna course||Work on erection of cemented pillars has begun to define the state border between Haryana and Uttar Pradesh almost 46 years after both the states agreed to the Dikshit Award.The work has started after demarcation by the Survey of India as a pilot project in Karnal’s Barhi Kalan village and the pillars will be erected to serve as boundary between the two states.Officials said that this will end the decades-long dispute arising among farmers who own land on the floodplains, due to changes of course of river Yamuna.Officials said that a pillar of 21 meters- including 15 meters under the ground, will be erected at every turn of the river on both sides.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the process has begun on trial-basis at Barhi Kalan village in district and two pillars have already been erected.He said that the Survey of India has marked a total of 44 spots and 24 pillars will be erected by the UP government and 20 by the Haryana PWD. As per the detailed project report (DPR), 396 pillars each will be installed by the Haryana and UP governments in 10 villages of Karnal district alone.Officials working on the project said that a total stretch of about 370km along Yamuna (from Yamunanagar to Gurugram district in Haryana and Saharanpur to Aligarh district in Uttar Pradesh) will be covered.This will help resolve disputes over thousands of acres in 234 villages of both the states.Gaurav Singh, project head of the Survey of India, said, “The demarcation from both the sides in Karnal’s Barhi Kalan village has been completed and work on installation of pillars has been started.”“A meeting will soon take place to start work on the project in other districts and this will cover around 370km of Yamuna belt in both the sides as per the Dikshit Award, 1975 (Haryana and Uttar Pradesh Alternation of Boundaries),” he said.However, no deadline has been fixed yet to complete the project.Farmers hailed the move and said that this was a long-pending demand of farmers from Yamuna belt in both states.“In lack of defined boundaries, we had to face problems as our land is located on both sides of the river. But this move will help end the dispute,” said Ishwar Singh, a farmer from Chogawan village in Karnal.Earlier, officials of the revenue department, especially in Indri tehsil, faced problems as consolidation of land could not take place in some villages and the work of drone mapping could not be completed in villages along the Yamuna belt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pillars-to-mark-haryana-up-boundary-along-yamuna-course-101623783128841.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||ED arrests ex-MLA in ₹512.54-cr bank fraud||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials on Tuesday night arrested former member of legislative assembly (MLA) from Panvel, Vivekanand Shankar Patil, in the ₹512.54-crore Karnala Nagari Sahakari Bank scam. He will be produced in a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Wednesday.Patil, is a three-term MLA from Panvel constituency from Peasants and Workers Party of India and is the chairman of the bank, which has its headquarters in Panvel. ED’s case is based on the Panvel City police station’s February 2020 FIR in which Patil and 75 others were booked. The accused involved bank’s vice-chairman Subhash Deshpande, chief executive officer Hemant Sutane and 12 directors of the bank.In March 2019, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had flagged 58 suspicious accounts in the bank and instructed the Commissioner for Cooperation and Registrar, Cooperative Societies (CC and RCS) to look into the accounts. The district special audit was initiated by a government auditor who submitted his report to the CC and RCS, Maharashtra, with the findings. The case was lodged after the audit report revealed that since 2013, Patil allegedly created several fake bank accounts to facilitate at least 63 loans to bogus firms and persons without any valid documentation. As per the complaint, the accounts which were given loans were either of Patil’s close friends or relatives. The loan limit to these accounts was increased gradually and the sanctioned loan amount was diverted to Karnala Charitable Trust and Karnala Sports Academy, both run by Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-arrests-ex-mla-in-512-54-cr-bank-fraud-101623782826603.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2 travel from Punjab on bike with 5kg drugs in bag, held||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided multiple places in Mumbai and Thane, including a gurudwara at Dadar, and seized 17.3kg of charas worth ₹9 crore and ₹4.40 lakh in cash and arrested seven accused for purchasing and supplying contraband. During their interrogation, it was revealed that two accused had travelled from Punjab to Mumbai on a bike carrying 5kg contraband in a backpack. The arrested accused identified as Kamlesh Gupta, Amit Patel, Rajvinder Singh, Gurmit Singh, Noor Mohmmad Jumman, Shabir Usman Shaikh and Nizamuddin Ahmad Taza. Zonal director Sameer Wankhede said the first operation was carried out by an agency in a gurudwara at Dadar. The team intercepted Gupta, Patel, Rajvinder and Gurmit Singh. The team allegedly recovered 2kg of charas and ₹2.20 lakh in cash from the accused. “During interrogation, we learnt Rajvinder and Gurmit Singh travelled from Punjab to Mumbai on bike and with 5kg of contraband in their backpack. Based on Gupta’s inputs, a team raided the house of Noor Mohmmad Jumman at Chunabhatti and recovered 3.3kg of charas and ₹2.20 lakh in cash,” he said. Another team nabbed Shabir Usman Shaikh and Nizamuddin Ahmad Taza and during search recovered 12kg of Charas in Padga, Bhiwandi on Tuesday. During investigation, it was learnt that the seized contraband had arrived from Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-2-travel-from-punjab-on-bike-with-5kg-drugs-in-bag-held-101623782767461.html
16-06-2021||Chandigarh||Attempted attack on Khattar: 9 cops may face action||Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Tuesday said that disciplinary action could be initiated against nine cops, including an IPS officer, for alleged lapse in the security of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in the Vidhan Sabha precincts on March 10.Nine Punjab MLAs of Shiromani Akali Dal, including former Punjab ministers Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Bikram Singh Majithia, were booked by the Chandigarh Police in March for their alleged attempt to attack Khattar in the Vidhan Sabha complex.The Punjab MLAs were demanding that the Haryana government should pass a resolution against the Centre’s three agricultural laws.The speaker, in a statement on Tuesday, said that an inquiry report was submitted by the director general of police holding nine police personnel including IPS officer and the then superintendent of police (security) Pankaj Nain responsible for the security lapse.Nain was responsible for managing the security apparatus in the assembly parking where the alleged attempt to attack Khattar took place.“Show-cause notices have been issued to eight police personnel. It has been assured that disciplinary action will be initiated against them after getting their response and analysing the episode,” the speaker said.Acting on complaint of a marshal of the assembly secretariat on March 13, the Chandigarh Police had registered case against Dhillon, Majithia, Baldev Singh Khaira, Sukhwinder Kumar, Harinder Pal Singh Chandumajra, Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi, Manpreet Singh Ayali, Gurpartap Singh Wadala and Narinder Kumar Sharma.According to the complaint, Khattar was giving a press briefing on the day’s session when the nine SAD MLAs, accompanied by six-seven people with black stripes protested and allegedly tried to attack him.The security staff of the Vidhan Sabha and the Haryana Police intervened and prevented the situation from worsening.Haryana DGP had also constituted a team of police officials from Haryana, Chandigarh and Punjab to fix responsibility of officials for the alleged security lapse which led to the attempted attack on the CM.However, the assembly speaker expressed dissatisfaction over the inquiry conducted by the joint team of Chandigarh, Haryana and Punjab police.In an April 7 communication to the DGP, the assembly secretariat had said that after going through the inquiry report, the speaker has observed that it is full of suggestions rather than an inquiry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attempted-attack-on-khattar-9-cops-may-face-action-101623782766636.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai top cop: Be sensitive towards injured complainants||Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale has issued an order to all police stations in Mumbai to be extra sensitive with the complainants visiting police stations in injured state. The commissioner has directed all cops that instead of asking injured person to first get medical report from hospital (to become eligible to file an FIR/cognisable offense), the police should first help them with an ambulance to safely reach a hospital as soon as possible for medical aid. Policemen found not adopting this approach and procedure, would face departmental action.In his order, CP has stated that it was observed by the top brass of the police force that if an injured person visits police station to file a complaint, police officers do not help the person get treatment. His order stated, “Henceforth, the police shall first issue the injured person a memo for medical examination, make entry in the police station diary and then send a police constable along with the injured person to the government hospital and proceed with the legal procedure after the treatment.”In 2019, a victim of an assault case had visited Chembur police station in injured state. The police first filed an FIR and while going to hospital the complainant suffered a heart attack and died. The case was recently discussed in a meeting headed by Nagrale. Dr Ruchi Sinha from TISS said, “This is a sensitive, pro people, proactive decision, but would need a lot of administrative support. An ambulance will not be available at police stations 24x7. Secondly, while transporting the injured en route to the hospital from the police station if something happens to the person, protocols have to developed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-top-cop-be-sensitive-towards-injured-complainants-101623782707975.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Family alleges Air India negligence as pet dog dies on landing in Mumbai||A family from Kolkata that flew to Mumbai on June 11 for an eye surgery of their 22-month-old dog, who suffered from entropion, have alleged negligence by Air India, as the pet, declared “fit to fly” while being taken to the cargo area of the aircraft, died on landing in Mumbai. AI has refuted their claims. Entropion is an abnormality of the eyelids in which the eyelid rolls inward that often causes the hair on the surface of the eyelid to rub against the cornea resulting in corneal ulcers, perforations or pigment developing on the cornea, which can interfere with vision. “I have lost my brother, I hope no other dog travels by Air India,” said 16-year-old Pratyusa Banerjee. Banerjee’s parents alleged that Gultu, of Chow Chow breed, died as a result of the airline’s negligence – first, because the aircraft had an oxygen pressure issue and second, they were informed about Gultu only after reaching the domestic terminal, losing time. Banerjee said after a very rough landing at T2 on June 11, they were first made to go to the international cargo terminal to fill forms, following which they headed to the domestic terminal to get Gultu. As it was raining profusely that day, moving from international terminal to domestic cargo took time. “After Gultu was handed over to us, his body was warm and we consulted the vets who asked us to give him oxygen support and a cardiac injection. However, since nothing was available at the terminal, we rushed Gultu to Crownvet, a Worli- based clinic, but were informed that he died around 45minutes before,” said Banerjee. “Why don’t they (airport) have a vet or an assistant for any kind of emergency related to animals when they know that an airline flies animals as cargo? The situation would have been totally different if Gultu had been attended to immediately,” said Banerjee. “According to the vet, Gultu could have been revived if he was given immediate oxygen and cardiac vial at the airport.” Pets can travel with Air India only if the sender meets all requirements detailed in the Carriage of Pet policy, including providing the cage with prescribed dimension. “In this case, all documents, including indemnity bond, were submitted and necessary criteria met to the satisfaction of both the airline and consignor. In fact, two pet dogs had travelled in the cargo of the same flight AI 676 from Kolkata to Mumbai that day. One of the two dogs had landed fit and fine. The other pet was unfortunately declared dead after arrival. Evidently, no issue related to oxygen was involved in the incident. Live cargo, like pets, are always delivered ahead of other cargo goods from the hold and this time too there was no exception,” said airline spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/family-alleges-air-india-negligence-as-pet-dog-dies-on-landing-in-mumbai-101623782706631.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Make cluster plan for revamp of dilapidated buildings: Maharashtra minister||In the backdrop of a building collapses in Malwani last week and Ulhasnagar in May, state urban development department minister Eknath Shinde on Tuesday directed municipal corporations within Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to develop a cluster plan for redevelopment of dilapidated buildings in the areas.The minister, in a meeting with municipal chief of all corporations in MMR, also directed them to build transit camps to house people living in dilapidated structures, and in case of a collapse. In a bid to find a “permanent solution” to this issue, Shinde said, “Every municipal area must prepare a cluster plan for redevelopment of dilapidated buildings in their city. If cluster redevelopment isn’t possible, you must suggest the steps that could be taken as per government policies. As there is a problem of dilapidated building arises in every monsoon season, transit camps should be built in every municipal area for temporary shelter for citizens living in such buildings, for which funds should be provided.” According to a statement from the minister’s office, all municipal commissioners attributed the delay in redevelopment of dilapidated buildings to issues between the owner and occupants, and legal issues over the redevelopment. Last week, a four-storey structure collapsed on a two-storey building in Malwani area of Malad, killing 12 people, including eight children. The structure that collapsed was an illegal building, with only the ground floor sanctioned; the other three were illegal. In May, a five-storey building in Ulhasnagar collapsed, killing seven people. In August 2020, a five-storey building collapsed in Mahad in Raigad district killing 11 people. 36% work of Mumbai coastal road project completed: BMCAround 36% of work of the 10.58km-long Mumbai coastal road project has been completed, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials informed chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in a review meeting held on Tuesday. The project is expected to be completed by July 2023. So far, 9% work on the 2.07 km twin tunnels connecting Girgaum Chowpatty and Malabar Hill has been completed. Almost 90% of the reclamation work is done, while 67% work on the sea wall is completed. The 7.5km-long sea wall is being built to prevent erosion and damage from storms.The coastal road project is expected to cut down travel time in one of the most congested cities in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/make-cluster-plan-for-revamp-of-dilapidated-buildings-in-mmr-maharashtra-min-101623782647337.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Maratha outfits to begin their quota stir in Maharashtra from Wed||Demanding that their quota in government jobs and education be restored immediately, Maratha community outfits will begin statewide agitations from Wednesday. Initially, the protests will be staged in five cities, beginning with Kolhapur on June 16. Later, silent protests will be held at Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati and Raigad. The outfits have also planned a long march from Pune to Mumbai, if their demands are not met by August. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a BJP Member of Parliament (MP), who is a descendant of Maratha warrior king Chhatrapati Shivaji, will lead the protests. On May 5, the Supreme Court quashed the 12% and 13% reservation given in education and jobs to Maratha community under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018. The five-judge bench also refused to refer the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment, setting a 50% cap on reservation, to a larger bench for reconsideration. The state plans to file a review petition in the SC challenging the verdict. It had appointed a committee headed by retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale to study the ruling and suggest a way forward. The committee in its report has recommended the government to move a review petition. Virendra Pawar, one of the convenors from Maratha Kranti Morcha (MKM), said they have decided to cover all regions of the state in the beginning. “We will be covering all regions by holding protests at Kolhapur (western Maharashtra), Nashik (north Maharashtra), Aurangabad (central Maharashtra), Amravati (Vidarbha) and Raigad (Konkan),” Pawar said. “The protests will be staged at a gap of around a week as we also need some time to make the arrangements. If our demands are not met till then, we have also planned a long march from Pune to Mumbai. People from the community will cover the entire distance between Pune and Mumbai on foot. It may happen by the first week of August,” he added. The first silent protest at Kolhapur will be held at Shahu Samadhi Sthal, resting place of well-known social reformer Rajarshi Shahu Maharaj, who was also a descendant of King Shivaji. Last time, a huge silent protest was held in Mumbai on August 9, 2017, demanding reservation and justice to a minor girl from Maratha community, who was raped and brutally killed at Kopardi in Ahmednagar district of western Maharashtra. The convenors are also mulling to organise a long march (between Pune and Mumbai) around the same time. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati has been mobilising the community by holding various meetings of Maratha outfits and leaders across political spectrum. On Saturday, he visited Kopardi in Ahmednagar district to meet the victim’s family and demanded the case be fast-tracked. Kopardi incident became the emotional connect for the Maratha community across the state, which also triggered a large-scale agitation for justice to the victim along with their old demand of reservation to the community. He then visited the of residence Kakasaheb Shinde, a 28-year old Maratha youth in Aurangabad district, who committed suicide by jumping into Godavari river in July 2018. He was the first youth who committed suicide demanding reservation, after which a few more youths from the community ended their lives for the demand. On Monday, he met Udayanraje Bhosale, another descendant of the Maratha king, who expressed strong support for Maratha reservation. The meeting took place in Pune. “We have invited all MLAs and MPs (from the district) to participate in the silent protest to be held tomorrow. We have also decided not to speak a word on Wednesday. Let the public representatives clear what they feel,” Sambhajiraje said in Kolhapur on Tuesday.Many political leaders across political parties are likely to participate in the silent protest. It includes rural development minister Hasan Mushrif (NCP), minister of state for home Satej Patil (Congress), minister of state for health Rajendra Patil Yadravkar (Independent), Kolhapur MP Sanjay Mandlik (Shiv Sena), Hatkanangale MP Dhairyasheel Mane (Shiv Sena), Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief Prakash Ambedkar, Jansurajya Shakti Party chief Vinay Kore, Congress MLA (Kolhapur) Ruturaj Patil etc.“Mushrif, Satej Patil and all MLAs from Kolhapur district will participate in the silent protest,” said Ajit Pawar, deputy chief minister on Tuesday. “We are trying to find a positive way out of the situation and had asked the community leaders to discuss it with the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, however, they decided to go ahead with the agitation,” he told reporters in Pune.Bhosale said, “I am with Sambhajiraje and have extended my full support to his efforts in getting reservation for the Marathas. We have only one demand and that is reservation for Marathas.” He asked politicians from all parties to hold a special assembly session on the issue of Maratha reservation as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-outfits-to-begin-their-quota-stir-in-maharashtra-from-wed-101623782586662.html
16-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Biker falls into trench dug up for work in Thane, dies||A 28-year-old biker from Diva died after falling into a 15-ft deep trench dug up to repair drains at Sambhaji Nagar near Korum Mall in Thane early on Tuesday. With the locals alleging lack of safety barricades around the construction site, the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has ordered an inquiry into the matter and demanded a report on the safety measures and the ongoing work in 24 hours. The Wagle Estate police have arrested civil contractor Abhijeet Boradkar, 37, for negligence. The deceased, Prasan Deulkar, was a resident of Yashodhan Nagar in Thane and recently shifted to Diva. The TMC has suspended a junior engineer of sewage department, Vijay Lokre, who was responsible for supervising the work. Senior police inspector, Wagle Estate police station, DS Dhole, said, “Deulkar had come to stay at his friend’s place on Monday. He was returning at around 6am to Diva when he failed to see the trench as there were no sufficient barricades or signages and fell into the nullah. We received a call from residents around 6am after which the rescue operation was conducted by the Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) of TMC and fire brigade officials. We have sent his body for post-mortem.”Additional commissioner of TMC, Ganesh Deshmukh, in his order, said, “The one-member inquiry set up in the issue will give a report on the name of the company carrying out the work, cost of the project, name of the person in-charge of the day-to-day progress, if enough safety measures were undertaken and the cost under which the project was funded. The inquiry will also focus on finding the exact reason for the accident.” Pradip Pawar, 28, resident of Wagle Estate staying just 20m away from the spot of the accident, said, “The drainage work has been going on for the past one month without installing any indicators around the work. Just near the spot, there is a public toilet. Security guard of that toilet and an auto rickshaw driver were passing through the place and saw a man along with his bike had fallen in the drain. They called me and later we informed all officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-biker-falls-into-trench-dug-up-for-work-in-thane-dies-101623782526656.html
16-06-2021||Bhopal||MP govt relaxes Covid restrictions; gyms, malls and fitness centres to open||Gyms, fitness centres and shopping malls in Madhya Pradesh can reopen from Wednesday, the state government said in an order, joining Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala and Jharkhand that announced relaxations in coronavirus-related lockdown restrictions in view of a decline in daily infections. “The malls, gym, fitness centre, markets and shops will be allowed to open from 8 AM to 8 PM. Restaurants and clubs have been allowed to open with 50% sitting capacity from 8 Am to 10 PM while hotels will be allowed with 100% occupancy,” the Madhya Pradesh government’s home department said in an order on Tuesday.“As many as 50 people will be allowed to attend wedding ceremonies and 10 people at funerals. Sports clubs and stadiums will be opened, and sports events will be allowed in the state without spectators,” the home department order said. Six people will be allowed at one time in all spiritual and religious places. The ban will be continued on fairs, social, political, religious and cultural gatherings. School, colleges, caching and training centres will remain closed till further decision, said the order. The district administration has been asked to maintain the protocol of Covid 19 and enforce wearing of masks and social distancing, said Rajesh Rajora, additional chief secretary, home. In MP, 224 positive cases have been reported on Wednesday and 27 people succumbed to the disease. There are 3,618 active Covid cases in MP.In neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, the Yogi Adityanath government has reduced the duration of the ‘corona curfew’ at night by two hours from June 21.As per latest guidelines, the night curfew will be effective from 9pm to 7am (earlier it was from 7 pm till 7 am). The decision was taken at a meeting to assess the Covid-19 management by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-govt-relaxes-covid-restrictions-gyms-malls-and-fitness-centres-to-open-101623782407278.html
16-06-2021||Lucknow||Street food bounces back, in-car dining picks up!||After the relaxation of partial corona curfew in the city on weekdays, the fastest trend to bounce back was the street food outing. As the dine-in is still not permitted, so food lovers are going for their favourite delicacies on takeaway mode and relishing them in their vehicles as well as at the roadsides. Popular food joints like Moti Mahal, Madhurima, Royal Café, Bajpai Kachori, Keval’s tea, Tunday Kababi, Ranjan Café and many more are just providing take-ways. But foodies are seen savouring them in disposable packing standing nearby. “Chai, samosa and bun-makkhan if you take back home then there is no point! We went to Sharma Chaai expecting to get chai-samosa in kulhad and plate but since we just got the packing, we consumed it on bench in the park opposite to the joint,” says Manish Tripathi, a self-confessed ‘chai-baaz’. At Bajpai Kachori shop long queues are back and they are categorically asking people to eat there but puri-lovers can be seen enjoying piping-hot delicacies near the food joint. On bhel-puri, batasha, poha and ice-cream carts and tea stall people can be easily spotted relishing delicacies. “Ab zindagi to chalni hi hai,” says a bhel-puri seller near Press Club. Near fast-food joints on high street, a good number of people are seen picking stuff from takeaways and eating near-by. Kushagra Pandey of Goldmine Rovers Café confirmed, “We are not allowing anyone to eat or park vehicle opposite our café but a lot of them ask to serve in disposable packing and consume in their cars parked away from the cafe. I hope later this week or by next week government will allow dine-in at half capacity as we all have suffered huge losses.” As per latest government orders, dine-in will start from Monday and guidelines will be issued soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/street-food-bounces-back-in-car-dining-picks-up-101623781867298.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||₹3.5 crore cash seized from online betting racket operator in east Delhi||A 45-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly running an online betting racket through multiple mobile applications and online gaming portals and ₹3.5 crore cash has been recovered from his apartment, said police a day after his arrest on Monday.A laptop and a mobile phone used in the crime have also been recovered. Deputy commissioner of police (east) Priyanka Kashyap said, “The income tax department has been informed about the recovery of the cash. The arrested man’s links with betting operators based in foreign countries, such as Dubai, are being probed.”The man has been identified as Sanjeev Rathore, a mechanical engineer originally from Uttar Pradesh, who was living in an apartment in IP Extension for the past three years.Kashyap said keeping pace with the changing technology, betting operators, like Rathore, who are well versed with the nuances of modern day technology, provide a wide number of choices to aspiring betters. “He provided a window of gambling to any one, sitting in any corner of the world, to place bets on any ongoing game around the globe,” said the DCP.“The betters taking his service had the option to place bets on football, tennis, rugby matches sitting in the comfort of their homes with complete safety and anonymity without the need for making any phone calls in this regard,” she added.Police said Rathore was operating on various online apps such as Sky, Ice, Gold and Diamond specially developed for betting purposes. The betters could download the same from Google Play Store and Apple Store. However, Rathore provided the user IDs and passwords only after receiving a hefty payment and commission, said police.“Being tech-savvy, Rathore had been maintaining an online book, keeping a record of all such transactions for the ‘ease’ of his clients. All dealing was being done in cash. The betters always had the option of redeeming the winning bets in cash from Rathore, which necessitated the need to keep such a large amount of cash at home,” said Kashyap.The police said they are investigating the case further to ascertain the entire network, of which Rathore was a key member, and identify other players.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs-3-5-crore-cash-seized-from-online-betting-racket-operator-in-east-delhi-101623780907850.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Bail for Delhi riots accused: Friends and family call it a victory for democracy||Family members and friends of student activists Devangana Kalita, Natasha Narwal, and Asif Iqbal Tanha, who was granted bail by the Delhi high court on Tuesday in the Delhi riots case, described the order as a “big victory for democracy” and said their faith in the judiciary has been “restored”.The three student activists were booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for allegedly instigating the February 2020 riots in north-east Delhi which broke out in the backdrop of protests against and in support of the Citizenship Amendment Act, which left 53 people dead and more than 400 injured.Both Narwal and Kalita, members of women collective Pinjra Tod, were arrested on May 29 last year on the charges of allegedly hatching a conspiracy along with the other co-accused to orchestrate the riots. Tanha was arrested in May 2020 for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” behind the riots.While Devangana and Natasha are MPhil students at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), Tanha is pursuing BA (Hons) in Persian from Jamia Millia Islamia.A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani, while granting bail to Kalita, said, “We are constrained to say, that it appears, that in its anxiety to suppress dissent and in the morbid fear that matters may get out of hand, the State has blurred the line between the constitutionally guaranteed ‘right to protest’ and ‘terrorist activity’. If such blurring gains traction, democracy will be in peril.”Also Read | Right to protest is not a terror act: Delhi high courtTerming the court’s order as a “big victory for democracy”, Devangana’s mother Kalpana Deka Kalita said she had mentally prepared herself for “a long battle”.“It was a big shock for us when she was arrested last year and charged under the UAPA. When I read about the UAPA, we started preparing ourselves and Devanagana for a long battle. There were instances when we would get really worried about her, but she has shown exceptional strength and courage. We knew that she was not guilty since the very beginning. She was just protesting. We are so happy that this has been proved in the court today. It’s a big victory for truth and democracy,” Kalpana said over a phone call from Dibrugarh in Assam, adding she will soon visit Devangana in Delhi.Even as the three student activists were granted bail by the court, they were not released from the jail on Tuesday due to some pending paperwork, said their family members and friends.Natasha’s younger brother, Akash Narwal said if had bail order came a month earlier, she could have spent some time with her father who recently passed away after contracting Covid-19. “I am really grateful that the court has issued such a strong order. It is a victory for democracy. But it is just tragic that it did not come a month early. It’s still difficult to process that she could not speak to him or meet him one last time. This was the first thing that came to my mind, when I got to know about the court’s order.”Tanha’s mother Jahan Ara, who is currently in Jharkhand, said her faith in the judiciary has been restored after the high court order on Tuesday. “It has been a tough year for the entire family. There has not been a day when I was not worried about his safety and well-being in jail. My son is a normal student who wants to study and do something good in life. He was falsely implicated in the case, and I am so glad that the court has acknowledged it. I will soon leave for Delhi. I can’t wait to give him a hug,” she said.Pinjra Tod, the outfit to which both Devangana and Natasha are associated with, also issued a statement welcoming the court’s decision. “We look back at this past year of struggle and what it has a cost — the loss of freedom for Devangana and Natasha and the trials and tribulations of their friends, family, and comrades. We remain inspired by the sheer strength that they and so many others have shown in the face of vicious criminalisation and the onslaught of the state, we send our regards to their family members running from pillar to post to prove their innocence. We reiterate our demand for the release of all political prisoners and the dropping of fabricated conspiracy charges,” they said.Several other student groups, including AISA and Students’ Islamic Organisation of India (SIO), also issued statements welcoming the court’s order and demanding the release of other student activists who are currently in jail and charged under the UAPA.The Delhi Police have decided to challenge the high court order.“We are not satisfied with the interpretation of the provisions of UAPA by the high court in a matter concerned with grant of bail. We are proceeding with filing of a special leave petition before the Supreme Court,” said DCP Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson, Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bail-for-delhi-riots-accused-friends-and-family-call-it-a-victory-for-democracy-101623780907226.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Israeli embassy attack: NIA declares ₹20L to trace suspects||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday released the pictures and videos of two suspects who, according to people familiar with the development, allegedly placed a bomb outside the Israeli embassy at Dr A P J Abdul Kalam Road in New Delhi on January 29 this year. The agency has also announced a reward of ₹10 lakh each for information on the two suspects, who appear to be in their late 20s or early 30s, and are seen roaming near the blast site in the videos.Officials said the visuals to the two suspects are the first major lead in the case.Investigators handling the case told HT that “the suspects, carrying a black bag, were roaming near the Israeli embassy and a lane parallel to Dr A P J Kalam Road half an hour prior to the blast which occurred at 5.11 pm that day”.While no one was hurt in the blast, intelligence agencies had confirmed that it was a terror attack.According to the two videos and pictures released by agency, the suspects removed the jackets they were wearing within a gap of 15 minutes and appear to be waiting on the main Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road.NIA officials are confident that “these two kept the low intensity improvised explosive device (IED) fitted in a beverage can which was attached with a tiny timer, before placing it near a palm tree on the pavement at Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road”.They added that the photos and videos were retrieved from several terabytes of CCTV footage and data examined over the last five months.The explosion coincided with the anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Israel on January 29, 1992.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured the Israeli government that perpetrators will be brought to justice.Israel had said that Iran was behind the attack, a claim confirmed by Indian intelligence agencies in February, attributing it to three reasons – the attack fell on “the 29th anniversary of India-Israel’s diplomatic relation”; the letter left at the site seeking to avenge the killings of Iran Quds Commander Qassem Soleimani and Abu Mehdhi Al Muhandis, in a US drone attack in January 2020, and the Iranian nuclear physicist Dr Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, who died in a car bomb attack in Iran in November 2020; and known bitter relations between Iran and Israel.As first reported by HT, a team of Mossad agents had also come to India to discuss the leads with NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-lead-in-israeli-embassy-attack-nia-issues-pics-of-two-suspects-who-placed-bomb-announces-reward-101623780846534.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||As rains approach, Delhi steps up measures to check dengue||Fearing the spread of vector-borne diseases like dengue, chikungunya and malaria once the monsoon begins, the municipal corporations of Delhi (MCDs) have launched fumigation and anti-larval medicine spray drives, along with conducting regular inspections at households across the city to prevent mosquito breeding.According to the authorities, the agencies have started surveying households, government and private offices, and educational institutions to check mosquito breeding. Over 2,000 challans have been issued to violators so far, they added.On May 24, the Delhi high court initiated a public interest litigation on the mosquito menace in the Capital and said, if not contained, it would add to the existing problems stemming from the Covid pandemic.According to data provided by the three civic bodies, 31 dengue cases have been reported till June 12 this year, while only 19 cases were reported during the same period last year. The total number of dengue cases last year was 1,072 while it was 2,036 in 2019. No fatalities from dengue have been reported so far.The Capital has also reported only four cases of chikungunya and eight cases of malaria till June 12 this year, while 11 cases of chikungunya and 29 malaria cases were reported during the same period last year.Jai Prakash, mayor of North MCD, said the civic body is spraying anti-larva medicine and regularly conducting fumigation at construction sites, government offices, hospitals, police stations, DTS bus depots, fire stations, education institutions, other private and government offices. “We have also ordered filling of ditches to prevent water accumulation... We will also release Gambusia fish at such locations as it feeds on mosquito larvae. In addition to awareness campaigns, our domestic breeding checkers are also inspecting households too,” said Prakash.Gyanesh Bharti, commissioner of South body, said he has issued instructions, with special emphasis on unauthorised colonies and JJ clusters. “The public health department of the SDMC has contacted 1,157 RWAs and sent over 5 lakh messages to sensitise people. DBC workers have inspected over 18 lakh households. We have sent 2,580 legal notices and issued challans to 625 people,” said Bharti.Mayor of East MCD Nirmal Jain said the civic body is carrying out fumigation. “We have also issued 153 challans,” he said.Doctors said that so far they haven’t received any dengue patients.“But once monsoon showers begin, the mosquito breeding will start and there will be cases of dengue. Currently, most of the fever cases are of Covid-19,” said Dr Srikant Sharma, consultant of internal medicine at Moolchand hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-monsoon-approaches-mcds-take-steps-to-check-dengue-malaria-101623780786585.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||AAP MP Sanjay Singh’s house vandalised||The home of Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh in Delhi’s high-security North Avenue area was vandalised, and his nameplate blackened by unidentified men, ostensibly for alleging corruption in the purchase of a piece of land in Ayodhya by the Ram temple trust. Two of the alleged attackers were caught by Singh’s supporters, and handed over to the police.In his complaint to the police, Singh said he was talking to some people in the lawn around noon, when four-five unidentified men reached there and started shouting slogans “Sanjay Singh ko goli maaro (shoot Sanjay Singh)” and “Sanjay Singh murdabad”, and moved towards the gate , where they defaced the name plate with black ink.Deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Deepak Yadav said a case was registered. “Nobody suffered any physical injury. We have registered a case under sections pertaining to disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant, as well as defacing public property, and arrested the two men. Further investigation is on.”The police declined to share details about the arrested persons, and did not divulge if they were associated with any political party or organisation.On Sunday, Singh alleged that Champat Rai, the general secretary of Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, purchased 1.208 hectares of land worth in Ayodhya’s Bag Bjaisi village for ₹18.5 crore just 10 minutes after the land was sold for ₹2 crores in another deal. He alleged it was a scam perpetrated with the help of trust member Anil Mishra, and sought a probe into the matter by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate.The temple trust denied all allegations, saying the land deal was done in a transparent manner. Champat Rai said the land at Bagh Vijeshwar in Ayodhya was purchased at ₹1,423 per sq feet – lower than market rates. He said that the ₹2 crore deal dated back eight years -- between the property’s previous owners and the ones the trust bought the land from -- but was not registered until now.On Tuesday, Singh tweeted that he will continue to raise the issue. “My house has been attacked. Listen carefully, BJP supporters, no matter how much hooliganism you indulge in, I will not allow the funds collected for constructing the Ram temple to be stolen even if I am killed,” the MP tweeted.Reacting to Singh’s claims, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor called it a “scripted drama”.“Yesterday (Monday), he (Sanjay Singh) tried to malign Ram Mandir construction, today (Tuesday) he claimed an attack on his house. Everything is a scripted drama,” Kapoor tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-mp-sanjay-singh-s-house-vandalised-101623780726574.html
16-06-2021||Gurugram||₹150-crore online fraud: 3 more arrested in racket floated by Chinese||Three more people, including a company secretary working in a private firm in Gurugram, have been arrested in connection with the cheating case where over half a million Indians were duped of over ₹150 crore in two months through an online multilevel marketing (MLM) racket allegedly floated by some Chinese citizens in connivance with their Indian counterparts, police said on Tuesday.The case is being probed by the Cyber Prevention, Awareness and Detection centre (CyPAD) of the Delhi Police.Investigators said the company secretary, identified as Rajni Kohli, who is in her forties, created 36 shell companies, appointed “dummy directors and other employees” and shared the bank account details of the companies with the Chinese nationals. The accounts were used for receiving money from investors and routing it further to other accounts managed by the syndicate’s masterminds based in China, said police.The other two arrested men, identified as Ibrahim (25) and Ram Ujagar (50), were “dummy directors” of different shell companies launched solely for the purpose of operating the cheating racket. The three were arrested between June 10 and June 13 from different areas in west and southwest Delhi, said the officers investigating the case.“The company secretary (Kohli) was directly in touch with the Chinese nationals. She had met two-three of them when they had visited India earlier this year. She created 36 shell companies in five to six months, appointed employees and fulfilled other procedures for opening bank accounts and obtaining online payment gateways. The details of the companies and the accounts were further shared with the masterminds in China. Ibrahim worked with her and was also in touch with the Chinese nationals,” said a senior investigator, who did not want to be named.With this, the total number of arrests made in the cheating case has reached 15. “At least a dozen people, including five to six Chinese citizens who are the masterminds of the racket have been identified but are yet to be arrested,” said police.In a press conference held on June 9, deputy commissioner of police (CyPAD) Anyesh Roy had said the Delhi Police busted a nationwide fraud syndicate operated by Chinese nationals had duped over half a million investors after offering them lucrative returns on an online multilevel marketing campaign through their two “malicious mobile applications” Power Bank and EZPlan.The Power Bank app was available on Google Play Store, while the EZPlan app was available on the website www.ezplan.in. “The fraudsters posted the schemes on social media and offered to double the invested amount in 24-35 days. The apps also offered returns on an hourly and daily basis and had investment options starting from ₹300 to several lakhs,” said Roy.While details of 11 arrested fraudsters were shared in the conference, a 40-year-old owner of a Noida-based telecom company dealing in international SIM cards and internet data packs was arrested a day later for allegedly supplying 27 pre-activated Indian SIM cards to the Chinese nationals. The names of the company secretary and the two dummy directors emerged during the investigation and interrogation of the 12 arrested people, said investigators.Police said the footprint of the syndicate was confirmed in West Bengal, Delhi-NCR, Uttarakhand, Bengaluru, Odisha, Assam, and Surat. Nearly ₹11 crore accumulated by the group was blocked in various bank accounts and online payment gateways that were being operated by the members of the syndicate based in India and China. Around ₹97 lakh was recovered from two arrested chartered accountants, one of whom has been identified as Avik Kedia, who formed over 110 shell companies for Chinese fraudsters to route the money through multiple bank accounts, said DCP Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/150crore-online-fraud-three-more-arrested-in-racket-floated-by-chinese-101623780666534.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||DU admissions: Decision on CBSE Class 12 evaluation awaited||While the cancellation of the Class 12 board exams has left a question mark over how Delhi University admissions will be conducted, the varsity has decided to keep the admission process online for the second straight year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Though the rest of the modalities -- including the evaluation process to be determined for Class 12 by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and other boards is yet to be worked out -- one thing appears certain: the university will continue to skip trials to admit students under the sports and extracurricular activities (ECA) quotas.Officials from the Union education ministry and DU also hinted on Tuesday that the varsity may adopt the Central Universities Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for admissions this year. The problem, however, is that CUCET process and format has not been finalised yet.“We have almost decided to conduct sports and ECA admissions on the basis of merit certificates only since it won’t be possible for the university to conduct trials this year as well... knowing that some part of the country might be under lockdown at the time of the process and it will be unfair to the students,” said Rajeev Gupta, chairperson of DU admissions.He added that DU was still waiting for clarity from CBSE on the evaluation of Class 12 results (the board is expected to submit its formula to the Supreme Court on Thursday).“While the admissions will be fully online, it is difficult to make any decision about the changes in the admission process at a time when CBSE and other state boards are yet to decide their evaluation criteria. We have to be as inclusive as possible so we will wait till maximum states announce their evaluation plans and date of declaration of results for class 12 students,” Gupta said.In DU colleges, 5% of supernumerary seats are reserved under sports and ECA categories collectively in each course.Over 60,000 students take admission across 60 plus colleges in DU every year. The university receives maximum number of applications from Delhi, with around 80% students passing from the CBSE board every year.The Union government had on June 1 cancelled the Class 12 exams in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and said the CBSE would come up with a “well-defined objective criteria” in a time bound manner to assess the students. A 13-member panel has been constituted by CBSE to devise and recommend the evaluation process.Officials at DU said they were planning to come up with a Plan B in case the university was not satisfied with the CBSE’s evaluation criteria. DU acting vice-chancellor (V-C) PC Joshi said, “We are waiting for CBSE to announce the criteria so that we can sit and brainstorm. We need to dissect the evaluation process and see if it will be at par with the criteria adopted by other state boards as well.”Joshi, who is also a member of the Centre’s CUCET committee, said that a common entrance test was the best option in the present scenario. “It can bring students from across the education boards at one level. In case DU is not satisfied with the evaluation criteria adopted by CBSE, from where we receive the maximum number of students, we can give 100% weightage to CUCET scores. Otherwise, it will become a big challenge for DU to take admission only on the basis of Class 12 marks,” he said.According to officials and members of the CUCET committee, the entrance exam, which will be conducted by he national testing agency (NTA), will be held online.Officials at the ministry of education suggested that CUCET may get a nod this year. “The government is seriously considering introducing CUCET this year in line with the NEP (National Education Policy), 2020. A final call is expected soon in this regard,” said a senior official who asked not to be named.DU’s admission committee is scheduled to meet on Wednesday to discuss matters related to the admission. “There should be a screening process in case we have to admit students only on the basis of Class 12 marks since these will be the marks allotted using alternative criteria. We just cannot rely on them solely. We will discuss this option soon with the administration,” said a member of the committee.Several experts and students have earlier said that even as a common entrance exam is the best possible solution in the present scenario, the government should avoid introducing any changes in the admission process amid the pandemic. Some students, however, said that they would prefer entrance exams.“Many students might not get as much marks as they would if CBSE class 12 exams had happened. In such a case, many deserving students may be left behind. It’s better if the government conducts a common entrance exam. However, they should inform students well in advance,” said Arpit Sharma, a class 12 student at Bal Bharti School.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/du-admissions-decision-on-cbse-class-12-evaluation-awaited-101623780607281.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Half of govt vaccination centres for 18+ group shut, says AAP MLA Atishi||Half of the government vaccination centres for people in the 18-44 age group closed down on Tuesday and the remaining half will shut the next day if stocks were not replenished, AAP MLA Atishi said and appealed to the Centre to “carry forward” the vaccination for the category.“As offices and markets are reopening, the young segment will venture out more, and therefore, it was important that they would get vaccinated. Our drive for the 18+ years category was picking up pace, but for lack of doses, it has slowed down again,” she said.In the government’s vaccination bulletin issued online on Tuesday, Atishi said the position is “quite comfortable” for people aged 45 and above, and over 50% eligible people in this group have been vaccinated.She said for people aged 45 and above, as on June 15 morning, 795,000 doses were available, of which Covaxin doses will last for 22 days and Covishield doses for 43 days.On June 14, a total of 60,734 vaccine doses were administered, taking the total number of doses given till date to 6,150,931, according to the bulletin.For healthcare workers, frontline workers and 45 and above age group, 784 centres are running at 626 locations, while for the 18-44 group, 64 centres across 36 locations were earmarked, the bulletin said.Talking about the Delhi government’s “Jahaan vote, wahaan vaccination” drive, Atishi said around 66,000 people in the 45+ age group have been vaccinated since June 8 since the programme was launched that involves sending booth level officers to every household and convincing the beneficiaries in the said age group to take the shot against Covid-19.The initiative involves setting up temporary vaccine sites in polling booths across the city. It is a four-week exercise under which 70 municipal wards are chosen every week. Delhi has around 280 wards. The aim is to increase vaccine coverage for beneficiaries in the 45+ age group.“During the door-to-door drive, we came across a large number of people who were hesitant to take the vaccine. We can cover more beneficiaries in the 45+ age group only by increasing vaccine coverage among the younger age group (18-45 years). At this stage, vaccine stocks for the 45+ group is not a problem. We are running out of stocks for the 18-45 group. We hope that the crisis gets resolved soon,” Atishi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/half-of-govt-vaccination-centres-for-18-group-shut-says-aap-mla-atishi-101623780486478.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt sets up special vaccination centre for refugees in Tilak Nagar||The West Delhi district administration set up a special Covid-19 vaccination centre for refugees without valid identity cards at Sarvodya Bal Vidyalay No.2 Tilak Nagar and inoculated as many as 185 people on Monday.The vaccination site has been set up for Afghani Sikhs, Tibetans, and other refugees living in different parts of the Capital. The inoculation drive is being undertaken with the help of NGOs Bosco- UNHCR and United Sikhs.“In pursuance of guidelines and directions of Health and Family welfare,...a special vaccination site has been set up especially for refugees, who don’t have any valid identity card in India,” additional district magistrate (ADM) of West Delhi stated on Monday. “As the entire world is battling the Covid-19 pandemic, it is also important to promote vaccination and vaccinate as many people possible. It will not only ensure prevention of super spreader sites in future but also ensure adherence to all regulatory requirements,” read the statement issued by the ADM.As per UNHCR data, 40,859 refugees and asylum seekers of different nationalities are registered under UNHCR’s mandate in India. The number of refugee and asylum seekers from Myanmar, Afghanistan, and other countries of origin registered with UNHCR India stood at 210,419, 16,333, and 3,477 respectively as of 31 January this year.Narender Taank, nodal vaccination officer, said anyone with a valid refugee identity card could visit the centre for vaccination. “Anyone who falls in the refugee category and possesses a UNHCR identity card is eligible for vaccination here. We are collecting data of such individuals through NGOs and carrying out a special drive to identify such refugees who do not have valid documents,” said Taank.He said the vaccination drive was being undertaken for the greater good since the aim was to cut virus spread. “The site is located in West Delhi but any refugee from across the city can avail of the vaccination facility on producing their refugee card. We will enrol and vaccinate them. Our aim is to ensure no one is left out,” said Taank, adding that the response to the drive has been quite good s far.Pritam Singh, who is among the five directors of United Sikhs in India, said the outfit was helping in vaccinating Afghan Sikh refugees. “We had sought approval from the government for vaccination of Afghani Sikhs. The passport works as a valid document for them. We are trying to vaccinate as many people as we can,” said Singh.Sabber Kyaw Min, founder of Rohingya Human Rights Initiative, said at a time when people across the country, regardless of their nationalities, are worried about getting infected, vaccination for all is a must. “Some Rohingya refugees living in Vikaspuri got the vaccine at the Tilak Nagar site on Monday with the help of UNHCR’s implementing partner. We are awaiting an update on the vaccination process for refugees living in other parts of the city,” said Sabber.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-sets-up-special-vaccination-centre-for-refugees-in-tilak-nagar-101623780307055.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||L-G seeks report on water shortage from Delhi Jal Board||Lieutenant governor (L-G) Anil Baijal on Tuesday sought a detailed status report from the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) amid complaints of water shortage, especially in slum areas of the city, said a senior official in Raj Niwas.The official, who did not wish to be identified, said Baijal has also spoken to Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath about supply of water to the Capital, and will also speak to Haryana chief minister M L Khattar soon.“The L-G has been monitoring the water supply situation in the capital and sought detailed reports from the DJB and the New Delhi Municipal Council after incidents of shortage, especially in jhuggi colonies, were reported,” said the official.Water supply management in terms of “limiting leakage, wastage as well as unequal distribution per person per day” in different localities of the city needs to be addressed at the earliest, said the official adding that the status report sought from the DJB will be followed by a “detailed time-bound action plan” to address the issues.The Delhi Jal Board spokesperson did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lg-seeks-report-on-water-shortage-from-delhi-jal-board-101623780247086.html
16-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi accident: 2 killed, 3 hurt as speeding car hits e-rickshaw in Daryaganj||Two people, including a 35-year-old woman, were killed and her husband and two minor children injured after the e-rickshaw they were travelling in was hit by a speeding car near Delite Cinema in central Delhi’s Daryaganj on Monday night, said police.The car driver who fled the spot after the mishap was chased by a biker, who intercepted the car at a police picket near Jama Masjid--more than a kilometre away from the accident spot. The car driver and another occupant of the car were caught with the help of police personnel deployed at the picket, said police.The deceased have been identified as Reshma and Tujeeb (41), the e-rickshaw driver. Police said the couple and their two children were going towards Delhi Gate in an e-rickshaw when a speeding white Hyundai Verna hit the vehicle from behind and dragged it onto the walkway outside Delite Cinema around 10.30pm on Monday. The rickshaw was mangled after it crashed into the concrete bollards on the walkway. All the five occupants of the e-rickshaw were critically injured.“While Reshma and Tujeeb died on the spot, local residents rushed her injured husband and two children to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital. All three were unconscious when they reached the hospital. The doctors, however, revived them and saved their lives,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.The condition of Reshma’s husband Amzad Khan (40), and their children--a 14-year-old daughter and an eight-year-old son--is stable and they are out of danger, said police.Jasmeet Singh, deputy commissioner of police (central), said, the car driver fled the spot, took a left turn and drove towards Jama Masjid. A biker, who saw the mishap, followed the car. “As the car slowed down at a police picket, the biker intercepted it and brought his vehicle in front of the car, forcing it to halt. The biker alerted the police personnel at the picket about the mishap. The driver and another occupant of the car were caught and brought to the Daryaganj police station along with their vehicle,” said Singh.“Both the occupants of the car were heavily drunk. We arrested them for rash driving and culpable homicide not amounting to murder under IPC Sections 279 and 304. While the car driver was arrested for driving under the influence of alcohol, the other man was booked because instead of helping the injured persons, he influenced the driver to flee from the spot,” said Singh.The arrested have been identified as Basant Kumar, the car driver, and his friend Darshan Lal. Police said both are residents of Bagdola village near Dwarka Sector-8 and car mechanics by profession. “The Verna car involved in the mishap belonged to Kumar’s customer, who had given it to him for repairs. The ownership of the car, whose registration number is of Haryana, is being established,” said the DCP.Several locals had gathered at the accident spot and outside the hospital after they learnt about the mishap. Police personnel were deployed to ensure law and order, given that the victims and the occupants of the car were from two different religious communities. However, no untoward incident was reported and the locals left after senior police officers assured them of strict action against the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-accident-2-killed-3-hurt-as-speeding-car-hits-e-rickshaw-in-daryaganj-101623780188520.html
16-06-2021||Pune||Pune district’s death toll up by 2,191 as state health dept reconciles data||Pune district’s death toll due to Covid-19 shot-up by 2,191 deaths as the state health department began the process of reconciling the numbers. On Monday, the state health department reported a total of 15,643 Covid-19 related deaths in Pune district. This, seven days ago on June 7, was 13,452.A total of 2,191 deaths have been added, of which, only 288 were earlier reported within 24 hours. With 2,191 deaths added to Pune district’s death toll, over a seven day period, the district can be said to have been recording an average of 313 deaths every day due to the infection. These deaths include those that were not reported within 24 hours, but were added later, even after a period of one year. The reconciliation process is still ongoing and the stark difference between the state and district data shows that the district has a higher case fatality ratio (CFR) than what has been reported so far.The process of reconciling the records is still ongoing and the state department in its daily note has mentioned that the report is prepared based on figures provided by authorised laboratories on Central government’s Covid-19 Portal. Because the availability of figures is an on-going process, the cumulative numbers are subject to change. The state government has recently been criticised for under-reporting deaths due to Covid-19. However, the stark difference in reporting deaths between multiple government agencies continues. On Monday, while the state government reported a total of 15,643 deaths due to the infection, on the same day, the district health office reported 17,454 deaths, a difference of 18,11.As more deaths are added to the district’s death toll, Pune now has the second highest number of Covid-19 deaths in the state, accounting for 13.88% of the state’s death toll of 112,696. Mumbai with 17,439 fatalities tops the list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-s-death-toll-up-by-2-191-as-state-health-dept-reconciles-data-101623778088082.html
16-06-2021||Pune||Pune district has most number of “black fungus” cases in state - 1,216||As per the state health department, Pune district has reported 371 new mucormycosis cases, which takes the progressive count of these “black fungus” cases in the district to 1,216; the highest in any district in the state. A week ago, the district’s count stood at 845 cases. Mucormycosis, a fungal infection, has become a problem for the country, with those having recovered from Covid-19 being affected the most. As of Monday, the state has reported a total of 7,359 mucormycosis cases, of which 16.52% of the cases are from Pune district alone. As per the state mucormycosis report, a week ago, Pune had the second-most number of mucormycosis cases, at 845. With more than 300 new cases since, the district now has the highest number of fungal infection cases in the state. Pune is followed by Nagpur with 1,184 cases. Of the 1,216 mucormycosis cases reported in the district, 253 have been cured, 85 deaths have been reported, and 875 are active cases undergoing treatment. Three patients took a discharge against medical advice. Pune has reported over a million progressive Covid-19 cases as of Monday, which could possibly have resulted in the higher number of mucormycosis cases say experts. Dr Rohini Kelkar, consultant, Clinical Microbiologist and Specialist at Metropolis Healthcare, said, “There has been a surge in the number of Covid cases in Pune because of the second wave of the pandemic. Mucorales are ubiquitous and the spores are found in the environment in decaying vegetable matter, in outdoor air, and in air-conditioning ventilation systems. We inhale thousands of spores daily. The factors that allow the fungus to cause infection in “Rhino-orbito-cerebral” mucormycosis are diabetes in two-thirds of the cases, steroid treatment in 80% and Covid alone in 33% of the cases.”“The incidence of this infection is 70 times higher in India and the fungus is resistant to high temperatures. There are 38 species of Mucorales that cause infection. The common fungus in this instance is Rhizopus arrhizus. The other common agents are Rhizomucor, Leichthemia, Apophysomyces , Saksenaea and Cuninghamella,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-has-most-number-of-black-fungus-cases-in-the-state-1216-101623778027826.html
16-06-2021||Pune||PCMC’s odd-even rule for shops opening depends on positivity rate||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will hold a meeting with traders’ representatives on Friday, to decide on if the “odd-even” rule for shops being open should continue in the market areas of the twin townships.If the Covid positivity rate of Pimpri and Chinchwad is below 5% a relaxation of the rule is expected. Currently, Pimpri-Chinchwad are under level 3 of the state’s guidelines for easing of Covid norms, with a positivity rate of 5.2%.“We are expecting the positivity rate to be under 5% by Friday. The restrictions were imposed in the market to bring down the positivity rate. Once the positivity rate is under control, relaxations will be provided to traders,” said Vikas Dhakane, additional commissioner, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).Traders had protested against the P1/P2 regulation for shops being allowed to open, which worked similarly to the parking system. Only shops on one side of the street are allowed to be open on days with odd dates, and the other side opens on days with even dates.“We have been told to keep shops open on an alternate day basis. We met members of the civic administration and they have urged us not to protest till Friday. We are expecting to get permission to open all the shops from Saturday,” said Shrichand Aswani, chairman, Pimpri Merchant’s Federation, an umbrella body of 17 traders’ associations from the Pimpri market.While this rule applies to Pimpri market, other market areas like Kalewadi, Bhosari and Chinchwad were excluded from the odd-even rule.“I did not get the logic of the civic body’s odd-even rule. How will you control footfall by keeping shops open on alternate days. With only a few shops open, the rush increased and footfall remained the same,” said Aswani.Dhakane added, “Pimpri market is a wholesale market. We had also imposed the odd-even rule in Ajmera market. The whole initiative was taken to bring the positivity rate down.”Neeraj Lakhani, who runs a footwear shop in Pimpri market said, “I don’t think the rush of public was less in the market, even with even-odd rule in operation. It a loss for traders, as shops are open only thrice a week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmcs-odd-even-rule-for-shops-being-open-likely-to-be-lifted-if-positivity-rate-drops-below-5-101623778026358.html
16-06-2021||Pune||Social group runs education programme for sex workers’ kids in Pune||PUNE Providing education in a manner that does not bore the child is the aim of volunteers of the Jai Ganesh social organisation, as they have taken up the task to teach children of sex workers (CSW) in Budhwar peth.“Our first step is to give them basic knowledge, as many of them even find it hard to write and speak the English alphabet. The plan is to teach them via different ways, instead of only using a blackboard. The focus is on getting them involved in various activities where they can learn joyfully instead of mugging,” said Piyush Shah, a Jai Ganesh volunteer.The three-hour session will be run in a Gujarati school in Budhwar peth, from Monday to Friday.“Teaching these students is not the same as teaching urban children. Many basic etiquettes and manners need to be ingrained before we take them to the academic syllabus. Most of them are not used to sitting in one place, so bringing some educational games and explaining things is important,” said Vasudha Vadke, cultural head, Aaryans World School, Katraj.Volunteers aim is to teach these children basic English in one year so they can perform small skits by June 2022.“Activities-based education is very important, due to the socio-economic background of these children,” said Prasad Bhadsawale, a librarian.“Teaching students in a natural environment and introducing them to colours by giving them various flowers in their hands or different colour stones will make learning activity interesting for them. We plan to design the academic syllabus in a unique way for these children,” said Sarika Agadnyan, a master of social work, and president of the Divya foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/social-group-to-run-education-programme-for-children-of-sex-workers-in-budhwar-peth-101623778027129.html
16-06-2021||Pune||Vax drive across Maharashtra prisons progressing slow and steady||Prisons in Maharashtra have started vaccinating the overcrowded population of inmates. Almost all inmates in six of the 46 prisons in the state have received both the doses of the Covid-19 vaccine.These six prisons, however, are those with a minuscule population ranging from two to 500. The vaccination in major prisons, on the other hand, is on at a much slower pace.The six prisons with an almost completely vaccinated population include Buldhana, Yavatmal, and Washim district prisons, open colony in Atapadi, and open prisons of Gadchiroli and Visapur.The Yerwada Central Prison houses the highest number of prisoners in the state, with a population of 6,059, which includes 5,049 under-trials and 1,010 convicts.Of the 5,049 under -trials, 449 have been given the vaccine, while 262 convicts of the 1,010 have received also the jab.Open prison colony in Atapadi, houses 2 convicts, both of whom have been vaccinated. The colony has no active cases among its convicts or staff members.The Visapur open prison has 16 convicts, all of whom have been vaccinated. The prison, like Atapadi colony, has no active cases.Yavatmal district prison has 360 inmates including 10 convicts. Of the 360, 332 under-trials have been vaccinated. Among the three active cases in the prison, two are staff members and one is an inmate.Washim district prison has 177 inmates, of which three are convicts. All convicts and 170 under trials have been vaccinated. The prison has three active cases – one inmate and two staff members.Buldhana district prison has 268 under-trials and no convicts in the facility. Of the 268 under trials, 265 have been vaccinated. The prison currently has one inmate and three jail staff who are fighting the Covid-19 infection.Gadchiroli open prison has 25 convicts and all of them have been vaccinated. The prison has no active cases.Of the total of 28,630 under-trials and 5,185 convicts in 46 major prisons, 5,573 under-trials and 2,017 convicts have been vaccinated. Therefore, of a total prison population of 33,815, apart from 41 active cases, 7,590 inmates have been vaccinated.The vaccination at the prisons began at least four months ago. In a nation-wide attempt to decongest prisons, inmates were given an opportunity to apply for emergency parole or temporary bail in two cycles corresponding to the two waves of Covid-19. So far, 1,511 inmates have been released through temporary bail and 188 on emergency parole, according to prison data.When asked how the priority groups for vaccination are decided, Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of police, Prisons, Maharashtra, said, “It has been done as per the rules of the government. Age and comorbidity cases get preferential treatment for vaccination. It is a combination of both.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vax-in-drive-across-state-prisons-progressing-slow-and-steady-101623777967878.html
16-06-2021||Gurugram||Jail warder held for burglaries from residences in Police Lines||The police arrested a 40-year-old jail warder in Faridabad last week in connection with a series of burglaries at residences in Police Lines of Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar, Jind and Kaithal. He was sent to judicial custody on Tuesday, following six days police of police remand.According to the police, the warder was identified as Jasvinder Singh of Sirsa, who was posted at the Nimka jail in Faridabad. The police recovered ₹1.11 lakh and jewellery worth ₹5 lakh from his possession.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Singh is a habitual offender and used to target locked houses of police personnel. “He is a habitual drinker, gambler and drug addict. He started committing crimes to fund his addiction. He was suspended from service after his arrest, but was reinstated. Despite being arrested from Kaithal last year and spending six months in jail, he did not mend his ways and again started striking locked houses in Police Lines,” he said.The police said that Singh joined the prison department as a jail warden in 2003 and lived with his wife and 10-year-old son at the official residence inside the jail premises.Sangwan said that Singh started committing burglaries in early 2019 and in 2020, he was arrested in Kaithal district. He was suspended and sent to jail. After six months, he was released on bail and was allowed to resume his duty as a jail warder. “He has been involved in over a dozen of thefts, three in Faridabad, one in Gurugram followed by one each in Hisar and Jind,” he said.The crime investigation unit of Gurugram tracked him while investigating an incident on December 3, 2020, wherein he was found to have broken into the residence of a head constable while wearing his police uniform.The head constable, Rakesh Kumar, was away with his family when the incident took place. Singh used to take only cash and jewellery, the police said.Almost after six months, the crime unit of Sector 17 recover leads based on CCTV footage and arrested Singh from Faridabad. During the investigation, it was revealed that he used to sell the jewellery to goldsmiths in Hisar and Sirsa.Sangwan said the suspect took advantage of his khakis, as it was similar to that of the police. He was never questioned by the guards and easily made entry to Police Lines. “He managed to enter and exit Police Lines easily, without any suspicion. Even when he lingered around the Police Line to look for a locked house, no one suspected him as he looked like a cop,” he said.The police teams are also questioning the jewellers Singh was in contact with to get an estimate of the total ornaments sold in the past two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/jail-warder-held-for-burglaries-from-residences-in-police-lines-101623777727919.html
