17-06-2021||Other||State govt to take final call on Class 12 exams: PSEB chairman||After the Supreme Court approved evaluation criteria for Class 12 CBSE students, chairman of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) said the decision for the state board will be taken after directions from the state government. PSEB chairman Yograj said, “We will be sending a detailed proposal based on the supreme court order to the state government. They will take the final call. Whatever will be their decision, the result of 3.18 lakh Class-12 students will be declared in the last week of July.” “Earlier, PSEB was planning to conduct exams for three compulsory subjects in each stream. Even the question papers had been set and answer sheets had been made available across 2,600 centres for the exams,” he added. Last year, the PSEB had announced a 30% reduction in syllabi of Classes 10 and 12 for the academic session 2020-21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-govt-to-take-final-call-on-class-12-exams-pseb-chairman-101623954259751.html
17-06-2021||Other||Tests find no trace of cancer in Bathinda woman who claimed father put up house for sale for treatment||Health officials are perplexed as no trace of malignancy has been found in the preliminary medical examination of Manjit Kaur, a 38-year-old Bathinda-based woman who has been claiming that her septuagenarian father is forced to put up his house in Mehma Sarja village for sale to meet expenses for her cancer treatment.Officials say there is no evidence to corroborate her cancer claims.What surprised the district authorities more is that the woman has no medical record even as she claims to have been under cancer treatment for the last eight years. Manjit confirms that she never underwent radiotherapy (RT) or chemotherapy and only surgeries were performed. Oncologists say it is a matter of investigation how a patient does not require any other chemo/RT or tablets (as for blood cancer patients) for a disease that spreads very fast in the body. The story of the woman had invited a sympathetic reaction on social media after a section of the media reported the alleged inability of the family to pursue her treatment. People have started sending in money, confirms the family.Bathinda civil surgeon Dr TS Dhillon said a panel, comprising a gynecologist, surgeon and a physician, examined the patient on Wednesday and several tests were conducted.“Since Manjit could not produce any document of her stated treatment, the health department decided to get her examined medically. She could not even tell in which organ the malignancy was treated. Reports of mammography, ultrasound and X-ray were found normal. Pap smear report is expected to come later this week,” said Dhillon.He clarified that Manjit’s malignancy in the past, if any, cannot be determined on the basis of her recent tests. “It is to be examined if the stated surgeries were related to the removal of benign cysts or fibroids in the breast or uterus or other ailments,” said Dhillon.After her story surfaced on news channels on Sunday, district administration rushed a team to the village the next day. Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said the health department was directed to get her examined and assure treatment at Bathinda-based Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI).The woman’s father, Major Singh, a casual labourer, said he needs ₹3 lakh for Manjit’s surgery at a Jaipur hospital, the name of which the family could not recollect.“About ₹25 lakh has been spent on my daughter’s treatment. We deserve support else I will have to sell my house. My ailing son does not earn enough for our family of seven persons,” he said. Sarpanch of Mehma Sarja Kulwinder Singh said the family never approached the panchayat for any financial support. “I do not know if Manjit was living with her father. No one from the family approached me for a travel pass since strict travel restrictions were issued after the Covid-19 outbreak since March last year,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tests-find-no-trace-of-cancer-in-bathinda-woman-who-claimed-father-put-up-house-for-sale-for-treatment-101623954020179.html
17-06-2021||Other||BJP revamps backward classes commission||LUCKNOW: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday revamped yet another state-owned commission to accommodate party cadres in an election year. Jaswant Saini, 51, an old party hand, who was the vice chairman of the Uttar Pradesh State Commission for Backward Classes, was made chairman of the crucial body, an appointment that came a day after the party revamped the state-owned SC/ST commission and accommodated 25 more cadres on Wednesday. “We will work towards ending exploitation of backwards,” said Saini who has served in various capacities in the BJP and hails from Saharanpur. He said there were about 7,000 complaints that the commission had received since the BJP came to power in the state and added that half of them had been addressed. “These are markedly less than what used to be the case earlier,” Saini said referring to previous non-BJP governments. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath congratulated Saini on his elevation to the Uttar Pradesh state commission for backward classes that was set up in 1993 and has since received variety of complaints, mostly pertaining to reservation in jobs, in educational institutions and of police harassment among many others. Two vice chairmen, Heera Thakur, who shifted from the BSP to BJP and Prabhunath Chauhan from Ghazipur also made it to the backward body along with 22 members, mostly BJP hands. Some BJP men indicated that some allies like Apna Dal and Nishad party too might have found some representation though there was no confirmation on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-revamps-backward-classes-commission-101623953959246.html
17-06-2021||Other||A royal mistake that deprives 60 Malerkotla villages of canal water||Despite being in the dark zone due to over-exploitation of groundwater, at least 60 villages in the newly formed Malerkotla district are still dependent on tubewells for irrigation. The reason: these villages are not covered under the canal irrigation system.A little digging into history reveals that in the 1880s when canal irrigation was being developed in Punjab, the then Nawab of the princely state had “refused to provide land” for the project, the ripple effects of which are being felt now in these villages.Adding to their woes is the fact that the government has stopped issuing new tubewell connections here due to the dark zone tag.“We don’t get a single drop of canal water in our villages. Successive governments did nothing to bring our village into the canal irrigation system,” says Ravinder Singh, a Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) leader from Kasampur.As per information, land was acquired in Jhaner, Manki, Sandaur and Panj Garai villages in 1986 to develop canal irrigation system and the compensation against the acquired land was also paid to the farmers but the project never took off. In 2014, the then deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal laid the foundation stone for renovation of Kanganwal and Rohira distributors, at a cost of about ₹25 crore, to consolidate and increase the capacity of canal irrigation in Malerkotla and Amargarh areas but these too met the same fate.“Almost all villages in Malerkotla are dependent on tubewells for irrigation.Our repeated requests to develop canal irrigation system fell on deaf ears,” said Major Singh (55), a former sarpanch of Burj village.A former additional deputy commissioner (development) and resident of the area, Bahadur Singh, who raised the issue with the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janata Party government, said, “The Malerkotla Nawab had refused to give land, construction cost and royalty to the private company which developed the canal irrigation system. It was a big mistake.”Sangrur chief agriculture officer Jaswinderpal Singh Grewal, who caters to the Malerkotla area, said, “Canal water is a boon for crops. It is all the more important as several blocks of Sangrur, Barnala and Malerkotla are in the dark zone and extracting groundwater through tubewells will only aggravate the problem,” added Grewal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-royal-mistake-that-deprives-60-malerkotla-villages-of-canal-water-101623953899747.html
17-06-2021||Other||Key roads on outskirts of the city littered with garbage||PUNE Piles of garbage are being reported on the slopes of Katraj ghat, Bapdev ghat, along the Aundh-Balewadi road, and along the boundary wall of Naren Hills in Kondhwa. Ajit Deshmukh, deputy commissioner, Solid Waste Management, PMC, said, “We are collecting and disposing of garbage within the city limits. In certain villages not part of the PMC yet, garbage is the responsibility of the gram panchayat.”“The problem is that garbage is being dumped in non- habituated areas along the highways and roads, which either belong to the PWD, forest department or to NHAI. Although these public spaces are not under the gram panchayat, they have been cleaning up the areas. Tt is difficult to catch the perpetrators who are constantly dumping garbage,” Deshmukh added. Residents have raised this issue. “Piles of garbage are lying on the path leading to the forest ahead of Naren Hills, opposite Anandvan. Is this PMC’s idea of Swachh Pune, Sundar Pune? Literally all kinds of rubbish is being dumped here,” said a resident of Kondhwa, who asked not to be named.National Society for Clean Cities (NSCC) member Maithily Manakwad said, “The road connecting Krishnanagar, which falls in Hadapsar ward, probably needs a camera. It will help us catch those littering.”She added, “NSCC from the very beginning has been insisting that the responsibility of door-t-door collection lies with PMC. If the citizens get their garbage collected from their doorsteps, why would they throw it on the roadsides?”ZP has been working on a programme launched in June 2021, where gram panchayats will be provided with ₹150 crore to set up garbage treatment plants. For now though, key roads on the outskirts of the city are littered with garbage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/key-roads-on-outskirts-of-the-city-littered-with-garbage-101623953839338.html
17-06-2021||Other||Civic chief visits proposed Vishrantwadi graveyard site; commits to completion soon||PUNE Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, on Thursday, visited a site allotted as a graveyard for the Muslim and Christian communities, in Vishrantwadi.The said graveyard site has been awaiting final approval from the civic body for two decades. As it is situated within in the blue line of the riverbed, there have been restrictions on development. Kumar has now promised a final sanction at the earliest. Former deputy mayor Siddhartha Dhende was also present during the visit, along with representatives from both the communities.The property is located on survey number 115.Commissioner Kumar said that a special meeting with government officials will be held in Mumbai, seeking permission for the graveyard and following that, the site will be developed.Dhende said, “The total population of Wadgaonsheri is 0.750 million, and Muslims and Christians together account for 0.150 million in the area. The Muslims have two graveyards in Yerawada and the Christians have one cemetery here. Often, Christians have to go as far as Hadapsar to bury their dead. The areas of Tingarenagar, Kalas, Viman nagar, Lohegaon, Kharadi, Wagholi, Vishrantwadi, Dighi, Mhaskevasti and Dhanori, have shown a significant increase in population of minorities. Since 2001, citizens have been agitating for their graveyard here.”“In the 2011 , the revised PMC development plan (DP) has the graveyard on the map. However, the area is in the blue line of the riverbed. The issue will be solved in the next few days,” Dhende added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-chief-visits-proposed-vishrantwadi-graveyard-site-commits-to-completion-soon-101623953839941.html
17-06-2021||Other||Farmers scared after leopards spotted near Hapur villages||MEERUT Farmers in several villages of Hapur district are a scared lot after spotting leopards in the vicinity of their fields. Afraid of going to their fields, they have demanded that the felines be caught to immediately and relocated deep into the jungle. Pawati, Jhadina and Nayagaon villages are situated close to the boundary of Hastinapur wildlife Sanctuary in Garh tesil of Hapur. A resident of Pawati spotted a leopard while he was returning to the village on Sunday night. The leopard killed a rabbit on the muddy road and the villager made a video of the incident on his mobile. He shared the incident with other villagers which made them aware about the presence of the leopard in their vicinity. The next day (Monday), villagers spotted a family of leopards in the jungle of Jhadina village. On Wednesday, reports of their presence in the neighbouring Nayagaon also surfaced. The leopard sightings in the area scared the villagers and farmers avoided going to their fields. Sripal Choudhary of Pawati shared that farmers initially avoided going to their fields but now they moved in a group of 4 or 5 so that some of them could keep a watch during work. “People are scared and demanding that the catch animals be caught,” said Choudhary. Range officer of Garh forest range Mohan Bisht said that the foresters spotted a family of leopards in the jungle of Jhadina village and were carrying out intensive combing in search of the animals. He advised the villagers to go to their fields in groups to ensure their safety and to not harm the animals because it may attract imprisonment of more than six years. Bisht said that a cage would be placed to trap the animal and his team was identifying a suitable location. “We are combing the area daily and have shared our contact numbers with villagers so that they inform us immediately after spotting the animals,” said Bisht who is hopeful of catching the leopards soon. Bhushan Tyagi of Jhadina anticipated that animals like leopards moved closer to villages because of less movement of villagers and farmers during lockdown of two months. “We may come across with similar incidents in other villages in coming days,” said Tyagi who believes that forest officials should be alert and government should provide them resources to minimize possible man- animal confrontation in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-scared-after-leopards-spotted-near-hapur-villages-101623953782520.html
17-06-2021||Other||Doc, wife robbed by armed men at home in Lonavla; cash, valuables totalling ₹67 lakh taken||PUNE A 74-year-old paediatrician was robbed at a knifepoint in his house in Lonavla, by a group of 10-12 men, early on Thursday morning.The doctor has been identified as Hiralal Jagannath Khandelval (73), who has an independent house in the Pradhan Park area of Lonavla city.The doctor was in the house with his wife, sleeping, when the robbery happened. The men tied both limbs and robbed them of cash worth ₹50 lakh and valuables, including jewellery, worth ₹17 lakh.The men arrived near the house around midnight and entered through a sliding window on the first floor of the house.The men entered the bedroom and six of them tied the couple’s limbs together and threatened them at knifepoint to handover the keys and information about cupboards which stored valuables. The old doctor handed over the keys and information fearing for their lives.The men then used sheets from the house to rappel down the railing of the balcony and fled, according to the complaint lodged by Dr Khandelval.The doctor then pressed on an alarm button that alerted the hospital staff. A staff member called Tushar Shinde responded to the alarm call and freed the couple before calling the police.A case under the relevant sections of Indian Penal Code and Arms Act has been registered at Lonavla city police station. Deputy superintendent of police Navneet Kanwal, sub-divisional police officer of Lonavla Division of Pune rural police, along with senior police inspector Dilip Pawar of Lonavla city police station are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doc-wife-robbed-by-armed-men-at-home-in-lonavla-cash-valuables-totalling-rs-67-lakh-taken-101623953781988.html
17-06-2021||Other||12 arrested across state in Raisoni state credit society cheating case||PUNE In a second round of raids related to a cheating case against office bearers of the Bhaichand Hirachand Raisoni multi-state credit society, the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Pune police crime branch arrested 12 people from at least 5 locations all over Maharashtra, on Thursday.In the multi-location raids, the people arrested were identified as Bhagwat Bhangale from Pune city; former politician Asif Munna Teli, Prem Narayan Kogta, Sanjay Totla, Jayashree Shailesh Maniyar, all from Bhusawal; former Panchayat samiti member Chagan Zalte, Jitendra Ramesh Patil, Rajesh Lodha, all from Jamner; Pritesh Chanpalal Jain from Dhule; Ambadas Abaji Mankape from Aurangabad; Jayashree Antim Totla from Mumbai; and Pramod Kapse from Akola, according to the police.In the first round of arrests, the Pune city police crime branch officials had at least nine days’ custody of five related to bank, including Sujeet Subhash Baviskar alias Wani (42), Dharam Kishor Sakhala (40), Mahavir Manakchand Jain (37), Vivek Devidas Thakre (41), and Kamlakar Koli (28), all residents of Jalgaon. A case against the multi-state credit society was lodged by a woman at Deccan police station in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-arrested-across-state-in-raisoni-state-credit-society-cheating-case-101623953781456.html
17-06-2021||Other||Black market for black fungus drugs: Nursing staff, medical reps arrested||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have busted a black-marketing operation of antifungal drugs used for treatment of a fungal infection mucormycosis (black fungus), detected increasingly in Covid-19 recovery cases.Of the six people arrested in the case, some are nursing staff, while others are medical representatives of a pharmaceutical company. A press briefing was held by commissioner Krishna Prakash of the Pimpri- Chinchwad police on Thursday.The police had recovered three vials of D Liposomol Amphotericin-B, worth ₹23,442, from the five people arrested on June 7. The first arrests were made based on information received by Sudhir Hiremath, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pimpri-Chinchwad police.Sub inspector Deepak Kadbane of Wakad police station started investigating the case further and arrested one man from Solapur identified as Sharadbasweshwar Siddheshwar Dhamame (38), a resident of Sonamata nagar in Vijapur road, Solapur.The police recovered 22 more vials from him that were sourced from Gulbarga in Karnataka. Of the 22 vials, 14 were Liposomol Amphotericin-B worth ₹84,000, and eight were Amphotericin B Liposom for ₹60,000, collectively worth ₹1,44,000.One of the other accused, Rajshekhar Kasappa Bhajantri, is a nurse at the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Science, from where he is suspected to have sourced the injections.A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Drug Price Control Rules 2013, Essential Commodities Act, Drug and Cosmetic Products Act, has been registered at Wakad police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/black-market-for-black-fungus-drugs-nursing-staff-medical-reps-arrested-101623953780676.html
17-06-2021||Other||State transport minister Anil Parab in Pune on Friday to review metro work||PUNE The state minister for transport, Anil Parab, will review the Pune Metro project at Shivajinagar on Friday. He will also meet Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation officials to discuss various issues.Maha Metro’s work on a metro station is in progress at Shivajinagar. This underground metro station will be under the Shivajingar bus stand and connect to the Shivajinagar railway station. Parab will then visit the Wakadewadi bus stand. The meeting with MSRTC officials will take place at the Central Institute of Road Transport (CIRT) in Bhosari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-transport-minister-anil-parab-in-pune-on-friday-to-review-metro-work-101623953779833.html
17-06-2021||Other||Seven arrested for posing as policemen, kidnapping pharmacist||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad police arrested seven people on Wednesday, for kidnapping a pharmacist after posing as policemen.A complaint in the matter was lodged by Ashok Beliram Agarwal (53), a resident of Vikas nagar in Kivale, Dehuroad, Pune. He works at a medical store in Dange chowk, Wakad.The arrested men have been identified as Sidddharth Bharat Gaikwad (32), Pritesh Babanrao Landge (30), Rahul Chagan Londhe (24), Prakash Madhukar Sasgane (31), Kamlesh Bafna, Santosh Ovhal, and Akash Harkare, according to police.The men were remanded to police custody till June 19. The medical shop is attached to a hospital where the doctor works.Agarwal was in the medical shop, Spandan Medical, around 6:15pm on Tuesday, when the men entered and started scanning the shop. They pointed at the two medical termination of pregnancy (MTP) kits and some documents and tried to put the fear of criminal proceedings into Agarwal.The men scared Agarwal by saying that he can be booked and arrested for murder for possessing the MTP kits and made him sit inside a WagonR car.The men took the car around Datta Mandir road in Wakad and told the pharmacist to talk to a doctor, practicing nearby his shop, to come up with ₹5-6 lakh, to protect him from prosecution, according to the complaint in the matter.Police sub inspector Jagtap of Wakad police station is investigating the case.A case under Sections 364(a) (kidnapping for ransom), 385 (extortion), 170 (impersonating a public servant), 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at Wakad police station.“Kamlesh Bafna and the others had a conspriacy to oust Agarwal from the medical store, so Bafna could take over as manager, according to the investigation. “Therefore, Section 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code has been added to the case. It also looks like the accused have had other victims,” reads a statement from the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seven-arrested-for-posing-as-policemen-kidnapping-pharmacist-101623953779199.html
17-06-2021||Other||Drunk reveller rescued from Katraj ghat on stretcher; cops warn against partying on ghats||PUNE On Wednesday, June 16, the Bharati Vidyapeeth police and fire brigade personnel had to rescue an inebriated man from the Katraj ghat on a stretcher.Police personnel in the area have now stated that the Katraj ghat has become a “den” for alcohol parties and anti-social elements to gather.At least ten instances of people on the ghat consuming alcohol have been noted by the police this month.Citing Wednesday incident, assistant police inspector Madhura Korane, who led the rescue mission, said that around 12.30 pm four men had scaled the ghat wall to drink in the bushes below. Three left the place while the man who was left behind raised an alarm which was heard by a two-wheeler rider, who immediately called the Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. Within 10 minutes, the central fire brigade team led by officer Sanjay Ramteke reached the spot, along with the police personnel, and lifted the man to safety on a stretcher.API Korane said, “Citizens must not take advantage of the public spaces for drinking and anti-social activities. Government officers’ time is wasted because of a irresponsible citizens. We will take strict action against those indulging in drinking on the ghat section. It is our observation that the ghat has become a favourite place parties after the lockdown has been lifted.” Fire chief Prashant Ranpise said, “We have been receiving calls from the police and citizens about such cases. The man, who was drunk, was brought out on stretcher and his life was saved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drunk-reveller-rescued-from-katraj-ghat-on-stretcher-cops-warn-against-partying-on-ghats-101623953725854.html
17-06-2021||Other||BJP state chief backs calls for 2-day session to discuss Maratha quota||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party’s state president and MLA, Chandrakant Patil, on Thursday demanded a two-day special session to discuss the Maratha reservation and issues concerning other backward classes (OBC).Patil said, “Maratha organisations demanded a two- day session. As the assembly session will start from July 5, the government should fix the two-day period to discuss the reservation issue.”Patil added, “If there are two days, each MLA gets a chance to express opinions. It also helps to get various new solutions.”Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar recently agreed to have discussion on the reservation issue in Assembly session. Pawar had said, “As the session is going to happen from July 5, instead of calling for a separate session, it is possible to have the discussion in the Assembly.”On the inquiry of Mumbai policeo officier Pradip Sharma’s by the NIA, Patil said, “There is no political connection to the inquiry. Though he contested the elections from the Shiv Sena, there is no relation between the inquiry and his alliance with any party. Every party have a few candidates who contest the elections and later an inquiry starts.”‘Clashes between BJP and Sena workers painful’BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil said that the clashes in between BJP and Sena workers are painful. “It is wrong to attack on any party’s workers if they are agitating. Recently, Shiv Sena erected boards in front of BJP office. Even Congress agitated in front of the BJP office, but we accepted it. The Shiv Sena use to write a lot about the BJP in its “mouthpiece”, the Saamna, and we did not react. Each party has a right to demonstrate and make allegations. It’s sad that both, BJP and Sena workers fight with each other,” Patil said, adding that in politics, no one is a permanent enemy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-state-chief-backs-calls-for-2-day-session-to-discuss-maratha-quota-101623953725274.html
17-06-2021||Other||ZTCC issues QR code for organ donation pledges||PUNE The Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC), Pune, has now issued a QR code to enable easy and quick access for people to pledge the donation of an organ.Arti Gokhale, ZTCC Pune coordinator, said due to the pandemic all awareness programmes are now online.“When the awareness programmes were offline, we took organ donation pledges from 500 people every year. However, this year, only 250 such pledges have come to us. Through this pledge, people who wish to donate their organs after their deaths can enrol with us. We also have a website which has a form number 7 for the same,” said Gokale.She added that the idea of a QR code is to encourage more volunteers to enrol and to spread awareness about organ donation.“This QR code makes it easier to enrol for donation. Once you scan the QR code, it directly takes you to the website where form number 7 is. The volunteers have to simply fill in their details, like name, address, blood group and organs they wish to donate after their death,” said Gokhale.This data is then sent to the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO).“As soon as you fill in the details, ZTCC Pune sends in an auto generated email. Your donor card is emailed to you. You can save this card on your phone or print it out and carry it in your wallet,” said Gokhale. On June 11, Pune marked its 13th donation during the pandemic and fourth donation since unlocking began this year. During this donation, the donor, a 33-year-old male donated his kidneys and liver to save three lives. The family of the donor had given consent for the donation ahead of his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ztcc-issues-qr-code-for-organ-donation-pledges-101623953719073.html
17-06-2021||Other||Keep kids away from too much info on Covid, say doctors||LUCKNOW: Children should be well-informed about Covid-19 but should be kept away from ‘too much’ information about the disease on social media, say doctors. “Children should be told about preventive measures and Covid protocol and should be motivated to follow it to keep infection at bay. Any other information via social media just increases anxiety,” said Dr Devashish Shukla, senior consultant (psychiatry) at Balrampur hospital. “Kids have already lost their natural lifestyle of going to school and playing outdoors for the one and a half years. The barrage of horrifying information is making them troubled. Many parents are calling up to know how to manage such kids,” said Dr Shukla. “Being cautious is all right but many parents over-react to the risk which is not correct. Parents should remember their behaviour impacts their kids, hence if they over-react their wards will have higher anxiety levels,” said Dr Adarsh Tripathi, senior faculty, department of psychiatry, the King George’s Medical University. Dr Pooja Mahour, an expert in child psychology and faculty at King George’s Medical University’s department of psychiatry said, “Unnecessary exposure can be avoided and various sources of information, including social media and even television, should be allowed only under parental supervision.” “The best way is to keep the kids well informed about Covid, related illness and prevention and restrict screen time or use of cell phones. But do not impede the natural inquisitiveness in the child,” said Dr BSK Chauhan, chief medical officer of Barabanki. Doctors said children should not be cut off from the internet. “Do not cut children from the outer world as they pick up new social and cognitive skills via internet also as they are not able to go out. But update them on what information is correct for them,” said Dr Vinod Jain, dean, paramedical sciences, at the King George’s Medical University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keep-kids-away-from-too-much-info-on-covid-say-doctors-101623953359141.html
17-06-2021||Other||Burglars sedate minister Ashu’s cousin, his family, decamp with cash, jewellery||A gang of burglars struck at the house of Narinder Kumar Kala, the cousin of Punjab food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, and fled with cash, gold and other valuables after sedating the family members on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The incident took place around 2am but the family discovered the theft the next morning. The burglars reportedly also took the cash that Kala and his son had kept in their pockets. However, the weapon possessed by the family is safe as burglars were unable to find it. The family has a petdog but it did not bark, leading the police to suspect the burglars may have sedated the dog before entering the house on Sham Singh road.Kala told the police that due to some health issues, he normally wakes up in the middle of the night at least a couple of times but on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, he didn’t wake up even once. Other family members also complained of minor headaches.According to sources, the burglars have decamped with ₹4 lakh cash, 150gm gold jewelry and other valuables. There are no closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras in the house but the footage from cameras in the neighbourhood showed some persons scaling the wall to enter and exit the house. Kala lives with his wife, son and daughter-in-law in the house. They have employed a domestic help as well. Police are looking into the possible role of the domestic help. The incident brought major embarrassment to the police as the house is merely 50 metres away from the office of the Ludhiana police commissioner. Police officials too were reluctant to share details about the incident. Narinder Kumar Kala, who is himself a councillor from ward number 66 of Ludhiana, is yet to file a complaint. Sub-inspector Rajinderpal Singh, station house officer of Division number 8, said CCTVs caught some persons scaling the wall of the councillor’s house. “We are waiting for the family to provide details of the loss to lodge an FIR,” said the cop.Mamta Ashu, councillor and wife of cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, said they came to know about the incident on Thursday morning when they received a call from Kala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/burglars-sedate-minister-ashu-s-cousin-his-family-decamp-with-cash-jewellery-101623952999713.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi government resends file on its doorstep ration plan to L-G||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has sent the doorstep delivery of ration scheme file back to Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal, contending that its provisions are in accordance with the National Food Security Act, 2013, and that it will simultaneously ensure the implementation of the Centre’s “One Nation, One Ration Card” scheme.Kejriwal wrote a note to the L-G on Wednesday, in response to Baijal’s comments asking the CM to reconsider the proposal and seek the Centre’s approval citing an ongoing court case in the matter.The L-G’s office did not comment on the matter.In his note, Kejriwal said that every decision taken about on the scheme, since its first approval in the Delhi Cabinet in 2018, was communicated to the L-G, who did not express any difference of opinion till February this year. He cited at least five occasions over the past three years when the L-G was informed about the scheme and its modalities.“There appears to be a serious misunderstanding. The instant matter before the L-G is not ‘approval’ of the scheme of doorstep delivery of ration. The scheme has already attained finality,” said the note, which HT has seen.He said that it only was in March, when the Delhi government issued another notification changing the scheme’s name -- from Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna, as asked by the central government -- that the LG responded with his objections. “It is this new notification which is the subject of instant consideration. The LG has to decide whether he agrees with the new notification, removing objections of the central government. The whole scheme is not the subject of instant consideration,” Kejriwal said.This is the second time this year that the scheme has been stalled due to differences between the Delhi government and the Centre. The scheme was to be launched on March 25, but the Union food and consumer affairs ministry wrote to the Delhi government on March 19 raising two objections— the use of the term “mukhyamantri (chief minister)” for a scheme involving the distribution of food grains allocated under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), and that any change in the delivery mechanism requires an amendment in NSFA that can be done only by Parliament.The Delhi government, on March 24, passed a Cabinet decision to remove the name “Mukhyamantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna” for the scheme and to implement doorstep delivery of ration as part of the existing NFS Act, 2013.Last Friday, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the plan was a false promise and a scam at the behest of the “ration mafia”, drawing a sharp response from Kejriwal, who accused the Centre of obstructing a public welfare initiative.The CM, in a three-point rebuttal to the Centre’s view that the Delhi government’s doorstep delivery of ration scheme is in contravention of NFSA, and that implementing it would dent the pan-India public distribution system. He said states such as Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, and cities such as Faridabad, Ambala and Karnal (all in Haryana) have already implemented the doorstep ration delivery model. He said state governments under section 12(I) are empowered to undertake “targeted public distribution system”, including introduction of new scheme to ensure that the food grain entitlements reach the targeted beneficiaries.“The central government, itself, through an order on February 1, 2018, directed states and Union territories to adopt a system of home delivery of food grains for persons above 65 years of age and differently abled persons. The scheme is squarely and indisputably within the ambit of NFSA and should not give rise to any concern on this front,” Kejriwal wrote to the LG.On the objection raised by the Centre that the Delhi government will make the beneficiaries pay an additional sum under the scheme, which is not in accordance with the NFSA, Kejriwal said the charge was in the manner prescribed by the central government. He said that any beneficiary who avails doorstep delivery of ration will have to pay ₹2 per kg only for processing the wheat into flour, and that this does not include services such as cleaning, packaging and transportation, and is based on a letter issued by the Union government’s department of food and public distribution on November 3, 2014.“Last year India ranked 94 out of 107 countries in the Global Hunger Index, whereas in 2019, we were ranked 102 out of 117 countries,” he said.Delhi currently has around 1.78 million ration card-holder households, which according to government records, translate to 7.2 million beneficiaries. Ration is currently distributed to them through a network of 2,000-odd fair price shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-resends-file-on-its-doorstep-ration-plan-to-l-g-101623952519059.html
17-06-2021||Lucknow||17 former SGPGI doctors awaiting retirement dues||About 17 doctors who served the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) since its inception are allegedly running from pillar to post to get their gratuity and leave encashment for the last two years after retirement. The 17 retired doctors have written a letter to the Uttar Pradesh governor, who is also the visitor of the institute, to ensure fair treatment, considering their “outstanding record and dedication to the institute”.Dr KN Prasad, one of the 17 doctors waiting for gratuity, said, “We are extremely pained to inform you that even after working hard day and night for more than three decades, we, the retired faculty members of SGPGIMS, have been deprived of our retirement dues e.g. pension, commutation of pension, gratuity, leave encashment, etc even after several months to more than a year after our superannuation.”One of the retired faculty Dr TN Dhole has passed away and his wife is still waiting to get the money earned by him.“We have represented to the President SGPGIMS (chief secretary of UP) and sought an appointment with him but have not received any response. Now we have written to governor of the state for releasing our dues,” he added.He said, “The Governing Body decided the parity of SGPGIMS with AIIMS in 1997. The GO dated 10.3.2004 increased the retirement age of SGPGIMS faculty from 60 to 62 years-retirement benefits were not changed. Besides GO dated 12.6.2012 increased the retirement age of SGPGIMS faculty from 62 to 65 years, retirement benefits were not changed. As per GOs with regard to pay scales, NPA, allowances etc as were applicable at AIIMS-New Delhi were made applicable to the faculty members of SGPGIMS Lucknow. The rules clearly mention that faculty members at AIIMS who retire at 65 years get gratuity of maximum ₹20 lakh, 40% commutation of pension and leave encashment. which we are denied here in PGI.”Another retired faculty member said, “Before 2018, all retiring faculty members were getting their retirement dues i.e. pension, commutation of pension, family pension, gratuity, leave encashment, etc. at par with AIIMS, New Delhi within a very reasonable time after their retirement. However, for the last about two years, this practice was surprisingly interrupted, and the release of various retirement dues of faculty members was delayed causing stress and anxiety to not only us who have retired but also to those who are due to retire in the near future.”Dr AK Shukla, former faculty of SGPGI, said, “This imbroglio needs personal intervention from the visitor of institute (governor) to resolve this long- pending matter and release all our pending retirement dues, including pension, commutation of pension, family pension, gratuity, leave encashment, etc as per the Seventh Pay Commission and as prevalent at AIIMS-New Delhi to all those who have already retired.”Have sent proposal to state govt: PGI directorWhen contacted, SGPGIMS director professor Radha Krishna Dhiman said, “I have recommended parity for retired doctors and sent the proposal to the state government for further action. However, the state government has some issues about parity with AIIMS for those retiring at 65 years of age. The issue would be amicably sorted out soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/17-former-sgpgi-doctors-awaiting-retirement-dues-101623952459808.html
17-06-2021||Other||PSPCL told to run own plants before drawing power from northern grid||Patiala The Northern Regional Load Despatch Centre (NRLDC), the apex body to ensure integrated operation of power system in the northern region, has warned the Punjab State Power Corporation (PSPCL) against drawing the maximum limit of power from the northern grid, without running its own thermal units at Ropar and Lehra Mohabbat.For the past fortnight, Punjab has shut its own power plants and is drawing power from the grid. This power is available at half of the state’s generation cost. Punjab has been generating around 4,500 MW, but is drawing almost 7,000 MW from the grid. The generation cost is higher due to fixed charges for setting up a plant, and variable charges for coal. From the grid, Punjab is getting power at an average rate of ₹2.9 per unit, while its own production cost is above ₹4.“With negligible generation at PSPCL’s own thermal unit, there is an imbalance in Punjab’s transmission system, and overloading in certain pockets of the state. Punjab’s buying so much power also violates NRLDC instructions,” reads the letter from chief engineer, State Load Dispatch Centre (SLDC) to chief engineer, power purchase and regulations, at PSPCL. The letter adds, “According to load conditions in Ludhiana and Gobindgarh areas, thermal units at Ropar need to be given priority for proper balancing of the state’s generation and reliable operation of Punjab’s power system. NRLDC has objected twice over Punjab’s policy.”The letter also clarifies that the available transfer capacity of between 7,300 MW and 7,900 MW was subject to the condition that all its thermal units, especially 220 KV level generation at Ropar thermal and Lehra Mohabbat thermal and GVK Goindwal, are running at full load.Acting on the letter, PSPCL has asked GVK Goindwal to light up both its units, while two of four units from Ropar thermal plant will be made operational soon. The Lehra Mohabbat plant has been also started by lighting up one unit to generate 150 MW power. SLDC chief engineer has also asked Punjab to adhere to NRLDC guidelines. “The state must ensure proper balancing of state generation, with inter-state import of power,” he adds in the letter. PSPCL director (generation) Paramjeet Singh said that because of storm, some power plants had been shut down. “We have started all plants in Punjab and will ramp up generation, as the load increases,” he said, adding that the state was committed to meet all NRLDC requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pspcl-told-to-run-own-plants-before-drawing-power-from-northern-grid-101623952343106.html
17-06-2021||Noida||Over 50% of total jabs go to 18-45 category in Noida||Despite their late inclusion in the vaccination drive, people in the 18-45 age group have been administered 50% of the vaccines in Gautam Budh Nagar so far.“Out of around 943,00 vaccines administered in the district so far, this age group (18-45 years) are nearly 500,000, which is over 53% of the total vaccination in the district. And this despite that this age group was included in inoculation drive after many rounds for senior citizens, people over 45 years, healthcare workers and frontline workers. Till date, as many as 829,388 persons have taken their first dose of vaccine against Covid-19, while 113,273 have taken both their shots,” said district magistrate Suhas L Y.On whether this meant that the vulnerable group, 45+ years, were being left out, the DM said that 114,000 people from this group had got both their shots.“Till date, exclusive vaccination sites for 45+ age have seen good turnout. We are working to ensure providing at least one dose of vaccination to everyone till July 31. The cause of higher turnout in the 18-45 age group is because they comprise nearly 55% of the district’s population eligible for inoculation,” he said.The district administration has also chalked out plans to inoculate the 1.6 million eligible population at least once by the end of July this year. The state government had earlier ordered all districts to start inoculating 1 million people every day beginning July 1.The DM also said this will begin with a mega vaccination drive in Dadri and Jewar blocks from June 21.“Each block will be divided into 10 sectors – from where the dedicated health officials will keep a tab on the speed of vaccination in those areas,” he said.Chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said that a total of 62,994 cases have been recorded in the district so far, and the recovery rate has now crossed 99% with 62,379 recoveries out of it.“After a security and fire safety solutions firm put lakhs of residents of the district at risk of contracting the virus in April last year, we were left with no solutions on how to make them safe. But, timely tracking, testing and treating the patients finally brought out desirable results. It was really a commendable effort of our teams of doctors and health workers, we put all areas under strict surveillance and started massive testing, particularly in critical areas. We’ve so far tested 1,245,470 samples in the district. Now, while our recovery rate is over 99%, the fatality rate is nearly 0.74%,” the CMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-50-of-total-jabs-go-to-18-45-category-in-noida-101623952341600.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Six, including husband-wife, held for selling infant to childless couple||On Wednesday night, when a Delhi police team alerted their counterparts in Uttar Pradesh (UP) police about a couple who had allegedly kidnapped a six-day old infant and was on their way to Bihar on board the Swatantrata Senani Express, the UP police team hurriedly reached the station before 2.30 am and waited for the train to arrive. Delhi Police had informed officials of the Harbans Mohal police station in UP’s Kanpur that the train was scheduled to reach the Kanpur railway station at 2.30 am, according to the Indian Railway’s train tracking system. At the station, the UP police team traced the couple, Vidyanand Yadav (50) and his wife, Rampari Devi (45), and the infant, and took them to the local police station. “As soon as we received the information from the UP police, our teams quickly went to Kanpur. But when we met the couple, they denied kidnapping him. They said they had bought the infant after paying money. It was surprising. They also had what they said was an agreement letter. We were treating this as a kidnapping case,” said deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur. On Thursday afternoon, Thakur said they arrested six persons including the infant’s biological parents for allegedly selling their child, and two men for reportedly mediating the deal with the second couple for buying the infant. Explaining the sequence of events, police said that on Tuesday evening, the police control room received a distress call from a couple Govind Kumar (30), and his wife Pooja Devi (22), who alleged that their infant child had been kidnapped by a relative named Haripal Singh (50). The couple said Haripal had come to her house to stay for a few days and kidnapped him on the morning of June 15. Police now suspect that the couple filed a false case and also gave misleading information to the control room. Govind and his wife Pooja, who work as labourers, had many discrepancies in their statement, police said. “Maybe the mother had a change of heart after selling the child. The couple told us about Haripal’s house in Aya Nagar but they did not know the exact house number. When we caught Haripal, he told us that the couple had in fact sold the child for a sum of ₹3.6 lakh. Haripal knew a man named Raman Yadav, who was looking to buy child for his relatives Vidyanand and Rampari. Vidyanand and Rampari were married for over 25 years but did not have any children,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, Harsh Vardhan. During investigation police found that the infant was born at a Gurugram hospital on June 8, after which the infant and his mother was discharged on June 10. Police learnt that all the six people involved in the case, had met at Haripal’s house in Aya Nagar. “As decided, the infant’s parents were paid ₹2 lakh in cash. An agreement was also signed between the two couples and four cheques of ₹60,000 each were handed to Govind and Pooja. Maybe they had a change of heart and then called the police with the fake complaint after three days,” the additional DCP said. The child was produced before a Child Welfare Committee, which sent the infant to a children’s home in south east Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/six-including-husband-wife-held-for-selling-infant-to-childless-couple-101623952340928.html
17-06-2021||Noida||11 hospitals in GB Nagar denotified as Covid facilities||Noida: With just 148 active cases in the Gautam Budh Nagar, the chief medical officer on Thursday de-notified 11 hospitals as Covid hospitals. This leaves the district with 18 Covid hospitals with about 100 patients still admitted.The denotified hospitals are- Kailash Hospital’s branches in Sectors 27 and 71, Jewar and Greater Noida; ESI Hospital in Sector 24, Sharma Medicare Hospital, JR Hospital and Sanjeevani Hospital in Greater Noida; and IndoGulf Hospital in Sector 19“The hospitals have been denotified as per the beds availability and the number of positive cases coming here. The number of beds reserved for Covid at some hospitals have also been reduced,” said Dr Sunil Dohare, district surveillance officer, GB Nagar.The number of Covid beds at Metro Hospital in Sector 11 have been reduced from 150 to 25 and at Fortis Hospital they have been reduced from 150 to 20.“GB Nagar now has 3337 Covid beds across 18 hospitals of which 7 hospitals are government-run and 11 are private. Out of these, 152 beds are occupied by Covid positive patients from GB Nagar as well as outside the district,” said an official from the district surveillance office.Before the identification, there were around 4,000 Covid beds in the district. Additional Chief Medical Officer Lalit Kumar who is the nodal in-charge for home-isolation said, “There are 42 Covid positive patients in home isolation in GB Nagar a of now. Our team is keeping a check on them over telecalls and they are recovering gradually”. Chief Medical Officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that as cases are going down in the district, number of beds are being reduced gradually as well. “In future more hospitals will be de-notified as Covid hospitals. However, we will still continue to keep a majority of beds in the district reserved for Covid patients as a precautionary measure,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/11-hospitals-in-gb-nagar-denotified-as-covid-facilities-101623952340232.html
17-06-2021||Noida||Muslim man assaulted: New video of victim before thrashing incident emerges, cops make more arrests||The Ghaziabad incident in which a 72-year-old man was assaulted and his beard cut off has turned murkier with the emergence of a new video, which suggests that the victim knew his attackers. Police said their investigation found inconsistencies in the victim’s statement and the root of the matter was a monetary dispute between two groups.Police have so far arrested nine people in the incident. The main actors in the case, they said, were Pravesh Gujjar of Loni, in whose house the assault took place, Intezar, the victim Abdul Samad and local politician Ummed Pehalwan.Police said Intezar owed Gujjar money.“Samad used to sell amulets that were claimed to have magical powers. Intezar hoped to use Samad’s help to influence Gujjar. He sent Samad to Gujjar’s house with his brother-in-law Saddam on a scooter on June 5,” said a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named. “But Gujjar was wise to Samad’s act and forced him to confess on video that he was there at Intezar’s behest.”HT has seen the video, in which Samad is seen with his beard intact, but cannot independently verify its authenticity. The officer quoted above said later, Gujjar called Intezar to his home and confronted him with the video. “Cornered, Intezar turned on Samad and the two groups assaulted him, and a man named Kallu Gujjar cut off Samad’s beard,” he said.The video of the assault, with its audio overwritten with music, went viral online on Monday and allegations were raised that the victim was forced to chant “Jai Siya Ram”. Police said Samad had got an FIR lodged on June 7 at the Loni police station, in which he had stated that he did not know his attackers. The FIR also stated that the victim was abducted from Loni in an autorickshaw by the driver and a few fellow passengers. On Thursday, police arrested Intezaar and Saddam, and four other persons who they identified by their first names as Himanshu, Anas, Babu and Shavez. “We have call records that showed that Intezar, Gujjar and Samad were in touch for a long time, including on June 5,” said Atul Kumar Sonkar, circle officer of Loni.Meanwhile, another video surfaced on Thursday in which Saddam is purportedly heard saying, “I took Samad to Gujjar’s house. Gujjar called more people when he came to know that Intezar had roped him (Samad) in.... Thereafter, Samad was thrashed. I was at Gujjar’s house during the incident, and it was Kallu Gujjar who chopped off the beard.” HT cannot vouch for the authenticity of the videoGujjar was arrested earlier as part of a June 10 extortion case that Intezar had lodged against him. Gujjar has since been in judicial custody.“We will seek his police custody now as he is yet to be questioned in connection with the assault case,” said Sonkar.The “Jai Siya Ram” allegation was raised by Samad during a live video with politician Pehalwan on June 7. Police said this led to the incident being labelled “communal”.Since then, police lodged three more FIRs -- one against Twitter, the platform where the video was shared, a second one against journalists who shared it, and one against Pehalwan.Samad’s family maintains that he was not into selling amulets and that he did not know the suspects.Samad’s son Babbu said, “Once my father recovers from his injuries, we will talk about the details and controversies. We do not have a copy of Pehalwan’s video. We have nothing to say about the claims and counterclaims.”On Thursday, the Bulandshahr police also registered an FIR against five identified persons and about 90-100 unidentified people for violating the Covid-19 curfew protocols during Pehalwan’s live video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/muslim-man-assaulted-new-video-of-victim-before-thrashing-incident-emerges-cops-make-more-arrests-101623952220944.html
17-06-2021||Other||CBSE should have cancelled Class 12 exams before Supreme Court’s intervention: Sisodia||New Delhi Hours after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced the alternative assessment policy for Class 12 students on Thursday, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said the Centre should not have waited for the Supreme Court’s intervention to cancel the Class 12 board exams. He also urged the Centre to start working on the criteria to assess students next year. The CBSE on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that it will evaluate Class 12 students based on a formula giving 30% weightage each to results of classes 10 and 11, and 40% to Class 12 pre-board exams. Last week, Sisodia wrote to the Union education ministry suggesting a similar formula.In a statement issued by his office on Thursday, Sisodia said, “The decision to cancel the board exams was a welcome one, keeping in mind the safety and security of our 1.5 crore Class 12 students. The evaluation criteria which we had suggested, looking at the performance of students in classes 10, 11 and 12 has been taken into account. We should have considered cancelling the board exams a long time back, instead of waiting for the Supreme Court to intervene in the matter. It is unfortunate that the Supreme Court and the state governments had to intervene and protest to cancel the board exams. If our central government had adopted a more humane approach and heard the plea of our students, we could have managed the situation better. Nevertheless, I am happy that this decision was finally taken in the interest of our students.”Stressing on the need to adopt similar or improved criteria for next year, Sisodia said, “While we have made detailed evaluation criteria for this year’s board exams owing to these unprecedented conditions, similarly, we have to look at developing criteria for assessing students in the board classes next year. We cannot think that normal conditions will prevail anytime soon.”“To avoid another situation next year, where we have to rush and take decisions with regard to conduct of the board exams, we should already start developing a plan taking into account online exams and the modalities to conduct assessments and projects if schools have to open partially,” he added.The education minister said that he hopes the Centre is also preparing alternatives for entrance exams as well. “College admissions will be conducted based on the mark sheets of students at the end of July, put together by the CBSE. As far as the entrance examinations are concerned, I am sure certain alternatives will be prepared for them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbse-should-have-cancelled-class-12-exams-before-supreme-court-s-intervention-sisodia-101623952220224.html
17-06-2021||Other||Schools welcome CBSE formula, few raise concern over inclusion of class 11 score||Most schools in the national capital called the CBSE’s Class 12 results formula “student-friendly”, even as some institutions flagged concerns over including the Class 11 scores in the criteria, arguing that the jump from Class 10 often results in students scoring poorly in the first set of exams.According to a formula submitted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in the Supreme Court on Thursday and notified later that evening, the board will accord 30% weightage each to the Class 10 and 11 scores, and 40% weightage to the Class 12 scores. The Class 10 marks considered will be the average of the best three performing subjects out of the main five subjects in theory exams. The Class 11 marks taken will be of the theory component of the final exams, and in the case of the Class 12 scores, marks will be allotted on the basis of unit tests, or mid-term or pre-board exams, as schools find convenient. These theory marks will be added to the practical or internal assessment marks schools as provided by the schools.The heads of several private and public schools said the formula is the best possible choice, out of the “limited choices” available amid the pandemic.Ashok Pandey, director of Ahlcon Schools in Delhi, said, “Few options were available to assess Class 12 students without actually conducting exams. It was also not justifiable to evaluate students only based on the Class 12 internal exams or pre-boards.”The class 12 exams were cancelled on June 1, more than a month after class 10 exams were cancelled on April 14.For Class 10 — which follows a complicated assessment system based on internal test scores and a detailed moderation policy — the board asked its schools to submit compiled marks by June 30.Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales School on Pusa Road, said it was vital to consider students’ Class 10 and 11 performances. “The Board conducted the Class 10 exams and evaluated the results externally. For Class 11, most schools finished their final exams before Covid-19 hit the country. Besides, Class 12 remained completely online. This formula comprises a perfect hybrid of online and offline learning. This gives a good understanding of the fact if children had a good idea of the stream they had taken. It also reinforces that continuity of learning is very important,” she said.However, several school officials questioned the inclusion of the Class 11 performance as part of the formula.Manju Sethi, principal, Bluebells School International, said, “Every year there is a sudden drop in marks when students move from Class 10 to 11 due to complete change in the subjects and learning pattern. A student who scores 90% or above in Class 10 often gets 65%-70% in the first Class 11 exams. Most schools follow a strict marking scheme in Class 11. Besides, some students also pursue hobbies, prepare for entrance exams and build their portfolio in Class 11.”Awadhesh Kumar Jha, school head of the Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini’s Sector 8, said, “The board should have given 10% weightage to Class 11 scores. We mark very strictly in Class 11. Those who get 70% in Class 11 often score 90% in class 12 here.”However, to this, Pandey said, “If some people think including the Class 11 marks will disadvantage students, they should also consider that the best-of-three marks in the Class 10 weightage will compensate for it. Overall, the formula is student-friendly.”Several principals favoured CBSE’s decision to implement a moderation policy to prevent marks from being “inflated”.Harpreet Kaur, principal of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Tilak Nagar, said, “It was necessary to fix a reference year to avoid marks being inflated. It won’t be an issue for Class 12 since most schools have consistent performances, unlike Class 10, where students switched back to board exams in 2018 after a gap of 10 years, as a result of which performances have varied a lot in the last three years.”CBSE has asked schools to keep their average marks in line with their best performance in class 12 in the last three years (2017-18, 2018-19, and 2019-20).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/schools-welcome-cbse-formula-some-raise-concern-over-inclusion-of-class-11-performance-101623952099655.html
17-06-2021||Other||Many students, parents concerned about inclusion of internals in CBSE’s Class 12 score formula||New Delhi Though the revised formula to evaluate Class 12 results, notified by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday, has put an end to months of uncertainty, many graduating students and their parents have raised concerns over inclusion of internal scores of classes 11 and 12 while calculating the final marks.Endorsing the inclusion of Class 10 board exam marks in the results for the sake of uniformity and standardisation, Riya Chauhan (17), a Class 12 student at Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, however, said that taking internal test scores of classes 11 and 12 may put students at disadvantage.“The internal assessments in classes 11 and 12 is always tough. Besides, students were appearing for various competitive examinations while preparing for their pre-boards. The current evaluation pattern will put students at a disadvantage because these marks will be used for our higher education prospects as well,” she said.Following the cancellation of Class 12 CBSE exams on June 1 amid rising Covid-19 cases, the education board on Thursday told the Supreme Court that it would compile the Class 12 results on the basis of the Class 10 board exam (30%), Class 11 annual exam (30%), and Class 12 pre-boards, mid-terms as well as unit test scores (40%).Some students said that they gave a satisfactory performance in the Class 10 boards and subsequent internals, but expressed concern about classmates who often study at the last minute. Kunal Singh, a Class 12 student at a government school in Nand Nagri, said, “I have scored good marks in all three years. But not every student has the same studying pattern. Many study better at the last minute and perform well in the boards as compared to school exams. Switching to online learning during the final year of school and the pandemic-related anxieties will also have an impact on the Class 12 internal test scores which carry the maximum weightage.”Prachi Kacker, whose daughter studies in Class 12 in The Indian School, said they have “accepted the criteria” and want to focus on the future now. “Class 11 students are not serious with their academics because they have just appeared for one board exam and have to prepare for another next year. The same batch of students was pushed towards isolation in Class 12 last year and that too impacted their studies. Though CBSE has given an option to reappear for the exams if they are not satisfied with the marks, it is not practical because it would mean losing another year. These children have to move on.”Aprajita Gautam, president of Delhi Parents Association and the mother of a Class 12 student, said schools must keep these factors in mind while marking students. “Class 11 students take some time to settle in with their new subjects and curriculum. Schools also do strict marking in Class 11 to prepare them for boards. Class 12 pre-boards were also conducted amid the chaos of the pandemic. These factors call for a humanitarian approach while compiling results by schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/many-students-parents-concerned-about-inclusion-of-internals-in-cbse-s-class-12-score-formula-101623952039665.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||‘Form a panel of Ram Bhakts to oversee spending of funds for Ram Temple’: NCP||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Thursday said a ‘non-political committee’ of devotees needs to monitor the spending of funds collected for the construction of the Ram Temple of Ayodhya. NCP’s demand comes at a time when allegations of scam arose regarding the purchase of land in Ayodhya which the Ram Temple trust has denied.“A non-political committee of Ram bhakts (devotees) should be entrusted with the task of maintaining transparency in the spending of funds for temple construction,” Maharashtra minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.“The Ram temple's sanctity should be maintained. All Ram bhakts feel that the temple should be constructed in complete faith and trust. The allegations of corruption show how Lord Ram was used for political and economic gains,” he further added.Allegations of scam in the purchase of land for the Ram Temple also led to clashes between Shiv Sena and the Bharatiya Janata Party on Wednesday. The Sena mouthpiece Saamana had earlier sought clarification regarding the allegations levelled by AAP’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh and a former minister in the Samajwadi government, Pawan Pandey who alleged the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai along with Anil Mishra purchased a piece of land worth ₹2 crore at an inflated price of ₹18.5 crore for the Ram Temple premises.Earlier on Tuesday, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar also said the facts should be brought to the fore. “If there are allegations, facts need to be brought before people whose money and sentiments are attached to the project,” Pawar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The BJP has faced criticism from the Opposition parties regarding the allegations of corruption. Shiv Sena also questioned UP CM Yogi Adityanath and said that he should also provide clarification since he was present at the bhoomipujan ceremony. “The Trust formed for the construction of the temple should clarify if the allegations are true or false. The temple's 'bhoomipujan' ceremony was also attended by Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat. They should also speak out,” Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/form-a-panel-of-ram-bhakts-to-oversee-spending-of-funds-for-ram-temple-ncp-101623950924679.html
17-06-2021||Noida||Inclusion of Class 11 score a worry for students, parents as CBSE reveals evaluation formula for Class 12||Noida: The formula to evaluate Class 12 results, notified by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday, has put an end to months of uncertainty, but several students and parents have raised concerns over including the internal scores of class 11 while calculating the final marks.Astha Singh, a resident of Noida Sector 53 and a Class 12 student of Amity International School, is worried as Class 11 marks are also being taken into account. “Students are usually unable to score well in Class 11 because the syllabus is huge. With Class 11 score being taken into account, I feel my percentage will go down. However, I may explore the option of appearing in exam,” she said. Saksham Sharma, a Class 12 student at DPS Noida, said that he had scored 70% in his Class 11 exam. “Though I didn’t score good marks in Class 11 exams, I am better placed compared to my classmates most of who barely scored 40-50%,” said Saksham who plans to pursue B.Arch.However, Rahul Tandon, another student of the school, is happy that he would score over 85% in Class 12. “I have predicted my score to be around 89% as per the formula given by CBSE,” said Tandon, a Sector 28 resident who plans to pursue computer science in a university in Canada.Renu Singh, principal of Amity International School, Noida, said that the weightage to Class 11 should not have been more than 15%. “In Class 11, many students are in-between their subjects and streams as they are still figuring out what to opt for. In such a case, many are unable to score good marks. Moreover, teachers do strict marking in order to prepare them for Class 12. Hence, I feel CBSE should have not given more than 15% weightage to Class 11 results. About 40% weightage should have been given to Class 10 marks,” she said.Manoj Kataria, president of Gautam Budh Nagar Parents’ Welfare Society echoed the similar opinion. “Class 11 session starts in July after Class 10 board exam results are declared and then the final exams of this standard are also held in February. So, a student only gets around nine months for Class 11 and the syllabus is vast. In such a situation, students are unable to score well. Giving 30% weightage to Class 11 will severely affect Class 12 scores.”However, Kamini Bhasin, principal of DPS Noida, said that the evaluation formula is extremely comprehensive and that it was the only option left in the current scenario.“For classes 10 and 11, CBSE has allowed to use marks of best of three subjects which is an advantage for the students. Moreover, schools have been asked to moderate the scores of these two standards as well. I believe in the current scenario, this is a sincere effort by the Board to evaluate and give justice to the students,” Bhasin said.Rajiv Bansal, director (operations) at Global Indian International School, Noida, said that the assessment based on marks obtained throughout the past three academic years ensures that every student gets a fair chance of comprehensive performance evaluation. “Class 12 students of the academic session 2020-21 have faced extremely uncertain times and deserve effective evaluation to move ahead with their academic and vocational pursuits. This well-defined, time-bound criterion is in the best interest of the students,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/inclusion-of-class-11-score-a-worry-for-students-parents-as-cbse-reveals-evaluation-formula-for-class-12-101623951438939.html
17-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Man seeking injection for brother’s black fungus treatment duped of ₹30,000||Noida: A city resident was allegedly duped by cybercriminals of ₹30,000 while trying to procure amphotericin injections in April for his brother’s black fungus infection. A case was registered on Thursday at Sector 49 police station.The victim was identified as Reshpal Chaudhary, a resident of Sector 72. “We came in contact with a person, RN Singh, through social media who claimed to have access to the drug. He put us in contact with a man in Bulandshahr who assured us two injections for ₹30,000. We transferred the money online but never got the medicine,” Chaudhary said in his police complaint.Chaudhary further said that he waited for the brother to get better before approaching police. Accordingly, a complaint was filed with the cyber cell in April end and a case under the IT Act was registered on Thursday against unknown persons.Police officials said that the identity of the men who had provided help finding the medicine was false. “A probe in the matter is underway. A team is working to trace the online transaction and due action will be taken soon,” said Vinod Kumar Singh, station house officer, Sector 49 police station.Several cases of such fraud have been registered in Noida during the second wave of the pandemic. The Noida police have also nabbed more than 15 different groups indulging in duping people for medicines or for black marketing them. A person who was allegedly selling fake remdesivir injections was nabbed by police on April 20 and eventually charged under the National Security Act. Police had recovered 105 fake injections from him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-seeking-injection-for-brother-s-black-fungus-treatment-duped-of-30000-101623951319579.html
17-06-2021||Noida||Unreported theft case: Cops identify Noida flat that was looted, search on for mastermind||Noida: The Noida police have identified the apartment in which an alleged unreported theft, during which valuables worth ₹30 crore had been stolen, had taken place in September 2020. Officials familiar with the development said a search is on for the mastermind and the owner of the apartment.On June 11, the Sector 39 police had apprehended six persons and recovered gold bars, jewellery and cash worth ₹8.25 crore from the suspects. It was later revealed that the goods had allegedly been from a flat in a high-rise society located under the Surajpur police’s jurisdiction. The total cost of the valuables robbed was above ₹30 crore and included at least 40 gold bars which were divided equally between the 10 robbers, four of whom, including the alleged mastermind Gopal, are yet to be nabbed.Sources said the apartment allegedly belongs to a lawyer.“The flat is in a third person’s name. We cannot share details of what all was found there as it is all under investigation but the clues are being analysed,” said a senior police official, on the condition of anonymity.He also said that while the lawyer is not in the country, his parents are and are currently in hiding.Police have already interrogated the lawyer’s wife and other family members and staff, however, not much has come to light. Eight teams have been formed to investigate the case.“Our top priority right now is to nab the mastermind, who can shed more light on the case. A search is on for him and his three accomplices, along with the lawyer’s father,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), zone 1, Kumar Ran Vijay Singh.Reports claimed that the police have arrested more people in the case but the ADCP denied them, saying that only the six robbers have been nabbed so far. But several more are being questioned, he said.Police further claimed that so far, they have not found any clues from the recovered gold bars as well, which appear to be locally made and not smuggled. The joint commissioner of police had also written to the Income Tax Department and the Enforcement Directorate, whose teams have visited Noida for their own separate investigation, officials added.Till now, the Noida police have identified 23 cases against the father-son (the lawyer and his father) duo in Delhi, Haryana and with the Central Bureau of Investigation, though they have not yet been booked in Noida. Police had earlier suspected that the lawyer’s educational credentials may be fake, though that is also under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/unreported-theft-case-cops-identify-noida-flat-that-was-looted-search-on-for-mastermind-101623951318840.html
17-06-2021||Noida||Man arrested for shooting at a gym trainer||Greater Noida: A 25-year-old man was arrested Thursday for allegedly shooting at a gym trainer in Ecotech 1 area in Greater Noida. The suspect was identified as Anil Kumar, a resident of Gharbara village in Ecotech 1 area. Sharad Kant, the station house officer of Ecotech 1 police station, said the victim Praveen, 30, was allegedly friends with a woman from Anil’s family.“The two lived in the same neighbourhood in Gharbara. Their families had come face to face a few days ago objecting to their friendship. However, the matter escalated and on Tuesday, Anil attacked Praveen with a countrymade gun,” he said. He received the bullet in the right side of the chest and was rushed to a private hospital. Police said he responded to medical treatment and is out of danger. Following the incident, Praveen’s brother Monu filed a complaint against Anil and four others at the Ecotech 1 police station. The SHO said a case was registered under Section 147 (rioting), Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), Section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), Section 506 (criminal intimidation), and Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC against five persons.“On Thursday, the police received information that Anil was on the move on Pushta Road in Gharbara. A police team rushed to the spot and arrested him. The police also recovered a countrymade gun and one live cartridge from his possession,” the SHO said. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody. Police have launched a search for the other suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-shooting-at-a-gym-trainer-101623951201867.html
17-06-2021||Other||Will ensure no misuse of SC/ST Act, says UP minority commission chairman||Newly appointed chairman of Uttar Pradesh Schedule Caste/Schedule Tribe Commission Dr Ram Babu Harit said his priority would be to ensure that the SC/ST Act was not misused and complaints were disposed of in a time-bound manner. The three-time MLA from Agra West, Dr Ram Babu Harit is a known face in Agra and had busy day on Thursday accepting wishes after being named chairman of state SC/ST Commission. A medical practitioner, Dr Harit had been a long time loyalist of BJP barring in 2007 when he joined BSP but returned to the saffron party soon. “The SC/ST Commission of Uttar Pradesh would ensure timely disposal of complaints. It would also be ensured that the SC/ST Act is not misused,” said Dr Harit who would be flanked by two vice chairmen and 15 members. He began his political journey by being elected as a BJP corporator in 1989 and went on to become deputy mayor of Agra in 1992. Riding on success, Dr Harit won dalit dominated Agra West seat for three times as BJP candidate and became minister of state for health in Rajnath Singh cabinet of Uttar Pradesh.Earlier, the then MP from Agra Dr Ram Shankar Katheria had been appointed the chairman of National SC/ST Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-ensure-no-misuse-of-sc-st-act-says-up-minority-commission-chairman-101623951200457.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Ekta Party MLAs announce merger with Congress||Three MLAs of the Punjab Ekta Party on Thursday announced the party's merger with the Congress Party ahead of the state assembly elections set to take place next year.MLAs Sukhpal Singh Khaira, Jagdev Singh, and Pirmal Singh met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi today and announced the merger.Taking to Twitter, Khaira thanked Gandhi for blessings and support."Many thanks @RahulGandhi ji for warmth and magnanimity. I also express my heartfelt gratitude to @capt_amarinder ji, @harishrawatcmuk ji @rssurjewala ji and @sunilkjakhar ji for their blessings and support-khaira," he tweeted.Earlier last Thursday, Khaira, along with rebel AAP MLAs Pirmal Singh and Jagdev Singh Kamalu joined Congress in presence of Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh."Congress was the only viable platform that can save India from the clutches of the fascist and fanatic rule of BJP. Only Congress could prevent the Badals from looting the state like their previous regimes," Khaira had said.He said he and his colleagues after due diligence have decided to join the Congress in the "larger interest" of the country and Punjab.Khaira, who after quitting the Congress had joined the AAP in December 2015 and formed Punjab Ekta Party, said that for the last one year tried his best to "unite all like-minded leaders" on one platform, to create a Punjab centric regional force but unfortunately he couldn't succeed for various reasons best not disclosed.Calling AAP chief a 'double faceted and a hypocrite leader', said that joining the AAP was a "political blunder" and he had presumed that Kejriwal would honestly bring about a qualitative change in the political culture of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ekta-party-mlas-announce-merger-with-congress-101623949642268.html
17-06-2021||Other||QS World University Ranking 2022: IIIT-Allahabad ranked 23rd among Indian varsities||The Indian Institute of Information Technology-Allahabad (IIIT-A) has bagged 23rd position among Indian universities in the 2022 QS World University Ranking, said IIIT-A officials. The rankings have been released recently by London-based Quacquarelli Symonds, the most acceptable ranking agency worldwide. It evaluates the universities according to six metrics, which include academic reputation, employer reputation, faculty-student ratio, citations per faculty, international faculty ratio and international student ratio. Satish Kumar Singh, associate dean (ranking and accreditation) of IIIT-A said this year only 35 institutes of repute from India like IISC-Bangalore, major IITs and giant universities could get a place on this list. Singh further said despite being a very young and IT-oriented institute with only three branches, four departments and about only 70 full-time faculty members, IIIT-A had made a mark. “If we consider the top-level engineering and technology based prestigious universities and institutes in India, then IIIT-A has been placed at 11th position among all the institutes of national importance (INIs),” he said. Singh said from 2017 onwards the institute was continuously performing impressively and each year trying to improve its rank at the national and international level under the leadership of prof P Nagabhushan , director, IIIT-A who joined the institute in May 2017. “Certainly, this is the result of extraordinary academic and research contributions by its students and faculty members,” he said. He also informed that IIIT-A, which was placed in the band of 501-550 by QS WUR in computer science and information systems in 2021, was very hopeful of doing better in 2022 ranking which was awaited to be released by QS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/qs-world-university-ranking-2022-iiit-allahabad-ranked-23rd-among-indian-varsities-101623950239319.html
17-06-2021||Other||Sex determination racket busted in SBS Nagar; 3rd in eight months||SBS Nagar A joint health department from Moga and Jalandhar districts busted a sex determination racket, the third such instance since November 2020, at a private hospital in SBS Nagar on Thursday by arresting a woman doctor, Sunita, red-handed. Dr Sunita and two others, who acted as middlemen, Kulwant Kaur of Nurpur Bedi in Anandpur Sahib and Satnam Singh of Boothgarh in SBS Nagar have been arrested. SBS Nagar civil surgeon Dr Gurdeep Singh said, “She ran a hospital by the name of Sunita Charitable Hospital. Teams from Moga and Jalandhar had got a tip-off and raided the hospital. They deployed a decoy patient, who paid ₹40,000 for the sex determination test. “We have seized the ultra-sound machine and recovered the ₹40,000 paid to the doctor,” Dr Gurdeep said, adding that Sunita did not have a valid degree for medical practice, and was running the ultrasound centre illegally, as it was not registered with the district health authorities. “Records of patients of surgical ward have been seized, bugt there is no record of doctors who operated upon the patients. We have recommended legal action against the accused and handed over all evidence to the police for further action,” Dr Gurdeep added. Balachaur City SHO Gurmeet Singh said a case had been registered under relevant sections of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, 1994 and 420 (cheating) and 120-B of the IPC at Balachaur police station.“We will investigate how many more patients had been tested at the centre and for how long had the racket been running, undetected,” the SHO added. In November 2020, Dr Ujagar Singh held for allegedly conducting a sex determination centre at his facility Soori Hospital; in January this year, Bhupinder Singh Soori, son of Dr Ujagar, had been arrested red-handed, while conducting a sex determination test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sex-determination-racket-busted-in-sbs-nagar-3rd-in-eight-months-101623949999421.html
17-06-2021||Gurugram||Waterlogging issues to be resolved by quick response teams||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) has formed a quick response team to manage waterlogging issues during monsoon, officials said on Thursday. The authority has also identified 20 critical waterlogging points across the district.Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer (CEO), GMDA, said that the authority has set a target of June 25 to ensure that appropriate machinery is deployed at all critical points to tackle waterlogging during the monsoon. “A quick response team has been formed, which will also have officials from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), to solve waterlogging issues at the earliest. The team, equipped with machines and mobile pumps, will be stationed at Tau Devilal Stadium so that it can quickly respond to waterlogging problems,” said Rajpal.Officials said that depending on the jurisdiction, traffic police and officers from the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will also be roped in.The GMDA is also trying to complete the expansion of a 33-metre stretch of Badshahpur drain, near Khandsa, by June 25. Earlier, the authority had set a deadline of July first week.“Waterlogging at Hero Honda Chowk was primarily due to the narrow width of Badshahpur drain near Khandsa village. The drain is being expanded so that it can carry 2,300 cusecs of water instead of 800 cusecs. We are trying to complete the expansion by June 25,” Rajpal added.The authority has also formed a committee that identified 20 critical waterlogging points across the city, out of which, 15 points are under the GMDA, four points under the MCG, and one point under the Delhi Land & Finance (DLF).Officials said that the work to manage waterlogging at 16 points has been completed. Last month, people from various parts of the city reported waterlogging issues following heavy rainfall. Some of the worst-affected areas were Narsinghpur-Khandsa stretch, Sohna Road, Sector 9, Sector 10, Gurugram bus depot, CH Bakhtawar Singh Road, and Rajiv Chowk.In 2021, the GMDA has also planned to ensure that rainwater is stored in dams in the Aravallis, for groundwater recharge and to prevent runoff. “Bundhs in Aravallis have been strengthened so that the water from the mountains is stored there itself. This will help in groundwater recharge and improve the condition of green belts in the city,” said Rajpal.Meanwhile, according to a statement released by the district administration, the MCG will rent 113 pumps, 32 suction tankers, and 32 JCBs during this monsoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/waterlogging-issues-to-be-resolved-by-quick-response-teams-101623948622875.html
17-06-2021||Gurugram||Fortis to provide Sputnik jabs in Ggm from June 19||The Russian-made vaccine against Covid-19, Sputnik V, will be rolled out in Gurugram for the first time, at Fortis Memorial Research Institute from June 19. Gurugram will be the first district in Haryana to begin the inoculation of Sputnik on a pilot basis.Doses will be initially administered to the hospital staff, said health officials on Thursday.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer (DIO), said, “The hospital had sought permission from the Haryana health department to start Sputnik V vaccination, which has now been granted. Hospital staff are likely to be vaccinated in the pilot roll-out.”The hospital has procured the vaccine directly from Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, and as part of the limited pilot roll-out, it will give the two-dose vaccine in Gurugram and Mohali.Dr Ashutosh Raghuvanshi, managing director and chief executive officer, Fortis Healthcare, said, “Our units were only providing Covaxin and Covishield. The hospital, in collaboration with Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, is now among the first to provide a third vaccine option (Sputnik V), with the dual objective of expanding and scaling up the vaccination drive, and also lowering infection risks to future mutations of the coronavirus.”According to a statement issued by the hospital, “Some recent trials have shown that Sputnik V has an efficacy of more than 90%, and it will bring down symptomatic Covid-19 cases by over 90%, saving the large population in India from infections from future Covid-19 strains.” Sputnik V, including administrative charges, has been priced at ₹1,145 per dose, according to the hospital. There is, however, no announcement on the number of doses available with the hospital.Meanwhile, the Gurugram administration is also planning to provide Sputnik V jabs in government healthcare facilities, district deputy commissioner Yash Garg said on Thursday. “Sputnik V inoculation will start in the district soon. The administration is in the process of getting the doses under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). Gurugram has more than 20 deep freezers to maintain the cold chain for the vaccine storage. A team from Dr Reddy’s Lab has inspected the arrangements, and expressed satisfaction,” Garg said in a statement issued by the administration.During a meeting on Thursday, senior officials of the district administration and the health department said that they aim to vaccinate the maximum population before the third wave of Covid-19 strikes the district in the next few months.“We are aiming at vaccinating the maximum number of people in the 18-45 age group to prevent the deadly impact of Covid-19. Data shows that at least 51% of the population in Gurugram has already been vaccinated. It is the highest in India,” said chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav.Sputnik V is the third vaccine approved by the Centre to combat the coronavirus infection. The first phase of the Sputnik V rollout by Apollo Hospitals and Dr Reddy’s Laboratories had started on a pilot basis in Hyderabad on May 17, 2021. The vaccine is developed by Gamaleya Institute in Russia, and it shows over 91.6% efficacy against Covid-19. The vaccine has to be kept at -20° to -25° Celsius. It has to be kept outside for 15-20 minutes, before being administered to the people.So far, 907,121 doses have been administered to the people in Gurugram, out of which, 12,059 doses were given on Thursday. It includes administration of at least 4,518 doses in government facilities, and 7,541 in private facilities. Across government health centres and private facilities, vaccination of the 18-45 age group has been higher than those above 45 years. Some 9,716 in the 18-45 age group, and 2,051 above 45 years took the Covaxin or Covishield doses on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fortis-to-provide-sputnik-jabs-in-ggm-from-june-19-101623948621361.html
17-06-2021||Gurugram||6-8% of private hospital staff infected with Covid-19 after vaccination||As many as 6-8% of healthcare workers at private hospitals got infected with Covid-19 after vaccination, as per results of surveys of healthcare workers done by three hospitals. As per an internal survey by Fortis Hospital, nearly 6% of 16,000 healthcare workers across the country, who were administered with first and second doses of vaccine between January 2021 and May 2021, got infected post-vaccination. A similar result, an infection rate of around 6%, was reported by Max Hospital, where the survey was done among its 14,000 employees who received both jabs. At Artemis Hospital, at least 8.3% (135 out of 1,628 staff ) of breakthrough infections were reported after two doses of Covishield. The district health department, however, did not collate any data on infections after vaccination. At Fortis Hospital, among those who got infected after getting fully vaccinated, 92% were mildly infected cases while 7% developed moderate illness, requiring oxygen support and only 1% developed severe illness requiring ICU care/ ventilation. “The study clearly brings out important findings that the vaccines available do provide protection against the virus even in healthcare workers, who are at most risk and vulnerable to get infected with the virus. While India has sound vaccine manufacturing capacity at its disposal, what is really needed is a comprehensive and multi-pronged mass education strategy to achieve last mile delivery,” said Dr Bishnu Panigrahi, group head – medical strategy & operations, Fortis Healthcare Ltd, in a statement. In the case of Artemis Hospital in Sector 51, there are a total of 1,848 healthcare workers at the hospital, of whom 1,628 (88.09%) had completed two-dose vaccinations. The data shared by the hospital showed that a total of 135 (8.3%) breakthrough infections were reported. The mean interval between vaccination and infection was found to be 54 days (range of 20-78 days). Infections were reported in 66 males (48.9%) and 69 females (51.1%). There was no hospitalisation reported. Dr Namita Jaggi, the chairperson of lab services and infection control and the chief of education and research, Artemis Hospital, said, “The majority of them were infected in April. They were all mild and no hospitalisation was reported.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/68of-private-hospital-staff-infected-with-covid-19-after-vaccination-101623948620828.html
17-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Gurugram to augment paediatric care infra ahead of third wave||Gearing up for a possible third wave of Covid-19 the district health department has begun its preparation to augment paediatric care infrastructure in the district. Private hospitals have been directed to strengthen their Paediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and Newborn Intensive Care Unit (NICU). Data is being collated on the beds available in different hospitals. “With the younger population likely to face the impact in the third wave, a 20-bed paediatric facility will be set up at the polyclinic in Sector 31. If required, the makeshift Covid care centre at Tau Devi Lal Stadium will be converted into a paediatric ward. Likewise, out of the 350 beds at M3M Covid care centre, about 100 will be reserved for children,” said Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, during a meeting with Gurugram MP Rao Inderjeet Singh. In a recent all-India serological survey by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences conducted among children of two to 17 years from March 15 till June 10, seroprevalence was found to be 55.7% and 63.5% in those more than or equal to 18 years of age. The survey had 4,509 participants, of whom 700 were younger than 18 years and 3,809 were 18 years or older. According to the study, seropositivity among children was high and comparable to the adult population. “It is unlikely that a future third wave by prevailing Covid-19 variant would disproportionately affect children of two years or older,” read the study. A state-level serological survey to cover children has also been planned by the state health department but was postponed earlier this week. The survey is important as the population younger than 18 years is not being covered under the vaccination drive. Undisrupted oxygen supplyDuring a meeting with Garg, the Gurugram MP was told at least six oxygen plants were set up and five are in the process of being set up. Two oxygen pants have been set up at Civil Hospital in Sector 10, one plant each at ESIC Hospital in Sector 9A, ESIC Hospital in Manesar’s Sector 3 and the subdivisional hospital in Pataudi. More plants will be set up at Sector 31 and Sohna polyclinics. During the second Covid-19 wave in April and May, oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients was badly affected due to a lack of infrastructure. According to Garg, the district administration is preparing to set up an oxygen cylinder and oxygen concentrator bank. It will have a capacity of 800 cylinders and 700 concentrators, which will be provided to the patients based on the requirement. Also, private hospitals with bed capacity above 50 were directed to install oxygen plants before June 30. Garg said that additional 700 beds will be added to the existing bed capacity. “We are trying to make such an arrangement that over 400 beds are easily available with a 48-hour notice to handle the surge in cases,” said Garg. Currently, of 2,889 oxygen beds, at least 2,305 are vacant. In the case of Intensive Care Units beds, of the 774 beds, 505 beds are vacant. Of the 261 ventilator beds, 163 are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-gurugram-to-augment-paediatric-care-infra-ahead-of-third-wave-101623948619844.html
17-06-2021||Gurugram||Four-year-old shot dead by father’s rivals in Pataudi||A four-year-old boy was shot dead by four armed assailants, who had a personal rivalry with his father, in Pataudi on Wednesday night, the police said. The father was also shot at and is in a critical condition, undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Rewari, the police said.The four suspects, identified as Harish, Naveen, Paramjeet and Yaman of Rewari, were arrested on Thursday from Jatshahpur. They were produced before a district court and taken on two-day police remand.A case under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Arms Act was registered against them at the Pataudi police station.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Parveen Kumar, a resident of Khalilpur village, was having a feud with a man identified as Harish Kumar since the last month after they argued over drinks. Last week, Parveen assaulted Harish in public. “Harish threatened Parveen of dire consequences and was looking for an opportunity to take revenge. His friends arranged for weapons and they planned to kill him on Wednesday,” he said.“They found Parveen in the outer area of the village and shot at him. Assuming him to be dead, they went to his house and shot at his son who was playing in the open area near the house. Two of them fired several gunshots at the boy and one bullet hit him on the chest,” he said.Hearing gunshots, locals and relatives of the two victims gathered at their house and arranged for a vehicle to take both of them to the hospital. Doctors declared the boy brought dead and Parveen critical.“They opened fire only on my son. They did not harm me even though I was sitting nearby. They intended to kill my son,” said Bharti, the boy’s mother.Sangwan said, “The assailants had the intention to kill the father and the son. We suspect a personal rivalry behind the killing. It appears that the family is not sharing complete information with us. We will seek more information during the remand.”A forensic team visited the crime spot on Thursday and empty cartridges were retrieved from the spot. The police said that they were seeking information from neighbours about the rivalry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fouryearold-shot-dead-by-father-s-rivals-in-pataudi-101623948619297.html
17-06-2021||Gurugram||Pre-monsoon showers to hit Gurugram from June 18||Due to the presence of westerlies and trough over the region, Gurugram is likely to witness pre-monsoon showers over the next few days, according to a forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The IMD’s meteorological centre in Chandigarh on Thursday issued an alert for the Gurugram district for the next three days, predicting thunderstorms and lightning at isolated places.According to the weekly forecast of IMD, one or two spells of rain or thundershowers is likely from June 18 (Friday) to June 21. The maximum temperature, however, likely to remain the same despite the rain. As per the prediction, a maximum temperature of around 35 degrees Celsius and a minimum temperature of around 24 degrees Celsius will prevail over the next three days. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “The NCR will be witnessing pre-monsoon showers over the next few days as conditions are favourable for light to moderate rain. We are receiving westerly winds that are carrying moisture and a trough has also formed, extending from Punjab, south Haryana, parts of Uttar Pradesh to the Bay of Bengal. This will bring rainfall activity in Delhi-NCR.”He said that on Friday, the rain will be in isolated places but it will increase over the weekend.In the past few days, due to isolated rain and cloudy weather, temperatures in the city have been lower than normal. On Thursday, Gurugram witnessed a slight drop from the normal range in maximum temperature, which was recorded at 36.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below the normal. A minimum temperature of 25.3 degrees Celsius, which was one degree below normal, was recorded. The air quality in Delhi-NCR is also likely to improve, as Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, in its weather bulletin on Thursday, said that the air quality is likely to remain in moderate to satisfactory category over the next five days. On Thursday, Gurugram’s air quality was in the satisfactory zone, with an air quality index of 82, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s AQI bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/premonsoon-showers-to-hit-gurugram-from-june-18-101623948618609.html
17-06-2021||Kolkata||10 kiloliter oil spill in Bay of Bengal after vessel's fuel tank leaks||A merchant vessel's fuel tank developed a crack leading to 10 kilolitres of oil being spilled in the Bay of Bengal on Thursday, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) said.It said the vessel, named Devon, was sailing under the flag of Portugal and was en-route from Colombo in Sri Lanka to Haldia in West Bengal when the fuel leak happened.The vessel developed an underwater crack in the left side fuel tank containing about 120 kilolitres (KL) of very low sulphur fuel oil, the ICG said in a statement."The crack resulted in spillage of about 10 KL of oil into sea before preventive action was taken and remaining oil in tank was transferred to another tank by ship's crew," it said.The vessel was continuing its voyage to Haldia and is likely to reach there by Friday evening, the statement said."The ICG is in continuous contact with Devon and master has reported that the vessel is stable. The ICG's pollution response team at Chennai has been alerted and kept standby. In addition, the ICG's ships and aircraft deployed at sea are also put on alert in pollution response configuration," it said. PTI DSP AQS AQS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/10-kiloliter-oil-spill-in-bay-of-bengal-after-vessel-s-fuel-tank-leaks-101623948162193.html
17-06-2021||Gurugram||Honeytrapped businessman sets himself on fire over extortion threats||A 57-year-old businessman, who was being extorted by a gang of five that allegedly trapped him and took intimate photographs of him with a woman, died by setting himself ablaze in Faridabad on Wednesday afternoon, the police said. The man was befriended by a member of a honeytrap gang on social media and during a meeting at a hotel near Nehru Place in Delhi on June 10, he was offered drinks laced with sedatives. The gang took compromising photographs of the man and the woman, following which they extorted ₹2 lakh from him, the police said.However, the gang was asking him to pay ₹12 lakh more and he was not in a position to do so, the police said. The suspects were identified as Jeenat, Nazia alias Juhi, Aashiya alias Ruhi, Eba and Arbaaz of Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. OP Singh, the commissioner of police, Faridabad, said that they received a call around 3.15pm about a man doused in petrol setting himself ablaze on a road near a school in Sector 17. “The police team took him to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. The police found his purse at the spot, using details from which they contacted his son. He told us that a honeytrap gang was harassing his father,” he said.The police immediately scanned the phone records of the businessman and zeroed in on the gang. They were booked under sections 384 (extortion), 306 (abetment to suicide) and 120 (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code in an FIR registered at the Sector 17 police station on Wednesday. The police said that one of the suspects had befriended the businessman on social media last month and after a few phone conversations, invited him to meet her. “She offered him drinks laced with sedatives. When the victim gained consciousness, he found himself naked on the bed. The suspects had filmed videos and clicked pictures of their victim with the woman and threatened to implicate him in a fake rape case. They also threatened to send the recordings to his family and transferred nearly ₹2 lakh from his account. Since he didn’t have any more money in his account, they asked him to arrange for ₹4 lakh,” OP Singh said. Following the incident, the businessman confined himself to his residence in Sector 17 and stopped taking all calls. He shared his ordeal with his son and contacted a few lawyers, who later tried to extort money from him, the son said.The police identified Nazia alias Juhi as the kingpin of the gang. They would “trap” businessmen in Faridabad and Delhi, and extort their victims by threatening to implicate them in fake cases or revealing the videos and photos to their family members. Due to fear of being exposed, no cases were filed, the police said. They were operational for the past three years and had made more than ₹50 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/honeytrapped-businessman-sets-himself-on-fire-over-extortion-threats-101623948438590.html
17-06-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath begins touring Uttar Pradesh districts to feel people’s pulse, review schemes||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is beginning his visits to the districts of the state after completing his tours to all 18 administrative divisions in a bid to feel the people’s pulse and take stock of the implementation of government schemes at the grassroots level ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. The ministers of his government have been already asked to camp at the development block levels to connect with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and review the projects there.The chief minister, who was in his home district Gorakhpur on Wednesday and Thursday, is scheduled to visit Ballia and Varanasi on Friday.In Gorakhpur, he visited hospitals and reviewed development works.“Yes, the chief minister’s programme for visits to all the districts is being worked out. He is scheduled to visit Ballia and Varanasi on Friday. He will visit other districts, too, in the coming weeks,” an official spokesman said.Ballia is the home district of leader of Opposition in the assembly and Samajwadi Party MLA Ram Gobind Chaudhary while Varanasi is the Lok Sabha constituency of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Chaudhary represents Bansdeeh assembly constituency in Ballia.Although a detailed programme for the chief minister’s visit to Ballia is being given final shape, those aware of the developments said he would visit a village, speak to the beneficiaries of government schemes and meet public representatives, besides reviewing Covid-19 management, development works and the law and order situation. In Varanasi, he is scheduled to visit a community health centre, meet public representatives, review development projects and the law and order situation, inspect the Rudrakh convention centre, visit Kashi Vishwanath temple and take stock of the Kashi Vishwanath corridor project before coming back to Lucknow.“Mass contact is very important in politics. When the chief minister visits districts in the coming weeks, he will obviously meet the people and his party workers there. The UP government’s ministers are already touring and camping at the block level as part of the BJP’s strategy. The CM’s tours will have a different meaning and will obviously mark the preparations for the 2022 assembly elections,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of the department of political science, Lucknow University.Ram Gobind Chaudhary said he had no information about the chief minister’s proposed visit though he should have been informed about the same in accordance with the protocol. Chaudhary alleged the chief minister’s tours were an attempt to divert attention from developments in the BJP.“These visits now have no meaning. The BJP governments at the Centre and in the state have failed in Covid-19 management. The people of the state have suffered a lot. The farmers are upset as procurement centres are not procuring wheat. I am getting calls from farmers from different places that they are waiting in the rain but their wheat is not being procured at the procurement centres. The BJP obviously wants to divert attention from the failures of its government as it prepares for the 2022 assembly elections in the state,” said Chaudhary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-begins-touring-uttar-pradesh-districts-to-feel-people-s-pulse-review-schemes-101623947898965.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro issues new timings for first and last trains on Green Line||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Thursday announced the construction of an additional interchange facility connecting the Metro’s Green Line (Inderlok/Kirti Nagar-Bahadurgarh) and Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar) at the Punjabi Bagh West Metro station. For the construction of this facility, from June 18 to September 30, the timings of the first and the last train on the Green Line will be altered slightly, a DMRC statement said. The DMRC said that the first and the last metro train services between Brigadiar Hoshiar Singh (Bahadurgarh) and Inderlok/Kirti Nagar will be regulated from June 18-19 night till September 30, the DMRC statement issued on Thursday indicated. “This is the first time that such a special ‘halt platform’ is being planned to connect two already operational Metro corridors. This halt platform will provide interconnectivity between the Green and the Pink Line at the Punjabi Bagh West Metro station of the Pink Line,” the statement read. “There will not be any ticketing facility on the interchange platforms, but boarding and de-boarding facilities will be available as a result of which passengers who want to interchange trains between the two lines, will be able to use the facility. The platforms will be connected by a 230-metres long foot over bridge (FOB), which will connect the platforms with the Punjabi Bagh West Metro station of the Pink Line,” it added. DMRC said that from June 18 night, between Brigadiar Singh (Bahadurgarh)-Inderlok the first train will now start at 7am and the last train will leave the station at 9 pm. On the Brigadiar Hoshiar Singh-Kirti Nagar section, the first train will start at 7.18 am, while the last train is now timed at 9.10 pm. Between Inderlok and Brigadiar Hoshiar Singh and Kirti Nagar and Brigadiar Hoshiar Singh sections, the timing of the first train will now be 7.25 am, and the last time will be 9.30 pm. On Sundays, in each of the sections the starting time of trains will be an hour later than the schedule. The timing for the last train will however, remain the same. The DMRC also said that the platforms will be 155-metres in length and will be connected with the FOB by two additional lifts with a capacity of 26 passengers each and staircases. “The total height from the platform level of the new platforms to the concourse of the Punjabi Bagh West station of Pink Line is 16.75 metres. Therefore, the passage has been planned at two levels. The passengers after coming down the staircases or lifts from the platform will again have to take the stairs, two escalators or a through movement lift to finally reach the concourse area,” the DMRC statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-issues-new-timings-for-first-and-last-trains-on-green-line-101623947839177.html
17-06-2021||Other||BJP, former CM Koda warn of iron ore scam in Jharkhand||BJP state president Dipak Prakash met state Governor Droupadi Murmu on Wednesday and submitted a detailed memorandum apprising her of alleged loot of iron ore, coal and sand in the state since the UPA government came into power in Jharkhand.The matter first came to the fore after BJP leader and former State Khadi Board member Kulwant Singh Bunty tweeted to chief minister Hemant Soren about revenue loss worth ₹50-60 crore a couple of days ago.“Mineral resources like iron, coal and sand are being looted freely here since the UPA government came into power. The Congress is the mastermind behind this while the JMM is cooperating and collaborating to keep it going,” Prakash said after meeting the Governor.“Thakurani iron mine in West Singhbhum district was earlier allotted to Padma Kumar Jain, but the state government cancelled the lease of this mine spread on 84.6 hectares in 2019. Before this, the Supreme Court had ordered to collect fines from 347 mines for illegal mining in 2017. A fine of ₹334.47 crore was levied on Padma Kumar Jain too. The court ordered to collect the fine amount by auctioning the previously mined stocks of iron ore,” said Prakash.He alleged that the state was losing huge revenue worth crores due to the negligence of the state government and vested into the interest of certain mining department officials. “I have requested the Governor to stall the Jharkhand State Mineral Development Corporation (JSMDC) tender order for auction, besides doing grade rating of the ore samples by a competent agency outside the state and taking strong action against officials found guilty,” Prakash said.He has given copies of the tender document, grade rating order on May 30, mining plan submitted to Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM) and monthly returns filed by the company with the state government and IBM to the Governor.Meanwhile, former CM Madhu Koda has also warned against imminent iron ore scam in the district again. “Iron mines in the district are closed on paper, however, illegal mining hasn’t stopped. The state is losing revenue worth crores in the form of iron ore coming from Odisha in connivance of mining officers and local police,” said Koda, who was himself a convict in a coal scam worth ₹4000 crore and an accused in the iron ore scam worth over ₹2000 crore.“I have been keeping CM Hemant Soren informed about the grading of iron ore in Thakurani Mine in Gua. Now mining department has come out with an amended notification extending the date of the JSMDC tender. But I had demanded a fresh grading as Padma Kumar Jain has claimed the grade of ore and fines to be 55-65 in its report to IBM whereas government laboratory has put the grading at 39-55,” Kulwant Singh Bunty said.“The state may lose ₹5000 per tonne due to this difference in grading percentage. The ore and fines with the grading of 55-65% are currently priced at ₹9000 per tonne. If the grading comes out below this, the price will fall to ₹3000 per ton, resulting in loss to the tune of ₹50-60 crore,” added Kulwant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-former-cm-koda-warn-of-iron-ore-scam-in-jharkhand-101623947778380.html
17-06-2021||Ranchi||Preparing for third wave: J’khand launches Pneumonia vaccination drive for children||Jharkhand on Thursday became the sixth state in the country that rolled out the Pneumococcal Conjugate Vaccine (PCV) drive to make children’s immunity stronger in a bid to protect them from the probable third wave of coronavirus, officials said. State health minister Banna Gupta said, “The government is concerned as according to the experts and scientists, the probable third wave of Covid-19 might hit children. So, our government is taking all possible steps to protect children. The PCV drive will prove to be a milestone in this regard.” The minister said that pneumonia has been the main cause of disease and deaths in children below five years of age. “There will be a huge reduction in such cases after this vaccination campaign,” he said. Ananya, a two and half-year-old child, became the first in Jharkhand to receive the first shot of the vaccine on the occasion of the launch programme. Jharkhand has set a target to vaccinate around 8.5 lakh children. The vaccine in three doses. The first dose is given when an infant completes 45 days of birth, the second dose at 90 days and the third is given when the baby is nine months old, an official said. Five states, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, have already started the drive. Jharkhand has received 77,200 vaccine doses from the centre to begin the drive, officials said. The drive holds significance for Jharkhand, as the cost of the vaccine is very high. Additional chief secretary Arun Kumar said, “One dose costs around ₹1600, which is expensive for many families in the state.” The health minister said, “The state government is trying to give better healthcare facilities to people of the state in limited resources. The health indices of some programmes are ahead of the national average, while efforts are on to bring rest of health indices at par with the national average.” The infant mortality rate in the state has come down from 34 to 29 per thousand, while the national average is 33. “If we talk about maternal mortality rate, it has come down from 165 to 76 per lakh, while the national average is 122,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/preparing-for-third-wave-j-khand-launches-pneumonia-vaccination-drive-for-children-101623947719688.html
17-06-2021||Other||Get free petrol, discount coupons after first dose of vaccine in W Singhbhum||Rotaract Club of Chaibasa and Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) announced on Thursday to hold a special vaccination camp at Singhbhum Trading Company Petrol Pump near Shahid Chowk in Chaibasa on June 21, during which people getting vaccinated would be given 1-litre petrol for free.Chaibasa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCCI) also distributed coupons for a 5% discount on any purchase from the listed shops for getting vaccinated. The district has been struggling to convince people to get vaccinated due to some rumours, like impotency and death, spreading among villagers. Only 6% or 42,754 people could be inoculated, out of the target of 7,16,583 people in West Singhbum, the lowest in the state. As many as 134 persons have died of Covid-19 in the district so far.“We will give coupons for 1-litre petrol for free to 200 people in the age group of 18-44 years and above 45 years after they get vaccinated at the camp near Shahid Chowk set up by us and IOC,” Rahul Saraf, Rotaract Club-Chaibasa member, said. Earlier, the Chakradharpur unit of the Marwari Yuva Manch (MYM) and IOC had given coupons of 1-litre petrol free to 240 persons for getting vaccinated on Monday.CCCI president Nitin Prakash said that 5100 such coupons were given to the West Singhbhum district deputy commissioner (DC) Ananya Mittal for distribution purposes on Wednesday. “Such incentives are helping us increase the rate of vaccination as more people are now turning at the vaccination centres. It is further dispelling their fear of mishaps due to vaccination and bridging the gap created by misinformation,” Ananya Mittal, West Singhbhum DC, said.“We trained two teachers per block who in turn trained three teachers per panchayat regarding merits and effects of vaccination. Now they are conducting village meetings to make people aware of correct facts. We also held a meeting today in which Chaibasa MLA Dipak Birua urged the manki and Mundas (village heads) to convince people the need to get vaccinated and urged them not to pay any heed to rumours,” added Mittal.The overall vaccination coverage is also slow across the state as of now. As per state health department data, only 11.69% of people have been administered the first dose and only 2.16% of people out of the estimated state population of 3.77 crore have taken the second dose of anti-Covid-19 vaccine. Only 2% of people in the state took both vaccine doses, while 90% of people in the 18-44 years age group across 21 districts were yet to take the first dose. Altogether 32.50% of people above 45 years have taken the first dose, while only 5.32% of people in the same age bracket have took both doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/get-free-petrol-discount-coupons-after-first-dose-of-vaccine-in-w-singhbhum-101623947720248.html
17-06-2021||Other||Drivers found without licence in mining areas will be booked: Latehar AC||Latehar additional collector (AC) Alok Shikari Kachhap asked the district transport department to ensure that drivers engaged in transporting coal and other minerals in mining areas have a proper driving licence. He has also asked the district transport officer (DTO) to keep a check on overloading.The AC gave these directions at a coordination meeting with mines’ operators, the mining department officials and district transport officials at Latehar on Thursday.The directions assume significance amid reports of the minors driving heavy vehicles in these areas resulting in many casualties and the transporters flouting norms by not covering the consignment with tarpaulin, resulting in pollution.“Rampant violation of transport rules should be stopped immediately. Those found guilty will be booked.”The district administration also decided to set up a driving training school to provide meaningful employment to local youths already engaged in this field.The discussion also focused on providing necessary approvals to the proposed coal projects at Rajwar in Balumath and Tubaid in Latehar, besides setting up transmission line between Latehar and Chatra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drivers-found-without-licence-in-mining-areas-will-be-booked-latehar-ac-101623947718425.html
17-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand records 93% surplus rain in June||Monsoon has been aggressive over Jharkhand for the past three days, recording 93% surplus rainfall till now in June. The incessant rain has caused damage to several bridges, a flood-like situation in low lying areas, besides overflowing rivers and dams. However, the ongoing rain would boost the Kharif crops scenario in Jharkhand, experts said.Weather officials said that the incessant rainfall pattern would continue for at least the next 48 hours. The state has received 149.8mm rain from June 1 to June 17 against the normal 77.88 mm.Lohardaga district recorded the highest 283% surplus rainfall, followed by Palamu 265% and Garhwa 217% from June 1 to June 17.Officials at Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that out of 24 districts, four recorded above 200% excess rain, 10 districts recorded above 100% surplus rain and 10 districts recorded normal rainfall during the period.“As per the current record, we can say Jharkhand has so far received highest rain this year between June 1 and June 17 as compared to past one decade. As per the current prediction, the incessant rainfall would continue at least for the next two days,” said Abhishek Anand, senior scientist at Ranchi IMD centre.He said a cyclonic circulation over East Uttar Pradesh and neighbourhood is causing good rain in north Jharkhand. Besides, a trough now runs from West Rajasthan to the Bay of Bengal across northwest Madhya Pradesh, southeast Uttar Pradesh, south Bihar, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal, which is also offering good rain across the state, he said. Amid the good monsoon rains, farmers of six districts, including Khunti, Gumla, Simdega and East Singhbhum, have started direct sowing of paddy crop. As per the record by the agriculture department, paddy used to be sown on 9,000 hectares of land. The state has set the target to grow paddy on 18 lakh hectares of land. Meanwhile, the state agriculture secretary Abu Bakr Siddique directed the officials to ensure 100% distribution of seeds among the farmers within a week. He also asked the officials to ensure the sale of fertilizers only through the e-PoS machine to curb black marketing.The rain caused damage to many bridges in the state. A bridge being built at the cost of ₹8.34 crore in the Panki block of Palamu district collapsed on Wednesday. Due to incessant rainfall, three sluice gates of the Tenughat dam were opened, which increased the water level in the Damodar river. People who live along the riverside have been asked not to go into the river..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-records-93-surplus-rain-in-june-101623947719138.html
17-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,143 fresh Covid cases, 13 deaths||Pune: As per the state health authorities, Pune district reported 1,143 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Thirteen Covid deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. Of the 13 deaths reported in the district on Thursday, eight were in Pune rural and five in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). No deaths were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 490,460 Covid cases and 7,949 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 247,858 cases and 2,342 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 301,791 total cases so far, and 5,529 deaths due to the virus. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,040,109 Covid cases. Of this, 1,005,220 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 16,002 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 18,887 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 5,890 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 5,685,636 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 95.64%. Across Maharashtra, 9,830 new cases were diagnosed on Thursday and 236 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.95%. The state health department stated out of 38,857,644 laboratory samples, 5,944,710 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 15.3% patients till Thursday. Currently, 850,663 people are in home quarantine and 4,964 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-143-fresh-covid-cases-13-deaths-101623947298417.html
17-06-2021||Other||Mumbai cops nab 3 from Madhubani in murder case||PATNAA Mumbai police team has arrested three persons from Madhubani district in connection with abduction and murder of a 23-year-old man whose body was found in a water tank in Maharashtra capital on June 6.According to police, the deceased, identified as Rajesh Mandal (23) from Bihar, was killed by his friend, who suspected him of having an illicit affair with his wife. Madhubani superintendent of police Dr Satyaprakash said a six-member team of Mumbai police reached here on Tuesday evening and sought assistance to nab the three culprits, which was provided to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-cops-nab-3-from-madhubani-in-murder-case-101623946520990.html
17-06-2021||Other||Teachers in dock yet to submit papers for verification, minister warns of action||PATNABihar’s education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary has warned that the teachers appointed between 2006 and 2015 upload their eligibility documents for verification on the online portal or be ready to face action, which could render their appointments illegal. The fresh deadline for uploading the scanned copies of documents is July 20.“If the teachers don’t upload the documents, it will be assumed they have nothing to say in this regard and due process will follow as per rules,” he said, adding that so far 1.25 lakh teachers had not provided their documents for verification despite repeated reminders.Earlier, Bihar’s vigilance investigation bureau’s (VIB) has expressed inability to complete its probe into the appointments even after over five years since the Patna High Court ordered the investigation. The VIB has cited education department’s failure to provide missing folders. The department, in turn, blamed non-cooperation by many recruiting agencies under the panchayati raj system. In January this year, the state government shifted the onus of document verification on teachers themselves.The HC bench of the then chief justice L Narasimha Reddy and justice Sudhir Singh, while ordering a vigilance probe in 2015, had observed: “The extent to which the candidates with fake certificates have been appointed as teachers in the past decade is a matter of deep concern. The state government has soft-pedalled the issue for the past one decade… We direct the director general, vigilance, to immediately swing into action and verify the genuineness of certificates of the teachers who have been appointed since 2006.”The court had also expressed displeasure over the delay in the completion of probe and even threatened action.“Despite repeated reminders form the education department and the probe agency, most teachers have not made the documents available. Now we are giving them one final chance to upload their documents, failing which it will be assumed they have nothing to say,” the minister said.Earlier, director (primary education) Ranjit Kumar Singh had written to all the district education officers (DEOs) and district programme officers (DPOs) about an alternative mechanism for verification of documents of teachers’ appointment made between 2006 and 2015, necessitated due to non-cooperation by many recruiting agencies under the panchayati raj system. “Prime facie, their appointment will be considered illegal and irregular and suitable action will be taken if the teachers don’t comply. They will be served show cause and their service will be terminated and the process initiated for recovery of salary drawn by them as per the provisions in the public demand recovery act,” said the letter from the director.The department has now decided to verify documents before issuing appointment letters to teachers. “The government is already in the process of appointing nearly 1.25 lakh teachers. Now, the effort is to monitor the recruitment process online through a system located centrally in Patna without diluting the role of PRIs and urban local bodies,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/teachers-in-dock-yet-to-submit-papers-for-verification-minister-warns-of-action-101623946520306.html
17-06-2021||Other||3,000 evacuated amid flood fears in north Bihar||BETTIAHAbout 3,000 people have been evacuated amid fears of flood in parts of East Champaran, Gopalganj and West Champaran districts in north Bihar, where water levels in rivers passing through the region kept rising ominously, officials said on Thursday.In East Champaran district, around 1,500 people from low-lying areas in Sangrampur and Kesariya blocks have been evacuated, followed by about 800 in Gopalganj district and about 250 in West Champaran. In East Champaran, major rivers like Gandak, Lalbakeya and Sikrahna continued to be in spate for a second day on Thursday, though no untoward incident was reported. “We have evacuated around 1,500 people from Sangrampur and Kesariya blocks. The water level is expected to rise further because of 4.12 cusecs of water was released from Valmikinagar barrage on Wednesday. We are alert,” said Shirshat Kapil Ashok, district magistrate, East Champaran. A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDFR) has been deployed at Sangrampur, he said. In Gopalganj district, a large number of villages in Baikunthpur, Gopalganj (Sadar), Barauli, Kuchaikote, Majha and Sidhawaliya blocks continued to reel under heavy waterlogging following incessant rainfall over the last 48 hours. “Around 800 people have been evacuated in Baikunthpur and Ahirauli Don areas of the district,” said Upendra Pal, subdivisional magistrate (SDM), Gopalganj.“Water level in Gandak has increased by 12-18 cm at places in the district. It could rise by another 8-12 cm, going by the discharge made from Valmikinagar barrage. We are expecting the water discharged to pass through district by Saturday afternoon,” said Dr. Naval Kishor Choudhary, Gopalganj’s district magistrate (DM). The administration has identified 16 to 18 sensitive spots on embankment over Gandak river in Gopalganj district. “We have intensified our patrolling of embankments. Teams of engineers and magistrates are keeping constant watch,” said the district magistrate. Two drones have also been pressed into service and three more could be deployed to keep a watch on the embankment, he said. A turbulent Gandak has breached embankment at Devapur village of Barauli block and Puraina village of Majha block of Gopalganj.In West Champaran, the district administration has evacuated around 300 people living in low-lying areas in Bhagawanpur panchayat in Nautan block, according to Vidhyanath Paswan, SDM, Bettiah.Several villages in West Champaran continue to be waterlogged following the heavy rainfall over the last 48 hours, though intensity was low on Thursday. “Water level in the rivers are receding, but vehicular movement on the Narkatiaganj-Lauriya stretch continues to be disrupted as water from Sikarahana river is flowing over the main road (near Ashokan pillar) near Lauriya,” said Sahila Heer, SDM, NarkatiaganjIn Muzaffarpur, the district administration said the situation was under control. “Water level in Bagamati is receding as there is no rainfall in its catchment. Yes, water level in the Gandak has risen but it’s below danger mark. No evacuation is required as of now,” said Dr Kundan Kumar, subdivisional magistrate (East), Muzaffarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3000-evacuated-amid-flood-fears-in-north-bihar-101623946519607.html
17-06-2021||Other||8 arrested for ₹1.19-cr bank heist, ₹93.19 lakh recovered||PATNAThe police on Thursday claimed to have cracked a series of recent robberies, including the sensational bank heist in which ₹1.19 crore was looted from an HDFC branch at Jadua in Vaishali district on June 10, with the arrest of eight persons, including two women, and seizure of ₹93.19 lakh from their possession, besides two countrymade pistols and 13 live cartridges.Additional director general (operations) S M Khopde said a joint team of special task force (STF) and Vaishali district police busted the gang of bank robbers after the arrest of kingpin Mohammad Armaan from Uttar Pradesh border while he was fleeing to New Delhi on a luxury bus. The STF recovered ₹26.67 lakh in cash, a firearm and 6 live cartridges from his possession.Police said the same gang first looted ₹1.8 lakh from the Bikrampur-Bande branch of Canara Bank on April 29 and then ₹7.75 lakh from Tajpur branch of SBI in Samastipur district on May 19. According to police, kingpin Armaan, a native of Muzaffapur, revealed names of his accomplices during interrogation, following which police teams carried out multiple raids in Vaishali and Muzaffarpur and arrested other suspects, including two women, one of them being the kingpin’s wife.Vaishali superintendent of police Maneesh Kumar said the probe revealed that the gang was planning to commit another bank robbery in north Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8-arrested-for-rs-1-19-cr-bank-heist-rs-93-19-lakh-recovered-101623946518895.html
17-06-2021||Other||Bihar overshot other states in single-day shots on June 16||PATNABihar achieved a small milestone on Wednesday when it not only recorded its highest ever single-day Covid-19 vaccinations, but also shot to top position in the country, at least for the day. Officials said more than 6.62 lakh doses were administered in the state on Wednesday, though the CoWIN portal, through which vaccination is monitored, recorded 5.03 lakh doses. Officials said some information on inoculations done on Wednesday was uploaded past midnight and this it reflected in Thursday’s vaccination figures. On Wednesday, Uttar Pradesh administered 3.64 lakh doses, Madhya Pradesh 3.38 lakh, Tamil Nadu 3.35 lakh and Maharashtra 2.34 lakh, as per the CoWIN dashboard.Bihar’s previous highest single-day vaccination was on April 10 when 3.60 lakh doses were administered to beneficiaries. The Centre had pulled up Bihar for its low vaccination in the past. Bihar is the second last state after Uttar Pradesh in terms of vaccination. It has inoculated around 18% of its 7.22 crore target population, most having been administered the first dose only so far. As many as 4.78 crore people in the 18-45 years age group and another 2.44 crore have to be vaccinated against coronavirus. State health officials, however, defended themselves, saying the supply of vaccines from the Centre was insufficient, which resulted in low vaccination coverage. Though supply of vaccines has increased every month since the national Covid-19 vaccination drive began on January 16, it dipped in May as compared to the vaccines made available in April, said officials. Bihar is scheduled to receive 36,47,230 doses of vaccines this month, of which it had already received 1,28,17,460 till Wednesday. Another 6 lakh doses of vaccine were scheduled to arrive, which would leave the state with a stock of 13 lakh doses of vaccine. Amid flood fears, Bihar is desperate to speed up its vaccination drive. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has already asked officials to complete inoculating the remaining six crore people in the next six months. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on 16 January this year. The vaccination of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) began from February 2. The second phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The third phase was rolled out from April 1. Executive director State Health Society, Bihar, Manoj Kumar, also the state’s nodal officer for vaccination, did not respond to phone calls or text message.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-overshot-other-states-in-single-day-shots-on-june-16-101623946518314.html
17-06-2021||Patna||Paras is new LJP chief, announces his faction; Paswan trashes move||PATNA: The bitter power struggle for control of Bihar’s Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) escalated on Thursday as the faction led by Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras was named the party chief by his faction in Patna while his nephew and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan’s faction rushed to the Election Commission in Delhi to stop Paras from using the LJP symbol and flag at their meetings.Chirag Paswan also declared that he has convened a meeting of the party’s national executive committee on Sunday, his counter to Paras who was said to have been unanimously elected the party’s national president by the national executive a few hours earlier. Paswan, according to news agency PTI, insisted that the meeting held in Patna was “unconstitutional” and lacked a quorum.The Paras faction of the party “removed” Chirag Paswan from the president’s post on Tuesday, and appointed a loyalist, Suraj Bhan Singh as working president. On Thursday, Singh announced that 68-year-old Paras was the party’s new president.“I will try to take the party forward by taking all sections of the society together,” Paras told reporters in Patna soon after his faction named him the new party chief.The crisis in the LJP began on Sunday, when five LJP Lok Sabha members replaced Chirag Paswan with Paras. On Monday, the Lok Sabha secretariat issued a notification recognising Paras as the parliamentary party chief.Paras blamed his nephew for the family feud. “When a nephew becomes dictator, what will the uncle do,” he said, rubbishing Paswan’s insistence earlier that he could not be removed as the party chief.Paras said nobody can be the party president for life in a democratic system. “The president has to be elected after a period. According to the constitution of our party, the president has to be elected every 2-3 years,” he said.Chirag Paswan’s last-minute move to convene a meeting of the national executive is seen as a show of strength to counter the perception that he, after losing control of the parliamentary party, had lost the support of the executive as well. A LJP leader said Paswan could also use the proceedings of the proposed meeting on Sunday to back up its case before the Election Commission.Patna high court lawyer Amit Shrivastava said as and when the dispute formally reaches the Election Commission, the panel would be guided by the LJP constitution.“The provisions and clauses in the LJP’s party constitution will be the determining factor in deciding whether any decision regarding appointment or termination of membership taken by the party top leaders is right or wrong, if any of the parties move court. The LJP is a recognised party by the Election Commission and is guided by the party constitution,” said Shrivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/paras-is-new-ljp-chief-announces-his-faction-paswan-trashes-move-101623945259560.html
17-06-2021||Lucknow||Two Rohingya Muslims held from Aligarh, cops suspect over 100 more living in UP||Two alleged Rohingya Muslims, residing in Uttar Pradesh illegally on fake identities, were arrested by UP Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) from Aligarh on Thursday, said senior ATS officials.The duo was residing at Maqdoomnagar locality in Aligarh, said officials claiming forged Indian identity cards were recovered from their possession.Expressing concern over illegal immigration of Rohingya Muslims, a senior ATS official said illegal immigrants from Myanmar are entering into the country through Bangladesh border illegally and had spread in different parts of the state as well as the country.He said the situation was alarming since they are managing to get Indian identity proofs with the help of Rohingya Muslims living here for past many years.Those arrested on Thursday were identified as Mohd Rafique and Mohd Ameen, both residents of Mangadu, Myanmar.He said the information about Rafique and Ameen was extracted from another Myanmar resident Noor Alam, who was arrested from Ghaziabad on June 8.Noor Alam, who was living in UP illegally on fake Indian identity, was arrested on the basis of information revealed by his brother-in-law Azizullah, who was residing in UP with Indian identity nearly for past 18 years. Azizullah was arrested from Sant Kabir Nagar on January 6 earlier this year.‘Over 100 Rohingya living in UP’A senior police official privy to the investigation said that over 100 Rohingya Muslims are suspected to be residing in Uttar Pradesh illegally on Indian identity as per the information extracted from Noor Alam and Amir Hussain, who were rigorously interrogated by UP ATS during five days police custody remand earlier this week.He said Noor Alam revealed that Azizullah had formed a nexus in the state while staying here for past many years and helped over hundred Rohingya Muslims get fake Indian identity proofs, including voter IDs, Aadhar cards, driving license etc. He said these people had settled down in different parts of the state, mainly in the West UP districts, after procuring fake identity proofs.He said Noor Alam had shared details of some more Rohingya on the basis of which search operation are being carried out in different districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/two-rohingya-muslims-held-from-aligarh-cops-suspect-over-100-more-living-in-up-101623945138180.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 cases fall to 9,830 as tally tops 5.94 million; Mumbai sees 660 fresh infections||With 9,830 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) being detected in Maharashtra on Thursday, the state’s tally reached 5,944,710, data from the government showed. Also, 236 people succumbed to the infection on the day. So far, 116,026 people have lost their lives to the disease in the state. As many as 400 new deaths were reconciled to the state’s death toll on the day.The capital city of Mumbai reported 660 new infections and 20 more deaths taking the city’s cases tally to 717,832 and the death toll rose to 15,247. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), in its bulletin, said that 29,309 samples were tested in the city and in total 6,723,219 tests have been conducted so far. The recovery rate in the country’s financial capital reached 95% and there are 18 active containment zones within the city.Also read | How Delta variant of Covid-19 is now wreaking havoc across the worldThe cumulative recoveries in the state reached 5,685,636 as 5,890 more patients were discharged on the day.Meanwhile, medical workers in the state tested 216,005 new samples in the last 24 hours. Cumulative test coverage in the state climbed to 38,857,644 on the day, the data showed.Among other major cities, Nagpur reported 74 new Covid-19 cases and two more fatalities. As many as 8,201 samples were tested in the city and 232 people also recovered on the day. Meanwhile Nashik reported 158 new cases and four deaths, news agency PTI reported citing a government official. While 9,737 samples were tested in the city, 163 patients were discharged from hospitals, the report also showed.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said that Maharashtra had 139,744 active cases of the disease, the second highest among all states in the country. Karnataka with 151,587 active cases was the worst affected state, according to the ministry’s data. Also, data from the ministry showed that 26,719,817 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to eligible beneficiaries in the state as of 7am on Thursday. This included 21,391,791 first doses and 5,328,026 second doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-daily-covid-19-cases-fall-to-9-830-as-tally-tops-5-94-million-mumbai-sees-660-fresh-infections-101623943886226.html
17-06-2021||Pune||Second special drive for Pune residents going abroad gets good response||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) three-day special vaccination drive at Kamala Nehru hospital has so far seen 167 people, including students and working professionals who are going abroad, take the second dose of Covishield. The June 16-June 18 drive was conducted by PMC following the central government’s recommendations to reduce the gap between the first and second dose from current 84 days to less than 84, but more than 28 days for those wanting to travel out of India. In the first special drive conducted on June 5, 1,314 students were vaccinated for the first dose. PMC has inoculated 1,459 students for the first dose so far. On Thursday, 77 people took the jab. The students can drop email on studentvaccination.pune@gmail.com to get them enrolled for the inoculation. The drive will conclude on Friday. “The drive has received good response from beneficiaries. PMC has decided to keep every Wednesday drive at at Kamla Nehru hospital reserved for those going abroad,” said Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner PMC. “On day one of the drive, 90 people took a second dose of Covishield jab of which 20 were travelling abroad for work purposes and 70 for education. Eighty students came for the first dose,” said a senior civic official. Devika Patel, who got admission to University of Texas, said, “I will take my first dose of vaccination tomorrow. I hope PMC conducts a third such drive as well so I can get my second dose before going to Texas on August 15.” Student and working professional beneficiaries of second dose (Covishield, after 28 days) are 108 and 59 respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/second-special-drive-for-pune-residents-going-abroad-gets-good-response-101623944839275.html
17-06-2021||Lucknow||BSP a banyan tree, won’t wilt, says Maya’s nephew Akash||Akash Anand, nephew of party president Mayawati, is fast emerging as the youth face of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).Appointed national coordinator of the BSP in 2019, Akash, 26, had been managing party affairs in various states after the party broke ties with the Samajwadi Party.With the BSP chief launching fresh attack on the Samajwadi Party over engineering split in the party, Akash, in a tweet on Thursday, said, the BSP was not a plant that had grown in a pot and will dry up if water was not given for a while.“In fact, BSP is a banyan tree, if one branch of which is cut, thousands of other branches grow on their own,” he said.Reminding the people of the development and welfare schemes launched by the BSP government in Uttar Pradesh, he said criminals were put behind the bar, the officers used to be present in their office on time, they also used to visit the villages to review the progress of the development projects.“Good governance had become synonymous with Mayawati,” he said.Insisting that the BSP is with the farmers, Akash reminded how Mayawati had been urging Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the three farm laws. “The farmers have also realized that BSP is their only well-wisher party,” he said. In a separate tweet, he called upon the youths to work with missionary zeal to bring the BSP to power again.“It is the duty of the youths in the party to accomplish the mission of the party,” he said while urging other to join him.Welcoming the alliance of the BSP with Shiromani Akali Dal for Punjab assembly election, he urged the party workers to work hard for the victory of the alliance in the 2022 assembly election.The party workers should support the alliance whole heartedly by joining the election campaign with the alliance partner, he said.He had campaigned for the BSP-SP alliance in the 2019 Lok Sabha election.However, after the defeat of the alliance, he had been maintaining low profile.While Mayawati and national general secretary Satish Chandra Mishra can be seen managing the party affairs, many insist, Akash is working from behind the curtains.“It is he who finalizes the meetings with alliance partners, collects feedback from office-bearers and reviews the meetings organised by the zonal coordinators in various districts. He is present in the meetings of the party leaders organised under the chairmanship of Mayawati,” said a BSP leader. An MBA from a prestigious institute in London, Akash is assisting the party national president in drawing the election campaign strategy for the assembly election.During 2019 Lok Sabha elections, he campaigned for the BSP and had addressed joint rallies with SP chief Akhilesh Yadav.To thwart the challenge posed by Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, the BSP had projected Akash as the youth face of the party, the BSP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-a-banyan-tree-won-t-wilt-says-maya-s-nephew-akash-101623944838662.html
17-06-2021||Other||Monsoon makes its presence felt in Pune on Thursday; more rain forecast for Friday||PUNE Shivajinagar, on Thursday, reported 13.6 mm of rainfall and Lohegaon reported 9.6 mm, as the monsoon finally made its presence felt in the city. With cloudy skies and a day filled with rain, the maximum temperature saw a drop to 27.8 degrees Celsius, 3.1 degrees cooler than normal temperature forecast. The minimum temperature also saw a decrease to 21.3 degrees Celsius, 1.6 degrees cooler than normal.The monsoon had not yet begun in full force, with a spattering of rainfall so far. However, on Thursday, it rained. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that the ghat areas will continue to witness isolated heavy rainfall on June 18 as well. The Southwest Monsoon is now active in Madhya (central) Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa. In Vidarbha and Marathwada the southwest monsoon is not active, said IMD officials.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune, said that westerlies are strong as of Thursday and the upper air has depth.“In Konkan and Goa, after June 19, isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is forecast. In Pune city and Pune district, there is cloud concentration. Due to orography, we may receive see cloudy skies and rainfall of a moderate level. Pune may get rainfall on June 19 as well,” said Kashyapi.He added that in lowland areas there may be water logging and roads may get slippery due to rainfall. As per IMD, the Northern Limit of Monsoon (NLM) continues to pass through Diu, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhopal, Nowgong, Hamirpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Saharanpur, Ambala and Amritsar. “Due to large scale atmospheric conditions, conditions are not favourable for further advance of monsoon in Rajasthan, remaining parts Punjab, Haryana and Delhi. However, there could be slow progress into some more parts of Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh till June 21,” said IMD officials||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monsoon-makes-its-presence-felt-in-pune-on-thursday-more-rain-forecast-for-friday-101623944778219.html
17-06-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow’s Janeshwar Misra Park to get toy train||Soon, visitors to the Janeshwar Misra Park will also be able to enjoy a toy train ride and laser show at Asia’s biggest park.At the fifth board meeting of the Janeshwar Misra Park on Thursday it was decided to start toy-train service in the park.Commissioner Ranjan Kumar, LDA vice chairman Abhishek Prakash and other board members were present.A budget of ₹11.70 crore for maintenance, security, management and other heads was approved at the meeting. Commissioner informed that the union government will make available the train free of cost. It was also decided at the meeting that soon a laser show will also start at the park. The board members also took the decision to plant 20,000 saplings in the park. Out of this, 15,000 will be fruit-bearing saplings. As the park is spread into 376 acres, it was decided in the meeting to divide it into two parts for better management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknows-janeshwar-misra-park-to-get-toy-train-101623944481234.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC dismisses plea for gangster Jaipal Bhullar’s second autopsy||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday dismissed a plea from the father of slain gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar for conducting his second autopsy. Wanted in the region for a number of crimes, Bhullar was killed in an encounter in Kolkata on June 9.His father, Bhupinder Singh, a retired police inspector, had demanded that Bhullar’s autopsy be conducted again, either at the PGIMER Chandigarh; AIIMS, Delhi; or some independent medical institute, to the know the exact details and nature of the injuries caused to him. The first postmortem was conducted at Kolkata. The father had claimed that Bhullar was killed in a fake encounter, which according to him was substantiated from the injuries that were noticed on his son’s dead body.The bench of justice Manjari Nehru Kaul dismissed the plea observing that it was not maintainable before this court. It said that in view of the fact that the first postmortem was conducted in Kolkata, it would be beyond the jurisdiction of this court to issue any directions. Bhupinder Singh’s counsel had also argued that as the dead body was lying at Ferozepur, the jurisdiction of this court could be invoked. However, court was of the view that one cannot lose sight of the fact that the plea impugnes the first postmortem, which was conducted at Kolkata, beyond the jurisdiction of this court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-dismisses-plea-for-gangster-jaipal-bhullar-s-second-autopsy-101623944418607.html
17-06-2021||Pune||Rural police plan to ban entry at tourist spots on weekend||Pune: The huge crowd observed at tourist spots across Pune district last weekend has forced rural Pune police to plan imposing a ban on tourist entry for this weekend. “We are awaiting the district collector’s approval to our tourist ban proposal,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of police, Pune rural. On June 12 and June 13, places like Lonavla, Khandala, Mulshi dam, Khadakwasla dam and Sinhgad fort saw huge footfalls that needed the intervention of police to control the crowd. “Owing to the overcrowd last weekend, we have asked for additional police bandobast for the weekend at Khadakwasla dam and Sinhgad fort. Weekday visits are lean,” said Sadashiv Shelar, inspector, Haveli police. “Last weekend, visitors climbed the Sinhgad fort even as eateries were closed. We plan to disallow it this weekend,” Shelar said. “Tourists will be sent back from entry points of the hill station. On Saturday and Sunday, additional check posts will be placed to control the rush,” said Dilip Pawar, senior inspector incharge of Lonavla police. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh did not respond to calls or texts. The Bhor administration has banned trekking activities in the taluka. “As Covid cases have gone up in the area, allowing outsiders may spread the infection again,” said Ajit Patil, Bhor tehsildar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rural-police-plan-to-ban-entry-at-tourist-spots-on-weekend-101623943517997.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||‘Delhi has sufficient stock of vaccines’: AAP leader Atishi on Covid-19 vaccination drive||Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi on Thursday said that Delhi has sufficient stocks of Covid-19 vaccines for more than a week to immunise beneficiaries in the 18 to 44 age group and also for those above 45 years of age, news agency PTI reported.As of June 17, there are 744,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines in stock for inoculating healthcare workers (HCW), front line workers (FLW) and people above 45 years of age, the Covid vaccination bulletin from the Delhi government showed. This includes 640,000 doses of Covishield and 104,000 doses of Covaxin, the bulletin also showed. With this availability, Covishield would last for 42 days and Covaxin would be enough for seven days, the data showed.Delhi’s Vaccination Bulletin for 17th June. pic.twitter.com/wGOW8qsirRMeanwhile, as of the same date, 234,000 doses of the vaccine, including 174,000 Covishield doses and 60,000 Covaxin doses, are available for the 18 to 44 population, according to data from the bulletin. Also, for this age group, Covishield doses would last for 10 more days while Covaxin would be enough for six more days, the data also showed.“So for the 45-plus category, we have enough stock of Covaxin and Covishield to last for seven days and 42 days respectively. For the 18-44 category, six days and 10 days worth of Covaxin and Covishield stock is available respectively,” PTI quoted Atishi as saying. “As on today, Delhi has sufficient stock of vaccines,” she also said.Also read | Delhi saw 158 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate drops to 0.20%Atishi, the AAP MLA from Kalkaji said that many young people have registered themselves on the CoWIN platform to receive the vaccine after the drive was resumed for people in the 18 to 44 age group. “We hope all the people in the 45-plus category who haven't got vaccinated yet, will get the jab now,” she further said. “There are now over 15 lakh people who have taken both doses of the vaccines. More number of people getting themselves completely vaccinated ensures their safety against COVID-19 as well as the safety of the rest of Delhi as it prevents the infection from spreading,” she added.Earlier on Thursday, the health department’s bulletin on Covid-19 showed that 54,912 beneficiaries received a dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in the last 24 hours. As many as 36,413 people received their first dose and 18,499 people received their second. So far, 6,256,344 people have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the national capital, according to the latest data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-has-sufficient-stock-of-vaccines-aap-leader-atishi-on-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101623940837556.html
17-06-2021||Kolkata||‘Wrote thrice to PM seeking Governor's withdrawal’: Mamata on Jagdeep Dhankhar||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that she wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on three occasions to relieve West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar from the post of the state’s governor.“A child can be cajoled into silence but not an elderly man. In this case, speech is silver; silence is golden,” Mamata Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Banerjee said that the state government was not consulted during the appointment of Dhankhar in 2019. She further said that she cannot comment on reports of him being removed. “How do I know? When a governor is appointed, the state government is consulted. That was not done in this case. I have written twice or thrice to the Prime Minister seeking his withdrawal from the state,” Mamata said.The chief minister has shared a strained relationship with Bengal governor Dhankhar since his appointment and her party has often accused the governor of acting as a mouthpiece of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on multiple occasions. Dhankhar has continually alleged that the TMC was involved in retributive post-poll violence in Bengal and claimed that several BJP workers have lost their lives due to the violence. Mamata on Thursday called the governor ‘Centre’s man’.State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the chief minister has no respect for the Constitution in response to her comments. “The governor is doing the right thing, and that is why the TMC dispensation does not like it. The Centre appoints him, and it is obvious that he has to report various developments to the Union government,” Dilip Ghosh said.Jagdeep Dhankhar met Union ministers Prahlad Joshi and Prahlad Singh Patel on Wednesday. He also met with President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan and is scheduled to meet home minister Amit Shah as well.Several TMC leaders, including MP Mahua Moitra, asked the governor not to return to the state. “Uncle Ji is going to Delhi on June 15, he says. Do us a favour WB Governor Sahib - don't come back,” the Lok Sabha MP said via a tweet.Sougata Ray said that the governor has violated every constitutional norm. “According to our Constitution, the governor is supposed to act as per the instructions of the council of ministers headed by the chief minister. But he doesn't follow any such norm and acts as per his whims and fancies,” Ray said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/wrote-thrice-to-pm-seeking-governor-s-withdrawal-mamata-on-jagdeep-dhankhar-101623940874723.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Coast Guard rescues crew of sinking ship off Mumbai coast||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) on Thursday rescued 16 crew members after a merchant vessel barge went aground amid rough weather off the coast of Mumbai, the ICG said in a statement. The ship was sinking three km away from Revdanda jetty.Following a distress message from a barge merchant vessel called Mangalam, two Chetak helicopters were launched from Daman and one ship took off from the Murud Janjira Fort in Mumbai led by the ICG to rescue stranded members.“In a daredevil sea-air coordinated operation in inclement weather and rough sea conditions, ICG's two Chetak Helicopters ex-Daman & ship Subhadra Kumari Chauhan rescued 16 crew from barge merchant vessel Mangalam reported aground off Revdanda in Mumbai today,” the ICG said in tweet.The ICG ship Subhadra Kumari Chauhan sailed out from Dighi for rescue operation while two ICG helicopters were also launched from its air station in Daman.“ICGS Subhadra Kumari Chauhan arrived in the vicinity of the distressed vessel at about 10.15 hrs. Moreover, CG helicopters also arrived at the location and commenced winching of the crew against the weather,” ICG further added.The 16 crew members were taken to Revdanda.(with inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coast-guard-rescues-crew-of-sinking-ship-off-mumbai-coast-101623936852155.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||AIIMS resumes routine inpatient admissions and elective surgeries||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, on Thursday announced it has resumed routine inpatient admissions and elective surgeries at its general and private wards, and in all centres, with immediate effect.“In view of the decreased need of hospitalisation of Covid-19 patients, and also considering the relaxation of total curfew announced by the Delhi government, it has been decided that routine inpatient admissions, including elective surgeries in general as well as private wards in AIIMS Hospital and all its centres, be resumed with immediate effect,” an order, issued by the AIIMS medical superintendent on June 16, stated.Earlier, on June 15, AIIMS authorities issued an order directing resumption of outpatient department (OPD) services in a phased manner latest by June 18, almost two months after these were suspended. The order directed all clinical departments to provide a proposed number of new and follow-up OPD patients daily who are to be given online or telephonic appointments.Also Read: AIIMS Delhi to resume outpatient services from June 18 in phased mannerIt further stated that for now, OPD registration will be allowed only for patients with online or telephonic appointments, adding that a decision to allow walk-in registrations will be taken after reviewing the current Covid-19 situation.On Thursday, Delhi recorded 158 new Covid-19 cases along with a daily death toll of 10, according to a bulletin from the health department. The city also saw an addition of 343 discharges, the bulletin showed. Delhi’s cumulative positive cases stand at 1,431,868, including 1,404,428 recoveries, 24,886 deaths and 2554 active cases.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-resumes-routine-inpatient-admissions-and-elective-surgeries-101623934758170.html
17-06-2021||Kolkata||Centre trying to bulldoze Twitter, my govt as it failed to control them: Mamata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over its allegations of post-poll violence in the state and the Centre’s efforts “to control” Twitter. She dismissed allegations of political violence in the state as BJP’s gimmicks while saying the Centre was trying to bulldoze Twitter after failing to control it. The government and Twitter have faced off over the new guidelines that require digital companies to change how they regulate content, appoint nodal officers for compliance and grievance redressal, and adopt features such as traceability of messages and voluntary user verification. There have also been disagreements over the government’s orders to Twitter to take down posts. Twitter has also raised concerns regarding the safety of its employees in the country and police intimidation.Also Read | Centre removes Mukul Roy’s Z-category VIP security coverBanerjee said the Centre cannot also control her and hence also wants to bulldoze her government and the Trinamool Congress (TMC)...”“It is unfortunate. One day there will be an end to this.”The BJP and TMC have been continued to target each other since Banerjee swept back to power last month after a bitter campaign during the assembly polls in March and April. West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and BJP leaders have been attacking TMC over the alleged post-poll violence.Banerjee insisted there is no political violence. “It is BJP’s gimmick. There is no atmosphere of violence that they (BJP) are trying to create. We do not support violence and if there are one or two sporadic incidents, strong action is taken,” said Banerjee. “These are all pre-planned incidents. BJP is not ashamed of the humiliating defeat and is sending central agencies. This is their habit. Soon after the election results were declared and law and order were still with the ECI (Election Commission of India), there were some incidents. But not all were political and there were some incidents of personal enmity,” she added.BJP leaders insisted even though incidents of post-poll violence have come down after the Calcutta high court’s intervention, but they are still continuing. “There is hardly any law and order in West Bengal. After the court intervened, the scale of post-poll violence may have reduced but it is still going on. Some of our workers, who abandoned their houses and fled, are now returning. But still, a few thousand workers have not been able to return home because of violence,” said state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh.Dhankhar, who is on a three-day visit to Delhi, was scheduled to meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday evening. On June 15, Suvendu Adhikari, BJP leader and leader of the opposition, met Dhankhar before the governor slammed the state administration over the alleged post-poll violence. He also wrote to Banerjee the same day saying the state was witnessing the worst form of post-poll violence after Independence.Banerjee was dismissive about Dhankhar’s meetings, saying he may meet anybody. “You can scold a child to stop him...He (Dhankhar) is their (BJP) man.”Ghosh questioned what the harm is if as governor, he meets the President, Prime Minister and Union home minister. “Why he met them and what was discussed is up to them. It is his duty to report to the Centre. TMC is suffering from a mental problem which aggravates whenever they see the governor,” said Ghosh..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-trying-to-bulldoze-twitter-my-govt-as-it-failed-to-control-them-mamata-101623934097857.html
17-06-2021||Other||Man arrested for killing wife, son in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar||A 28-year-old alcoholic man allegedly stabbed his wife and son to death before dumping their bodies in a well in Rajasthan’s Jhalawar on Wednesday, police said on Thursday.Bannalal Chaudhary, a local police officer, said the couple was estranged and that the man’s wife and son lived with his in-laws. He added the man took his 25-year-old wife and 13-year-old son to their agricultural fields and killed them there on Wednesday before dumping their bodies there in the well. Also Read | Mumbai police crime branch team arrests 3 murder accused from Bihar’s MadhubaniThe accused fled the crime scene before he was arrested and booked for murder under the Indian Penal Code’s Section 302 on Thursday.Police said they were interrogating the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-killing-wife-son-in-rajasthan-s-jhalawar-101623933497585.html
17-06-2021||Other||71 arrests in June mark drive against illicit liquor in Haryana’s Kaithal||As many as 71 people have been arrested this month, three of them on Wednesday, for selling liquor illegally in different villages of Kaithal district of Haryana. These arrests followed a special drive launched against bootleggers in the district on June 1.The police have also recovered 5,994 bottles of illicit liquor from their possession.According to Kaithal superintendent of police, Lokender Singh, 67 cases have been registered under Sections 61,1 and14 of the Excise Act in the various police stations of the district and 68 people have been arrested.Police officials associated with the raids said illegal liquor remains a major problem in the Kaithal region and people were also involved in manufacturing liquor as they also seized 2,045 litres of raw material during the raids and it was destroyed on the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/71-arrests-in-june-mark-drive-against-illicit-liquor-in-haryana-s-kaithal-101623933077611.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Pet care amid Covid scare: Challenges and the road ahead||The fierce second wave of Covid-19 saw a sharp spike in cases, impacting many more people than the first wave. The constant fear of contracting the virus, curbs restricting outdoor movement and a work-life balance that’s gone for a toss – all these factors increased irritability and anxiety among many individuals. However, the ill-effects of the pandemic aren’t just limited to humans but have also led to many challenges for our four-legged friends.“Since April first week, I haven’t been able to take my dog for a walk which was routine for him for years. It isn’t easy for him to adjust to this new life, where almost all of his time is spent indoors. There is a palpable change in his behaviour but I don’t think we can do much about it. My father had contracted the virus in May, and it was a very tough phase. Luckily other family members have managed to stay safe from the virus so far, but we don’t want to take any risk. We are trying to avoid going out as much as possible,” says Kriti Gupta, 42, a homemaker from Noida.Amit Thakur, a certified dog walker from New Delhi, agrees that there has been a significant decline in demand for his services and most pet parents have safety concerns that often make them override the essential needs of their pets. “Most people don’t want to let us in their homes or take their dogs for walk, as they think that any outsider can be a carrier of the virus. But one has to understand that this virus is going to remain for quite some time, and one shouldn’t compromise with the needs of their pets. A walk is quite an important activity for a dog, and they wait for that throughout the day. Putting it completely on hold may impact their well-being,” says Thakur, adding, “Agar logon ko khud baahar jaane mein dikkat hai to wo professional dog walkers ki help le sakte hain. We are following all precautions.”The challenges have only intensified for those individuals who had got their first pet in recent months. Even as they were adapting to the new responsibilities, the pandemic-induced changes caught them completely off-guard. Sharing her experience, Swadha Jaiswal, 29, a freelance academician from Delhi says, “We got a German Shepherd pup in February first week. He is our first pet and has brought so much happiness into our lives. Every pet requires a lot of vaccines in their initial months of growing up and this pandemic has made it so difficult. In May we had to miss his vaccination schedule as we were both down with Covid. Now our veterinarian has said the whole cycle of that medicine has to be repeated again, as we can’t have such long gap in the booster dose.”And even though pet care and veterinary centres remained open during the lockdown — as part of essential services — most of them catered to only essential requirements. Akshay Mahendru, 35, owner of Pet Point, New Delhi, that provides pet grooming facilities, boarding options as well as veterinary solutions, says, “Being part of the essential services, our centre wasn’t closed, but yes, given the enormity of the second wave of Covid-19, we had heightened our precautions. We do not entertain walk-ins and only important services are available on appointment basis. As vaccination of pets, deworming etc are important services, hence we continued to provide these. Parents accompanying their pets aren’t allowed beyond a specific point to ensure social distancing and masks have been mandatory for long.”Also read: Ratan Tata helps paralysed dog find a forever homeTalking of how it impacted their services, he adds, “Start of the summer is when most pets come for grooming; however, given the Covid scare we are only able to serve those for whom it’s medically important. We are only providing essential services for now but wish for things to get back to normal soon, so that we can start serving our four-legged friends with complete efficiency.”Elaborating on the challenges of the new normal, New Delhi-based veterinarian Dr Abhay Triguna, 51, says, “While our clinics remained operational, it was a challenge for many pet parents to come to us as many policemen aren’t well sensitised about the need of pets and why even a vet visit is very important. Moreover, unlike super-speciality hospitals, most veterinary clinics in the country don’t have large waiting areas. In the dimensions that they function, maintaining social distancing is a challenge. Yet, every veterinarian did their best to serve during the pandemic. We would take the history of pet parents too and ask them if they have any symptoms of Covid.”He further shares that pandemic-induced precautions are still being followed and they are avoiding routine surgeries at the moment. “What’s important is being done but if something can be delayed without aggravating the problem, then that’s also an option. Telephonic consultation is also available for the issues that don’t require a physical examination,” he adds.While the pandemic situation seems to be improving now, experts have warned of a third wave, urging people to not be complacent about Covid-19. So, how does one ensure good care of their pets without comprising with one’s own health and safety? Dr Sanjeev Kumar, 34, from Panacea clinic, New Delhi, shares, “We have to strike a balance between ensuring our safety and well-being of our pets. Dogs are sensitive to sanitisers and using them in spray form may impact their lungs, hence that should be avoided. Also, if one is taking them for a walk outside the house, make sure to wash and clean their legs before getting them inside. If someone in the family has Covid-19, ensure that the pets too – dogs or cats – maintain same distance from them as you do. Following precautions may help us all sail through these trying times.”Author tweets: @kediashish||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/pet-care-amid-covid-scare-challenges-and-the-road-ahead-101623932119325.html
17-06-2021||Lucknow||UP receives light rains, thundershowers; similar forecast for tomorrow||Light to moderate rains along with thundershowers lashed few places in eastern Uttar Pradesh and at isolated places over western parts of the state in the last 24 hours, the Met office said here on Thursday.Some parts of eastern UP recorded heavy rains, the officials said.Rainfall was reported from Trimohanighat (Maharajganj), Dudhi (Sonbhadra), Dhaurahara (Kheri), Ghazipur, Salempur (Deoria), Mohammedabad (Ghazipur), Hata (Kushinagar), Chandauli, Turtipar (Ballia) and Rajghat (Varanasi), they said.Day temperatures rose appreciably in Varanasi, Ayodhya, Lucknow, Bareilly divisions while the mercury came down in Moradabad, Agra and Meerut divisions, they said.The temperatures were markedly below normal in Gorakhpur, Varanasi divisions; appreciably below normal in Ayodhya, Prayagraj, Bareilly, Moradabad, Jhansi, Agra, Meerut divisions; below normal in Lucknow division and normal elsewhere.The Met office forecast that rain/thundershowers are very likely on Friday at many places over eastern UP and in isolated parts of western UP.They warned that thunderstorm accompanied with lightning is very likely at isolated places while heavy to very heavy rain is very likely at some places in eastern parts on Friday.Thunderstorm accompanied with lightning and gusty winds (30-40 kmph) is very likely at isolated places over western UP on Friday.Rain/thundershowers are very likely at many places over eastern UP and at isolated places over western UP on Saturday and Sunday, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-receives-light-rains-thundershowers-similar-forecast-for-tomorrow-101623930429142.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Homebound in pandemic, extrovert turns homebody||Coronavirus has brought life, as we knew it, to a standstill and the phrase, twiddling your thumbs, has taken on a whole new significance. Today, confined to the house, I can vouch for its popularity and success because it has come to play an important role in passing the interminable hours between rising in the morning and going to bed at night.During the day, you are likely to come across me staring into space in a state of solitude induced numbness, attempting to induce my lethargic brain into a state of meditation, as advised with nauseating regularity on television and newspapers. I am unable to decode the convoluted and inscrutable expressions like, become one with one’s self and plumb your inner worth, because try as I may, I have arrived at the conclusion that I am not made to be a Solitary Reaper. To bloom and thrive, I need a garden full of company.I have this recurring image where I probably make a complete spectacle of myself, babble incoherently and fall hysterically on the shoulders of family and friends, one by one, once this nightmare of a lockdown is over but it will be one outburst to cherish.Incarcerated in our houses, as with all inmates in similar circumstances elsewhere, things are coming to a head. My dubious energies, having no other outlet are getting focused on the family and they are not a little displeased by this new avatar I have metamorphosed into.The gardener avoids me, shrinking into the bushes and is suddenly tone deaf to my shouts. He looks at me warily, taken aback, while I pace the garden, inspecting flower beds and pointing out the weeds with the fervour of the military and also now question him on his daily output. He obviously preferred me only complimenting his efforts on the foliage and resents my remarks on his idle loitering and numerous tea breaks.The helps in the kitchen are at their wits’ end because of my new interest in the mysterious depths of the refrigerator from where I unearth forgotten jars and boxes of leftovers. I interrogate them on the whereabouts of old utensils, and forgotten crockery which come to mind now that I am homebound. I am at loggerheads with them constantly while they mutter to each other, probably also ruing the day Covid made us all a part of a lockdown and transformed me into a nit-picking shrew.My children, working from home, are tearing their hair out because they find me constantly knocking or peering into their rooms, commenting on the disarray and mess, offering and cajoling with a tray of fruit or juice in hand. “Mom, you cannot just barge in like that with your questions, I am in a meeting,” is the exasperated refrain. They haven’t seen their mother so domesticated in quite a while.Husband dear is the only one gloating. The lockdown has managed to achieve what he never could. pallavisingh358@gmail.comThe writer is a Jalandhar-based freelance contributor||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/homebound-in-pandemic-extrovert-turns-homebody-101623929717540.html
17-06-2021||Pune||Taste of life: Bulk-buying set-up rescues kitchen at Poona’s “Fever Hall”||When Dr Phillipe Gousse, a Scottish doctor, was asked to move to King George’s War Hospital in Poona from Bangalore, in August 1917, the First World War was nearing its end. The Great War had not reached the shores of India and he expected to go back to Europe in a couple of years. He was a “camp-follower” – a slightly derogatory term used for doctors of the Royal Army Medical Corps (RAMC), whose job it was to tend to wounded soldiers, and look after the sanitation of camps.Gousse and five other doctors from the RAMC rented a bungalow, known locally as the “Fever Hall”, next to the Empress Gardens, from a Parsi race-horse owner. The hospital still had no patients in it. The inhabitants of Fever Hall had employed a butler who was paid a fixed sum per head. It was left to him to feed them, engage and pay a cook, and supply everything down to wood for the kitchen fire and oil for the lamps. This arrangement, which sounded simple, was supposed to save the doctors from all the worries of housekeeping. What actually happened was that the butler underpaid the cook, bought the very cheapest meat, and smothered it in strong curry powder. “It is curry for breakfast, curry for lunch and curry for dinner, and bellyache all night”, wrote Gousse in his diary.So Gousse sacked both the butler and the cook, and engaged a new butler, Wharri Ahmed, a dignified gentleman with a flowing black beard, and a “Goanese” cook. The cook wore a “topee” on his head so that he could claim to be of European descent. His name was Manuel Joao Domingo Francisco de Xavier Jesus de Gama.Every morning Wharri and Gousse discussed the day’s bill of fare. It was a tiresome and irritating proceeding, “for there was not only the language difficulty, but the utterly incomprehensible oriental mind of Wharri, and to Wharri, no doubt, my own equally inscrutable occidental one”, wrote Gousse. Anyhow, the new system worked well for a time and the doctors got somewhat tasty European food, properly cooked by Manuel de Gama.There were, however, drawbacks to this method. It was annoying to have to order daily small amounts of everything and check the cost of each item in Wharri’s account, and there was also the expense. Gousse wrote in his diary – “Wharri’s daily household accounts cover the whole one side of a sheet of foolscap paper, and contains thirty-two separate items with the price of each. When it is remembered that the Indian rupee was worth one shilling and six pence, an anna one penny and a pie about a third of a farthing, the reader of these lines, will appreciate the trouble I had brought upon myself”.“Here are a few entries as a sample of the rest, in the order in which Wharri wrote them down: Soopa – 3 annas, Underpart Beef – 8 annas, Kiddney – 2 annas, New green stuff – 9 pies, Frut – 4 annas, passly and salry – 6 pies, oranges – 5 annas, curry stuff – 2 annas, cocknut – 2 annas, munkeynut – 1 anna, char col – 1 anna, 6 pies, firewood – 12 annas, oil 2 bottles – 4 annas, 6 pies, coolis – 6 annas”.Wharri also received an infinitesimal commission from the vendor at the bazaar, where he spent his mornings shopping and bargaining. Wearied of this retail way of housekeeping, Gousse decided to step in. Instead of buying a day’s supply of firewood at a time for the cook’s fire for twelve annas and paying two “coolies” six annas to bring it to the bungalow from the bazaar, he purchased a whole bullock-cart load of firewood for twelve rupees and paid twelve annas for having it brought up. “In the old way this firewood would have cost us fifteen rupees and about six rupees for the coolies who brought a little quantity each day”, Gousse wrote.From then on, everything was purchased in the same way, even things which they used in small quantities daily, such as charcoal, salt, and curry powder. Under the new regime, Gousse bought all the necessary articles in bulk, kept them locked up, and served out what was wanted each morning. This method was troublesome too, but much less so than the daily wrangling over each account, and their household expenses fell by nearly 50 per cent.The Australian nurses employed in the Camp and the hospital soon learned about Gousse’s modus operandi and decided to buy groceries in bulk.Europeans living in British India often found themselves in similar situations. The Raj had introduced a completely new style of kitchen to India, with upright stoves and shelves, benches, sinks. The cook had to learn to work at the bench to chop vegetables and meats. The butler had to learn English in order to understand what the memsahib wanted for lunch. They both had to struggle with the European dishes and their ingredients.In the eyes of both the European memsahib and her Indian butler, “Europe articles” held great prestige. These were available at the local “Europe shop”, of which there was one in almost every army station. To help the memsahib (and her butler), Raj-era cookbooks and domestic manuals often contained a “Bazaar list”. This list was meant to help with the purchases. It contained names of common ingredients and their prices. There were separate lists for bazaars in Bombay, Calcutta, Madras, Bangalore, and Deolali.I have found only a couple of cookbooks that had the “Bazaar list” to be used in Poona. More about them next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-bulk-buying-set-up-rescues-kitchen-at-poona-s-fever-hall-101623928999248.html
17-06-2021||Patna||3 men arrested in Bihar’s Buxar village for printing fake currency notes at home: Cop||PATNA: Three men have been arrested in a Bihar village on charges of printing counterfeit currency notes, police said on Thursday after recovering fake notes of the face value of ₹3.12 lakh from a house in Buxar district’s Manoharpur village.Police said the prime accused, Dharmendra Singh, ran a private security agency in Hyderabad but returned to his village about 200 km from state capital Patna due to the Covid-19 lockdown in August last year. The other two accused are his father, Subhash Singh, and uncle, Ashok Singh.But he had been planning to get into the fake currency notes enterprise for longer.Buxar superintendent of police Neeraj Singh said Dharmendra told the police that he saw some YouTube videos and initially experimented with printing fake currency notes using a laptop and printer while he was still in Hyderabad. But he wasn’t satisfied with the notes that he printed.Before returning home in August, he was able to get in touch with some people who taught him a few tricks over a three-month period including guiding him on the choice of paper to use, Neeraj Singh said.Once back home, police said Dharmendra Singh appears to have started out by printing counterfeit notes of smaller denominations that he circulated without arousing suspicions of the villagers. Gradually, he gained the confidence to print notes with the face value of ₹200 and ₹500 as well.One of the tricks that he had learnt was printing images that looked similar to the watermark of Mahatma Gandhi and the ₹500 in bold green on the notes.Police said Dharmendra Singh has claimed in his initial interrogation that he started circulating the fake notes only a couple of months earlier. But the police aren’t so sure. The Buxar SP said this was an aspect, like many others, which the police still have to investigate in detail. Another aspect, he said, was the role played by the individuals in Hyderabad identified by Dharmendra Singh. A team would be sent to Hyderabad to gather further details, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/3-men-arrested-in-bihar-s-buxar-village-for-printing-fake-currency-notes-at-homecop-101623928997759.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 158 new Covid-19 cases, positivity rate drops to 0.20%||Delhi on Thursday saw a decline in daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections as it reported 158 new cases and 10 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Covid dashboard. The positivity rate in the Capital also fell by 0.07 percentage points since the previous day as it now stands at 0.20 per cent, the state health bulletin showed.The national capital witnessed a major decline in new cases and fatalities from the virus as on Wednesday it registered 212 new infections and 25 deaths. The active caseload has declined from 2,749 on Wednesday to 2,554 on Thursday, as per the bulletin.Also read: Post lockdown, signs of revival tinged with hope for restaurants in DelhiThe total positive cases reported in Delhi to date reached 1,431,868 and the toll was pushed to 24,886 on Thursday after the new infections and fatalities were added.The fall in the new cases comes in the backdrop of relatively lower testing to detect the spread of the contagion in the population. On Thursday, 77,542 tests were conducted for identification of the disease, while 77,891 tests were done the previous day, according to the data. More than 20 million tests (20,549,834) have been done so far since the disease entered Delhi for the first time in March last year.The case fatality rate saw no change in the past 24 hours as it continued to stand at 1.74 per cent, according to the health data.Around 343 patients recovered from coronavirus in Delhi since Wednesday in comparison to 516 a day before. The total number of recoveries from the disease in Delhi stands at 1,404,428, according to the bulletin.The total number of containment zones in Delhi as on Thursday is 5,799, down from 6,169 on Wednesday.Over 54,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the past 24 hours. Around 6.2 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated against the fatal virus so far, the state health bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-saw-158-new-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-drops-to-020-101623923795369.html
17-06-2021||Patna||Mumbai police crime branch team arrests 3 murder accused from Bihar’s Madhubani||A team of Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested three persons from Bihar’s Madhubani district late on Wednesday evening for kidnapping and killing a 23-year-old, whose body was found in a water tank in Azad Maidan police station area on June 6.Police said the arrested accused identified as Surendra Mandal, Ramkumar Saday and Sambhu Saday confessed their roles in assaulting Rajesh Mandal with a hammer to death and dumping his body in a water tank, believing he was having an illicit relation with Mandal’s wife.Mumbai police assistant sub inspector Amol Mali, who was leading the six member team that arrived in Bihar on Tuesday evening to arrest the three culprits, said Rajesh Mandal’s father Gauri Chaupal, a driver residing at Oshiwara in suburban Mumbai, lodged a police complaint on May 15 after Rajesh went missing from Kalyan station after returning from Madhubani, his home town, two days earlier.“Around 11 pm on May 13 he told his father that he had reached Kalyan station, however, he did not reach home in Oshiwara and his phone was unreachable since then, said Mali.During investigation, police found that Rajesh’s last known mobile location was Hazarimal Somani Road in the Fort area, where Surender Mandal had been working at a construction site.The site supervisor told police that Surender and his two friends suddenly returned to their hometown on May 15. Police also found out later that Surendra suspected that Rajesh was in an illicit relationship with his wife and had threatened to kill him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mumbai-police-crime-branch-team-arrests-3-murder-accused-from-bihar-s-madhubani-101623928037302.html
17-06-2021||Other||JD(U) works on expansion of its upper caste cell||Bihar’s ruling Janata Dal(United), or JD(U), has appointed 32 district chiefs, 35 Lok Sabha constituencies in charge, seven vice presidents, five general secretaries, and three spokespersons to its upper caste cell formed in March. The appointments have been made to strengthen the cell up to the grassroots level. The unit was formed following JD(U)’s poor performance in the assembly election on the lines of its minority, Dalit, Mahadalit, and Other Backward Class cells.The upper castes have traditionally been known as the main support base of JD(U)’s ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“...the exercise is to strengthen the party up to the panchayat level by adding upper caste to the party fold by making them aware of the Nitish Kumar government’s inclusive development and welfare schemes and how it has helped all the sections in equal measure. Now district executive committees will be formed in the second phase,” said Nitish Kumar Tantan, the upper caste cell chief.Also Read | Bihar municipal staff fraudulently withdraws money using dead man’s ATM cardJD(U) managed to win just 44 seats in the 2020 election and BJP 74 seats in the 243 member House. The National Democratic Alliance has a wafer-thin majority in the assembly.Tantan said the JD(U) is the first party to have formed an upper caste cell and that it was committed to inclusive politics. He said they will complete the exercise of the cell’s expansion in a few weeks. “The (Covid-19) lockdown slowed our work a bit, but we are focused, and all senior functionaries of the party are supporting it. Many people are showing interest in working for the cell.”Former AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies director DM Diwakar said the JD(U) was trying to consolidate its position by reaching out to upper castes, which it feels have been alienated. “How the BJP will take it, time will tell, as this section has been traditionally known to be with it. It will also be interesting to watch how far the JD(U) is able to convince the upper castes. For that, it will have to match political action with government efforts by giving space to upper caste in regular appointments, else it will be difficult to reach out the way the party wants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jdu-works-on-expansion-of-its-upper-caste-cell-101623925577086.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||'Overconfidence': Shiv Sena replies to Nana Patole's 'will go solo' comment||Shiv Sena on Thursday attacked Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole over his statement where he had said that the party will contest the next Assembly polls on its own and not as a part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition.Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana said Patole’s political ambition is not wrong but to become the chief minister of Maharashtra, he has to ensure that he has 145 MLAs with him as ‘parliamentary democracy is a game of political figures’. The editorial said that without having a majority such comments are a display of ‘over-confidence’.“Parliamentary democracy is a game of majority figures. Those who will win the game will sit on the throne. There is nothing wrong in having desire and ambition in politics. Hence there is no point in such walking and talking if you do not have a majority figure on your side,” the editorial said.“The Maharashtra Congress chief is a grassroots leader. Patole asserted that he will bring his party to power by contesting alone in the upcoming elections and will make a Congress leader the chief minister. This announcement has been made in over-confidence. He has no doubt regarding who will be the chief minister,” the editorial further added.Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Monday said he was ready to contest as the party’s chief ministerial candidate citing Congress’ displeasure over the profile given to the party in the MVA alliance.The editorial likened Patole to Fadnavis and said that the former chief minister was confident of a return but his party’s majority of 105 went in vain as Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Shiv Sena formed an alliance. Shiv Sena also attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and reminded them that nothing is permanent in politics. Saamna’s criticism of the BJP was in response to Union minister Raosaheb Danve’s recent comments where it had said that BJP too will contest the polls alone.Shiv Sena while pointing out that Congress is an important part of the alliance also said that if both national parties decide to fight the polls alone then the party has to join hands with the NCP.“Nana Patole's party is in power in Maharashtra. Congress is an important component in Maha Vikas Aghadi. The 2024 Lok Sabha and assembly polls are far away, but major political parties are suddenly talking of contesting the elections independently. Are there any plans to have mid-term polls?” the editorial said.“If the main political parties are speaking of going alone, the other two parties - Shiv Sena and NCP - will have to join hands in the interest of the state. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP chief Sharad Pawar have already spoken about it,” Shiv Sena further added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/overconfidence-shiv-sena-replies-to-nana-patole-s-will-go-solo-comment-101623924149065.html
17-06-2021||Other||Brothers hacked to death in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool||A 45-year-old former village head and his brother were hacked to death after a vehicle hit them in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district on Thursday, police said and blamed personal animosity for the murders. The two, Vaddu Nageshwar Reddy and Vaddu Pratap Reddy, 43, were associated with the opposition Telegu Desam Party (TDP). Sridhar, a local police officer who uses one name, said three of their relatives were also injured in the attack.Police cited the initial probe and said the brothers were going to a crematorium to collect the ashes of their cousin, who died three days ago, when a group of five to six men waylaid them. The assailants first knocked the brothers down and then attacked them with sharp weapons including sickles. “The brothers died on the spot, while the three relatives sustained injuries,” Sridhar said. He said murders were a fallout of a feud they were involved with a family in their village for decades. “There had been no major incidents of factional violence in the last 25 years in the village. We are probing the reasons for today’s killings,” Sridhar said.Also Read | Six Maoists shot dead in Andhra encounterDeputy police superintendent Chidananda Reddy rushed to the murder scene with an additional police force to ensure there were no retaliatory attacks.Sridhar said they have registered a case of murder and attempt to murder even as the assailants were on the run. “We have launched a manhunt,” he said.TDP leader and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu expressed shock over the killings and said the law-and-order situation in the state has completely deteriorated. He added TDP leaders and activists were being killed in broad daylight. “So far, over 30 TDP leaders have been killed in the last two years. I wonder what the police are doing in the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/brothers-hacked-to-death-in-andhra-pradesh-s-kurnool-101623924016770.html
17-06-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh IAS officer records conversation with official, shares it on messaging app||An Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in Madhya Pradesh has been issued a show-cause notice for sharing an audio recording of his conversation with a senior official on a social messaging platform. In the recording, Lokesh Kumar Jangid, the IAS officer, is heard expressing displeasure over his transfer to the principal secretary of the General Administration Department (GAD).Jangid, 35, who at the time was the additional collector of Barwani district in Madhya Pradesh, was on May 31 transferred to the state capital of Bhopal as the mission director of city-based Rajya Shiksha Kendra. This, according to Jangid, was his ninth transfer in just 54 months.“I shared the audio with four IAS colleagues on personal chats. This was done after the transfer orders were issued in writing by the GAD and updated on its website. I shared it in good faith and in a personal capacity when they asked me why I was suddenly transferred,” Jangid said. "Since I was not given any reason, I shared the audio with them saying this is what the GAD principal secretary told me. I didn’t share it on any group," Jangid said about the 30-second clip.The officer said he did not violate the conduct rules as the information was neither confidential nor personal in nature. He also denied that it was a violation of the GAD principal secretary’s privacy. “This audio was from May 31 and I was issued notice on Wednesday, after a gap of 17 days. I would respond to the notice at my own time,” the 2014-batch officer, who hails from Maharashtra’s Parbhani, said.However, Deepti Gaur Mukherjee, the GAD’s principal secretary, said Jangid’s conduct was a breach of her privacy. “Jangid has been asked to reply in seven days. The matter pertains to a conversation he had with me. My job is only to tell the officers that they’ve been transferred. But he taped the conversation, which is an unbecoming act from a government officer,” Mukherjee said.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-ias-officer-records-conversation-with-official-shares-it-on-messaging-app-101623922672264.html
17-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka to procure vaccines for private hospitals as well: Report||The Karnataka government has decided to buy Covid-19 vaccines directly from manufacturers of the jabs and supply them to private hospitals in the state, a Kannada-language newspaper has reported. The government's decision to intervene in the procurement of Covid-19 vaccines for private hospitals comes after the Karnataka High Court on May 27 raised concern to the central government over the bulk purchases of vaccines at unregulated prices by private hospitals, reported Prajavani. The high court pointed out that over 25 per cent of the production has been procured by private players.“There was a lack of transparency in procurement of vaccines,” reported Prajavani.According to data, only 20.33 per cent of the state's residents has been given the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine and merely 4.33 per cent have got both doses. Demand for vaccination against Covid-19 has increased in the state following the relaxation of lockdown, the newspaper noted.Private hospitals have been allowed to purchase 266 million Covid-19 vaccine doses but the health department of the state's statistics have data of only 156 million doses. According to an official of the health department, private hospitals will be able to procure only 25 per cent of the production from Monday onwards and it will be supplied by the government.The additional chief secretary of the health department, Javed Akhtar, said the department will ask private hospitals to regulate the volume of Covid-19 vaccines well in advance which will be then sent forward for approval to the central government, Prajavani e-paper reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-to-procure-vaccines-for-private-hospitals-as-well-report-101623918668471.html
17-06-2021||Other||Assam mechanic turns own car into Lamborghini replica||A motor mechanic in Karimganj district of Assam has modified an old Maruti Swift car to a sports car which looks like a model of Lamborghini, an Italian luxury car; all for a little over ₹6 lakh. “It took nearly eight months to develop it,” said 31-year-old Nurul Haque, who runs a garage in Bhanga Bazaar area of the district.Haque was a car mechanic and painter at his father’s garage in Dimapur town, Nagaland, where they lived for about 20 years. Two years ago, they shifted base to Karimganj after receiving threats from some local groups, he said. Also Read | Don’t ‘slacken’ vaccination drive against Covid-19: Assam CM tells officialsA fan of the Fast & Furious movies, Haque always wanted to drive sports cars such as Ferrari or Lamborghini. Last year’s lockdown forced him to sit at home with no work. That’s when he started toying with the idea of building his own Lamborghini replica. “First, I bought a second-hand Maruti Swift and removed its body. I started building parts of a Lamborghini model by watching YouTube videos,” he said. “But I didn’t realise that it would be a costly affair. From buying the engine and the raw material to giving it the final shape, the total expenditure was around ₹620,000. I am not sure if even developing such a replica is legal. I want to drive the car across the state and I hope the police won’t arrest me and seize my car.”Haque has become quite a local celebrity after posting pictures of his car on social media. He is willing to sell the car, but only to someone equally passionate about it. “I am willing to sell this car but it has to be someone who understands the value of this model. Only a sports enthusiast can relate to my passion,” he said.Next on his wish list is a ‘Ferrari’. He said, “I am planning to make a customised replica of Ferrari soon. But it all depends on my Lamborghini experience. If the local administration grants me the permission to ride this car, I am going to make more of these models.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-mechanic-turns-own-car-into-lamborghini-replica-101623922217767.html
17-06-2021||Bangalore||Andhra woman, pushed into drug peddling by lover, held in Bengaluru||A 25-year-old woman from Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh has been arrested in Karnataka's Bengaluru while delivering a packet of marijuana, a newspaper reported citing police officials on Thursday. Police from Andhra Pradesh arrested Renuka from Sadashivanagar police limits in Bengaluru city, Kannada Prabha reported.Police said the woman had been coaxed into peddling marijuana by her "drug supplier lover", Kannada Prabha e-paper reported citing UNI. She confessed to the police that she came to Bengaluru city to deliver a package of marijuana during the lockdown.According to the police, the woman was in love with a man named Kadapa Siddharth. She became close with him while studying engineering in Tamil Nadu's Chennai but their parents did not approve of their relationship. She left her home following a rift with her parents over the relationship.Siddharth, a procuring agent of marijuana from Odisha, later introduced her to another man, Sudhansu, and told her that he will include her in his business. Siddharth, who was aware of the drug peddling business in Bengaluru city, guided Renuka. In her confession to the police, she has said she and her lover dreamt of luxurious life and wanted to make big money. She added that she used to sell 50 grams of marijuana for ₹2000 to ₹3000.Following the arrest of Renuka, Siddharth and Sudhansu have gone missing. Sadashivanagar Police along with Andhra Pradesh police are jointly investigating the case.The Sadashivanagar Police are now looking for more links in the marijuana trade and the interstate connection to the drug route in Bengaluru. They are also in touch with the police from Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/andhra-woman-pushed-into-drug-peddling-by-lover-held-in-bengaluru-101623921549975.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Blast in firecracker unit in Maharashtra’s Palghar, at least 10 injured||At least 10 workers were injured in a blast inside a fire cracker factory in Maharashtra’s Palghar district on Thursday morning, the local MLA said, and added that it could have been triggered by sparks from ongoing welding work.Dahanu MLA Vinod Nikole, who was at the spot, said the injured among the 100 workers present inside the premises of Vishal Fireworks, located at Dehane village about 15 kms from Vangaon-Dahanu Road, were rushed to the Cottage Hospital. He said most workers ran out of the unit in panic after the blast, which was heard even several kilometres away.The MLA said two fire tenders from the Dahanu municipal council and Adani Thermal Power station were engaged in fire fighting operation which was obstructed by strong winds and rains. He said Dahanu police led by deputy superintendent of police (SP) Datta Nalawade was supervising the operation at the spot. The district administration or the fire department is yet to comment on the cause of the blast, the extent of the damage and the fire fighting operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/blast-in-fire-cracker-unit-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-leaves-at-least-10-injured-101623920596094.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||NIA arrests former Mumbai Police officer Pradeep Sharma in Antilia bomb scare case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday arrested former Mumbai Police officer Pradeep Sharma in connection with the Antilia bomb scare case after an early morning raid at his residence. NIA officials said Sharma, who was also questioned earlier in the day, had a role to play in the conspiracy.During the raid, which lasted for almost four hours between 6.45am and 10.45am, NIA officials seized a printer, a computer and a laptop from Pradeep Sharma's residence. As many as seven to eight personnel from the agency, including superintendent of police Vikram Khalate, were present during the raid. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was also deployed at the former policeman's residence in Andheri, Mumbai."The NIA also conducted a raid at his residence located in JB Nagar in Mumbai's Andheri (West) around 6am and the operation continued for several hours. The officials recovered some incriminating documents from his house," news agency PTI quoted an NIA official as saying, earlier in the day.NIA arrested two men, Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav, considered to be close to Sharma, from the Kurar village in Malad on June 11, according to the Mumbai Police. They were arrested regarding the Antilia bomb scare and the subsequent death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran.Prior to the arrest of Sharma, NIA arrested four other police officers in the case, including Sachin Vaze, Riyazuddin Kazi, Sunil Mane and former police constable Vinayak Shinde.On Wednesday, NIA also sought the permission of a special court in Mumbai to extend the custody of police inspector Sunil Mane, who was arrested earlier on April 23, in the case. NIA wanted an extension of the custody to confront Mane with Shelar and Jadhav.An abandoned SUV laden with gelatin sticks and a threat note was found near Antilia, residence of the billionaire industrialist Mukesh Ambani, in Mumbai on February 25. Following this, a case was registered at the Gamdevi Police Station regarding the abandoned vehicle.Mansukh Hiran, the owner of the SUV, was found dead near Mumbra, on March 5. Hiran reported the vehicle stolen on February 17, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-arrests-former-mumbai-police-officer-pradeep-sharma-in-antilia-bomb-scare-case-101623918129346.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police raid 2 illegal hookah bars, arrest over 2 dozen people||A Delhi Police team arrested over two dozen persons at two illegal hookah bars in south Delhi in the last week, even as the Delhi government has advised citizens to ensure social distancing and avoid crowding to contain the spread of Covid-19. Deputy commissioner of police (south east) RP Meena, said that on June 12, a police team raided a building (acting on a tip) and found about 10 men inside an illegal hookah bar. Police arrested them and cracked down on similar illegal hookah bars operating in the area. Two owners, Monu and Aditya, identified only by their first names in police records, were arrested.Also Read | Delhi Police move SC against bail to studentsDCP Meena said that two days later, police raided another building in the Kalkaji market and found several persons smoking hookahs. Police said that while dine-in services are allowed at 50% seating capacity, running hookah bars in Delhi is illegal and the people caught had flouted social distancing norms.“Twenty customers and two cafe owners were arrested and three hookahs were seized from the spot. The owners of the cafe were identified as Karan Nayyar and Aditya Dixit,” said DCP Meena.Police said the four owners do not have a record. The four told police they opened the hookah bars to make money. In 2017, hookah bars were banned by the Delhi government, which cited studies showing a hookah was more harmful than a cigarette. The government had asked civic agencies to cancel the licence of eateries that continued to serve hookahs. But the civic agencies find it a challenge to implement it as many eateries still run hookah bars surreptitiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-raid-2-illegal-hookah-bars-arrest-over-2-dozen-people-101623917895994.html
17-06-2021||Lucknow||Newborn girl found in Ganga, Adityanath says govt will take care||The newborn girl found inside a wooden box floating in the Ganga in Ghazipur will be brought up by the state government and the boatman who rescued her will also be rewarded, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said."The boatman who saved the life of a newborn girl "Ganga" found in a box floating on the waves of Mother Ganga in Ghazipur has presented a unique example of humanity," Adityanath's tweet roughly translated from Hindi, read. "As a token of gratitude, the boatman will receive benefits from all eligible government. @UPGovt will make all arrangements for the upbringing of the newborn girl," Adityanath added.गाजीपुर में माँ गंगा की लहरों पर तैरते संदूक में रखी नवजात बालिका "गंगा" की जीवन-रक्षा करने वाले नाविक ने मानवता का अनुपम उदाहरण प्रस्तुत किया है।नाविक को आभार स्वरूप सभी पात्र सरकारी योजनाओं से लाभान्वित किया जाएगा।@UPGovt नवजात बच्ची के लालन-पालन का संपूर्ण प्रबंध करेगी। pic.twitter.com/YXTTOmYVqyPolice said Gullu Chaudhary, a local boatman, was at the Dadrighat on Tuesday evening when he heard the cries of the newborn girl and found her alive in the box floating in the Ganga, news agency PTI reported on Wednesday. The newborn girl was wrapped in a piece of cloth inside the box, which had a note declaring her as the "daughter of the Ganga". The box also had a picture of Goddess Durga, a horoscope and incense sticks.Also watch | Newborn girl found floating in wooden box in Ganga, police begin probeAfter finding the newborn girl from the Ganga, Chaudhary carried the baby home. Later, the police got the infant admitted to the district hospital, according to PTI. Chaudhary has said he wants to raise the child.District magistrate Mangala Prasad Singh and other officials visited the hospital to enquire about the health of the newborn girl. Singh thanked Chaudhary for saving the life of the girl and directed officials to provide a new boat to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/newborn-girl-found-in-ganga-adityanath-says-govt-will-take-care-101623913293403.html
17-06-2021||Kolkata||Centre removes TMC leader Mukul Roy's Z-category VIP security cover||The Z-category VIP security cover of West Bengal politician and MLA Mukul Roy, who recently re-joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) after a brief stint with the BJP, has been withdrawn, official sources said on Thursday.They said the Union Home Ministry has directed the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to recall its detachment deployed with the 67-year-old Roy.Roy had last week joined West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee-led TMC along with his son Subhrangshu in Kolkata.Sources said Roy, who won the assembly election as a BJP candidate from Krishnanagar Uttar constituency, had written to the Centre to withdraw the security cover, which has now been given effect.Roy had quit the TMC after being removed from the post of the party's national general secretary. He had joined the BJP in November 2017 and was made the party's national vice president.Soon after, he was accorded a low category Y central security cover of the central paramilitary CRPF which was upgraded to the second top-level of Z just before the assembly polls in the state that were held in March-April this year.He had a contingent of about 22-24 armed CRPF commandos who used to move with him every time he travelled in West Bengal.Sources said the small category security cover being provided to Subhrangshu by another central paramilitary force CISF has also been withdrawn.The father-son are now being provided security by the state police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-removes-tmc-leader-mukul-roy-s-z-category-vip-security-cover-101623912510333.html
17-06-2021||Patna||Bihar municipal staff fraudulently withdraws money using dead man’s ATM card||Bihar police said it arrested a municipal council staff on Wednesday for withdrawing over ₹1 lakh using an ATM card he stole while cremating a Covid-19 victim in Dehri-On-Sone in Rohtas district of the state. Police are now looking for his associates.The fraud came to light when the deceased’s wife found that ₹106,500 had been withdrawn from the bank account of her husband, Abhimanyu Kumar, a school clerk, after his death on April 30. Police said the amount was withdrawn from ATMs of three different banks within 10 days of Kumar’s death.On Chhaya’s complaint, a case was registered on June 11 against unidentified persons under sections 420 and 379 of the Indian penal code at Darihat police station.Rohtas police superintendent (SP) Ashish Bharti formed a special team under Dehri sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Sanjay Kumar, who also questioned the staff at the municipal corporation involved in the school clerk’s cremation.Police said a member of the cremation team named Vishal confessed to having pulled out the ATM card from the belongings of the deceased during cremation and having withdrawn money using it. He told police that he also found the ATM pin written inside the cover holding the card.He also disclosed names of his associates in the crime and raids were being conducted to arrest them and recover the money, SP Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-municipal-staff-fraudulently-withdraws-money-using-dead-man-s-atm-card-101623912735351.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Pradeep Sharma: Encounter specialist's brush with controversies||Pradeep Sharma, the former Mumbai Police officer and an “encounter specialist”, was on Thursday being searched by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Antilia explosives scare case. A team of the NIA reached the Andheri residence of Pradeep Sharma early on Thursday to conduct the search. Before this, Pradeep Sharma was questioned for hours by the federal agency in April.Who is Pradeep Sharma?Pradeep Sharma, who worked with Mumbai Police for 25 years, is said to have gunned down more than 100 underworld gangsters. Sharma joined the Mumbai Police force on January 21, 1983, and was posted at Mahim Police Station. Sharma was noticed for his skill of gathering intelligence and transferred to the crime branch to eliminate the dreaded Mumbai underworld, which gained notoriety in the late 1980s and 90s. He was involved in encounters involving several gangsters, including Parvez Siddiqui, Rafiq Dabbawala, Sadik Kalia and three Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) suspects.Also watch | From shooting gangsters to facing jail, Pradeep Sharma's storyHis fallSharma was, however, ousted from the police force for allegedly being in touch with the underworld and after his name cropped up in the fake encounter case of Ramnarayan Gupta alias Lakkhan Bhaiyya in 2006. Pradeep Sharma, who has inspired many Bollywood films, was dismissed from service in August 2008.Sharma was arrested for his involvement in the case in 2010 but was acquitted of all charges by a Mumbai court in July 2013 but 13 other policemen were found guilty. Vinayak Shinde, one of the policemen, has been arrested by NIA in connection with the Antilia explosives scare case.Also read | The rise, fall and redemption of Mumbai’s encounter cop Pradeep SharmaThe government invoked Section 311 of the Constitution against him, following several months of departmental action, including departmental inquiries, suspension for prolonged periods, and even a transfer to a remote district in Maharashtra, which Sharma refused to take up citing health grounds.The police officer challenged this and his dismissal was revoked. Pradeep Sharma was reinstated in 2017 and was then made the head of the anti-extortion cell of the Thane Police. Sharma arrested Iqbal Kaskar, fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim’s younger brother, within a month of taking charge.Foray into politicsIn 2019, amid speculation he will join politics just before the Maharashtra assembly elections, Pradeep Sharma resigned from the force but he told HT he had no such plans and that he was resigning for personal reasons. He contested from Nallasopra as the Shiv Sena candidate but lost to Kshitij Thakur of the Bahujan Vikas Aaghadi by more than 40,000 votes.In 2019, just before the Maharashtra assembly elections, Pradeep Sharma resigned from the force and told HT he was resigning for personal reasons. He contested from Nallasopra as the Shiv Sena candidate but lost to Kshitij Thakur of the Bahujan Vikas Aaghadi by more than 40,000 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pradeep-sharma-encounter-specialist-s-brush-with-controversies-101623908265633.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Antilia scare: NIA searches former encounter specialist’s residence||A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) searched the Andheri residence of former Mumbai police encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma on Thursday morning, about a week after the federal agency made two fresh arrests in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and subsequent murder of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran.The search was conducted for almost four hours from 6.45am to 10.45am. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) was deployed at the building where Sharma lives in Andheri. NIA officials, comprising seven to eight personnel, including superintendent of police Vikram Khalate conducted the search and seized a printer, computer and laptop from Sharma’s house.There is, however, no official word on the search from the NIA. The NIA, on June 11, arrested two more persons in the twin case, Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav, both residents of Kurar village in Malad and both said to be close to Sharma, according to Mumbai Police.The search at Sharma’s residence comes a day after the agency moved a plea before a special NIA court in Mumbai for permission to extend the custody of Mumbai police inspector Sunil Mane, who was arrested on April 23 for his involvement in the case.Also Read | Antilia scare: NIA moves court seeking Sunil Mane’s custodyThe NIA has sought Mane’s custody to confront him with Shelar and Jadhav, who, according to the federal agency, played a role as conspirators in killing Hiran.Mane was remanded to judicial custody on May 13. He has been lodged in Taloja prison since then.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia, the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to the Ambani family.A case was registered at the Gamdevi police station in connection with the episode. On March 5, Hiran, the owner of the SUV, was found dead in a creek near Mumbra, with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf.A separate case has been registered with Mumbra police in connection with the murder of the auto spare parts dealer.NIA subsequently took over both the cases and clubbed them together for investigation purposes. The federal agency has so far arrested five persons in connection with the two cases, including three Mumbai police officers - controversial police officer Sachin Vaze, Riyazuddin Kazi, Vaze’s colleague at the Criminal Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Mumbai police crime branch, and inspector Sunil Mane.Besides, NIA has also arrested former police constable Vinayak More, a life convict in the fake encounter killing of Lakhan Bhaiya, and cricket bookie Naresh Gor, both of whom allegedly helped Vaze execute the suspected murder.Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the Antilia explosives scare case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, the owner of the SUV who had reported it stolen on February 17, 2021. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the SUV in November and returned it in early February.According to NIA, Mane was present at the criminal intelligence unit of the Mumbai crime branch on March 2 and 3, when Vaze purportedly tried to convince Hiran to take the blame for placing the explosives-laden SUV near Antilia. NIA officers claimed that Vaze had assured the trader that he will get Hiran out on bail in a few days. The plan to eliminate him was allegedly hatched after he refused to get arrested in the case.NIA has also claimed that it was Mane who had made the last call to the victim around 8.30pm on March 4 and had drawn him out of his Thane home on the pretext of a meeting along Ghodbunder Road.Meanwhile, Mane’s lawyer Aditya Gore moved an application seeking permission to meet him in prison. The plea will be heard on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-scare-nia-searches-former-encounter-specialist-s-residence-101623909614807.html
17-06-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata waterlogged due to overnight heavy rains||Several parts of Kolkata reported waterlogging on Thursday morning following heavy overnight rains. The early morning high tide in Hooghly river added to the problem. “The western parts of the city experienced a downpour. There was also a high tide in the river and the lock-gates, which allow the storm water to drain out, had to be kept shut. As a result, several areas were submerged in knee-deep in water,” said a senior official of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC). The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) regional office in Kolkata reported around 144mm of rain till Thursday morning. According to the data shared by the KMC, the rain was heavier in the southern and western parts of the city. While Behala received around 163 mm rain, Mominpore and Kalighat received around 179 mm and 168 mm rain respectively. Compared to this, Salt Lake and Dum Dum recorded only around 73mm and 51mm rain respectively. “Because of the high tide, the lock gates had to be shut down from 4am to 8am amid the rain. The water level in the streets has begun receding now that the lock gates have been opened. But the gates would again have to be closed from 4pm to 8pm because of the high tide. If there is more rain then, there would be waterlogging again,” said the KMC official cited above. Park Street, Camac Street, MG Road, College Street, Minto Park, Theatre Road, Behala, Park Circus, Southern Avenue were all submerged in knee- to waist-deep water. The IMD has warned of more rains across West Bengal on Thursday and Friday. Kolkata too is expected to receive moderate rain with one or two spells of heavy rain. Heavy rain is also expected in north Bengal and adjoining Sikkim.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-waterlogged-due-to-overnight-heavy-rains-101623909494670.html
17-06-2021||Kolkata||Kolkata shopping malls reopen after 45 days, get mixed reception||The malls in Kolkata received a mixed reaction on Wednesday when the facilities reopened after being closed for 45 days due to restrictions imposed by the West Bengal government to check the spread of coronavirus.As the Covid situation improved, the state administration allowed malls to operate with 25% staff and a maximum of 30% footfall capacity from 11 am to 6 pm for stores and 8 pm for restaurants.Mall managers said all employees deployed on Wednesday are vaccinated and the premises have been sanitised."About 90% of stores opened. Vibes are positive but footfall is not very high due to lack of public transport and restriction on movement of private cars," Acropolis Mall head K Vijayan said.South City mall management said they received a better response this time than the first day of the reopening after lockdown 1."We had a footfall of around 10,000 today which is higher in comparison with the first day of previous unlock when we had received about 7,000 footfalls. Sales were also higher by 15-18% than the previous unlock. The trend is very positive," South City head Manmohan Bagree said.A few managers said that malls that have a good catchment of visitors did well compared to standalone malls due to curbs on transport facilities.Malls do not foresee footfall restriction hurting their business at least for now as actual footfall is far lower than respective permitted numbers."We encourage the visit of only serious shoppers. All new malls have footfall scanners so managing 30% of capacity will not be difficult," Bagree said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/kolkata-shopping-malls-reopen-after-45-days-get-mixed-reception-101623906136174.html
17-06-2021||Bangalore||IKEA enters Bengaluru with eCommerce and mobile shopping app||Swedish home furnishing retailer IKEA announced on Thursday the launch of its eCommerce services and mobile shopping app in Bengaluru.There will be over 8,000 home furnishing products and solutions to choose from, it said in a statement.The company opened its second IKEA India store in Navi Mumbai in December 2020.IKEA already has online presence in Hyderabad, Mumbai, Pune, Ahmedabad, Surat, and Vadodara.The IKEA mobile shopping app features product recommendations, ratings, and reviews, along with "easier" searching and browsing experience, the statement said.Customers can also find a built-in barcode scanner which will help them learn more details about the products, including materials and dimensions, it was stated.IKEA India CEO & CSO (Chief Sustainability Officer) Peter Betzel said Karnataka is a very important market for IKEA and Bengaluru is one of the largest home furnishing markets in India.The company will also open a big IKEA store, close to 400,000 sq.ft. at Nagasandra here within a year, and this store will be connected to the Nagasandra metro station."Over time, we will also open a city centre store within Bengaluru to be even more accessible and connect with many more people," Betzel said.Over the next five years, across different IKEA businesses in Bengaluru, the company plans to engage around 2500 co-workers directly with 50 per cent diversity across all levels and will generate close to 1200 indirect jobs linked with its business operations, the statement said.IKEA said it works with nine home furnishing suppliers in Karnataka including a social entrepreneur engaging 1200 local artisans, thereby increasing its local sourcing footprint in the state.In the coming year, IKEA is gearing up to open two city centre stores in Mumbai, it was stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ikea-enters-bengaluru-with-ecommerce-and-mobile-shopping-app-101623906163576.html
17-06-2021||Patna||Kishanganj police to become 1st in Bihar to hear public grievances virtually||Kishanganj police will hear public grievances virtually from June 18, becoming the first in Bihar to introduce the facility keeping in mind the need for social distancing to contain the spread of Covid-19, police officers said.The virtual meeting will be arranged at the nearest police station using official devices to connect the complainants with the district police chief (superintendent of police) or the sub divisional police officer (SDPO), officers added.“People need to reach the nearest police station where the station house officer (SHO) will arrange their meetings with SP or SDPO on their official tab,” Kishanganj superintendent of police (SP) Kumar Ashish said.“We held several meetings with people living in remote and rural areas under all the 13 police stations [in the district] and decided to launch this [programme] especially for the benefit of poor people,” the police officer said. He added that while Friday has been fixed for such hearings, it could be extended to two days later.He said this should save time and money spent in travelling to district headquarters to meet senior police officers and also safeguard people from getting infected by Sars-Cov-2.“This practice will also make senior police officers more approachable to the people,” Md Intikhab, a social activist said, appreciating the initiative.However, some residents feared the initiative may not deliver its objective due to perceived lack of cooperation from local police stations. “The idea is good but at police stations everybody knows what happens” said Md Jahangir, a resident of Dighalbank area in the district.However, the SP said the programme was also meant to keep a close watch over policing in the rural and remote areas and police stations had been directed to ensure its success. “There is a network problem at some police stations but it will be resolved soon and if police officers at police stations don’t cooperate with people, stringent action will be taken against them,” SP Kumar Ashish said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/kishanganj-police-to-become-1st-in-bihar-to-hear-public-grievances-virtually-101623904034374.html
17-06-2021||Patna||IIT Patna gets highest number of job offers this year||Despite the negative economic impact of Covid-19 outbreak, Indian Institute of Technology Patna (IIT-P) claims to have received the highest number of job offers during the placement drive this year. The highest salary offered to a student was ₹54.57 lakh per annum, the institute said.It added that 175 final year students in the 2020-21 session bagged 223 job offers, a jump of 10.39% from 2019-20.“We achieved 100% [placement] in the engineering branch followed by 94.59% in electrical engineering, 93.33% in BTech computer science, 85.71% in civil engineering and 82.35% in chemical engineering,” training and placement officer Kripa Shankar Singh said.The highest salary package of ₹54.57 lakh per annum was offered to a BTech student while another MTech student fetched an offer for ₹52.50 lakh per annum.“The average salary offered to BTech students increased to ₹16.17 lakh per annum during 2020-21 compared to ₹14.17 lakh per annum in the preceding year. As many as 19 students have been offered an annual package of more than ₹30 lakh, 30 students were offered more than ₹25 lakh and 47 students more than ₹20 lakh per annum,” Singh said, adding that 83 BTech students have received internship offers from national and international firms.A student, who landed with a job offer, said the end results were encouraging since students were apprehensive about campus placement due to the Covid-19 outbreak last year. “The training cell organised several workshops and counselling sessions which helped me in facing virtual mode of interviews. I have got good package offer from Banglore based IT firm,” a BTech student, who wished not to be named, said.IIT-P claims that the ongoing session actually saw the highest number of placements in the institute’s 13 year history. A total of 106 job offers were made in 2019-20, 95 in 2018-19, 88 in 2017-18 and 46 in 2016-17, it said.Singh said the maximum placements were in the IT sector which constitutes around 31% of all placements, followed by 9% placements each in finance, teaching and research areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/iit-patna-gets-highest-number-of-job-offers-this-year-101623901514210.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Man held by NCB Mumbai for providing bitcoin to peddlers for drug purchase||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested a man who allegedly used to provide bitcoin to peddlers to buy drugs from the darknet, informed NCB on Wednesday.The accused has been identified as Makarand Pardeep Adivirkar, popularly known as the 'Crypto King'."In November 2020, a team of NCB Mumbai had seized 20 LSD blots from Kharodi Village in Malad. The seized psychotropic substance was purchased from Europe by using Bitcoin by a drug peddler from Mumbai," said NCB.During the investigation police arrested Adivirkar was involved in providing the bitcoin to effect the purchase of LSD in November 2020 from abroad.According to NCB, the seized drugs were purchased from the Darknet by using bitcoin. Adivirkar was found to be providing bitcoins to drug peddlers in various parts of Mumbai."His modus operandi was to receive cash, and provide bitcoins on marginal profits by using his wallet that was used to purchase drugs from the Darknet," NCB added.The NCB said that sellers of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances in some countries are using bitcoin for illicit trafficking of drugs worldwide especially LSD, ecstasy, heroin, hydroponic weeds, buds among other drugs.A cryptocurrency is a digital or virtual currency that is secured by cryptography, which makes it nearly impossible to counterfeit or double-spend. It is a digital currency, without a central bank or single administrator that can be sent from user to user on the peer-to-peer bitcoin network without the need for intermediaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-held-by-ncb-mumbai-for-providing-bitcoin-to-peddlers-for-drug-purchase-101623900590378.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Light rains in parts of city today, says IMD||Parts of Delhi are likely to receive light rainfall on Thursday, but temperatures are expected to hover around 37-38 degrees Celsius (°C), India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the city will have to wait a little longer before the arrival of monsoon but did not commit to a date. Earlier, the IMD had announced that monsoon was expected to hit the Capital on June 15, at least 12 days ahead of its usual date. Also Read | Mumbai likely to see isolated heavy showers from June 17 to 19: IMD“The monsoon arrival is moving slower than we had initially expected but Delhi is likely to receive another spell of rain from June 19-20,” said Srivastava. Usually, monsoon hits Delhi and adjoining areas by June 27. Meanwhile, on Thursday the humidity levels are expected to remain high, IMD said.Parts of Delhi received light rains on Wednesday. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 26.2°C, while the maximum temperature settled at 34.2°C, five notches below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-light-rains-in-parts-of-city-today-says-imd-101623900193936.html
17-06-2021||Noida||UP police lodged 366 FIRs in one year over 'communal' posts on social media||In Uttar Pradesh, 366 FIRs have been lodged in a year over allegations of disruption to communal harmony through posts and comments on various social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter, the state police said on Wednesday.UP Police's Additional Director General (Law and Order) Prashant Kumar said police in districts across the state regularly monitor online activities through their social media cell and ensure action over objectionable content.His statement detailing such cases came soon after the police in Ghaziabad lodged an FIR against social media giant Twitter, some journalists and opposition politicians over them sharing a video clip -- about an attack on an elderly Muslim man by some young men – and claimed to be their intentional attempt at disrupting the peace."Between June 1, 2020, and May 31, 2021, a total of 118 cases have been lodged across Uttar Pradesh in which rumours or misinformation were shared on social media platforms through posts or comments," ADG Kumar said."Another 366 cases were lodged during the same period over social media posts and comments that disrupted communal harmony in the state," the officer stated in a statement.Besides these, 623 cases were lodged over social media users misusing the platform for any other reason by their posts or comments, he added."Overall, 1,107 such cases have been lodged across the state over the past one year and further proceedings in them are being carried out at district level," Kumar said.He said social media content is reviewed every day at the UP Police headquarters in Lucknow and necessary guidelines and instructions are issued to police at the district level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-police-lodged-366-firs-in-one-year-over-communal-posts-on-social-media-101623899799013.html
17-06-2021||Patna||Bihar speeds up seed distribution for early sowing of paddy||With Bihar experiencing early monsoon, the agriculture department aims to distribute subsidised seeds to registered farmers including at their doorstep by June 25 to ensure early sowing of paddy as part of the state’s climate resilient agriculture programme. It is also encouraging crop diversity to guard farmers against losses caused by damages to conventional crops due to exigencies of weather.The department has set the target of distributing 113,000 quintal seeds (mainly paddy) for the kharif season, of which, 37,000 quintal has been distributed including delivery of around 10,000 quintal at farmers’ doorsteps, a programme launched last year.Officials in the department said 1.443 million farmers have applied online for subsidised seed or its home delivery. Last year in the kharif season, 53194 quintal subsidized seed was distributed among 680,466 farmers, including delivery of 3,805 quintals of seed to 49,241 farmers at their doorstep.“Our subsidised seeds distribution programme plus the doorstep delivery of seeds to farmers has evoked huge response especially in the last one month during the lockdown. We have kept the target of providing seeds to 1.50 lakh farmers at their doorstep this year in the kharif season, which is much higher than last year,” said N Saravana Kumar, secretary, agriculture department. The seed distribution budget this year is ₹90 crore as against ₹76 crore last year, officials said.Kumar said the department is hoping for a good kharif crop this year due to early rains and the government’s impetus on seed distribution to help farmers sow the paddy crop early.“If there is early sowing, the harvesting of kharif crop will be timely and will subsequently, help in early sowing of the rabi crop. We are expecting to check the stubble burning by farmers by ensuring the timeline of crop cycle is maintained. We have managed to bring about a change in mindsets by explaining the advantages of early sowing to farmers,” Kumar added.Bihar is targeting to produce around 7 million metric tonnes of rice in 30.37 lakh hectares of land this fiscal. Last kharif season, the state produced 6.827 million metric tonnes of rice, 435,000 metric tonnes of maize and 48,500 metric tonnes of pulses, as per the third estimate released in April this year.Besides, the agriculture department is this year providing subsidized seed for coarse cereals like soyabean, linseed, sesame so that farmers take up multi crop production in kharif and rabi seasons. “Our emphasis is to enable farmers to go for crop diversity to tackle any exigency like floods, drought or damages to conventional crops,” said another agriculture officer.Bihar government has procured 456,000 metric tonnes of wheat till June 15 from farmers in the current rabi season. On Wednesday, chief minister Nitish Kumar, expressed happiness over the higher procurement of wheat.“In my review meeting on June 12, there was an expectation that 350,000 metric tonnes of wheat would be procured by June 15. But it is a matter of joy that 456,000 metric tonnes has been procured. This is an encouraging achievement. We will increase the procurement of wheat and rice more next year so that farmers get proper prices,” Kumar said. He said ₹6,736 crore was given to farmers for procurement of 3.558 million metric tonnes of paddy this year.Bihar had extended the deadline of wheat procurement from May 31st to June 15 due to low procurement. The state was targeting to procure 7 lakh metric tonnes of wheat following harvesting of rabi crops this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-speeds-up-seed-distribution-for-early-sowing-of-paddy-101623899474651.html
17-06-2021||Patna||Covid-19 in Bihar: 3.53 lakh people get jabs in a day||A record 3.53 lakh people received jabs on Wednesday in Bihar where Covid-19 situation continued to show improvement with fewer fresh cases and fatalities being reported. According to the health department, the total number of beneficiaries so far has reached 1.26 crore. Of these, 1.05 crore have received only the first shot. Among those who received the shots during the day, 3.43 lakh took it for the first time. As many as 2.99 lakh among them were in the age group of 18-44 years. Total number of beneficiaries in the age group for which inoculation was rolled out only about a month ago, was just over 29 lakhs. Only a little more than 5,000 people in this age group have taken both shots. The number of shots administered during the day has been the highest for the state ever since inoculation drive began in January this year. The feat was achieved through events like a "mega inoculation" drive carried out in Patna district where a target of 43,500 jabs across all administrative blocks had been set by Chandrashekhar Singh, the District Magistrate. Last week, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had announced that six crore people of the state will be vaccinated in the next six months. Total population of the state is about 13 crore. The government has, through a cabinet notification, pledged free vaccination to all its citizens. Meanwhile, nine fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 9523 while 370 people tested positive in the last 24 hours, raising the tally to 7,18,319. The number of people who have recovered so far was 70485. Active caseload stood at 3991. Recovery rate has risen to 98.12 per cent in Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-in-bihar-3-53-lakh-people-get-jabs-in-a-day-101623899041645.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi receives over 2.3 lakh fresh Covid-19 vaccine doses||Delhi received over 2.3 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines on Wednesday, a day when several vaccination centres were expected to shut down due to a shortage, detailed a government statement on Thursday.The fresh supplies are meant for those in the 18 years and above age group. Of the 2,35,500 doses made available to the Delhi government, 62,160 were of Covaxin and 1,73,340 of Covishield.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) expressed happiness at receiving the supplies while issuing the vaccination bulletin. "Now the youth can come forward to receive their shots. Hope the supplies from the Centre keep coming," she said."Delhi is in a comfortable position in terms of vaccine stock," she said adding that the Delhi government has Covaxin doses for the 18-45 category for six days and Covishield vaccines for 11 days. Covaxin doses for the people above the 45 age group will last for seven days, while Covishield stocks are sufficient for 42 days.On Tuesday, nearly half the Covid-19 vaccination centres for the 18-45 age group were closed due to a shortage of vaccines. As of Wednesday, Delhi has 161 operational centres for the 18-45 category and 581 for those aged 45 and above."We have received 62,160 doses of Covaxin and 173,340 doses of Covishield. To date, we have received a total of 1.27 million doses for young adults... Starting today (Wednesday), slots are available on the Co-WIN portal for the 18-45 age group as well," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-receives-over-2-3-lakh-fresh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-101623899014316.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Landmark, with only a bit of land||It’s a mishmash of canvas and cloth. The wooden counter is so weathered by the years that it is of no colour. In the lockdown, the empty stall looked like a superfluous debris of yesteryear. In a heavy storm some days ago, the canvas roof collapsed (see left-side photo).A few days after the lockdown, the self-proclaimed Sultani Hotel in Hazrat Nizamuddin Basti is back in business—its roof restored with a new canvas. It is astonishing that one of Delhi’s best halwa-paratha establishments has such a provisional appearance.“Because it’s on the footpath, we can’t make it pucca,” explains Abdul Salim, the owner—better known as Ustad, or master cook. The stall was founded 40 years ago by his “walid saheb”, his father. “My father, late Abdul Rahim, was a khandani cook... his own father was a cook, and his grandfather too.” The founder, his son explains, came from Shahjahanpur in UP, and settled his base on this central Delhi spot. But the establishment was mobile, and would each year travel across various cities in UP, stopping by for a few days in the annual melas, or fairs, taking place across towns such as Aligarh and Bulandshahr, and of course in the famous Nauchandi Mela of Meerut. “The melas have ended with the coronavirus,” says Mr Salim.The stall has two other cooks—they sit on the counter facing the lane that goes straight to poet Ghalib’s tomb. The halwa-paratha arranged on the counter looks more monumental than the Barakhamba monument behind. Studded with cherries, karonda, magaz, the sooji halwa is spread out in a gigantic thaal—the platter holds 40kg of halwa. The paratha, too, is the size of the thaal. Watching it being deep fried in a cauldron makes you at once upload the scene in your mind’s Instagram. The paratha’s dominion keeps decreasing as Mr Salim cuts it bits by bits, with each new order by a new customer.The place is open daily from 10 in the morning to 8 in the evening. The halwa-paratha serving is so filling that you may not need any dinner plans later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-landmark-with-only-a-bit-of-land-101623891415799.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Old temple land deal was junked before inflated one signed: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Uttar Pradesh in-charge and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh on Wednesday made fresh allegations with new documents regarding the land deal in which a plot worth ₹2 crore was purchased by the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust at over ₹18 crore within “minutes”.Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Singh said the previous agreement was cancelled before the new agreement was signed in March 2021, refuting the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) defence that the price increased over a period of time.Singh alleged that Champat Rai, the general secretary of Shriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, purchased 1.208 hectares of land worth ₹2 crore in Ayodhya’s Bag Bjaisi village for ₹18.5 crore with the help of trust member Anil Mishra. The land, he claimed, was purchased from people who brought it for ₹2 crore minutes before.The AAP has now sought a probe into the matter by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED).The temple trust has denied all allegations, saying the land deal was done quickly, but in a transparent manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/old-temple-land-deal-was-junked-before-inflated-one-signed-aap-101623890436543.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||‘Centre nixed Delhi’s O2 deaths panel’, says Manish Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday alleged that the Centre has dismissed a committee constituted by the Delhi government to investigate Covid-19 deaths that took place due to a shortage of oxygen in the city over the past two months as the Capital dealt with a brutal fourth wave of infections.Addressing a digital press briefing, Sisodia said the Delhi government on May 27 issued an order setting up a six-member committee to assess every Covid-19 deaths that took place due to a scarcity of oxygen and approve compensation of up to ₹5 lakh for their families. The committee comprised five doctors from Delhi government hospitals and one member from the state director general of health services’ office.“As all of you know, there was an oxygen crunch during the previous Covid-19 wave in Delhi. Oxygen supply was diverted to other places [states]. There were also some deaths due to the lack of oxygen supply in the city. Following the court’s directive, the Delhi government constituted a committee of health experts to look into the incidents and ascertain what led to these deaths. It is extremely saddening that the central government has dismissed this committee. I don’t understand why the central government has an issue with this,” he said.The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, justified the move, since a similar committee was constituted weeks ahead of the city administration’s order, on the direction of the Supreme Court.Central government spokespersons did not respond to requests seeking comment.Delhi struggled with a shortage of medical oxygen during a crippling fourth Covid-19 wave between April and May, leading to the Supreme Court stepping in and ordering the Centre to ensure the Capital’s oxygen requirements were met.Sisodia on Wednesday also accused the Centre of regularly interfering with state governments, and preventing them from doing “good work”.“As a responsible government, the Delhi government wants to offer compensation of up to ₹5 lakh to the families of those who died and investigate and confirm what led to these deaths. The central government is not letting this happen. Why does it like to obstruct any good step taken or work being done by the state governments? This is not just about Delhi. Many other states including West Bengal, Maharashtra, and Jharkhand are facing different kinds of obstructions from the Centre,” he said.“The decision to dismiss the committee is unreasonable and has no logic. I appeal to the Centre to stop their childish practices. The people of Delhi want the government they elected to work without any obstructions, but the Centre has continued to act as an obstruction to the rights of the people,” he said.The Delhi unit of the BJP, in turn, accused Sisodia of “dirty politics” over compensation for families of Covid-19 patients who “died due to the negligence of the Delhi government”.“The Supreme Court of India already formed a committee with regards to oxygen deaths compensation on May 6, 2021, comprising Dr Randeep Guleria (director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi), Dr Sandeep Budhiraja (director, Max Healthcare) and one joint secretary-level officer each from the Centre and Delhi government. This Supreme Court committee was working for 10 days when the Delhi government jumped in to form a separate committee on May 27,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.The state BJP appealed to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Sisodia to focus on preparing for a potential third wave of Covid-19 and augmenting health infrastructure accordingly.“Today (Wednesday), in light of the fact that a high powered four-member committee with the Delhi government’s representation is working on the matter, the city administration has been asked to disband its committee,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-nixed-delhi-s-o2-deaths-panel-says-manish-sisodia-101623888100951.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Daily Covid cases drop below 50 after 4 months in Ludhiana||With the second wave of the pandemic ebbing, the daily cases recorded on Wednesday were below 50 for the first time in four months. The last time the daily Covid tally had been below 50 was February 22 when 37 cases had been detected. The district clocked three fatalities and 43 fresh cases on Wednesday, pushing the death toll to 2,068 and the district’s cumulative cases to 86,427. So far, 83,386 people have recuperated from the virus in the district.In a promising trend, the number of active cases also dropped below the 1,000-mark for the first time since April 13. The active cases in the district now stand at 973. The victims included two men aged 75, of Alamgir village and Jagraon, and a 49-year-old resident of Doraha. There are 25 critical patients in the district, who are on ventilator support. 3 more diagnosed with black fungusThree more people were diagnosed with black fungus on Wednesday, as per district health department officials. As many as 125 cases have been detected in the district so far, of which 18 patients have succumbed to the disease. At present, there are 45 active mucormycosis cases in the district. Of the total confirmed cases, 67 are residents of Ludhiana, while the remaining are from other districts and states. Of the victims, eight were locals. Shops can stay open till 7.30pm: DC Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Sunday said shops can remain open till 7.30 pm from Monday to Saturday while the Sunday lockdown will remain in force. “As traders pointed out that they will need half-an-hour to return home after closing the shop, the closing time has been advanced by 30 minutes. The curfew will be imposed from 8pm and 5am from Monday to Saturday,” he said. With the district receiving 36,000 doses for the 18-plus group, the administration will be holding 150 inoculation camps in the district on Thursday. He said the district has 30,000 doses for the younger age bracket but only 16,000 people had turned up to get the jab, which was unsatisfactory. Covid tracker Total cases: 86,427Recovered: 83,386Active: 973Deaths: 2068Recovery rate: 96.4 %Death Rate: 2.39 %Total vaccinated: 966729Vaccinated on June 16: 17,088||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/daily-covid-cases-drop-below-50-after-4-months-in-ludhiana-101623877932778.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula to celebrate International Yoga Day at 50 venues||While Panchkula has just tided over a deadly second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration is gearing up to celebrate International Yoga Day on June 21 at no less than 50 venues. Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said 50 people will participate at each of the venues with complete adherence to Covid guidelines.The main programme will be organised at Red Bishop, Sector 1, while the other gatherings will be at colleges, schools, parks, roundabouts and other suitable places in the district. Presiding over a meeting to review the preparedness, the DC said the block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) concerned will be the nodal officer for organising the programme in rural areas.He directed that masks and social distancing should be strictly ensured in the 45-minute programme, and adequate arrangements be made for drinking water, security and traffic management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-to-celebrate-international-yoga-day-at-50-venues-101623877632751.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||2 months on, Ludhiana gyms off to a slack start||With lockdown restrictions easing, gymnasiums across the district reopened on Wednesday, after two months of closure, to a low turnout. As per the latest directions, gymnasiums can reopen at 50% capacity, provided they vaccinate their staff and ensure that Covid protocols such as thorough sanitisation, use of face masks and social distancing are followed. Gymnasium owners are optimistic that business will gradually get back on track and are relieved to have a chance to reach break-even point after being out of business for months.There are around 800 gymnasiums across Ludhiana, which have incurred losses during the lockdown, says Gym Ekta Welfare Association president Monu Sabharwal. “The footfall was low on the first day as people are afraid to step out. We are encouraging our customers to vaccinate themselves and follow all precautions while in the gymnasium. We have set up batches to stagger customers’ entry and prevent crowding,” he said. The proprietor of Concept Fitness Gymnasium, Model Town market, Simardeep Ahluwalia, said, “We were struggling to bear fixed charges such as rent, staff salaries and power bills. With customers beginning to trickle in, we will at least be able to meet our expenses, if not make a profit right away.” A gymnasium goer, Chanpreet Singh of Kundan Nagar, said it was high time that fitness centres were allowed to open as people were facing health issues such as obesity while staying cooped up at home. “People are well aware of the risk and will take all precautions to keep themselves and their families safe,” said Singh. Confused by contradictory orders issued by the state government last week, many gymnasiums had opened their doors on June 14. The government had ordered closure of gymnasiums on April 20 amid a spurt in coronavirus cases across the state. Gymnasium owners had been demanding that the order be rolled back since the last week of May citing losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-months-on-ludhiana-gyms-off-to-a-slack-start-101623877572898.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man arrested, mother booked for dowry death in Chandigarh’s Dhanas||A Dhanas resident and his mother were booked for dowry death four days after his wife had allegedly hanged herself, the police said on Wednesday.The accused identified as Budh Ram, alias Deepak, 25, a resident of small flats in EWS Colony, Dhanas, was arrested, while his mother Naina Devi, 46, is yet to be held.The case was registered after the victim’s father, Billguram Gupta of Mauli Jagran, told the police that he had married his eldest daughter in April 2016 to Deepak. After a few days of marriage, however, the husband and his mother started harassing his daughter for more dowry, the complainant said.He added that in 2019, his daughter had lodged a complaint of dowry harassment, but the matter had ended in compromise. But the harassment hadn’t stopped, he said.On June 10 at around 11pm, his daughter had called him crying and urged him to take her back home, allegedly for fear of being killed by the husband. But the complainant along with his family were in Uttar Pradesh at the time, so he reassured his daughter.On June 11, Deepak had called the complainant asking him to take back his daughter. But after sometime, he had called and informed them that their daughter had hanged herself. She was declared brought dead at PGIMER. The victim’s family on Tuesday had held a protest outside Sarangpur police station seeking registration of the case against the accused. A case under Section 304B (dowry death) of the Indian Penal Code was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-arrested-mother-booked-for-dowry-death-in-chandigarh-s-dhanas-101623877273759.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Dine-in insufficient, open bars for brisk business: Ludhiana restaurateurs||Ludhiana With the government permitting dine-in facility at 50% capacity, hoteliers and restaurateurs had reason to cheer after two months of business being in a slump as they opened their gates to customers on Wednesday.Stakeholders, however, say delivery and dine-in are not enough to recover the losses incurred during the Covid-induced lockdown and have demanded that bars be allowed to reopen as well. The administration has allowed the restaurants to open from Monday to Saturday till 7:30pm, while home delivery of cooked food is allowed till 9pm on all days, except Sunday. Restaurateurs say dine-in will only bring back 30-35% of the business and the sector will remain in the doldrums unless the bars are reopened. Vishal Malhotra, proprietor of Flamme Bois Restaurant, Pakhowal Road, says, “The announcement has undoubtedly come as a relief for the sector but the restaurant business mostly depends on bars. We might be able to meet our expenses now, but the sector will truly be on the track of recovery once the bars open.” Hoteliers say the timings leave much to be desired as most customers visit their establishments after 8pm. With most of their staff already vaccinated, hoteliers say they should be allowed to at least stay open till 10pm. The turnout in restaurants also remains low with people wary of stepping out. Amarjit Singh, who owns Green Hotel on Railway Station Road, says the footfall in the hotels is less than 5%. “Opening restaurants till 7:30pm will not make any major difference as most customers have dinner only after 8pm.”Owner of Club 69ml, South city Area, Bonny, says, “The government should allow us to reopen bars as we are already expecting a third wave, which may cause another lockdown to be imposed. The government should give us a chance to earn profits so that we may survive through the third wave.”Struggling to make ends meet and forced to pay fixed charges including rent, salaries, power bills even during the lockdown period, he hotels and restaurant owners demanded that the government announce a relief package for the sector. Hotel And Restaurant Association president Amarvir Singh said the hospitality sector has been among the worst affected during the pandemic. “We have sought monetary relief in terms of property tax, fixed charges on power supply, and bar fee, but no relief has been provided as yet. The government should open bars at the earliest.” Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal stages protest, wants Sunday lockdown lifted (BOX)  With lockdown restrictions gradually easing, Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) members staged a protest against the state government’s decision to continue with Sunday lockdown at Ghas Mandi on Wednesday.The traders raised slogans against the government and said the lockdown and curfew had caused considerable financial losses to both traders and industrialists. They said if the Sunday lockdown was not lifted, protests will be staged across Punjab over the next three days.Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal general secretary Sunil Mehra said, “We are glad that all traders have been allowed to open their shops till 7.30pm from Monday to Saturday. However, wholesale shops in Chaura Bazaar, Akalgarh Market and Gandhinagar Market witness more footfall on Sunday than any other day of the week and customers from other districts also visit the shops for bulk shopping.”The district administration has said the Sunday lockdown will remain in force as per the state government’s instructions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dinein-insufficient-open-bars-for-brisk-business-ludhiana-restaurateurs-101623877272661.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala man murders aunt, buries body to usurp her land||Eyeing her share of ancestral property, a man strangled his 51-year-old paternal aunt to death and buried her body in the same piece of land in Naggal village of Ambala, police said on Wednesday.The accused, Gurpreet, alias Preet, has been arrested after he confessed to killing Surinder Kaur, locally renowned for her diligent religious activities.The crime to came to fore on the complaint of Gurpreet father’s and the victim’s brother, Amarjeet Singh, after she went missing on June 9.On the family’s suspicion that Gurpreet had been trying to grab his aunt’s property, police interrogated him, following which he confessed to killing her and burying her body in their family’s ancestral land.The decomposed body was exhumed on his disclosure and sent to Khanpur Medical College, Sonepat, for autopsy.Victim got inheritance from father The victim’s family said she had four sisters, one of whom had died, and a brother, Amarjeet. The siblings’ father had left behind 21 acres to be divided among only the sisters. As Surinder was unmarried and had no heir, Gurpreet wanted to grab her share of the land.“On June 9, Gurpreet and his friend Kaala drove Surinder to Mathedi in his car on her request. She was to attend a religious event there, but went missing,” said sub-inspector Dharambir Singh, in-charge, Naggal police station.“The accused strangled her to death and buried her body near a tube well in the same land. To mislead the police, they left her mobile phone with a hotel receptionist in Kurukshetra. Gurpreet was arrested on Tuesday and a manhunt is on to nab his friend,” he added.Police have added murder section to the missing person’s FIR lodged earlier at the Naggal police station. Gurpreet has been sent to three-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-man-murders-aunt-buries-body-to-usurp-her-land-101623876973815.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster out on bail shot dead in Ambala||A day after a 35-year-old criminal out on bail was shot dead by two assailants near Hathikhana Mandir in Ambala Cantt, police are still clueless about the shooters’ identity.Victim Jeetu, alias Diwakar, who ran a dairy business, succumbed to multiple bullet injuries at the civil hospital. After the autopsy report, police said that seven shots had hit him.Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Cantt) Ram Kumar said, “Five police teams are on the assailants’ trail, but none has been arrested so far. A probe is on and we expect a breakthrough soon.”The CCTV footage of the incident showed that multiple shots were fired by the bike-borne assailants. The victim was first shot in the back, then in the chest and head, until he collapsed, the police said.Victim’s sister Hans Kumari told the police that Jeetu and their servant Kapil had gone near the temple to tie the cows. “Kapil returned on a bike and told us that Jeetu was lying injured on the road. We took him to a hospital, but he died during treatment. I am sure that he was shot by Saurabh, alias Mau, of Chidimaar Mohalla, and Arjun, alias Ajju, of Kumhar Mohalla,” she said.Victim attacked previously in 2019Kumari said that in December 2019, the two shooters along with seven of their accomplices, had attacked her brother.An FIR was lodged under Sections 34, 120B and 302 of the Indian Penal Code and under the Arms Act against the duo and seven others identified as Shammi Pandit, Sonu, alias Gajju, Monu Daggar, Aman Gappu, Arjit, Splendor Singh and Randheer.Investigators believe that Mau and Ajju are the prime accused in the case, who had earlier tried to kill Jeetu in 2019 when he was released on bail in a kidnapping case, but he had survived the attack after treatment at PGIMER.“Jeetu had also attacked Mau’s gang members in 2017-18 and this murder is a result of ego clash. Both the parties have a criminal background of kidnapping, scuffle and other crimes. Shooters were out on bail too,” said one of the investigating officers, pleading anonymity.In another gang war between Bhupi Rana and Lawrence Bishnoi, blood was spilt on the streets of Ambala on March 25 as two men were shot dead and two were seriously injured. The shooters are still at large.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-out-on-bail-shot-dead-in-ambala-101623876972946.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||15-year-old kidnapped in Chandigarh village: Victim’s phone used to make ransom call||The kidnappers of the 15-year-old from Kishangarh village were using two different mobile phones to contact the family with ransom demand as well as for fixing the place to drop the money, the police said on Wednesday.The teenager, who had gone cycling with his two friends, was kidnapped from Manimajra and a ransom of ₹50 lakh was demanded, but four hours later, the kidnappers released the boy unharmed without taking any money.The police investigations have pointed out that the kidnappers were using two mobile phones to contact the victim’s sister. One of the phones used was of the victim, which the accused had handed back when the teen was dropped near Sector 21, Panchkula.The first call for ransom was made through the victim’s phone. Police sources privy to the investigations said that this was done to pressure the family so that they agreed to pay the ransom.The other phone the accused had been using was dumped to avoid being traced.Kidnappers identified, but no arrests madeKuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh, said “We have got some leads and will soon arrest the kidnappers, who have been identified.”Even though the police are investigating the case from the angle of kidnapping done for ransom, they are not ruling out involvement of someone known to the family/victim.Three different teams of police are working to trace the kidnappers. The police have traced the route used by the kidnappers as told by the teenager who claimed that he was taken to Baltana in a white Maruti Suzuki Brezza. Three people have been rounded up for questioning.Even though the number plate bearing Haryana registration number used on the vehicle was fake, the police have got few leads on the vehicle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15yearold-kidnapped-in-chandigarh-village-victim-s-phone-used-to-make-ransom-call-101623876612516.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula rolls out local bus service||Come Thursday, local buses will ply in Panchkula, with halts at 54 bus stops.With the help of the Haryana transport department, the municipal corporation has roped in 10 buses for local routes, which will cover Panchkula, Zirakpur, Kalka, Pinjore, Raipur Rani, Barwala and Sector-17 ISBT in Chandigarh. The proposal for the local bus service was passed by the MC House on January 27. Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said local MLA Gian Chand Gupta will flag off the buses from the Panchkula bus stand on Thursday.The five routes are Jalouli to Prachin Shiv Mandir, Saketri ; Chandi Kotla to Sector-17 ISBT, Chandigarh; Zirakpur to Sector-17 ISBT, Chandigarh; Zirakpur to Prachin Shiv Mandir, Saketri; and Kalka to Prachin Shiv Mandir, Saketri.Need connectivity to railway station, PGI, HC: ResidentsWelcoming the move, residents said it was a much-needed facility that they had been demanding for decades. However, they expressed dissatisfaction over the routes.Members of Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA) pointed out that the routes did not cover the Chandigarh railway station, PGIMER, GMSH-16 and GMCH-32 in Chandigarh, besides Haryana Civil Secretariat, Vidhan Sabha and Punjab and Haryana high court.CWA president SK Nayar said Panchkula was a part of the Chandigarh Capital Project as per the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966, but its residents had remained devoid of basic facilities.However, the mayor said they were awaiting permission to ply Panchkula buses till PGIMER.Colour-coded dustbins in public placesThe mayor said the work to install 300 sets of colour-coded dustbins in public places for easier waste segregation will begin in the city on Thursday.An Eco Mart by the municipal corporation will also start in Sector 14 the same day. Here, residents can purchase home composters, recycled paper products, pencils, notebooks, paper sheets, biodegradable bags, cloth and jute bags, and wooden spoons, plates and combs, as an alternative to plastic.Also, residents can avail of consultancy services for solar power and waste water management.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-rolls-out-local-bus-service-101623876552616.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Taniya becomes first Chandigarh woman to play Test cricket for India||Taniya Bhatia on Wednesday became the first woman cricketer from Chandigarh to play Test cricket for India. After playing 15 ODIs and 50 T20s for India, Taniya made her Test debut against England in Bristol during the one-off tie. She joins the league of other Chandigarh cricketers, including Kapil Dev, Ashok Malhotra, Chetan Sharma, Yograj Singh, Yuvraj Singh and VRV Singh, who have played Test cricket for India. The 23-year-old wicketkeeper-cum-batter played her first ODI/T20 match in 2018 against South Africa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/taniya-becomes-first-chandigarh-woman-to-play-test-cricket-for-india-101623876252409.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||AEFI survey: Chandigarh ranks first in reporting, treating post-vaccination effects||Chandigarh has been ranked first among all Union territories and states in the Centre’s adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) surveillance survey.States and union territories are ranked on the basis of their performances in reporting, investigating and casualty assessment of adverse events post immunisation in the annual survey. Chandigarh scored 89% in the overall weighted score for AEFI surveillance processes, an 8% increase against last year’s 81%.The UT health department reported 17 AEFI cases this year, against 41 cases last year. In this year’s annual survey, Chandigarh was ranked an ‘excellent’ performer, followed by Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Punjab was ranked a ‘good’ performer. Chandigarh immunisation officer Dr Manjit Trehan said, “In the annual survey, special focus was laid on the Covid vaccination drive as it was a new challenge for health department authorities. In Chandigarh, over 4 lakh vaccine doses have been administered to eligible beneficiaries so far, while AEFI reporting was seen in just 0.003% cases. Most people experienced mild or moderate symptoms and were treated accordingly. Only severe cases were discussed with the higher authorities. For other immunisations also, follow-up of each case was done.” “Each AEFI case was followed up by a team of experts. Timely investigation of each case were done and records were submitted to the higher level,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, Chandigarh director of health services.Commending the UT health department, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “Congratulations to the health department for excellent ranking in handling post-vaccine adverse impact management.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aefi-survey-chandigarh-ranks-first-in-reporting-treating-post-vaccination-effects-101623875952459.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mason killed in scuffle with colleague in Ludhiana||A mason, who was critically injured during a scuffle with a fellow workman at Sunview Enclave in Ayali Kalan village, succumbed at a hospital in Chandigarh on Tuesday. The victim, Bhag Narayan, 50, of Bihar, and the accused, Ranjit Mahto, had assaulted each other with a brick and iron pipe following a verbal spat, police said. Both men were working for contractor Lakhwinder Singh at Sunview Enclave and had been putting up at the construction site. In his complaint, Narayan’s cousin, Rajesh Kumar of Jainpur village, an eyewitness, said, “On June 13, Narayan hit Mahto with an iron rod after a heated verbal spat. Mahto retaliated by hitting the mason on the head with a brick, following which he lost consciousness.” The contractor rushed both of them to ESIC Model Hospital, Bharat Nagar Chowk. Mahto fled from the hospital after receiving first aid, while Narayan, whose condition was critical, was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. Assistant sub-inspector, Gian Singh, who is investigating the case, said a murder case has been lodged against Mahto and a hunt is on for his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mason-killed-in-scuffle-with-colleague-in-ludhiana-101623875832667.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali admn eases curbs, allows shops to remain open till 7pm||Relaxing Covid restrictions further in view of the steep decline in cases, the Mohali administration has allowed all shops to remain open from 5am to 7pm, instead of the earlier 6pm.Market associations and mall managements have been directed to appoint Covid monitors and display their names prominently. They will be personally responsible for ensuring compliance of Covid guidelines. Also, restaurants, including those in hotels, cafes, coffee shops, fast food outlets and dhabas have been allowed to open at 50% capacity, subject to all their employees having received at least one dose of vaccine. Cinemas, gyms and museums can also reopen at 50% capacity with the same vaccination rule.Daily night curfew will be in place from 8pm to 5am. Public movement will be completely prohibited during Sunday curfew – from 8pm on Saturday to 5am on Monday. Restaurants can offer home delivery and takeaway till 9pm, but no dine-in during curfew hours. Bars, pubs and taverns will continue to remain closed. Up to 50 people are allowed at weddings and cremations. But the ban on social, political and religious gatherings will continue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-admn-eases-curbs-allows-shops-to-remain-open-till-7pm-101623875772542.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Milkha Singh recovers from Covid, still in PGIMER ICU||Legendary sprinter Milkha Singh, 91, has successfully beaten Covid-19, almost one month after he first tested positive for the virus on May 19.However, he is still in the non-Covid ICU at PGIMER for observation of post-Covid complications.“Milkha Singh tested negative for Covid-19 on Wednesday and has been shifted out of the Covid hospital to the Advanced Cardiac Centre of PGIMER. His medical condition is stable and he is recovering,” said Dr Ashok Kumar, official spokesperson, PGIMER.On June 13, his wife, Nirmal Kaur, 85, had succumbed to the virus at a Mohali hospital, three weeks after contracting the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/milkha-singh-recovers-from-covid-still-in-pgimericu-101623875532917.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh yet to get fully functional waste processing plant||It has been a year since the municipal corporation (MC) took over the Sector-25 solid waste processing plant from a private firm, but the city is yet to get a fully functional facility. The MC General House had terminated Jaypee Group’s contract in March last year and taken over the plant in June. The MC’s contention for the takeover was that despite being set up in 2005, the plant had not been operating to its optimum capacity. A report by the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, in August last year, had stated that at the time the plant was working at only 10% of its 500 metric tonne (MT) capacity. MC commissioner KK Yadav, however, said that even after being operated by the civic body, it was processing only 70 MT waste. The city produces nearly 450MT of solid waste per day. Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councillor and leader of opposition, said, “The private firm running it was processing much more waste than what the MC is doing, which as per MC’s own records is around 30 MT.” The plant when run by the firm was processing anywhere between 120 MT to 200 MT waste per day, as per MC officials. Even as the MC continues to dump most of its solid waste without processing, the decision to finalise the technology for upgrading the plant has not been taken yet. Set up new plant: IIT Roorkee report Recommending setting up of a new “modern” waste processing plant at the existing site in Dadumajra, IIT in its report had stated that even after the existing machinery is repaired, the plant could at best run at only 40% of its total capacity. The plant was constructed in 2008 as per the Municipal Solid Waste, 2000 (MSW), guidelines. The department of civil engineering, IIT Roorkee, in its “Status report of 500 TPD solid waste processing plant, Chandigarh” had stated: “The best way is to set up a new modern 500 TPD (tonnes per day) plant for dry and wet waste treatment in the given plot. For the wet waste stream, biological treatment will be required to meet Solid Waste Management Rules (SWM), 2016.” Why the delayFor nearly 10 months now, the MC has not been able to decide which technology to use to upgrade the plant. Thirteen companies had submitted their expression of interests (EOI) in January this year after an EOI was floated by the MC last year. A technical committee was constituted to examine all options. Detailed presentations were made by the firms and the report was tabled before the MC General House in April this year. No decision was taken. Most councillors had demanded the 13 companies make the presentations to them again. In the next House meeting when the agenda was again tabled, the councillors expressed yet again their inability to fully understand the technologies. They demanded a tour of sites where these technologies were being used. Now, the decision is likely to come after visits to two plants in Delhi, one in Ambala and one in Nasik. On Wednesday, a MC team comprising Mayor, joint commissioner and eight councillors visited two waste processing plants in Delhi on Wednesday. Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “We will complete the visits within this month. The technology will be finalised by month-end. If needed, after a special MC House meet, we will finalise and float the tenders in July itself. We expect that by August-end, we will allot the work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-yet-to-get-fully-functional-waste-processing-plant-101623875352713.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ansari ambulance case: Cops say vehicle was used to carry arms, 1 more arrested||The bullet-proof ambulance in which don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari travelled from jail to Punjab court was also used for carrying firearms, police said on Wednesday, announcing another arrest in the case. The accused, Anand Yadav, Ansari’s aide, was arrested from Faizabad road on the charges of forgery and cheating for his alleged involvement in the registration of the ambulance, superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad said, adding he had a reward of ₹25,000 on his arrest. The SP said that firearms were carried in the ambulance but didn’t share detail in this regard. Doctor Alka Rai (of Mau’s Shyam Sanjeevani Hospital), who was arrested earlier in connection with the case, told police that that Ansari and his aides, Mujahid and Rajnath Yadav, forced her to sign some documents for getting the ambulance transferred in the name of the hospital. She had also accused them of preparing her forged voter card to get the ambulance registered with the road transportation office (RTO). Rajnath Yadav was arrested on April 4 from Mau and Shyam Sheshnath Rai on April 19. Anand Yadav has confessed the role of other people in this case, the SP said, adding efforts were on to arrest other accused in the case – Mujahid and Shahid – both carrying a reward of ₹25,000 each. On Monday, a Barabanki court had remanded mafia don-turned-BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari to judicial custody in a case of alleged forgery and cheating in the registration of a bulletproof ambulance used to ferry him between courts and jail in Punjab. Barabanki Chief Judicial Magistrate Kamalapati remanded Ansari to a 14-day judicial custody after the local police put the Mau MLA under arrest in the ambulance case and produced him in the court through video-conference from Banda Jail. After having been brought from the Ropar jail in Punjab recently, Ansari was lodged in the Banda jail as an undertrial in a slew of criminal cases. The case against Ansari was registered after it was found that a bulletproof ambulance with a Barabanki number was used to ferry him from Ropar jail to a Mohali court near Chandigarh in an extortion case. The case was filed against Alka Rai at Barabanki’s Kotwali police station in connection with the registration of the ambulance (UP 41 AT 7171) without proper documents and a valid certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ansari-ambulance-case-cops-say-vehicle-was-used-to-carry-arms-1-more-arrested-101623875292696.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Contractual teachers seize control of PSEB, edu dept offices in Mohali||High drama was witnessed on Wednesday after the contractual teachers’ union held a protest outside the office of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) and the education department in Phase 8 here and seized entry to both the offices.One of the protesting teachers also consumed a poisonous substance and attempted suicide. She was rushed to Fortis Hospital, from where she was discharged after treatment.The teacher who attempted to kill self was from Abohar. She had threatened to end her life alleging that Punjab government was not listening to their demands and that there was no point in living under the existing conditions.The protesting teachers were mostly from primary schools of the state. Some of the teachers also climbed atop the education secretary office building with bottles of petrol and threatened self-immolation if no one from the ministry came to have a dialogue with them. Those who climbed atop the building were identified as Satinder Kang, Kulvinder Nardu, Samarjit Mansa, Kulbir Fazilka and Beant Singh Patiala. Heavy police deployed at protest siteThe primary demand of the teachers is regularisation of jobs and enhancement in salaries. The teachers on Wednesday claimed that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had promised them in 2015, while they were protesting against the SAD government, that on forming government, he would fulfil their demands. The non-permanent teachers said that more than four years had gone by since then, but they were still struggling.The union leaders, Jhujar Singh Sangrur and Ranjit Singh Bhattiwal, said that Captain in 2016 had come to their protest site and promised that once his government came to power, in the very first cabinet meeting they would regularise the services of teachers. “More than four years have passed, but Captain government has not lived up to their promises. So we have decided to hold massive protests till someone from the Captain government comes and gives us assurance. We also demand that our lump sum salary must be increased to ₹40,000,” they added.The employees of the education department and the education board after 5pm were forced to leave their vehicles inside the premises and scale the walls of the office buildings to go back to their homes, as the entry and exit points were seized by the protesting teachers.Till the filing of the report, the teachers were still protesting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/contractual-teachers-seize-control-of-pseb-edu-dept-offices-in-mohali-101623875172973.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases fall again||A day after a slight uptick in the Covid-19 cases, the tricity reported a dip again on Wednesday.Against 113 cases on Tuesday, which were higher than 87 the day before, the figure dropped to 101 on Wednesday. At 16, Panchkula had the lowest cases, down from 20 a day ago; followed by Chandigarh with 41 after 40 on Tuesday; and Mohali with 44, biggest drop from 53 in 24 hours.The daily deaths also decreased from nine to six. Among them, four died in Mohali, two in Chandigarh and Panchkula reported no fatality for the eighth time this month. Tricity’s deaths have remained below 10 for the past eight days.The active cases also declined further, coming down from 1,332 on Tuesday to 1,270 on Wednesday. The positivity rate, at around 2%, was almost uniform across the board, while the recovery rate was above 97% across the tricity.Since reaching the peak of 2,612 on May 10, tricity’s daily cases have been receding consistently, dropping by 96% in the subsequent 37 days. Similarly, from the all-time high of 38 deaths on May 5, the number had slumped by 84% in the next 42 days. Panchkula allows foreign travellers second jab before 84 daysPanchkula will provide second dose of Covishield to foreign travellers before the mandated 84 days from Thursday.“People flying abroad for education, work and sports, including staff accompanying the Indian contingent to the Tokyo Olympic Games, can get the second dose of Covishield 28 days after the first dose,” said Dr Meenu Sasan, district immunisation officer. Such beneficiaries will be vaccinated at Conference Hall, first floor, HUDA Field Hostel, Sector 6, Panchkula, from 2pm to 3pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-fall-again-101623875052469.html
17-06-2021||Other||Punbus contractual staff to hold three-day strike||The Punjab Roadways/Punbus contractual employees’ union has announced a three-day strike starting from June 28 against the state government’s failure in regularising the staff and tightening noose around the transport mafia.The employees’ association will stage a protest outside the residence of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in Patiala on June 29.Addressing a press conference at the city bus stand on Wednesday, vice-president of the union, Satnam Singh said that the state government had vowed to regularise the contractual employees ahead of the 2017 assembly elections, but that promise is yet to be fulfilled.“The government has given jobs to the sons of a few Congress MLAs, but the contractual employees that have been working for over a decade are struggling with their demands. The state also failed to improve the infrastructure and tighten the noose around the transport mafia, due to which the roadways is reeling under losses,” said Singh.Union leaders Jaspal Sharma and Gurkirat Singh said the roadways is continuously running into losses due to the inefficient policies of the state government and few depots are even struggling to get fuel for their buses. Protests will also be held at all the bus stands across the state on June 25 and the staff will observe a three-day strike from June 28, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punbus-contractual-staff-to-hold-three-day-strike-101623874813476.html
17-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana post office employee, husband booked for stealing ₹36 lakh||The Division 5 police have booked a post office employee and her husband for stealing ₹36 lakh from the accounts of two Dugri residents.The accused employee is identified as Harbans Kaur of Sunrise Colony and her husband is Gurdeep Sarpal.The case has been registered over a year after Jasleen Kaur and Rajinder Kaur, both residents of Dugri Phase 2, filed a complaint against the accused couple.Jasleen had lodged the complaint against the couple on February 21, 2020, accusing them of stealing the amount from her savings account at the post office.A similar complaint was lodged by Rajinder Kaur on March 3, 2020.Investigation officer sub-inspector Kulbir Singh said a case under sections 408, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC has been lodged against the accused. A hunt is on for their arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-post-office-employee-husband-booked-for-stealing-36-lakh-101623874758205.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||It’s mid-June, and Chandigarh’s Sukhna Lake is nearly full||Even as Chandigarh has yet to face the full unfolding of monsoon, Sukhna Lake is already brimming with water within first fortnight of June. On Wednesday, its water level was at 1,156.4 feet, highest in June in the last seven years. Compared to 170.3mm rain during June last year, the city has already received 125.7mm in the month this year following the early arrival of monsoon on June 13.The lake’s flood gates are opened when its water level reaches 1,163 feet. An alert is sounded the moment the level inches towards 1,162 feet. UT chief engineer CB Ojha said, “Generally, the water in the lake recedes between March and June. But the city has recorded good rainfall in the last couple of years. So this year, even before proper advancement of monsoon, the lake is already full of water.” The immediate jump in its levels can also be attributed to the UT engineering department recently releasing upstream water into the lake after the water level on the other side of the inlet gate touched 1,160 feet. The lake is considered to be drying when the water recedes to 1,152 feet, as seen in June 2017. In 2015 and 2016, it was tad higher at 1,153 feet. It rose to 1,155.2 feet in June 2018 and 1,156 feet the next year. Last year too, the water level hovered around 1,155 feet. In August last year, incessant rain in the catchment area had forced the UT officials to open two floodgates of the lake after the water level crossed the danger mark of 1,163 feet. Before this, flood gates were also opened in September 2018, a first since a similar situation was witnessed in 2008. “The water level in the lake crossed the danger mark mainly because of the heavy rainfall in the hilly regions and its catchment areas. The local city’s rain had limited impact,” said Ojha. Synonymous with Chandigarh, Sukhna Lake was created by Le Corbusier in 1958. By 1988, 66% of the original water holding capacity of the lake was lost due to silting. Following this, check dams were constructed in the catchment area. The man-made lake now has a capacity of around 500 hectare metres against the original capacity of over 1,074 hectare metres. On the north side, the lake is surrounded by 26 square-kilometre area of wildlife sanctuary. The high court is also monitoring the protection of the lake after initiating a suo motu petition in 2009. UT asks Mohali to clean up Sukhna ChoeLast year’s opening of flood gates had led to flash floods in the Sukhna Choe, leaving Zirakpur’s Baltana area inundated, and causing damage to many residential and commercial structures. To avoid a repeat, the UT administration has written to Mohali to finish cleaning the choe in its jurisdiction. “The cleaning work in our area is nearing completion. But, if it is not taken up in downstream Mohali, it will again lead to flooding in Zirakpur areas,” said a UT official. The UT engineering department has also deputed three sub-divisional engineers to keep a 24-hour tab on the lake’s water levels, which will be recorded every two hours as monsoon picks up pace in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/its-mid-june-and-chandigarh-s-sukhna-lake-is-nearly-full-101623874757230.html
17-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana players thrilled to be back on practice fields||The state sports department has allowed practice in stadiums, grounds and sports academies from Wednesday and the players couldn’t be more thrilled.However, the sportspersons will have to abide the Covid-19 standard operating procedures (SOPs), wear masks and follow social distancing norms.The nod to open the sports venues has come two months after restrictions were clamped owing to a raging second wave of Covid in the state.The players said that now they will be able to work on their fitness level and learn proper techniques which they have missed while practising alone at home.District sports officer Ravinder Singh said, “We have allowed the players who are participating in national and international level events of all games to practise at the stadium from today. The coaches have been informed and players will report at the venues for practice.”Basketball players were seen practising at the Guru Nanak Stadium on Wednesday while their coaches were guiding them. As per the players, they have last attended their training sessions on April 2 after which the stadium was closed for practice due to spike in Covid cases.Teja Singh Dhaliwal, general secretary of Punjab Basketball Association, said, “Practice is essential for all sportspersons and the authorities have finally opened the stadium. We have called players today and training session has been started. The coaches will ensure that players are following the stipulated norms.”Sixteen-year-old Prince Kumar, who aims to become a Judo coach, said, “I am glad that I will be able to practise at the multipurpose hall with other team members. For the last two months, I was at home like the others and faced difficultly in concentrating. The online sessions are helpful but practising in front of the coach and with team members can improve our techniques in a much better way.”Kumar had bagged a gold medal in the Commonwealth Judo championship held in Jaipur in 2018 and is practising for the Khelo Indian Games scheduled to be held this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-players-thrilled-to-be-back-on-practice-fields-101623874756097.html
17-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana doctors successfully remove infant’s third leg in six-hr surgery||In a rare surgery which lasted six hours, doctors successfully removed an extra leg of a one-year-old boy of Haibowal at a hospital in Model Town here.The boy had a birth defect — tripod deformity — where an additional rudimentary leg was arising from the back besides the two normal legs and the third leg was neurologically intact although the power in that leg was reduced.Four doctors performed the corrective surgery on the infant who currently under observation at the paediatric ICU and is recovering.The boy belongs to a low-income family of labourers and was taken to the hospital with the help of a city-based NGO which bore the expenses ( ₹1.25 lakh) of the surgery.The doctors stated that the birth defect was seemingly due to a parasitic Siamese twin, the body of which degenerated leaving the leg behind, which fused with the back of the other twin. The third leg was neurologically intact although the power in that leg was compromised.Deep Hospital director Dr Baldeep Singh said the patient’s MRI scan indicated the presence of femur tibia fibula and the knee joint in the additional leg. The expert panel of doctors at the hospital decided to perform a corrective surgery to remove the third leg.The surgery required a multi-disciplinary approach and was carried out by neurosurgeon Dr RK Kaushal, orthopaedic surgeon Dr Mohammad Yamin, paediatrics surgeon Dr RJ Singh and senior plastic surgery consultant Dr RavindraTah.Dr Kaushal said, “There was a spinal cord connection of the third leg with an associated meningomyelocele (MMC). The MMC was repaired and the nerve connections to the accessory leg were detached carefully sparing the nerve fibres of the normal lower extremities.”“The rudimentary leg showed an additional femur and other lower limb bones, but the shape and anatomy of those bones were not normal. So, the amputation was done extremely carefully keeping in mind the presence of nerve bundles and spinal vertebrae.” said Dr Yamin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-doctors-successfully-remove-infant-s-third-leg-in-six-hr-surgery-101623874752702.html
17-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Group admin among two booked booked for offensive remarks on WhatsApp||The Daresi police here have booked the administrator of a WhatsApp group and another member for posting derogatory remarks against Dr BR Ambedkar.The accused are yet to be identified, said police, who are trying to trace them through their mobile phone numbers.A case was registered following a complaint by Jamson Ghai of Basti Jodhewal.Ghai, who is a member of Punjab Legal Cell Ludhiana, stated that the accused is the administrator of a WhatsApp group named Nathuram Godse Vichaar Manch, and during a conversation on some topic, he has passed derogatory comments against Dr BR Ambedkar and other prominent leaders which have hurt the sentiments of the members belonging to the Schedule Caste community.Investigating officer sub-inspector Sunita Kaur said that both the accused have switched off their phones, but they will be tracked down soon.A case under Sections 294 and 297 of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Daresi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-group-admin-among-two-booked-booked-for-offensive-remarks-on-whatsapp-101623874692382.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||12 deaths, 635 Covid cases reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded 635 more Covid infections and 12 deaths, taking the overall total of cases to 3,09,361 and fatalities to 4,217. Since June 7, the UT has mostly recorded below-20 daily fatalities.The second Covid wave peaked in May in the UT with the highest daily cases of 5,443 on May 7 and the highest daily deaths of 73 on May 17. The number of patients who were cured in the UT on Wednesday was 1,649 including 1,108 from Kashmir and 541 from Jammu. The active positive cases dropped to 11,381 from the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13.The overall number of people who recovered reached 2, 93,763 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 94.95%.The officials said that 45,863 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests crossing 9.3 million.Officials said with 129 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections. All other 19 districts had below-100 cases with no or single-digit cases in four districts.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.2 lakh cases and 1,933 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,118 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 815 deaths.The month of May was most devastating for Jammu and Kashmir recording the highest 1,14,382 Covid-19 cases and 1,625 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12-deaths-635-covid-cases-reported-in-jk-101623874032345.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 233 fresh infections, four deaths||Himachal Pradesh recorded 233 new cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 1,99,430, while the death toll mounted to 3,398 after four more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 41 were reported in Kangra, 32 in Shimla, 29 in Mandi, 26 each in Bilaspur and Sirmaur, 19 each in Chamba and Una, 16 in Hamirpur, 11 in Solan, seven in Kullu, five in Kinnaur and two in Lahaul-Spiti. Three fatalities were reported Kangra and one in Hamirpur. Recoveries reached 1,92,256 after 523 people recuperated while the active cases have whittled down to 3,733. In terms of the cases, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 45,407 cases followed by Mandi where 26,752 people have been tested positive to date and Shimla with 24,813 cases. Solan has 22,089 cases, Sirmaur 15,191, Hamirpur 14,174, Una 13,143, Bilaspur 12,487, Chamba 10,806, Kullu, 8,703, Kinnaur 3,182 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,681.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-233-fresh-infections-four-deaths-101623873735217.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon brings mercury down in Himachal||Moderate to heavy rainfall was experienced in parts of Himachal causing the mercury to plummet several notches on Wednesday. Rains that started on Tuesday night continued till Wednesday afternoon.The monsoon arrived at least a fortnight ahead in the state this year on June 13.State capital Shimla experienced highest 69mm of rain followed by 37mm at Kahu and Joginderngar 27mm.Bhoranj got 26mm rain, Nalagarh 25mm, Sarkaghat 22mm, Arki 21mm and Mandi 17mm. Famous hill resort Dalhousie and Chamba experienced 13mm rain and Kufri 5mm.Dharamshala received 6mm rain and adjoining tea town of Palampur 11mm. The MeT department has predicted wet weather till June 21. Shimla MeT centre director Manmohan Singh said a western disturbance persisting in the region and the monsoon would bring more rains to the state over next few days.There has been a yellow weather alert for thunderstorm and lightening in the low and mid-hills till June 20, he said.Meanwhile, the maximum and minimum temperatures across the state also dipped about a degree below normal, due to rainfall.Singh said the maximum and minimum temperature dropped 2-3 degrees below normal in the state.Keylong was the coldest place with a low of 5.8 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoon-brings-mercury-down-in-himachal-101623873733674.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal BJP seeks report card of ministers, legislators||Aiming to win the upcoming bypolls as well as achieve ‘Mission Repeat’ next year, the Himachal Pradesh unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has sought report card from its ministers, legislators and leaders to assess their performance in order to chalk out a strategy accordingly. A three-day review meeting of the party is currently underway at Shimla to assess the government’s efforts in combating the pandemic and plan of action for byelections to Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly seats likely to be held in August, besides the assembly polls next year. Party sources said the state leadership has sought report card from ministers and the legislators about the work they have done in the last more than three years. The party leaders, who contested the 2017 assembly elections but lost, have also been told to submit their report card. Besides, they have been asked to specify plans and goals they have set for their respective constituencies for the remaining 18 months. It has been learnt that the party also discussed the probable candidates for the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly segments.Among the candidates in the race for ticket from Mandi are Ajay Rana, Praveen Sharma and Brig Khushal Thakur (retd). Former MP Kripal Singh Parmar is vying for ticket from Fatehpur assembly segment, while Chetan Bragta and Neelam Sirkaik are front-runners from Jubbal-Kotkhai. The party has already appointed in-charge and conveners for Mandi and Fatehpur segments. BJP’s core committee on Wednesday appointed Suresh Bhardwaj as the in-charge for Jubbal-Kotkhai, while Rajeev Bindal would be the coordinator.The Lok Sabha and assembly byelections would be a litmus test for the BJP. The party which was on a winning streak since 2017 suffered a setback in the civic body elections when it lost Palampur and Solan municipal corporations and also fell short of majority in Dharamshala. The only civic body it had a thumping mandate was in Mandi. Moreover, the party is embroiled in an intense infighting. While a letter bomb against a minister has left party red-faced, the faction owing allegiance to former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal has started asserting itself again. Meanwhile, the BJP has also started planning for the elections to the Shimla municipal corporation. One of the oldest civic bodies in the country would be going to polls next year just ahead of assembly elections.The Shimla MC is currently ruled by the BJP. Like ministers and legislators, the party has also sought a report card from the councillors of Shimla MC. Meanwhile, while addressing a press conference, BJP’s chief spokesperson Randhir Sharma said the core committee has reviewed the works done by the party during the pandemic. He said the party workers distributed ration kits to 9,500 households, meals to 15,190 people and masks to 11.78 lakh. Besides, the party legislators and leaders distributed oximeters and thermometers to Covid patients under ‘Seva Hi Sangathan-2’ programme. Sharma said the party has decided to continue the programme. He said June 25 will be observed as a ‘black day’ as emergency was imposed on this day in 1975. Sharma said a virtual meeting of the state working committee will be held on June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bjp-seeks-report-card-of-ministers-legislators-101623873732539.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||No decision likely on bus permits till next month: Punjab to high court||The Punjab government has told the high court that it is not likely to pass any order on the show-cause notices slapped on transporters over a dispute regarding variation in routes till next month. Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda, upon instructions from the state transport commissioner, told the high court bench of justice AG Masih that no orders are likely to be passed till July 2. The court was hearing pleas from dozen-odd transporters who have challenged the show-cause notices issued to them by the transport department.T Earlier, transporters had told court that hearings were going on and orders are likely to be passed on the show-cause notices slapped on them. “It is beyond comprehension that when the pandemic situation is at its worst, instead of adjourning the hearing, the government (transport commissioner) has fixed the same…This not only smacks of mala fide but also shows prejudice and pre-determined mind,” the plea of M/S Rajguru Bus Service said. They claimed that notices amount to review/ recalling of the permits granted earlier for which state transport commissioner does not have any power. The show-cause notices were slapped to cancel variations in original permits allowed to transporters in recent years. The government feels the additions and deletions in routes allowed to transporters, especially during previous regime suits, more to the transporters than public. Thus, these should be cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-decision-likely-on-bus-permits-till-next-month-punjab-to-high-court-101623873675980.html
17-06-2021||Bangalore||K’taka reports 100k more deaths in first 6 months compared to pre-pandemic years: Data||Bengaluru: Compared to pre-pandemic years, Karnataka reported an excess of over 1,00,000 deaths between January 1 and June 15 this year. According to the data from the civil registration system (CRS) of the Registrar of Births and Deaths, in these first six months, Karnataka reported 3,37,000 deaths. While the official website didn’t have data for the year 2020 due to technical issues, the data for years 2018 and 2019 were available. According to the data, between January and June in 2018, 2,24,000 deaths were reported while in 2019, the number of deaths stood at 2,35,000. The figure of 1,02,429 deaths raises concern about underreporting of Covid-19 cases since the excess is around five times more than the government’s Covid-19 death tally. As per the Karnataka health and family welfare department, 21,048 deaths were reported in the first six months of this year. “There is certainly no underreporting in the state. We are releasing the data that is available to us every day. If people are not reporting Covid-related deaths it needs to be looked at,” said a senior health department official, who didn’t want to be named. Despite the denial, the numbers tell a different story. Between 2015 and 2019, on an average, Karnataka issued 4,57,669 death certificates for five years with the number of mortalities showing a gradual increase over the years. As per the data, most of the deaths in the state were reported in Bengaluru city. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has approved 87,082 applications for death certificates from January 1 to June 15, this year. While data on the deaths reported in the BBMP jurisdiction is not provided by the department for the pre-pandemic years, Bengaluru Urban district — which includes BBMP — recorded only 37,195 deaths between January 1 and June 30 in 2019. In 2018, during the same six-month period, Bengaluru Urban recorded 35,262 deaths. A comparison of the cases in the month of June 2019 and 2021 shows a 48.7% increase in the number of deaths. While the pandemic was at its peak, an allegation was levelled against the BBMP for under-reporting Covid deaths. Between March 1 and April 26, the state government reported 1,422 Covid-related deaths in Bengaluru, However, data collected from crematoria showed that 3,104 Covid protocol cremations were done in the same period. The BBMP had then claimed that bodies from neighbouring districts were being buried in the city, to justify the difference in numbers. Karnataka health minister and BBMP commissioner didn’t respond to HT’s calls for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-reports-100k-more-deaths-in-first-6-months-compared-to-pre-pandemic-years-data-101623871631662.html
17-06-2021||Bangalore||K’taka sets up 3 centres of excellence under Indo-Israel project||Bengaluru The government of India and Karnataka on Wednesday jointly inaugurated three centres of excellence (CoE) in the southern state under the Indo-Israel Agricultural Project (IIAP), a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) said.The three COEs will include one for pomegranate in Bagalkote, mango in Kolar and vegetables in Dharwad district, the statement added.“CoE is an advanced & intensive agricultural farm that generates knowledge, demonstrates best practices and trains farmers based on Israeli novel agro-technology tailored to the local conditions. The newly inaugurated CoEs will help farmers in Karnataka to choose and adopt the technology that suits them best, with the goal of doubling their income,” the statement stated.Karnataka has tried since long to push the Israel model of agriculture to be implemented in the state, especially in the northern parts which are home to the second most arid regions in the country after Rajasthan.The CoE for mango was established under IIAP with a total outlay of ₹198 lakh from the Centre and ₹360 lakh from Karnataka.Karnataka, however, faces extremes of droughts and floods in most parts, leaving a significant number of people with rising debts on account of problems like poor prices for produce, rising input and transport costs and higher pressure on smaller holdings.With most urban centres under various stages of Covid-19 pandemic induced lockdown, a higher number of people have returned to their villages and increased the dependence on agriculture. The new centres of excellence will use advanced technologies like high and ultra-high density planting, rejuvenation, canopy management, automated drip irrigation and fertigation technology among others to help improve yield and the quality of mango, pomegranate and vegetables.The CMO stated that exotic varieties of mango like tommy atkins, kent from Florida & Maya, lilly from Israel have been introduced to know the performance of these varieties & supplying of these planting materials to the farmers.The statement added that 50–55-year-old and unproductive trees have been rejuvenated to increase yield per unit area.The CoE for pomegranate has an outlay of ₹343 lakh from the Centre and ₹156 lakh from the Karnataka government.The CoE for vegetables has an outlay of ₹500 lakh from the Centre and Rs.260 lakh from the state government.The joint venture will, in the future, look at adoption of villages to demonstrate innovation developed in these CoE’s, the CMO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-sets-up-3-centres-of-excellence-under-indo-israel-project-101623871511613.html
17-06-2021||Bangalore||K’taka govt targets 80% vaccination of 45+ by June end: Deputy CM||Bengaluru The Karnataka government on Wednesday said that it has set a target to achieve 80% vaccination for age groups above 45 by the end of June. “About 63% of the people above 45 years have been jabbed so far within the city limits and the target is to achieve 80% by the end of this month,” Dr CN Ashwath Narayan, the deputy chief minister and head of Karnataka’s Covid-19 task force said on Wednesday. He added that those in the age groups between 18-45 will also be inoculated as per the priority list, which he said, was in line with the target to get everyone in the state get at least one dose of the vaccine by the end of the year. Karnataka has around 5.5 million vaccine doses available (government and private) for the month of June, as per official data. Karnataka has so far administered 17,615,123 doses since January 16 and of this 3,093,868 are second dose, according to government data. At least 158,479 doses were administered on Wednesday till 3.30 pm of which 24,463 were second dose. Even though there has been a decline in new Covid cases, however, the threat of an imminent third wave looms large over the state and country. The state on Wednesday recorded 7,345 new infections, according to the daily bulletin of the health department. There were 17,913 recoveries that brought down the active caseload to 1,51,566 while the positivity rate stood at 4.35%, according to the daily bulletin. The fatality rate stood at 2.01% as 148 more deaths were reported in the state taking the toll to 33,296. Bengaluru saw an uptick in new infections as it reported 1,611 cases on Wednesday. The active caseload came down to 79,261 as India’s IT capital reported 5,526 recoveries. There were 19 deaths reported in the last 24 hours which took the toll to 15,354, according to government data. Narayan said that the sub-committee on the Covid task force has decided to set up a 100 bedded secondary hospital in every constituency and a tertiary hospital for every four constituencies in addition to augmenting the existing primary health centres. “The chief commissioner has sought 2 more weeks to identify the lands/spaces needed for this,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-govt-targets-80-vaccination-of-45-by-june-end-deputy-cm-101623871451617.html
17-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka BJP in-charge hold talks amid crisis||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Karnataka in-charge, Arun Singh, has started meetings and consultations with leaders amid simmering dissent in the party’s state unit against chief minister BS Yediyurappa.On Wednesday, the first-day of his three-day visit, Singh met all ministers of the Yediyurappa government in the presence of the CM and state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel in Bengaluru. On Thursday, the meetings will be open to any legislator who wishes to meet him, people aware of the developments said. The party’s core committee meeting will be held on Friday.“Whether it is the party legislator or worker, they should always be aware not to bring any kind of harm to the party. No one should give any such statements, or any actions or talks which will cause harm to the party. They should think before they speak on if it will cause any harm,” Singh said at Wednesday’s meeting, during which Yediyurappa was sitting with him on the dais.The chief minister is confident of remaining power for the remainder of his two-year term, but is fortifying his defences on any move by the party to dislodge him by mobilising support from within the party and by reaching out for support to prominent seers of the Lingayats, the single largest caste group in the state that has firmly backed Yediyurappa in recent years.The rumblings and factionalism within the state government and the BJP have come out in the open in recent weeks, with several leaders seeking the ouster of 78-year-old Yediyurappa.Prominent among them are Basanagouda Patil, CP Yogeshwara and Arvind Bellad, who met senior party leaders to complain against Yediyurappa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-bjp-in-charge-hold-talks-amid-crisis-101623871332261.html
17-06-2021||Other||PGIMS, Rohtak delegation meets Vij over common cadre move||An eight-member delegation of the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak met Haryana health minister Anil Vij at his office in Haryana secretariat asking him not to include PGIMS staff in the proposed common cadre of medical teacher and staffers.PGIMS employees wore black badges during working hours to protest against the state government’s move to club services of Haryana medical colleges and create a common cadre of medical teachers and other staff.In a press note, PGIMS spokesman Dr Gajender Singh said eight members of PGIMS, including teachers’ association president Dr RB Jain, met Vij in Chandigarh.“Vij assured the delegation of raising their grievances before Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in a meeting on June 21. The minister lauded the PGIMS staff for leading during the pandemic. He assured the doctors of asking the CM not to include PGIMS staff under common cadre,” the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pgims-rohtak-delegation-meets-vij-over-common-cadre-move-101623871093093.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||‘Furnish status report about compliance of Bio Medical Waste Rules’||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Wednesday directed the Haryana chief secretary to furnish status report about the compliance of the Bio Medical Waste (BMW) Management Rules, 2016 in state, saying it is significant for protection of environment and public health.“We consider it appropriate to require the chief secretary, Haryana to furnish a status report about compliance of the Rules before the next date by e-mail,” a bench headed by NGT chairperson justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said.“Before giving report, the chief secretary may review the matter with information about daily generation of BMW, number of healthcare facilities authorised, practices adopted for disposal of BMW - captive or connected with CBMWTF, performance of existing CBMWTFs, plan to bridge the gap in generation and scientific disposal and the extent of environment compensation imposed for non- compliances,” the bench added.The matter is listed for next hearing on September 24.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Haryana’s Varun Sheokand against unscientific disposal of bio-medical waste in Faridabad, in violation of the Bio-Medical Waste Management Rules, 2016.It is stated that while 14-15 tonnes of bio-medical waste is generated daily and there are 7,422 bedded hospitals, there is only one common BMW treatment facility.“This is resulting in unscientific disposal of the waste leading to public health hazard. The applicant sent a representation to the municipal corporation and deputy commissioner, Faridabad, the State PCB and the chief secretary but to no effect,” the plea said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/furnish-status-report-about-compliance-of-bio-medical-waste-rules-101623870972219.html
17-06-2021||Other||Amarinder continues meetings with Congress leaders||Chandigarh Amid talk of changes in the state cabinet and revamp of the Congress’ organisational set-up, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh continued his meetings with party leaders, including ministers, MPs and MLAs on Wednesday. Health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, industries minister Sunder Sham Arora, MPs Mohammad Sadiq, and Jasbir Singh Gill and MLAs Lakhvir Singh Lakha, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Nazar Singh Manshahia and Surinder Singh and Amritsar Improvement Trust chairman Dinesh Bassi were among the dozen-odd party leaders, who met the CM at his residence, sources said. One of the MLAs said they met him regarding pending works and for expediting ongoing development projects in their areas. “There was also a discussion on the strategy and preparations for the state assembly elections (due early next year),” he said. On Tuesday, the CM had met medical education minister OP Soni, Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and MLAs Ramanjit Singh Sikki and Navtej Singh Cheema, and Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh. Amarinder has held a series of meetings with ministers, MLAs, MPs and others since the three-member committee set up to resolve infighting in the state unit met 150-odd state leaders to hear their suggestions and grievances. During these one-to-one meetings, several MLAs had complained about the CM’s lack of accessibility and over-reliance on bureaucrats. The CM’s meetings are being seen as an attempt to demonstrate the support he has in the party and dispel the impression about his accessibility. Last week, Amarinder had held meetings with all eight Lok Sabha members of the Congress from Punjab, who reposed faith in his leadership and ability to successfully lead the party. The CM’s detractors are, meanwhile, waiting for the party high command to act. The three-member committee headed by leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge had submitted its report to Congress president Sonia Gandhi a week ago and then briefed Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi on Sunday about their suggestions to end the squabbling in the state. Though there is talk in Congress circles that Amarinder, Navjot Singh Sidhu and two other leaders may be called to Delhi on June 20 and 21 before any decision is taken, one of the committee members and state leaders said this was news to them.KHARGE PANEL MEETS RAHULA three-member Congress committee set up to resolve infighting in the party’s Punjab unit met former president and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Wednesday for another round of discussion on its report. The panel headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge has All-India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal as members. This was their second meeting with Rahul in four days. AICC general secretary, organisation, KC Venugopal was also present. One of the committee members said the discussion revolved around the options before the party to defuse the factionalism in the state Congress. “The situation is complex due to the rigid stand taken by state leaders involved in the present situation,” another party leader aware of the developments said, indicating that ending the stand-off may take time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amarinder-continues-meetings-with-congress-leaders-101623870912266.html
17-06-2021||Other||9 months on, Karnal woman yet to get her child back||Nine months on, Karnal woman Jyoti, 28, is running pillar to post to get her son back from a Meerut-based couple, who claimed to have adopted the child on September 14 last year.Her husband had left her a few months before their third child was born and Jyoti lives in Kunjpura village of Karnal. Four-and-a-half-month after she filed a complaint, the Kunjpura police have registered an FIR (on June 15) under Sections 363, 368, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 80 and 80 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.Jyoti has alleged that before birth of her child, she had come in contact with Dr DP Shrivastav and his gynaecologist wife Dr Sashibala through a friend for consultation.Four days after his birth at Karnal’s KCGMCH, Dr Shrivastav told her that the baby has respiratory problems and will get better treatment at their hospital in Meerut free of cost. They took her signatures on a blank stamp paper and took the baby.A month later, she reached the couple who refused to return the child and threatened her of dire consequences, she alleged.In February this year, she approached the Karnal police and her complaint was forwarded to protection-cum-prohibition officer Rajni Gupta.Rajni said the doctor couple had taken the child and handed him over to a Meerut-based couple - Vishal and Neha Shrivastav.“Vishal said he adopted the boy with consent of Jyoti and had agreed to return the boy on June 1. But did not turn up, following which an FIR was registered,” she said.In the birth certificate of the child from Meerut MC, Vishal had claimed that Neha gave birth to the child at home.Rajni said as per the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, the child cannot be adopted just by inking an agreement.She said Dr Srivastva did not join the probe and his advocate sent a legal notice claiming that the woman had taken the boy to Meerut and given him to the couple with consent.On delay in registration of FIR, Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said the FIR was registered after investigation by the protection officer as the accused doctor did not record his statement.The SP said the Karnal police will soon reach Meerut and the child will be handed over to the woman.When HT contacted Dr Shrivastava on registration of FIR against him and his wife, their daughter responded and said, “We don’t know why the FIR is registered against them. They were only witness to the adoption. The FIR should be registered against people who adopted the baby.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/9-months-on-karnal-woman-yet-to-get-her-child-back-101623870851608.html
17-06-2021||Other||Yamunanagar turmeric farmers lack market||Despite availability of subsidised seeds and better moisture content for its growth, number of farmers opting for turmeric farming has gone down in Yamunanagar. Reason –absence of a sale mechanism.As per the horticulture department, turmeric farming is done on foothills of the Shivalik range passing through Chhachhrauli, Sadhaura and Bilaspur blocks. Nearly 30% farmers here are engaged in turmeric farming, but none on a large scale.District horticulture consultant Dr Davinder Singh said the crop requires less water and as the region is an industrial hub of plywood and related products, turmeric is grown along with poplar trees as intercropping provides good binding support.“Sowing starts in March-April and cultivation after 12 months. Here, farming is done on roughly 300 acre and crop yield is nearly 35 quintal each acre,” Singh said. Area under turmeric crop was 500 acre in 2014-15.Most farmers HT spoke to highlighted the poor seed quality and closure of state’s only turmeric processing plant in 2016 which was set up in Raduar in 2009.Narwail Singh Lobyo, of Ledi village, said, “My family did this farming for five years on four acre along with poplar and Eucalyptus trees, but had to abandon it. Post-cultivation, turmeric has to be peeled, boiled and roasted but even then it went unsold.”Another farmer from Jairampur Khalsa village, Narinder, said he had grown the crop on six acre in 2013 and had to give it to his friends after not getting a suitable price.Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) district president Sanju Gudiana said before the plant’s closure, there used to be bumper crop of turmeric in district.“Now, there is no centre to sell the crop and turmeric farming is reduced for personal use,” he said.In February this year, state tourism minister and Jagadhri MLA Kanwar Pal, who was on an official tour of Kerala, announced that spice farming will be promoted in the Shivalik region.An official, pleading anonymity, said quality parameters of the seed started failing due to water content. Later, farmers were asked to bring the crop after boiling and roasting it and due to the labour cost involved, its farming diminished.Pawan Kamboj, manager of the plant, said since the plant was customised in manual mode, higher authorities asked us to modernise it and start automatic processing.“The state government has approved automation and the plant is expected to restart after tender is floated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yamunanagar-turmeric-farmers-lack-market-101623870793845.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Paddy fields of 8 Haryana districts to demonstrate new technique to grow rice||Farmers of eight districts of Haryana under the watch of experts will grow paddy on 20,000 acre during the current paddy cultivation season, in what is the first-of-its-kind incentive-driven push to promote direct-seeded rice (DSR) technique.Farmers opting for this cost-effective and less water-consuming method of growing rice will receive ₹5,000 per acre. Each farmer opting for this scheme can grow the crop using DSR technique on maximum 2.5 acre. This piece of land will be called ‘demonstration plot’ to popularise the technique among the peasants.Growing rice by sowing the seed is already prevalent in few rice-producing pockets of Haryana. The government is promoting this alternative way of cultivating rice instead of transplanting paddy by developing demonstration plots.The traditional paddy transplantation practice is labour and water intensive, while DSR doesn’t require labour and water of the size and scale of the traditional method and can reduce water consumption and production cost by 15-20%.“It’s a new initiative. Our target is to give incentive and support to 20,000 farmers and exposure and education to one lakh farmers,” said Dr Sumita Misra, additional chief secretary (ACS, agriculture), who has held meetings with district agriculture officials, directing them to achieve the DSR targets and educate farmers about the technique.This money-linked scheme will be implemented in Ambala, Yamunanagar, Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Panipat, Sonepat and Jind districts.Dr Misra said DSR-cultivated paddy demonstration plots will spread across 4,000 acre in Kaithal, 3,000 acre each in Karnal and Kurukshetra, and 2,000 acre each in Sonepat, Panipat, Jind, Ambala and Yamunanagar.An official of the agriculture department said 6,500 farmers have already given consent for the scheme.Sources say the state government has also received in principle approval from the Centre for this policy under the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY-Raftar).The RKVY is an umbrella scheme for development of agriculture and allows states to choose their own agriculture and allied sector development activities.Official say basmati rice can be grown as DSR under non-puddle conditions and it can be done in almost all type of soils suitable for rice growing. The sowing is done in second and third week of June.Without hand holding of government, Sukhwinder Singh, of Rasulpur village in Kaithal, has planted seven acre using DSR method as water table of his area is going down. “If the yield remains good this year, next year I will plant my entire 50-acre using DSR method,” he said.Another farmer, Ajay Kumar, who owns 12 acre in Radauri village of Yamunanagar, said he has dumped the DSR technique after four years as it requires more labourers and herbicides. “The yield was equal to traditional method, but uncontrolled weed was a major headache in DSR technique,” he said.GOVT INITIATIVESLinking promotion of DSR technique with financial help is yet another policy decision of Haryana government to nudge farmers to opt for crop diversification or reduce area under paddy cultivation or go for eco-friendly farming techniques.Under ‘Mera Pani, Meri Virasat’ policy, farmers switching over to alternate crop in place of paddy are paid ₹7,000 per acre incentive.Under ‘Kheti Khaali, Fir Bhi Khushali’, ₹7,000 per acre incentive is given to farmers if they do not grow any crop in their field during the paddy season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paddy-fields-of-8-haryana-districts-to-demonstrate-new-technique-to-grow-rice-101623870732844.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks state to probe and explain how politician, actor got Remdesivir||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state to conduct a thorough inquiry into the alleged supply of Covid essential drugs by MLA Zeeshan Siddiqui and actor Sonu Sood from BDR Charitable Trust at Mazagaon and the pharmacy in Lifeline Hospital at Goregaon (East), respectively, and to find out how these two entities got the injections while supply of Remdesivir was solely at the prerogative of the Central government. The court also sought details on the research reports that indicated that smokers are more susceptible to Covid-19 and asked the Mumbai civic body about measures initiated to provide shelter and basic facilities to the homeless and pavement dwellers during the pandemic. A division bench of justice SP Deshmukh and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PIL) filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi, activist Nilesh Navlakha and others on various issues pertaining to Covid management during the second wave and availability of drugs to treat mucormycosis, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhaoni that the state had filed a reply to the queries raised by the court in the previous hearing. While responding to the query on how Siddique and Sood had provided injections like Remdesivir, Kumbhakoni submitted the inquiry into both the cases had revealed that while Siddique had directed people to procure the injections from the charitable trust at Mazagaon, Sood had procured the injections from a pharmacy located in a hospital at Goregaon. He further submitted that a criminal case had been registered against the trust while further probe into the pharmacy revealed that the injections were procured from the Cipla godown at Bhiwandi. When the court questioned why only the charitable trust and its trustees were booked and not Siddique, Kumbhakoni responded that the MLA had only diverted people to the trust. “But all this happened at the behest of one person, to direct someone is not an offence? In both these cases, we would expect the government to seriously examine role of the two,” said the bench. The court further said, “When they act as messiah, do they even check if the drugs are spurious? It is very easy that anyone would go to social media and say that I am the person coming to your help. Is it a good situation? The government is doing everything but at the same time you have a parallel agency? We are leaving it to your conscience to examine role of these two?” Kumbhakoni then assured the bench that as a first step they wanted to go to source of matter and then determine individual roles. The AG then responded to the query about smokers being more susceptible to Covid and said there were three reports by foreign researchers based on which an Indian doctor had concluded that smoking did have an effect. The court then sought opinion on what steps could be taken by the government as smokers were more vulnerable and what best possible steps could be taken along with data on how many such patients were admitted and treated. 7,511 mucormycosis cases in state so farThe state while updating the court of the mucormycosis cases informed that there were 7,511 mucormycosis patients till June 15, of which 4,380 were active cases and 675 patients died. On being asked if the deaths were due to the shortage of supply of Amphotericin-B injection, Kumbhakoni submitted that analysis of the deaths was going on. With regards to Mumbai, he submitted that there were 396 active cases, of which 114 were Mumbaiites while 282 were from outside the city. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the bench that the Centre had imported mucormycosis treatment drugs from Gilead, USA and distribution was equitable among states. When the bench asked why only 18,450 vials were supplied between June 8 and 15 while the demand was nearly 17,000 per day, Singh said the drug was being supplied as per availability. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare for Mumbai civic body also informed the bench that there was a shortage of Amphotericin B, following which Kumbhakoni assured it would be taken care of to some extent with the supply of 22,000 vials from June 18 to 20 and 18,000 vials from June 21 to 30 by Haffkine Institute. The bench has posted hearing of the PIL’s to Friday, June 25. Mumbai civic body providing 10,000 packets of foodWhile responding to the query on measures initiated for the homeless and pavement dwellers, the counsel for the Mumbai civic body submitted that it was providing 10,000 packets of food for each meal through individual wards. It added that it also had 24 buses to reach food and basic necessities to the poor and needy thrice a day. The counsel also assured the bench that temporary shelters were being provided for the needy to safeguard them from the rains as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-state-to-probe-and-explain-how-politician-actor-got-remdesivir-101623870431557.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Antilia scare: NIA moves court seeking Sunil Mane’s custody||The National Investigating Agency (NIA) on Wednesday sought permission from the special court to take further custody of Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane who has been arrested in connection with the Antilia explosives scare and the subsequent murder of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran. NIA sought Mane’s custody to confront him with recently arrested accused Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav. The federal agency has claimed that the two arrested accused has played a role as conspirators in killing Hiran.Mane was arrested by NIA on April 23 and was remanded in judicial custody on May 13. He has been lodged in Taloja prison since then.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia, the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, with 20 lose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to Ambani family.A case was registered with Gamdevi police station in connection with the episode. Later, on March 5, Hiran, owner of the SUV, was found dead in creek near Mumbra, with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf. A separate case was registered with Mumbra police in connection with the murder. NIA subsequently took over both the cases and clubbed them for investigation purpose. The agency has so far arrested five persons in connection with the two cases, including three Mumbai Police officers — controversial police officer Sachin Vaze; Riyazuddin Kazi, Vaze’s colleague at the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of Mumbai Police’s crime branch; and inspector Mane.NIA also arrested former police constable Vinayak More, a life convict in fake encounter killing of Lakhan Bhaiya, and cricket bookie Naresh Gor, both of whom allegedly helped Vaze to execute the suspected murder.Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the Antilia explosives scare case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the SUV in November and returned it in early February.According to NIA, Mane was present at the CIU on March 2 and 3 when Vaze purportedly tried to convince Hiran to take the blame for placing the explosives-laden SUV near Antilia. NIA officers claimed that Vaze had assured the trader to get him out on bail in a few days. The plan to eliminate him was allegedly hatched after he refused to get arrested in the case. NIA also claimed that Mane had made the last call to the victim around 8.30pm on March 4, and had drawn him out of his Thane home on the pretext of a meeting along Ghodbunder Road. Meanwhile, Mane’s lawyer Aditya Gore moved an application seeking permission to meet him in prison. The plea will be heard on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-scare-nia-moves-court-seeking-sunil-mane-s-custody-101623870432141.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Fuel price hike: Transporters set to protest on June 28||Fuel prices in the city surged on Wednesday with petrol nearing ₹103 for each litre and diesel approaching the ₹95-mark. One litre of petrol was available at ₹102.82 and diesel at ₹94.84 in Mumbai. Transporters’ bodies across India have decided to stage a one-day protest on June 28 and they are likely announce indefinite agitation if demands are not met.An increase of 24 paise and 14 paise were witnessed on petrol and diesel respectively on Wednesday in the city. On Tuesday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹102.58 while one litre of diesel was available at ₹94.70. “An urgent meeting was held on the issue of continual surge in diesel prices and the government’s apathy to the plight of the transport fraternity which is struggling for survival and sustenance. The house decided that there will be a nationwide protest on June 28 across the country and a memorandum will be submitted to the Prime Minister. It has been decided to prepare for indefinite nationwide chakkajam and if similar conditions persist the same will be announced in due course.” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).Transporters have been demanding a decrease in fuel prices, provision of instalments for moratorium and relief to the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-price-hike-transporters-set-to-protest-on-june-28-101623870372843.html
17-06-2021||Other||SC expresses shock over denial of hearing to bail plea, pending for a year||Chandigarh The Supreme Court has expressed its shock over not allowing hearing of a bail matter by the Punjab and Haryana high court, which was pending for over one year. “Normally, we do not interfere with an interim order passed by the high court, but we are constrained to pass the present order as we are shocked to see that the bail application, under Section 439 of the CrPC, is not being listed for hearing for over one year,” the bench of justice Hemant Gupta and justice V Ramasubramanian said, adding that the accused has a right to hearing of his application for bail and the denial of same is an infringement of his rights and liberty assured to him. Under Section 439 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), the high court has special powers regarding consideration of bail. On Tuesday, the SC was hearing a bail plea from Chunni Lal Gaba, a Goraya-based multimillionaire businessman, who is an accused in the Bhola drug racket case of 2013. The matters regarding hearing of this case have been assigned by high court to a special division bench presided over by justice Rajan Gupta after Supreme Court orders. Gaba had filed an appeal stating that a request for hearing of an application for bail is pending since February 28, 2020. “During a pandemic, when all courts are making attempts to hear and decide all matters, non-listing of such an application for bail defeats the administration of justice,” the SC bench observed, adding that under the prevailing pandemic, at least half of the judges should sit on alternative days, so that a hearing is accorded to the person in distress. “Non-listing of application for regular bail, irrespective of seriousness or lack thereof, of the offences attributed to the accused, impinges upon the liberty of the person in custody,” the apex court observed adding that it hoped that the high court will take up the application for bail at an early date. It also asked the registrar general of the high court to bring this order to the notice of the competent authority to take remedial steps at the earliest. Hearings are restricted at the high court due to the Covid-19 outbreak. On many occasions, lawyers have protested against the HC decision of not assigning more benches for virtual mode and delaying resumption of hearing through physical mode. At one point, the Punjab and Haryana high court Bar Association had even demanded the transfer of chief justice, RS Jha over the issue. ******************** BLURB The SC was hearing a bail plea from Chunni Lal Gaba, a Goraya-based multimillionaire businessman, who is an accused in the Bhola drug racket case of 2013 ********************BLURB The SC was hearing a bail plea from Chunni Lal Gaba, a Goraya-based multimillionaire businessman, who is an accused in the Bhola drug racket case of 2013||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sc-expresses-shock-over-denial-of-hearing-to-bail-plea-pending-for-a-year-101623870372404.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Turtle conservancy project sees record number of Olive Ridley hatchlings this year||A record number of Olive Ridley turtle hatchlings were released back into the ocean by the state forest department’s hatcheries in Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri and Raigad districts this year. At 23,706 hatchlings, this year’s count is nearly twice as much as 2020 when 12,149 hatchlings were released. It also marks the highest number of hatchlings seen in at least six years, since officials began collecting data on the subject.There are five species of sea turtles recorded in Maharashtra, and Olive Ridleys are the only one that nest in the state and have widest population distribution. HT had on May 9 reported that the number of Olive Ridley nests in these districts had doubled this year as compared to 2020. During nesting season which runs from December to March, a total of 451 nests were recorded through field observations, up from 288 recorded during the same period in 2020.The state’s sea turtle conservancy programme involves surveying of turtle nesting sites, excavation of eggs, and their relocation to a nearby hatchery. The hatchery is protected with garden fencing net to keep eggs sade from predators, flooding, and poaching. Subsequently, turtle hatchlings coming out of these nests are released safely to the sea by nest managers.“The number of nests of Olive Ridley turtles in all the three districts increased in 2020-21 as compared to 2019-20. This number fluctuates every year, but there is a specific increasing trend going back to 2014-15. Overall, more turtle hatchlings have been released back to the sea in 2021 than any previous year,” said Harshal Karve, a marine biologist with the Mangrove Foundation, an autonomous organisation under the state forest department.“It will require more study to understand why there has been a sudden jump this year, but my hunch is that this is a result of more than a decade of conservation efforts by the state. Hatchlings that were released from these same areas a few years ago are now coming back to lay their eggs as mature adults,” Karve added.Sea turtle conservancy has been a focus of not only the government, but also NGOs and local communities since the early 2000s. The movement can be attributed almost singularly to the work of an NGO named Sahyadri Nisarga Mitra (SNM), which started a marine turtle conservation programme in 2002 in Ratnagiri’s Velas village. Since then, a range of measures to conserve turtles have been implemented, including removal of ghost fishing nets from deeper waters and setting up of turtle treatment and rehabilitation centres in multiple districts.In 2018, a compensation scheme for fishermen under the Wildlife Protection Act was also implemented, which provides cash incentives to fishermen who may inadvertently catch sea turtles while fishing. So far, 96 Olive Ridleys, 52 green sea turtles, three hawksbill turtles and one leatherback sea turtles have been released under the scheme. A marine respondent group comprising forest department officials was also set up in 2018 to coordinate faster response to stranded cetaceans in Maharashtra, a significant majority of which includes Olive Ridleys.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-turtle-conservancy-project-sees-record-number-of-olive-ridley-hatchlings-this-year-101623870312264.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch arrests three with whale vomit worth ₹2.7 crore||Unit 4 of Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested three persons from Mulund for allegedly trying to sell 2.7 kgs of “whale vomit” or Ambergris, produced in the digestive system of sperm whales. Police seized the Ambergris, valued at around ₹2.70 crore. Ambergris is used in perfume manufacture and is found floating in the tropical seas. The arrested accused are Ramesh Ramji Waghela, 56; Arvind Shah, 63; and Dhanaji Hasmukh Thakur, 52. Waghela is native of Rajkot and works as labourer, while Shah and Thakur are residents of Mulund and work as broker and television mechanic, respectively. Police said Waghela earlier lived in Mumbai but shifted to his native place in Gujarat a few years ago.According to police, an official of unit 4 got information that few people were allegedly going to illegally sell ambergris in Mulund. Ambergris comes from a species of whale which is endangered and protected under the Wildlife Act. “We informed forest officials. A trap was laid and we intercepted three persons with 2.7 kgs of whale vomit which was red brownish colour,” said a police officer.After confirmation by marine biologists, Mulund police registered a case against the trio under the Wildlife Act. During interrogation the arrested accused revealed that the main accused lives in Gujarat and came to Mumbai two weeks ago and gave the whale vomit to Waghela and his two associates and asked them to look for a buyer. He then left from Mumbai and went back to Gujarat. As per accused’s statement, Gujarat forest department arrested the main accused recently, a said crime branch officer.“We will contact the Gujarat forest department and will verify the facts. The sample of whale vomit has been sent to the forensic department in Kolkata for chemical analysis,” said assistant police inspector Rajesh Patil of the unit 4. The three accused were produced in the court and remanded in police custody till Monday for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-arrests-three-with-whale-vomit-worth-2-7-crore-101623870311649.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Colleges under University of Mumbai reopen, but still await clarity||Even as the University of Mumbai recently requested all affiliated colleges to start the new academic year online from June 14, colleges are awaiting clarity on certain issues, including fee payment. “Last year, when the pandemic first hit India, several families felt financial strain and were worried about being unable to pay their children’s college fees. This year, too, the situation hasn’t changed, and several students and parents are expecting concessions or fee payment in instalments,” said Anju Kapoor, principal of UPG College, Vile Parle, adding the college is finding it difficult to accommodate all. Last year, the university had requested colleges to cut down their original fee structure and make instalment facility available for students. This year, however, the MU has given no such intimation and colleges, too, feel it’ll be impossible to run the institute without full fees for another consecutive year. Many have decided to defer reopening of college by a week or two to accommodate students who are still to pay fees, so that no one misses lectures once the course commences. “In genuine cases, we are helping students in whatever way possible. In fact, nearly 25% of our batches across courses are yet to pay the fees, so we’ve decided to start skill-based lectures this week and wait for everyone to pay before starting regular lectures,” said Kapoor, adding the college hopes all students pay their fees by next week so lectures can commence for all batches at the same time next week,” she added. Last week, a handful of students of a college in Malad approached the management for concessions in the annual fee, but the college didn’t budge. “We will have to seek some documents from students to confirm their financial status. Last year, we allowed fee payment in instalments and some students had not paid their fee in full until March this year. How will we run our institute without the fees,” asked the principal of the college, on condition of anonymity. Colleges are also still unclear about the admission criteria for first-year undergraduate degree courses, now that Class 12 exams across boards have been scrapped this year. “Autonomous institutes have been demanding to be allowed to conduct admissions separately at their level. This way, we can start the process and complete it soon. However, there is no clarity from the university,” said Naresh Chandra, principal of BK Birla College, Kalyan. MU registrar (in-charge) BN Gaikwad told HT that the university has not yet received any complaints about fees from colleges or Students. “We will, however, release guidelines for this soon,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/colleges-under-university-of-mumbai-reopen-but-still-await-clarity-101623870251584.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay develops AI platform for real-time video surveillance||A state-of-the-art video surveillance platform developed by researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) has found application in military surveillance as well as remote monitoring of social distancing norms violations amid Covid-19 pandemic. The platform Surakshavyuh, initially designed in 2017, has now evolved into an enterprise grade video analytics solution based on machine-learning-enabled technology that can detect physical intrusion and loitering, monitor perimeters and track objects, count crowds and recognise faces, among other features. It was designed under an industry collaboration between the National Center of Excellence in Technology (NCETIS) at IIT-B and SrivisifAI Technologies Pvt Ltd, a Pune-based company working on making artificial intelligence (AI) and video analytics technology affordable for mass consumption. While the team at IIT-B worked on the science behind the tools, SrivisifAI took the product to the market. “For any CCTV surveillance system, the footage needs analysis – either real-time or for retrospective diagnosis. We have developed these solutions with thorough ground studies, research iterations and by developing required algorithms that can alert end-users of products to take requisite actions. This is even as we continue researching to push the frontiers in detection of human-object interaction, unusual events, etc,” said Ganesh Ramakrishnan, Institute Chair Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, who led the team in the project. Unusual human activity includes loitering, sneaking in, intrusion, someone entering and exiting the premises. Surveillance currently primarily depends on CCTV camera footage. “CCTV footage videos are typically subjected to post-mortem analysis for events. What our tool does is give us real-time analysis,” said Ramakrishnan. Apart from Surakshavyuh, the team also offers Jigayasa, an offline analysis solution that works as a video repository and search platform with features such as text search and face search. The two can be used together, too. As an example use case, the models can be used to issue a trigger warning if more than five people gather at one place or if a person is not wearing a mask, features that can be used in the Covid-19 pandemic to detect adherence to rules in public spaces. A pilot project has been set up at the institute campus. Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of IIT-B, said, “Visual surveillance has become commonplace, be it in individual houses or at public places. It is also very important to have proper surveillance at vital installations. We are very happy that IIT-Bombay has come up with a very user-friendly and robust surveillance system, thanks to the effort of our scientists. I hope that various commercial users will also benefit from this system.” The algorithmic and data benchmarking suite called Visiocity provisions for condensing hours’ worth of video into a couple of minutes in a domain specific manner, by preserving key events and vignettes from the original video and removing repetitive visual information. Ramakrishanan said, “There are three solutions to look at, but as all are interdependent or complementing each other, the industry partner SrivisifAI Technologies can offer products and services which are combinations too — such as 3rdAI which is a combination of multiple solutions mentioned above. This is exactly the uniqueness that NCETIS has facilitated — the coming together of academia and industry as very strong partners.”Conventionally, deep machine learning models are trained on large data sets and require lots of computer resources such as multiple graphics processing units, both of which can be expensive. The design of Surakshavyuh is based on Data Efficient Machine Learning — learning with frugal amounts of data and learning efficiently, an attempt by the researchers at IIT-B to train state of the art models in resource constrained environments while minimally affecting the accuracy. “Humans, based on conscious thinking, can be fairer (if they decide to) and based on complex decision making, can be more precise than machines. Machines can be good at recalling, thanks to their memory and consistency in decision making. The data efficient machine learning paradigm that underlies our democratised AI effort in our products is critical to making this collaboration between humans and AI engine,” Ramakrishnan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-develops-ai-platform-for-real-time-video-surveillance-101623870072155.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Congress MLA writes to party high command against Mumbai party chief Ashok Jagtap||The tradition of infighting in the Mumbai Congress seems to continue with complaints lodged against recently appointed city Congress chief Ashok Jagtap. Congress’s Bandra (East) MLA Zeeshan Siddique has written a letter to party high command, complaining against Jagtap’s partisan approach towards him. Shaikh also alleged that Jagtap did not follow the protocol during public functions and supported party workers who worked against him in 2019 Assembly polls.In the letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi, former chief Rahul Gandhi, Siddique has reportedly alleged that Jagtap, after becoming the Mumbai chief in December last year, appointed local leaders who had worked against him during Assembly polls. The 28-year legislator and son of former minister Baba Siddique has also accused Jagtap of having threatened party workers to not support him during the Mumbai Youth Congress elections held last year.Siddique refused to comment on it while adding that he expects the appropriate steps to be taken by the party leadership. “It would not be appropriate to speak on the internal communication to the party leadership. I am not aware how did it got leaked, but I had marked the copies of the mailed letter to state and Mumbai leaders too,” he said.Jagtap said, “We believe in democracy and the channels to make complaints to high command are always open. I will speak to Siddique to redress his grievances as chief of Mumbai unit. If the party leadership asked me about it, I will explain my stand on it. He is talking about the breach of protocol, but I have been receiving similar complaints against him from the workers from his constituency. Secondly, he has complained for not inviting him at a programme held at BKC recently. He cannot blame me for it, as it was not Mumbai Congress’s event, but was organised by Indian Youth Congress.”He added, “As far as his complaint about me supporting his competitor Suraj Singh Thakur in the Youth Congress elections is concerned, the election was held before I became Mumbai president. As a leader I supported Thakur as I feel he is a better leader, keeping party interest in mind.”Recently, Siddique had a spat with transport minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab for not calling him for an inauguration of vaccination centre in Bandra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-mla-writes-to-party-high-command-against-mumbai-party-chief-ashok-jagtap-101623870071577.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai likely to see isolated heavy showers from June 17 to 19: IMD||The city received 23.8mm rain in nine hours on Wednesday, as per data from the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station in Santacruz, which represents the city and the suburbans. The weather station in Colaba received heavier showers, recording 98.6mm of rain in nine hours on Wednesday.IMD has issued a yellow category weather alert for Mumbai from June 17 to 19, indicating the possibility of “heavy rain at isolated places”, after which lighter showers are expected to prevail on June 20. However, widespread light to moderate showers are expected to continue, with more than 75% of the city’s rain gauges expected to record precipitation in coming days.As of 8.30am on Wednesday, the city had received a total of 726mm of rainfall in June alone. This is a 275% departure from the normal rainfall up to June 16, which is 193.7mm. The average rainfall for the entire month of June comes to 505mm.The city recorded a maximum daytime temperature of 29.5 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, which was two degrees below normal. The minimum temperature stood at 25.2 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal. No major variation in temperature is expected until at least June 22, as per IMD’s seven day forecast for the city.At present, there is no monsoon trough persisting in close proximity to the city, though there is an offshore trough hovering at sea level off the coasts of Karnataka and Kerala, while another stretches from the south Arabian Sea to South Konkan districts. Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts received heavy rainfall early Wednesday, causing waterlogging in some areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-likely-to-see-isolated-heavy-showers-from-june-17-to-19-imd-101623870011573.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||MGNREGA works: Moga DC flags ₹2.5-crore irregularities||The Moga deputy commissioner has red-flagged the purchase of interlocking tiles, sand and other materials worth at least ₹2.5 crore for development works carried out in at least 65 villages of the district under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans has asked the rural department officials to scrutinise records after the district administration found information about the material procurement missing from the MGNREGA records. Even mandatory approvals were not taken for starting projects and allotting works to firms, it has come to light.“I have informed the state government about the irregularities in records of material procurement and works worth around ₹2.5 crore under MGNREGA. Though the works have been done, the official concerned did not adhere to the procedure or maintain records,” said Hans. “I have deployed an official to peruse the records. Later, a thorough investigation will be conducted and strict action will be taken against those guilty.” According to officials, the irregularities came to the fore when a few contractors went to court for non-payment of funds against the purchased material. Their payments were stopped because the rural development and panchayat department did not find the relevant records. Out of the 65 villages, 50 fall under Kot Ise Khan block, 10 under Moga-1, four under Moga-2, and one under Baghapurana, said an official, requesting anonymity.  “At some places, the material never reached the villages. At some villages, works were done but there is no mention of labour charges incurred,” he said, adding that irregularities could be up to the tune of ₹8 crore if the administration reviews records of other villages as well.“No approval was taken from my office,” said Moga additional deputy commissioner (development) Subash Chander. “The villages need to pass a resolution and obtain permission from the ADC office. We have sent all case files and court notices to the concerned block development and panchayat officers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mgnrega-works-moga-dc-flags-2-5-crore-irregularities-101623869894734.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||New study challenges argument on existence of Saraswati river||A study conducted by the Centre of Excellence for Research on the Saraswati River (CERSR) at Kurukshetra University has concluded that all major archaeological sites in Haryana - Siswal, Rakhigarhi, Banawali, Bhirrana, Kunal, Balu, Thana – were located at a radial distance of less than 500m from the paleochannels of Saraswati or the Drishadwati rivers.A paleochannel is a deposit of sediment filling the course of an ancient river.The study was conducted to find out why only Saraswati river which was spatially sandwiched between Yamuna and Sutlej rivers went into oblivion while all other rivers mentioned in the Rig Veda still exist.The findings of this study have been published in United Kingdom’s peer reviewed SCI International Journal of Archeological Prospection by John Wiley Publishing Group.CERSR director Prof Akshey Rajan Chaudhri, who conducted the study to understand disappearance of Saraswati, said the new findings have shattered the belief that Saraswati river was a paleochannel of old Sutlej river.“This is not a fact. A general belief has been made that Saraswati river was merely 10,000 years old. Research carried out on Ghaggar-Hakra (GH) system which is a further extension of Saraswati river system revealed that the GH system was more than 86,000 years old,” he said.‘HARAPPAN SETTLEMENTS PROSPERED DUE TO SARASWATI’Prof Chaudhri said the Harappan settlements in Haryana and Rajasthan nucleated and prospered in the fertile channel bars and interfluves of this river system.“The presence of significant clay beds indicates that around 14,000 years, 6,000 years and 4,000 years ago there was a weakening of monsoon and drought conditions which resulted in near absence of flow in the channels,” said Prof Chaudhri, who is also the chairman of the geology department.The study ‘Saraswati River in Northern India (Haryana) and its Role in Populating the Harappan Civilisation Sites’ has revealed that Saraswati river paleochannels formed a dense web of inter-connecting channels which were continuously networked for over 2,984km in Haryana.“Saraswati river system has two major paleochannels. One passes through Yamunanagar, Ambala, Kurukshetra, Pehowa, Kaithal, Jind, Fatehabad and Sirsa before entering Hanumangarh in Rajasthan. The other which represented Drishadwati river, a Vedic period tributary of Saraswati, passed through Yamunanagar, Karnal, Panipat, Sonepat, Jind and Hisar districts before passing through Rawatsar in Rajasthan,” said Prof Chaudhri.‘DIVERSION OF CONTRIBUTING CHANNELS CAUSED ABSENCE OF FLOW’The study found that Saraswati river was flowing in Haryana until 1402 AD and then there was a sudden absence of flow in the channel thereafter.This abrupt change appears to be consequence of sudden modification or diversion of contributing channels for constructing five canals (western Yamuna canal) starting from the foothills in Yamunanagar wherein there was a considerable anthropogenic rerouting of streams so as to make water available in Fatehabad and Hisar. “The channels of the Drishadvati river and the Chautang stream have been extensively utilised for routing this canal,” Prof Chaudhri said.“Apart from this, natural factors comprising weakened summer monsoon, shrinkage of glacial cover and melt waters, channel avulsion and channel capture, climate change and tectonic disruption of the input channels in the lesser Himalayan terrain also contributed towards the gradual decay and ultimate extinction of this mega river system,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-study-challenges-argument-on-existence-of-saraswati-river-101623869893527.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab polls: Sidhu, Captain supporters wage war of posters||The war of words between Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and dissident Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu is turning into a war of posters in Amritsar.Days after Amarinder’s local supporters installed hoardings claiming that he is the state’s only captain, hoardings backing Amritsar East MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu have now surfaced in the holy city.The hoardings that carry the former three-time Amritsar MP’s picture claim that “Sara Punjab Sidhu Naal” (whole Punjab is with Sidhu) and have been installed near the historic Hall Gate and a popular mall on the national highway. The two areas fall under Amritsar East, from where Sidhu was elected to the Punjab assembly in 2017, and Amritsar Central, represented by cabinet minister OP Soni.Rajbir Singh Johal, a local Congress worker who has installed the hoardings, said: “Whenever we go out, we hear only one voice that Navjot Singh Sidhu should be the state’s chief minister. He is one person who guards the truth and has the guts to speak against injustice.” Claiming that Sidhu will soon start “visiting people”, he said: “Our captain is only Sidhu”.Sidhu along with some ministers in the state government have been questioning Amarinder’s performance as the chief minister, prompting the party high command to intervene and ask the Punjab unit to accommodate all sections, including the dissident leader. Earlier this month, Amritsar mayor and Captain loyalist Karamjit Singh Rintu and National Student Union of India state president Akashay Sharma had installed big hoardings mentioning “Punjab Da Ik Hi Captain” (Punjab has only one captain) in the holy city, especially in Sidhu’s constituency. Before that, a non-government organisation had pasted Sidhu’s “missing” posters in his constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-polls-sidhu-captain-supporters-wage-war-of-posters-101623869892371.html
17-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP plans action against Joshi for outburst on farm laws||The Bharatiya Janata Party is likely to take disciplinary action against former Punjab minister Anil Joshi, who has been critical of the state and central party leadership on their dealing with the ongoing farm protests. According to a senior party functionary, who did not wish to be named, the Punjab BJP will issue a show-cause notice to Joshi for his outburst. “The former minister gave a series of interviews to attack the party on the critical issue of farm laws and minced no words in cornering the party leaders. The state BJP will issue him a notice, asking him as to why no action should be initiated against him in view of his indiscipline,” said the functionary, who is at the helm of affairs.Joshi in his interviews has termed the anger of farmers against the BJP a result of the “utter failure” of the state leadership. He has not only targeted the state leaders by name, but has also slammed the Centre for failing to handle the situation wisely. The former local bodies minister’s outburst has got support from other party colleagues as well. Those who have endorsed his views include former chief parliamentary secretary and former Jalandhar North MLA KD Bhandari, former state youth wing chief Mohit Gupta and state executive member Kamal Chaitley.This has further embarrassed the saffron party, which was already on the back foot on the issue of three contentious farm laws.Joshi has been particularly critical of state BJP Ashwani Sharma and farmer faces Harjit Grewal and Surjit Jyani for giving “wrong feedback” to the party high command on the farmers’ issue.“These leaders give statements against the farmers, who in return attack the common party workers. Our leaders are surrounded by hundreds of security guards, whereas nobody comes when the common worker is attacked,” he had said in a recent interview. Issue discussed with party high command tooThe senior party functionary said the issue was also discussed in the meeting of the state core group leaders held in the national capital on Tuesday.Home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda had chaired the meeting in which the party’s strategy for the 2022 Punjab polls was discussed.“The party high command is of the view that either such leaders (Joshi) should fall in line or face action,” said the party functionary. BJP’s Punjab affairs in-charge and Rajya Sabha member Dushyant Gautam preferred not to say anything on the action being taken against Joshi, but said the former minister should at least recognise what the party has done for him. “It was only because of the BJP that Joshi Ji became the local bodies minister at such a young age. He should think over whether what he is doing in the media is good for the party or not,” said Gautam, adding that Joshi had talked to him three-four days back on the issue. “I even invited him to meet me in person to discuss his grouse, if any. He is yet to turn up,” he said.Joshi, when contacted, said that he would reply to the notice as and when it is issued.“But let me tell you that the party is in such a crisis in Punjab as state leaders target whosoever asks vital questions,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bjp-plans-action-against-joshi-for-outburst-on-farm-laws-101623869832121.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||BMC plans to increase property tax by 14%; panel doesn’t pass it||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday proposed to increase the property tax by 14%, in a proposal tabled before the civic standing committee. However, the proposal was not passed by the committee. The opposition said it needed more time to study the document and understand its financial burden on common man in the middle of a pandemic, which had led to a loss of many jobs or cuts in salaries, leader of Opposition and Congress corporator Ravi Raja said. The proposal tabled by the assessment and collection department on Wednesday proposed that hotels will get their status changed from commercial to industrial, bringing them relief in various taxes. It also proposed that property tax be calculated as per the ready reckoner rate as of April 1, 2021. With the revised ready reckoner rate, property tax on all properties will go up by approximately 14%. This will not affect the rebate given to properties below 500 sqft. When passed by the standing committee, this revision of rules will be applicable for a period of four years, from April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2025. With this, BMC’s property tax income is expected to go up by ₹1,000 crore, Raja said. As per the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act, property tax is revised every five years. The revision can increase the property tax by upto 40%. The last revision in property tax was made in 2015, and the next one was due in 2020. However, due to the pandemic, the revision in 2020 was not done by BMC. As per the proposal, however, the BMC will not revise the property tax rates for these four years, as scheduled by the MMC act, as there is a case pending in Supreme Court and outcome of the case could affect revision rules. The Standing Committee has kept the proposal pending citing that they will need more time to study its impact on citizens. A senior civic officer from the property tax department said, “This proposal is not for increasing the property tax. We are not revising rates as planned every five years. However, we are taking into consideration, the changed ready reckoner rate, which can increase property tax on all properties upto some extent.” The opposition criticised the proposal. Raja said, “With the change in status, hotels will get relief in property tax. However, this proposal will lead to increase in tax for common man. Even if the administration defends the decision by saying it is not revising property tax rates, as scheduled every five years, it should not take a decision that will burden common man. The Congress will oppose this proposal. We did not let it pass today, as we needed more time to study it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-plans-to-increase-property-tax-by-14-panel-doesn-t-pass-it-101623869412558.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Maratha outfits begin silent agitation; state invites them to talk||The Maratha community outfits on Wednesday began the next phase of their statewide silent agitation to press for reservation in government jobs and education, which was scrapped by the Supreme Court last month. Responding to the launch of the agitation under the leadership of Rajya Sabha MP Sambhajiraje, which was attended by MPs, MLAs and Opposition leaders, Maharashtra government is expected to meet the Maratha leaders on Thursday to apprise them about the steps taken on legal and administrative fronts.The Supreme Court on May 5 quashed 12% and 13% quota given to Marathas in education and jobs under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018. The state plans to file a review petition in the SC, as recommended by a committee of retired high court judge Dilip Bhosale to study the ruling and recommend a way forward.The protest, termed as silent march, was held at Shahu Samadhi Sthal, the resting place of Rajarshi Shahu Maharaj, a reformer king of the princely state of Kolhapur and a descendent of Maratha warrior king Shivaji, in Kolhapur on Wednesday. Shahu Maharaj, grandson of Rajarshi Shahu and Sammbhajiraje’s father, and Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi chief and BR Ambedkar’s grandson Prakash Ambedkar too participated in the protest.The organisers requested the participating politicians to put forth their individual stand and not the agenda of their parties. BJP’s state president Chandrakant Patil was requested by Sambhajiraje to not speak at the protest as it would give a political colour to the protest. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati demanded immediate steps by the state to restore the reservation and extend the benefits to the community.The community has been holding district-wide meetings and statewide protest to push its demand of restoration of the quota. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, the face of the community, has announced similar protests in Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati, Raigad till month-end and a march from Pune to Mumbai in August if the demands are not met by then.“Respecting the request by honorable Sambhajiraje, I did not speak at the protest venue. The organisers have allowed the elected representatives only from Kolhapur to speak. I will speak when it is held in Pune. We will give a memorandum of support from our party,” Chandrakant Patil said.Minister of state for home and Kolhapur’s guardian minister Satej Patil, minister Hasan Mushrif, minister of state Rajendra Yadravkar, MPs Sanjay Mandalik (Shiv Sena), Dhairyasheel Mane (Shiv Sena), MLAs Prakash Awade (independent), Chandrakant Jadhav (Congress), Vinay Kore (Jansurajya Shakti) participated in the protest.Shahu Maharaj said the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should clear their stand on reservation. “The state has been doing its job, but there are limitations to their powers on legal grounds. We were told that PM Modi assured the CM Thackeray-led delegation last week to take positive steps on reservation. But Modiji needs to clarify on his stand on reservation to Marathas. Reservation can be restored only by adopting legal options in Parliament and for this, garnering support of all parties and all states is important,” he said.Satej Patil invited Sambhajiraje and other Maratha leaders for talks with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and other senior ministers. “I thank Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati for his amicable stand to not resort to any aggressive protest amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The state is 100% sympathetic towards the demands by the community. We are in favour of strengthening of SARTHI and its district level branches, more funding to Annasaheb Patil Arthik Vikas Mahamandal, expedite the legal proceedings in Kopardi case and filing a review petition in the Supreme Court,” he said.Thackeray, Ajit Pawar, public works minister Ashok Chavan and other senior ministers are expected to meet the Maratha delegation at 5pm on Thursday. It will be followed by the meeting of the cabinet sub-committee headed by Ashok Chavan to take a review of the compliance of the assurances given to the community.Sambhajiraje has demanded review and curative petitions in the Supreme Court, petition to the Central government for the reservation from the Central list and constitution of the state backward class commission. He has also demanded extension on the benefits of the quota to the youths from the community in jobs and education by making special financial and administrative arrangements. He has also demanded that the elected representatives from all parties push the demand for the reservation in ensuing monsoon session of the state legislature.“Even if the state powers to give quota are restored, it would not work, unless the 50% cap on reservation was removed,” said a Congress leader. “We wanted the elected representatives to speak up on their stand on the reservation, as ultimately they have to push it in the state legislature. We are not fully satisfied with the government’s stand,” said Virendra Pawar, one of the organisers of Maratha Kranti Morcha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-outfits-begin-silent-agitation-state-invites-them-to-talk-101623869292669.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Chimbai work: NGT forms monitoring committee||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has constituted a seven-member monitoring committee to oversee compliance of environmental norms at Bandra’s Chimbai village, where the state fisheries department has proposed to undertake infrastructure expansion works.NGT was hearing two-related petitions in the matter, one of which was filed by a resident fisherfolk from Bandra’s Chimbai fishing village, where it is alleged that ongoing construction work has violated environmental clearance (EC) norms. “In August 2019, bulldozers and JCB crane machines were drawn into the region upon the directions of a private contractor. The officer of the Respondent No.7 Contractor, Sharpoorji Pallonji, revealed to the Applicants and other local residents, who were completely taken aback upon the arrival of these machines, that he was here to perform development works upon the direction of the Respondent Fisheries Department,” the NGT has noted in its June 15 order. It has also been alleged by the applicants that the work undertaken is in excess of upgrading the fish landing centre, and “involves new, disproportionate and excessive constructions beyond what the fisherfolk require”. The NGT has not issued individual notices to the respondents in the matter. However, it has constituted a monitoring committee to ensure strict compliance with the environmental management plan (EMP) prepared by the fisheries department, and with the conditions on which the project has been granted environmental and CRZ clearance.The committee will consist of nominees of the MoEFCC, CPCB, MCZMA, SEIAA, Maharashtra pollution control board, forest department the area District Magistrate. The NGT itself has not sought a report from this committee, but has instructed that the minutes of the meeting be uploaded on the website of the MCZMA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/chimbai-work-ngt-forms-monitoring-committee-101623869291526.html
17-06-2021||Mumbai||Sena, BJP workers clash near Sena Bhavan||High-voltage drama was witnessed near Shiv Sena’s headquarters, Shiv Sena Bhavan in Dadar, on Wednesday afternoon, as workers of the Shiv Sena and the youth wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) clashed over the Sena’s criticism of the alleged scam in the land deal for Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Tuesday published an editorial saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi must intervene to ensure there is no “blot of scam” on the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. Consequently, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) activists held a protest near Sena Bhavan. The activists alleged Sena workers attacked them after the protest ended. Sena MP and its chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant called the protest a “stunt” and said the clash was a reaction to the attack by BJP workers. BJP leader Ashish Shelar asked the Sena not to attack from behind and challenged the Sena to come “in the battlefield”. Sada Sarvankar, Sena MLA from Mahim and area’s vibhag pramukh, said, “When we got to know that they were planning to come and attack Shiv Sena Bhavan, the Shiv Sainiks (Sena workers) who were in Sena Bhavan came on the streets. They (BJP workers) had picked up stones, bricks and lathis at Raja Bhadhe Chowk [near Sena Bhavan]. We also got to know that some women workers were also coming in the protest, so Sena’s Mahila Aghadi (women’s wing) also came here. They hurled abuses at our workers. It was not correct to hold a protest at Shiv Sena Bhavan. They want to show that Shiv Sena has abandoned Hindutva.” Former city mayor and Sena leader Shraddha Jadhav dismissed the allegation that Sena workers attacked the protesters. “We are cultured and we have morals taught by Balasaheb Thackeray. We did not initiate the clash; they attacked us first,” she said. BJYM activist Akshada Tendulkar said that she was allegedly attacked by Sena workers. Speaking to reporters, she said, “We finished our protest and were heading to our cars parked on the opposite side of the road. They attacked us from behind. I was pushed and my dupatta (scarf) was pulled. They kept attacking us in front of the police.” Shelar slammed the Sena saying that since Congress chief Sonia Gandhi has become God, the Sena thinks that people like Tendulkar are their enemies. He said that BJYM carried out the protest with permissions. “After the protest was over, they sneaked and attacked a woman. Shiv Sena has shown that their culture is of Aurangzeb. When Sonia and Vadra became their god, Tendulkar, Sathe and Amberkar (names of those who were allegedly attacked) became their enemies. Tendulkar, a woman party worker, was beaten up by everybody. Don’t hide behind the police and attack us. Come in the battle field, the BJP will defeat you. We condemn this attack on our workers,” he said, outside Mahim police station. “For every action there is a reaction,” said Sawant, adding if the BJP cared for law and order, they should not have taken to the streets in times of Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sena-bjp-workers-clash-near-sena-bhavan-101623869231505.html
17-06-2021||Lucknow||UP Vanmahotsava: 1.70 cr saplings to be planted along river banks||As part of state government’s target of planting 30 crore saplings this year during Vanmahotsava (forestation festival) beginning first week of July, about 1.70 crore saplings will be planted along the banks of different rivers in the state, including 57 lakh along the banks of Ganga.According to a statement from the forest department, the aim of the drive is to safeguard river banks from erosion and also reduce evaporation of river water during summer. The major districts that will see plantation are Meerut, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Amroha, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Kasganj, Farukhabad, Kannauj, Kanpur, Unnao, Fatehpur, Mirzapur, Varanasi, Gazipur, Sant Ravidas Nagar, Balia. In all 17066720 saplings will be planted in these districts. “Plant species in each district have been decided on the basis of the ecosystem and choice put up by the locals, including farmers, of the region. In all 27 departments are coordinating for the drive,” said the statement from the forest department. Forest department will plant 10.80 crore saplings, agriculture department 2.01 crore saplings, horticulture department 1.33 crore, Panchayatiraj department 1.20 crore, revenue department 1.20 crore. Saplings have already been prepared in the regional nurseries and would be provided to the departments according to their targets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-vanmahotsava-1-70-cr-saplings-to-be-planted-along-river-banks-101623868932300.html
17-06-2021||Noida||Flats damaged as Vaishali high-rise water tank bursts||Ghaziabad: Hundreds of residents of Express Green high-rise in Sector 1, Vaishali moved out of their houses on Wednesday after a big water tank installed on the roof of a 12-storey tower got burst and thousands of litres of water ran down causing damages to several flats. The residents, alleging lack of maintenance by the developer, also lodged an FIR at Kaushambi police station. The high-rise has several residential towers having about 620 flats. The residents said that it was about 1.15pm when they heard a loud sound and rushed out of their flats. “When we moved to the tower, we saw that thousands of litres of water was gushing out from the main water tank installed on the roof of tower A. The flow of water damaged boundary walls of the floors and window glasses of five flats were also damaged,” said Arun Singh, general secretary, Express Green RWA. “We have several maintenance issues in different towers, and it is due to negligence on part of the developer that the incident took place,” Singh said, adding that the maintenance staff were trying to install a new water tank. Shraddha Garg, resident of tower A, said that she called up emergency number for help. “I was not at home. I got a call from my home that the water tank had burst and window glasses of several flats were damaged. When I reached, I found that 9th, 10th and 11th floors were damaged and several feet of water was flooded over the ground floor,” Garg said. “Doors of the electricity panels were also damaged. Water had also entered the lifts and there was no electricity till 7pm,” she added. The residents approached the Kaushambi police and gave a complaint for lodging of an FIR. Mahendra Singh, station house officer, Kaushambi police station, said that police registered an FIR under IPC sections 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 427 (causing damages). “The FIR is lodged against five named officials of the builder’s firm,” he added. Officials of Express Properties, the developer, said that the new water tank is being installed. “Our staff are taking up the repair work at the site. It has been 11 years since we constructed the building, and a firm is looking after the maintenance work. We help in case any problem arises. We cannot say if some bolts got loosened up or anyone tampered with the setup. The tank had a capacity of about 10-12 thousand litres,” said Amit Goel, head (marketing) at Express Properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/flats-damaged-as-vaishali-high-rise-water-tank-bursts-101623868271574.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Bus purchase on hold, Delhi government to wait for L-G’s inquiry||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has put on hold its plan to procure 1,000 air-conditioned (AC) low-floor buses through the state-run Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), three months after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led opposition complained to the city’s anti-corruption branch (ACB) and Lieutenant Governor (L-G) Anil Baijal about the allegedly high cost of the annual maintenance contract (AMC) of these buses.“The matter was examined in this (transport) department. We have been directed to convey that the process of procurement of 1,000 buses and their AMC be kept in abeyance till further orders. This (has been) issued with the approval of the transport minister,” said the order issued by the state transport department to DTC on June 11.On March 12, seven BJP MLAs, led by Rohini legislator Vijender Gupta, complained to the ACB that the Delhi government plans to spend ₹875 crore to procure 1,000 new buses under the DTC. In addition, the Delhi government is ready to pay nearly ₹3,500 crore only for annual maintenance of these new buses for 12 years. The BJP MLAs asked how the cost of maintaining the new buses could be higher than their purchase.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot, however, said the warranty of these new buses does not cover at least 71 parts, for which a separate tender for AMC was required. “The BJP has complained to the L-G, who has set up an inquiry on their complaint. We have stopped the process of procuring buses until the report on the inquiry committee comes. The BJP should get its investigation done, we are ready to be investigated in every way. The truth will come out during the investigation.”BJP MLA Gupta said, “We appeal to the L-G for a CBI investigation into the matter to ensure the guilty are bought to book. To scuttle the matter, the government has put the procurement of the buses in abeyance in a hush-hush manner,” he said.Gahlot refuted the claims and said by putting the procurement of 1,000 buses on hold, the Delhi government showed it is a transparent administration and is open to scrutiny.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-puts-on-hold-plan-to-procure-1k-ac-buses-to-wait-for-l-g-s-probe-101623868151498.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||‘Sushil called up gangster day after stadium brawl’, says Delhi Police||Two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar called up gangster Sandeep Kala, alias Kala Jathedi, on May 5 morning -- a day after a fight in which wrestler Sagar Dhankad died and his friend Sonu Mahal, Jathedi’s nephew, was injured -- to convey that he only wanted to threaten them. Kumar was allegedly involved in the May 4 brawl that took place inside the Chhatrasal stadium.A police officer, who asked not to be named, said, “We recovered Kumar’s phone from his accomplice Anirudh last week (June 10). Anirudh was the tenth person to be arrested in the case. During the probe, we learnt that Kumar called Jathedi and conveyed to him that he only meant to threaten Dhankad and Mahal.”Jathedi is one of Delhi’s most wanted gangsters, and is allegedly operating from Dubai.Delhi Police arrested Kumar in connection with the case on May 23. A video of the brawl that was widely shared on social media appeared to show Kumar and his associates beating up Dhankhad. However, Kumar who is currently lodged in Mandoli Jail under judicial custody, has denied his involvement in the incident.Police are taking extra precautions for the safety of Kumar and have not shifted him to Tihar Jail, fearing retribution from several members of Kala Jathedi’s gang who are currently lodged there.The police also shifted gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who is a close aide of Jathedi, from Mandoli to Tihar jail, in view of the threat assessment to the former Olympic medallist.On Wednesday, police arrested two more members of Jathedi’s gang in a separate case and sent them to Tihar jail.Prison officials said Kumar, who was set to be transferred to Tihar, after 14-day quarantine at Mandoli jail complex, will stay there for now because of the probable threat to his life inside Tihar.Currently, all new prisoners are kept in quarantine at Mandoli jail before being shifted to Tihar in view of the steps to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the central prison.Sushil Kumar’s counsel, advocate Pradeep Rana, dismissed the police’s claims. “I have spoken to my client, who has confirmed that he has no connection with any gangster. He did not call anyone and was not in touch with anyone.”Meanwhile, Delhi Police on Wednesday said they have arrested another person in connection with the case. A 32-year-old man named, Subhash (identified only by his first name in police records) from his house in Kirari Suleman Nagar around 9pm on Tuesday.Police said Subhash, who is a physical training teacher, and also a Judo coach, was present inside Chhatrasal stadium on May 4. He was allegedly part of the group that assaulted Dhankad and Mahal. So far, 11 persons have been arrested in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sushil-kumar-called-up-gangster-to-iron-out-differences-over-injuries-to-nephew-in-stadium-brawl-101623867913508.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi resumes jabs for 18-45 group as doses arrive||The Capital on Wednesday received fresh stocks of Covid-19 vaccines for those in the 18-45 age group, said Atishi, the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) MLA from Kalkaji, as the city administration reopened bookings on the Co-WIN portal for all its inoculation centres a day after shutting over half of them owing to a shortage of doses.Presenting the day’s vaccination bulletin, Atishi said Delhi was in a comfortable position in terms of vaccine stock. She said the Delhi government has Covaxin doses for the 18-45 category for six days and Covishield vaccines for 11 days. Covaxin doses for the 45+category will last for seven days, while Covishield stocks are sufficient for 42 days.On Tuesday, nearly half the vaccination centres for the 18-45 age group were shut for want of vaccines. As on Wednesday, Delhi has 161 operational centres for the 18-45 category and 581 for those aged 45 and above.“We have received 62,160 doses of Covaxin and 173,340 doses of Covishield. Till date, we have received a total of 1.27 million doses for young adults... Starting today (Wednesday), slots are available on the Co-WIN portal for the 18-45 age group as well,” she said.Atishi also said that the Delhi government has been unable to run its vaccination drive at the pace it planned due to a shortage of doses. “The only way to remove vaccine hesitancy is to vaccinate the youth. When the youth go to get vaccinated, they will also bring along their family members,” she said.Senior government officials said they are hoping that supplies will stabilise once the central government starts providing free doses to all states and Union territories from June 21. “But, there is not much clarity yet. We have not received any indication on when we will receive the free doses for the 18-45 category and in what quantity,” said a state government official who asked not to be named.The Centre already provides free vaccines to all states to inoculate those aged 45 years and above, while private hospitals offer paid vaccines to all groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reopens-bookings-for-all-its-centres-as-fresh-vaccine-stocks-arrive-101623867911456.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Chandni Chowk a no-vehicle zone now||The Delhi government on Wednesday notified the proposal to stop all motorised vehicles from entering the main Chandni Chowk road between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid between 9am and 9pm. According to the gazette notification, several roads leading to Chandni Chowk have, however, been kept out of the purview of the restrictions.The 1.3-km stretch was envisaged as a pedestrian-only zone as part of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project but a final legal stamp on the plan was pending. The notification will pave the way for a range of reforms planned by the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), the nodal agency for the redevelopment of the heritage market, officials said.The initial deadline for the project was fixed for March 2020, but it was revised to March 2021 due to the pandemic and related factors. Work resumed on the site after construction activity was permitted as part of the unlock proceedings.“Work on streetlights, CCTV and signage on the main stretch is currently on. Work on building toilets and police post is also going on. Both should be ready by July 31. Besides, work has begun on one half of the Red Fort crossing,” said Nitin Panigrahi, deputy general manager, SRDC.According to the gazette notification issued by KK Dahiya, special secretary (transport), restrictions on the movement of motorised vehicles will only be relaxed to allow emergency vehicles. Fire tenders, ambulances, hearse vans, and vehicles carrying patients will be allowed along with vehicles deployed for enforcement and maintenance services. Through the gazette notification, the Delhi Lieutenant Governor has directed the deputy commissioner of police (traffic) to operate under section 115 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, for imposing further curbs on the said area.Anil Pershad, 77, one of the owners of Chandni Chowk’s iconic Chunnamal Haveli, said senior citizens will face some problems due to the ban.“We will be meeting all concerned stakeholders and agencies for the implementation of the order tomorrow. We will implement it soon,” said a traffic police official who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandni-chowk-a-no-vehicle-zone-now-101623867852107.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s iconic Town Hall to be leased out||Delhi’s Victorian-era Town Hall, the headquarters of the erstwhile unified Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) in Chandni Chowk, will be leased out for 33 years on a monthly fee of ₹1.92 crore to be turned into a heritage hotel or a museum, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, the custodian of the building, said on Wednesday.The corporation issued a tender document on Wednesday, three years after the proposal to lease out the iconic building was cleared in 2018.The Town Hall was built in the 1863. It was initially known as Lawrence Institute and housed Delhi College of Higher Studies before it was bought by the municipality for ₹1,35,457 in 1866.It served as the seat of the MCD until the corporations shifted to the Civic Centre near Ramlila ground in 2012. A senior north corporation official privy to the development said, “The move will boost our revenue and help conserve the building. The restoration of the Town Hall will also be in tune in with the redeveloped Chandni Chowk. Tenders for the project have been floated and technical bids will be opened on August 5.”Former North MCD mayor Jai Prakash said the civic body has been spending ₹2-3 lakh every month on the upkeep of the building. “So it was decided to bring a scheme to rent out the Town Hall for 33 years to any private group, preferably from hospitality industry, so that commercial activities like a heritage hotel can be taken up here. It will bring the funds to the corporation and give a new lease of life to the historical building,” Prakash said.Veena Virmani, former chairman of the standing committee which approved the move, said “The proposal to rent out the building has clear instructions that the restoration and adaptive reuse of the Town Hall has to be in sync with the norms of the central government’s Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC),”Swapna Liddle, a historian and the author of Chandni Chowk: The Mughal City of Old Delhi, said: “The best use of the Town Hall building is turning it into a city museum so that people can come here and know more about the rich culture of Delhi. Now that Chandni Chowk has been redeveloped, the footfall here will increase so it makes more sense to develop a museum here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/victorianera-town-hall-in-chandni-chowk-to-be-leased-out-for-33-years-101623867791470.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Woman alleges rape by Lok Janshakti party MP, police yet to register case||A woman has filed a complaint at the Connaught Place police station alleging that she was raped by Lok Janshakti Party (LJP)’s member of Parliament (MP) Prince Raj Paswan on the pretext of marriage. The police on Wednesday said the alleged incident took place last year and added that an FIR is yet to be registered on her complaint, which was filed last week.A police officer, who asked not to be named, said the woman, too, was a member of the party and the parliamentarian from Samastipur, Bihar, allegedly sexually assaulted her after promising to marry her.The police’s comments came a day after Prince’s cousin, Chirag Paswan, who was removed as chief of the party amid a feud in the family on Tuesday, shared on Twitter a letter dated March 29, 2021, which he wrote to his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras, a party MP from Hajipur in Bihar, mentioning the rape allegations against his cousin.In his letter, Chirag stated that the woman has been blackmailing Prince. Chirag wrote that when he did not receive any response from Pashupati on this matter, he had advised Prince to approach the police with a complaint about the alleged blackmail.In February, Prince filed a complaint against the woman at the Parliament Street police station, in which he accused her of extortion and blackmail. The probe in that case is underway, the senior police officer said.The officer said, “We received the woman’s complaint last week. We are conducting an inquiry and taking a legal opinion before proceeding further. The MP Prince Paswan had in February filed a case of extortion and blackmailing against the woman. We are probing that case too. No one has been arrested in that case.”HT tried contacting Prince and Pashupati for their comment but their cellphones came as switched off. The officials, who answered calls to the landlines at their Delhi residences, said the leaders were currently in Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-alleges-rape-by-lok-janshakti-party-mp-police-yet-to-register-case-101623867551369.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt may move SC or NGT to seek changes in norms for old vehicles||The Delhi government will approach the Supreme Court or the National Green Tribunal seeking relaxation in norms under which 10-year-old diesel and 15-year-old petrol vehicles are automatically deregistered, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Wednesday.Gahlot said Delhi is in a “peculiar situation” compared to other states because certain sections of the Centre’s proposed scrapping policy will not apply to the Capital, owing to orders by the apex court and the NGT.The Centre’s policy allows 15-year-old private vehicles to ply, but with a much higher re-registration fee and strictly on the basis of a fresh fitness certificate. On the other hand, the top court, on October 29, 2018, prohibited 15-year-old petrol and 10-year-old diesel vehicles in the National Capital Region, and directed the transport department and police to impound such vehicles.The rule in Delhi applies to cars and two-wheelers.“Directions have been given to the transport commissioner to move an application immediately before the appropriate forum. The Union transport ministry mentions in its guidelines that those vehicles with proper fitness even after their expiry can ply, but the situation in Delhi is peculiar. In Delhi, the registration is automatically suspended after completion of the vehicle’s life span,” said Gahlot.Senior officials said it was due to this stringent rule in the Delhi-NCR region that the city’s scrapping policy has not been abe to gather steam. Delhi was the first state/UT to frame a vehicle scrapping policy in 2018. Government records show that from 2018 to May 31, 2021, only 2,879 old vehicles registered in Delhi have been scrapped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-may-move-sc-or-ngt-to-seek-changes-in-norms-for-old-vehicles-101623867491413.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||CBSE likely to declare Class 10 results in July third week||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is likely to announce Class 10 results in the third week of July, after compiling marks submitted by the schools on a formula devised after the examinations were cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic.CBSE officials said they will declare the exact date for the results after Thursday, when the board submits its Class 12 results formula to the Supreme Court.The class 12 exams were cancelled on June 1, more than a month after class 10 exams were cancelled on April 14., and CBSE said it will come up with “well-defined objective criteria” in a timebound manner to assess students for the important school-leaving year.For Class 10 — which follows a complicated assessment system based on internal test scores and a detailed moderation policy — the board asked its schools to submit compiled marks by June 30.“Generally, we take around 15 days to compile the results because there are numerous checks and balances in the process. Along with this, there are some administrative issues. If we are busy with the Class 12 results, there may be a delay of a day or two as well. We will only be clearer [about the dates of results] after tomorrow [Thursday],” said Sanyam Bhardwaj, Controller of Examination.The board announced the assessment pattern for Class 10 students on May 1.Under the system, individual scores will be calculated on the basis of a student’s performance in a unit/periodic test, the half-yearly or mid-term exam, and the pre-board examination. These together will account for 80 marks while the remaining 20 will be based on internal assessments that were likely completed by most schools as part of the usual board exam evaluation in the run-up to March.In order to check for inflation of marks, the board asked schools to pick the year with the highest average pass percentage in board exams in the past three years as a reference year and mark students only in the range of two points of the subject-wise average scores of that particular year.CBSE initially asked its schools to submit the compiled marks by June 5, but the board extended this deadline to June 30 due to the surge in infections and consequent lockdowns in several states.The Delhi government in May wrote to the education board, requesting a review of the timeline, since several of its teachers were involved in Covid-19 duties, including a door-to-door survey in hot spots, and monitoring duties at the vaccination and food distribution centres. Around 1,030 government schools in the city are affiliated with CBSE.Sukhbir Singh Yadav, principal of Government Co-Ed Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Sector 21, Rohini and president of the Vice and Principals’ Association of Delhi (VPAD) said, “The extension allowed by CBSE came as a breather, and most schools are done with the work. Many have even submitted the marks. Since the number of Covid-19 cases also reduced in the city in the past few weeks, we were able to finish the work as teachers were not wary of coming to school for compiling the results.”Several private schools in the Capital said they either uploaded the marks on the CBSE portal or were likely to do so by the end of the week. Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini and a member of the Action Committee for Unaided Recognized Private Schools (ACURPS), which has around 450 schools under its ambit, said around 40-45% of schools have already submitted the marks.“We have also nearly finished compiling the Class 10 results and will be able to submit them in a few days. We were waiting for the additional FAQs uploaded by the board to review the marks before submitting it to the board,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbse-likely-to-declare-class-10-results-in-july-third-week-101623867432569.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Elected unopposed, Delhi’s three civic bodies get new mayors||The three municipal corporations — North, East and South — elected new mayors and deputy mayors on Wednesday. GTB Nagar councillor Raja Iqbal Singh was elected mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Raghubarpura councillor Shyam Sundar Agrawal will be the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) mayor and Sagarpur councillor Mukesh Suryan was elected mayor of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC).Archana Dilip Singh (North DMC), Kiran Vaidya (EDMC) and Pawan Sharma (SDMC) have been elected deputy mayors.All the new mayors and deputy mayors, except Raja Iqbal Singh, were BJP nominees, and were elected unopposed since the party has a comfortable majority in all three corporations. Of the total 272 councillors in the three MCDs, the BJP has 181 members, the Aam Aadmi Party 49, and the Congress 31.North MCD mayor Singh is a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillor from the GTB Nagar ward. His election as mayor comes months after the party severed ties with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) over the three farm laws.The BJP and the SAD contested the 2017 municipal elections in an alliance. The SAD won five municipal wards. Last year, when the SAD parted ways with the BJP, SAD councillors resigned from their posts, but Singh, who was then the chairman of the Civil Lines zonal committee, did not follow the party diktat. He continued his association with the BJP and was nominated for the post of mayor in north corporation.The new mayors will replace Jai Prakash (north corporation), Anamika Mithilesh (SDMC) and Nirmal Jain (EDMC).Elections were due in April but were delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Talking about his priorities, Singh said, “I will work to save Delhi from the third wave of Covid-19, provide proper sanitation facilities, good education and health facilities. The stress will be on making the corporation self reliant and expediting the ongoing projects.”SDMC mayor Suryan said his priority will be to effectively deal with the pandemic. “Due to Covid-19, the civic body is facing financial challenges so we need to focus on a better revenue generation plan to deal with the situation,” Suryan said.Newly elected EDMC mayor Shyam Sundar Aggarwal said his priority will be to make the East body self-reliant. “I will work to improve sanitation and public health. Our primary responsibility is to keep the area clean, so sanitation work will be improved,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elected-unopposed-delhi-s-three-civic-bodies-get-new-mayors-101623867431387.html
17-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh’s SC/ST Commission revamped, BJP cadres get a look-in||A day after seeking details of vacancies in the government-owned corporations and boards in Uttar Pradesh, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) began the much-in-demand process of accommodating cadres to these positions. The Yogi Adityanath government reconstituted the state’s SC/ST commission by making 18 appointments to the body. Former BJP lawmaker and an allopathic doctor from Agra Rambabu Harit was named chairman of the SC/ST Commission. These appointments, cleared by governor Anandiben Patel, would be for a year from the date when the nominated people take charge. Uttar Pradesh is due for assembly elections in early 2022, in about nine months’ time.“The party has always looked after its cadres and more would be accommodated in the coming days against vacancies,” a BJP leader said, admitting that the process of accommodating old hands got a move on after party’s national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh’s three-day feedback session. Mithilesh Kumar, a Dalit leader from Shahjahanpur who had contested the 2014 Lok Sabha polls on the Samajwadi Party symbol, has been appointed one of the two vice chairpersons of the commission, the other being Ram Naresh Paswan, a Dalit cadre from Sonbhadra. “The party has picked cadres and this is welcome recognition,” said Ram Singh Valmiki, former secretary of the UP BJP’s SC/ST cell who has been named member of the SC/ST commission. Valmiki had been a regular feature of “samarasta bhoj” (social harmony lunches) organised by the BJP and RSS to build bridges between upper castes and Dalits.For Valmiki, along with Ramesh Toofani (another old party hand who figures on the list of cadres from Lucknow), this is their first appointment to the SC/ST commission. For few others like sadhvi Gita Pradhan from the Samajwadi Party bastion of Sambhal and Om Prakash Nayak from Aligarh, this is their second term as members of the SC/ST commission.“Our term has been renewed for a year and I am thankful to the party,” said Nayak, a former state chief of state BJP’s Dalit wing who enjoyed the status of minister of state during defence minister Rajnath Singh’s stint as UP chief minister. Other members, mostly old party hands, include Kamlesh Pasi from Varanasi, Sheshnath Acharya from Ballia, Teeja Ram from Azamgarh, Anita Siddharth from Jaunpur, Ram Asrey Diwakar from Farrukhabad, Shyam Aheria from Mathura, Manoj Sonkar from Varanasi, Shravan Gond and Amresh Chandra Chero from Sonbhadra, Kishan Lal Sudarshan from Kanpur and KK Raj from Etawah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-s-sc-st-commission-revamped-bjp-cadres-get-a-lookin-101623863232041.html
17-06-2021||Pune||Overweight dog undergoes surgery in Pune, loses over 5kg in a week, gains her pace||Pune: A Pune-based animal clinic conducted its first laparoscopic surgery on an overweight dog, an Indian cross breed. Post-surgery, doctors have claimed that the dog lost over 5 kgs in just a week. Just like adults, animals too could suffer from serious health issues due to obesity. Ms Yasmin Daruwala, a resident of Karvenagar, was worried as her dog avoided participating in any physical activities almost 7-8 years ago. He said, “We had neutered our dog, Deepika, 5 years ago. Initially, she would run around the house, help me with some of the household chores, play with me, go for walks, won’t get irritated easily, follow my instructions, eat properly, exercise with me, help me fetch things, and was attentive. A few years down the line, I noticed her rapid breathing, inability to walk and breathlessness. She was 5-6 years old when she lost interest in all the activities. She would just sit on the couch being lazy, salivating, panting severely for breath. With time her condition deteriorated,and we spent about ₹10,000 every month on medicines and food.” After consulting many doctors, Daruwala came across Dr Narendra Pardeshi of Small Animal Clinic, Pune, and tried various ways to reduce weight by prescription diets for obesity, cardiac food and joint foods. “Dr Pardeshi suggested laparoscopic sleeve gastronomy surgery and so we consulted Dr Shashank Shah, leading laparoscopic bariatric surgeon, Laparo Obeso Centre, Pune,” she said. Dr Shah said, “Like humans, obesity is a silent killer in animals too. Animals can become obese owing to the lack of exercise and excessive food intake. Labrador, Pug, Golden retriever, boxer, St. Bernard are more predisposed breeds along with Indian dogs who are fed more on carbohydrate-rich food. Like humans, this dog had a history of obesity, high blood pressure, dilated cardiomyopathy (enlarged heart), thyroid problem (hypothyroidism), higher Body Mass Index (BMI), panting, salivation (watery discharge) from the mouth, joint problems and bluish tongue (cyanosis).” Dr Pardeshi said the normal lifespan of a dog is 12 -15 years and tends to reduce by six years if they are obese and fail to seek timely treatment. He said, “The joints of dogs get degenerated because of obesity and have less physical activity. This dog underwent various medical tests like humans to check for the fat percentage by measuring the ratio of the stomach and hind legs.” The surgery was conducted on June 6 and the dog had to fast for 12 hours prior to surgery and on a liquid diet for 5 days with protein-rich powder in liquid form. The dog’s weight was 50 kgs before going for surgery which should have been about 18 -20 kgs. After being on a liquid diet for seven more days, the dog lost four kgs in just five days and more than five kgs in a week. Ms Daruwala said that the surgery had now helped the dog move easily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/overweight-dog-undergoes-surgery-in-pune-loses-over-5-kg-in-a-week-gains-her-pace-101623860410993.html
17-06-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati attacks SP after Akhilesh meets rebel BSP MLAs||A day after six rebel Bahujan Samaj Party MLAs met Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav, party chief Mayawati on Wednesday lashed out at the SP, alleging that it was trying to project the meeting as a split.Mayawati accused the SP of “specialising in the narrow politics of hate, manipulation, malice and casteism”.“The Samajwadi Party, which is an expert in narrow politics of despicable manipulations, malice and casteism, is publicising through the media that some BSP MLAs are breaking away to join the SP. This is a serious illusion,” the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister tweeted in Hindi.On Tuesday, six rebel BSP MLAs met SP chief Akhilesh Yadav in the party office. After the meeting, the group’s leader Aslam Raini announced that 11 rebel BSP MLAs would launch a new political party. The MLAs who met Akhilesh were suspended from the party long back for colluding with the SP and an industrialist during the Rajya Sabha polls for defeating a Dalit candidate, she said.SP spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi said: “Mayawati ji’s allegations are baseless. MLAs are deserting her... ”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-attacks-sp-after-akhilesh-meets-rebel-bsp-mlas-101623860171624.html
17-06-2021||Pune||Agitation on Maratha quota begins in Kolhapur||PUNE: Leaders across all party lines extended support to the state-wide agitation launched by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Member of Parliament (MP) Yuvraj Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati at Kolhapur on Wednesday. The Maratha Kranti Morcha launched the rally with its first sit-in agitation at Kolhapur under the leadership of Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati who is nominated by BJP as a Rajya Sabha MP. Vanchit Bahujan Aghadhi’s (VBA) leader Prakash Ambedkar participated in the sit-in agitation in support for reservation for Marathas. Bharatiya Janata Party state unit president Chandrakant Patil attended the sit-in agitation. Patil said, “We will support every move to get reservation for Marathas. As a citizen of Kolhapur I am present here, but I will also express my stand in Pune as I am the city’s elected representative.” Elected representatives from Kolhapur district participated in the agitation. Kolhapur district guardian minister Satej Patil said, “The Maharashtra government is positive about Maratha reservation and related demands. The state government would take all necessary steps towards it. It is my appeal that Sambhajiraje and their representatives should come to Mumbai and discuss their demands with the chief Minister and state government.” Rural development minister Hasan Musrif said, “It is accepted by all that the Marathas need reservation. Our government would ensure it and take whatever steps needed to address the reservation issue.” All MPs and MLAs from Kolhapur district attended the first sit-in. Sambhajiraje said, “The Maratha Kranti Morcha had organised a march earlier also. There is no need to hold rallies every time. It is time the elected representatives from all parties express their stand. Now elected members would speak and we would listen.” Huge gathering in the face of Covid protocol A large number of people attended the sit-in agitation, despite authorities’ plea to follow Covid norms. Yuvraj Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati said, “By considering Covid-19, we had appealed to the people from neighbouring districts not to come to Kolhapur. This is not a rally or march. It’s just a sit-in agitation where elected representatives would speak and people will listen. We even instructed the participants to strictly follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/agitation-on-maratha-quota-begins-in-kolhapur-101623857410859.html
17-06-2021||Pune||Reservation issue takes centre stage in Maharashtra politics||Pune: For the next few days, the Maharashtra politics would again revolve around the reservation issue. While the Maratha rally started from Kolhapur on Wednesday, organisations affiliated to the Other Backward Classes (OBC) have announced to launch their agitations from June 17. Maratha Kranti Morcha launched its state-wide agitation from Kolhapur on Wednesday with the support of leaders across all party lines. Vanchit Bahujan Aghadhi’s (VBA) leader Prakash Ambedkar also took part in the sit-in agitation at Kolhapur. Ambedkar said, “Both the state and central governments are responsible for not providing reservation to Marathas. As the two governments failed to take a decision at the right time, the Supreme Court scrapped the decision approved by the state government. The Maratha reservation issue is between the poor and rich people of the community. Along with the Maratha issue, the governments should also address the OBC and Scheduled Castes reservation issues.” Meanwhile, members of various organisations from OBC conducted a meeting related to holding of rallies. Akhil Bhartiya Mahatma Phule Samata Parishad (ABMPSP) representatives said, “Reservation of other communities is in danger. If the Marathas are getting reservation without affecting other communities, it is good. The authorities should ensure that the rights of other communities should not suffer.” Dilip Khaire, ABMPSP Nashik district president, said, “We have decided to hold rasta roko.” Satej Patil, Kolhapur district guardian minister, has appealed to the Maratha Kranti Morcha leader Yuvraj Sambhajiraje to hold discussion with the state government at Mumbai. Sambhajiraje has welcomed the state government’s stand that they are ready to meet the Maratha leaders. “We would keep the doors open for discussion, but at the same time agitations at various places would continue,” said Sambhajiraje.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/reservation-issue-takes-centre-stage-in-maharashtra-politics-101623856390802.html
17-06-2021||Pune||Pune in pre-final round of 2021 Global Mayors challenge||The city has entered the pre-final round of the 2021 Global Mayors Challenge, a worldwide competition for its proposal on early adoption of electrical vehicles (EV) to reduce vehicular pollution and provide clean air and health to residents. Bloomberg Philanthropies conducts Global Mayors Challenge; a worldwide competition annually. They announced 50 champion cities on Tuesday which are representing the boldest urban innovations of the past year that will advance to the finalist stage of the 2021 Global Mayors challenge. This year’s Bloomberg Philanthropies’ program focuses on elevating the most important public innovations generated in response to the global Covid-19 pandemic. In 2021 Global Mayors challenges, 631 cities from around the world submitted applications earlier this year and from those a committee of global experts has selected the 50 most innovative urban solutions to emerge in the wake of Covid-19 to advance in the competition. Of these 50 cities, 15 will win one million dollars each-to help them implement their breakthrough ideas and ultimately to spread their ideas to other cities around the world. The final round will be conducted from June to October 2021. For this, Pune city has submitted an innovative idea of building the foundation for an all-electrical vehicle future. Murlidhar Mohol, Pune mayor said, “We thanked the Bloomberg Philanthropies for proposed electrical vehicle initiative of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). We want to give clean air and healthy environment to our citizens. We sent proposal to Bloomberg Philanthropies to provide us funds to make action plan to develop infrastructure related to electrical vehicles and start services as early as possible. PMC will make comprehensive action plan which will include giving concession for electrical vehicles, install charging stations, promote electrical vehicles, raise fund, and conduct seminars.” He further added, “The PMC will use Bloomberg Philanthropies fund to prepare a city EV readiness plan and set up city EV fund.” Mangesh Dighe, environment officer of PMC said, “We have entered the pre-final round of the 2021 Global Mayors challenge. Pune city has given idea of electric mobility. We will run a pilot project on electric mobility. Bloomberg Philanthropies will select 15 cities innovative ideas and those will give one-million-dollar prize to run in full scale.” PMC proposal on EV adoptionPMC submitted a proposal to support early adoption of EV and provide fund, prepare a city EV readiness plan and set up a city EV fund. PMC mentioned in proposal, “ The city EV readiness plan would create an EV adoption scenario, identify actionable strategies for increasing EV adoption in the city, and outline operational guidelines for PMC. The city EV fund would use the recommendations from the city EV readiness plan to design a pool of fiscal incentives for vehicles, charging stations, and potentially other related items. Together, these will help electric vehicle sales and usage pick up in Pune city, reducing vehicular pollution, thus cleaning the air and benefitting the health of Punekars. Why is Pune shortlisted?As mentioned in the Bloomberg Philanthropies Mayors Challenge statement about Pune innovative idea, “Among Indian cities, Pune has some of the highest rates of vehicle ownership, and vehicles contribute nearly 25 percent of particulate pollution in the city. To increase early adoption of electric vehicles (EVs), Pune proposed to prepare a city EV-readiness plan and establish an EV fund that incentivizes use. This idea stands out because Pune is seen as a city at the vanguard of India’s national smart cities push and a hub for innovation. Success in Pune could allow solutions to scale across India and achieve broad impact.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-in-pre-final-round-of-2021-global-mayors-challenge-101623855790727.html
17-06-2021||Pune||Parisar survey claims 80% of vehicles violating Pune city speed limits||Increasing traffic and a lack of devices to track speed-limit rules have given rise to an increase in speed violations on Pune’s roads, as per a survey conducted by NGO Parisar.Of the 5,356 vehicles surveyed, two- and four- wheelers, on eight major roads (see box), 80% of the vehicles were found violating speed limits.“Our survey shows that vehicles are speeding with impunity. This is despite the fact that there is a minimum fine of ₹1,000 for this offence. The Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety has also asked states to take ‘strong and urgent measures to deal with over speeding’ and directed them to suspend the violator’s licence for a period not less than three months. Clearly, enforcement of the speed law is not happening adequately,” said Ranjit Gadgil, programme director, Parisar.As per the survey report, major speed violation occurred on Shivajinagar –Baner road, followed by the Savitribai Phule Pune University road.Sandeep Gaikwad, senior programme associate said, “It is a well-known fact and road-crash data has been consistently showing that speeding is a major reason for fatalities. We need to see enforcement agencies showing an urgency to enforce speed laws on the road.”“Speed violation incidents have risen in the city, but there is no rise in fatal accidents. In 2020, there were 143 fatal accidents and most of them were on highways. Even in 2021, we don’t have more fatal accidents happening on city roads,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic).“Roads in the peth areas and other parts of the city have been dug up for repairs. The speeds of two- and four-wheelers have reduced. Our speed detection devices are deployed on highways as major incidents of speed violations happen there. For city roads we don’t have more devices and due to heavy traffic, it is hard to place such devices on all the city roads,” added Shrirame.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parisar-survey-claims-80-of-vehicles-violating-city-speed-limits-101623854410624.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Police move SC against bail to students, ask trial court for time to process release||Delhi Police moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday for an immediate stay of Delhi high court orders on bail to three student activists Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita and Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested for allegedly instigating the February 2020 Delhi riots, claiming that the orders were not only “perverse” but also based on a “social media narrative”.It also simultaneously filed an application in a Delhi court seeking time to verify the addresses of the three, and their Aadhaar numbers before it can go ahead with the formalities of their release. The court will rule on this on Thursday after the judge said an “order could not be passed” on Wednesday on account of the number of “bail applications before the undersigned”. The police have sought time till June 21 for the verification of the “outstation addresses” of Kalita and Tanha and June 19, for that of Narwal.If the apex court hears the appeal on Thursday and stays the high court’s order, the three activists will remain in jail -- where they have been since last May.Challenging the high court’s orders in the apex court in less than 24 hours, Delhi Police contended that bail for Jawarharlal Nehru University (JNU) students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, and Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha was premised “on a preconceived and a completely erroneous illusion”, resulting in “perverse findings”.The appeal disputed the finding of the high court that the case under the anti-terrorism law seemed to have been made out by the government in its anxiety to suppress dissent, calling it “an insinuation” and a finding beyond the purview of the bail pleas.Communal riots broke out in north-east Delhi in February 2020, leaving 53 people dead and more than 400 injured. Over 750 FIRs were filed and several people arrested. The three were named in one of these FIRs, accused of orchestrating the blocking of roads in an area where riots broke out. Narwal and Kalita have already been granted bail in two other cases, in which they are accused of unlawful assembly and inciting riots. Tanha has already got bail in another case that alleges he was part of a “premeditated conspiracy” to orchestrate the riots.The judicial scrutiny, the appeal said, seems to have been not to ascertain whether the evidence on record showed a prima facie case (under the anti-terror UAPA law) but to establish that it was a case of a protest by students and suppression of dissent by the government of the day. This, the plea said, was “without any foundation and appears to be based more on the social media narrative than the evidence gathered and elaborated in the charge sheet”.Pressing for an urgent hearing and a stay on the three separate but similarly worded bail orders, the police said the high court “erroneously” interpreted certain provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) and watered down its provisions that will have far-reaching consequences for cases before investigating agencies.Also Read | Right to protest is not a terror act: Delhi high courtWhile the petition was filed on Wednesday with a plea for urgent listing as soon as possible, a time is yet to be fixed for the hearing.Delhi Police rushed to the apex court after a harsh indictment by the high court in its orders on Tuesday. The high court termed the charges against the student activists “stretched”, “verbiage”, and “hyperbole” while adding that the state may have, by going after the protesters, blurred the line between the “right to protest” and “terrorist activity”.Clearing the decks for the release of the three after more than a year’s incarceration, the high court held that the foundations of the nation stood on surer footing than those likely to be shaken by a protest, however vicious, organised by college students who operated from the confines of a university.In all three orders, the high court criticised the invocation of the anti-terrorism law against the students by Delhi Police and said there was “absolutely nothing” showing the possible commission of a terrorist act; or an act of raising funds to commit a terrorist act; or an act of conspiracy to commit a terrorist act.In its appeal before the Supreme Court, Delhi Police complained that the high court considered the matter as a case of protest by students while simply discarding the evidence and the corroborations that revealed a sinister plot of mass-scale riots being hatched by the accused.The petition said the high court read down Section 15 of UAPA that defined a terrorist activity by holding that the provisions of the Act could only be applied to deal with matters of profound impact on the “defence of India”, nothing more and nothing less. Apart from the interpretation of the law being an irrelevant consideration to grant bail, the police contended, it will impact several other pending cases under the anti-terrorism law.The appeal said the high court order was in breach of the Supreme Court’s 2019 judgment in Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali’s case which ruled against conducting a mini-trial and determining admissibility of certain evidence at the time of deciding a bail plea.Delhi Police said the high court order was “unsustainable in law” and had to be stayed immediately since it directed release of persons accused of serious offences under UAPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-move-sc-against-bail-to-students-ask-trial-court-for-time-to-process-release-101623843310971.html
17-06-2021||Bangalore||Campaign to get official language status for Tulu gains momentum on social media||Bengaluru: The demand for official language status for Tulu was trending on social media in Karnataka on Sunday. Spoken by over 1.8 million people in the state, Tulu language is yet to get its due, activists said, adding that the social media campaign was part of a larger movement.Even though Tulu is considered one of the Pancha Dravida Bhashas (the five prominent languages of South India), it never found a place in the 8th Schedule of the Constitution as an official language, while the other four – Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam, and Telugu – made it to the list.Tulu is spoken in the Tulunadu region, which consists of coastal Karnataka and parts of Kerala. However, according to the Atlas of the World’s Languages in Danger, published by Unesco, Tulu is now considered a vulnerable language.Mahesh Mulki, one of the volunteers who organised the online campaign, said more than 400,000 tweets demanding official status for Tulu were published on Sunday. “This was to show that there is a big demand for this (official recognition). People from various organisations and in their private capacity, have joined this campaign,” he said.Mulki added that apart from the social media campaign, they have also approached legislators and parliamentarians from the region to highlight the demand. “One of our first demands is to make Tulu an official language in Karnataka itself. For which, the MLAs and MPs have agreed to take up the matter with the government,” Mulki said.Dayanand Kattalsar, president of Tulu Sahithya Academy, said Tulu is often misrepresented as a dialect, which is far from the truth. “The script and the language are different. One of the reasons why we are demanding official status is so that we are able to preserve our identity and our literature,” he said.Kattalsar added that there is a big push to promote the language in the region where the language is spoken. The Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy has been promoting Tulu as the third optional language in over 200 schools in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts in coastal Karnataka, he added.The campaign has been reignited as the Tulu film industry is celebrating its 50th anniversary. Enna Thangadi in 1971 was the first movie made in Tulu and now, more than 10 movies are made in the language every year. Devadas Kapikad, one of the prominent Tulu theatre artistes and filmmaker, said movies have been a uniting factor for this movement.“In Tulu speaking regions, there is an increasing demand for good Tulu movies. There are issues with getting theatres whenever a big Kannada movies release, but people’s response gives us teeth to demand more screens. Over the years, many youngsters are coming with fresh ideas to make good Tulu movies and it is inspiring. However, the industry has been hit badly due to the pandemic,” Kapikad said.According to experts, the irony is that the end credit of Tulu movies always rolls out in the Kannada script. Although the script of Tulu is available, it is not very popular, and people continue to write it in the Kannada script.“Tulu was predominately a spoken language, and as Kannada was taught from a very young age, the practice of writing Tulu in Kannada became common. Very few in the Tulunadu region can read or write in the Tulu script,” said Tulu writer Vaman Nandavar.However, there are some developments on this front as well. An attempt is currently underway to revive and standardise the Tulu script. At the same time, a Tulu script keyboard has been created to make writing Tulu on the computer easier.Activists argued that official status for the language will help in reviving Tulu, which is struggling to find its place in the language politics of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/campaign-to-get-official-language-status-for-tulu-gains-momentum-on-social-media-101623840069896.html
17-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi to train 5,000 nurses for next Covid wave: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced that the Delhi government will build a force of 5,000 “community nursing assistants” in the Capital to help medical professionals as the city prepares for a potential third wave of Covid-19 infections.This force will be trained in paramedics, life care, home care, first aid, administering injections including vaccines and sample collection, setting up oxygen concentrators and cylinders, checking basic vitals of patients, and other patient care activities, the CM said.Those who are 18 and above, and have graduated from Class 12, will be eligible to apply, and online applications will open from Thursday (June 17).The selected assistants will be trained by IP University, and their role will be to assist doctors and nurses when requisitioned for their service during the next wave of Covid-19.“The advent of the third wave of Covid-19 has already begun in the United Kingdom. Preparations for the potential wave are on in full swing in the Delhi government. In the first and second waves in the country, we noticed that the huge surge in Covid-19 cases led to a severe shortage of medical and paramedical staff. Keeping that in mind, the Delhi government has made an ambitious plan to recruit and train 5,000 health assistants, who are technically called community nursing assistants,” Kejriwal said at a digital press briefing on Wednesday.He added that recruitment will be on first-come-first-serve basis.“These 5,000 nursing assistants will be given two weeks’ training each in batches of 500. Indraprastha University will impart the training in Delhi government’s nine major hospitals. These trained recruits will assist doctors and nurses, but they will not have the power to take any decision in patient treatment or anything related,” Kejriwal said.The city endured a punishing fourth wave of Covid-19 infections between April and May that left health infrastructure overrun, overwhelmed medical workers, and led to crematoriums running out of space.Over 760,000 people were infected in that period, while over 13,000 died of the infection between April and May alone. Cases in the city begin to peter out towards the middle of May on the back of a lockdown, which the state government imposed from April 19 onwards.The chief minister said this force will ensure improved efficiency of doctors and better patient care, adding that they will be deployed at temporary Covid Care Centres and health care facilities, along with other such facilities.“Training of these assistants will begin from June 28 and they will be called when needed. They will be paid according to the number of days they work. I hope with this move, Delhi government’s preparation for the third wave will be strengthened and the shortage of manpower that we faced in the previous waves will not reoccur,” Kejriwal said.Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and infectious disease at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said addressing the shortage of health care staff is as important as arranging for sufficient medical infrastructure.“It is one of the main pillars of augmenting health care infrastructure. It will, of course, be important to keep this new force under close supervision whenever they are deployed on the field to avoid negligence or callousness,” Dr Kant said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-train-5-000-nurses-for-next-covid-wave-arvind-kejriwal-101623828910052.html
