21-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra found 21 Delta Plus variant cases||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday confirmed that they have found 21 Delta Plus Covid-19 variant cases in the state. It was found in the genome-sequencing report conducted by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB). The report was recently submitted to the state health department.Of the 21 cases, two are in Mumbai and one in Thane. Nine cases are in Ratnagiri, seven in Jalgaon and one case each in Palghar and Sindhudurg.The Delta Plus, formed by mutation in the Delta (B.1.617.2) variant, is currently a “variant of interest”, and hasn’t been classified as a “variant of concern” by the Union health ministry yet. Genome sequencing is an exercise to study changes in the structure of the virus over time.In April, the state government signed an MoU with CSIR-IGIB to sequence 100 positive samples from each of the state’s 36 districts per month. They have collected 7,500 samples.“Genome sequencing was conducted in the state to ascertain if the state has the Delta Plus variant. The report has found 21 Delta Plus. Taking this into consideration, the health department instructed to collect details of index cases such as if the patient was re-infected after 102 days; it was infected even after vaccination and their travel history etc.,” the health minister said.“We have decided to start contact tracing of high-risk and low-risk contacts of index cases and genome sequencing of all those found Covid-positive will also be done. We have directed to start surveillance for influenza-like Illness (ILI), severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) in the affected areas. It is being done to ascertain the differentiating factor between Delta and Delta Plus variants and understand their virulence and transmissibility,” he added.Tope said they also wanted to know if variants are escaping the Covishield and Covaxin vaccine. For this, genome sequencing on a lot of samples need to be conducted which the health department is doing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-found-21-delta-plus-variant-cases-101624299457380.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 67-year-old kills mentally challenged son, ends life||A senior citizen killed his mentally challenged son, 35, and died by suicide at his house in Mulund on Sunday, said police. The 67-year-old wrote a note stating he was stressed about his son’s disability due to which he decided to kill him and then commit suicide. Police officers said the incident took place between 11pm on Saturday and 9am on Sunday at their flat in Crown Jewel Apartment at Yogi Hills. The man gave his wife and son a sedative in their ice cream after which they slept. He then drowned the son in a drum of water, following which he ended his life. Officers said the elderly retired as an engineer from a firm seven years ago. The man’s wife reported the incident after she woke up. The police took the bodies to the hospital where they were declared dead before admission. “We registered a case against the man for murder, while an accidental death report in the suicide case,” said V Bhise, senior inspector of Mulund police station. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-67-year-old-kills-mentally-challenged-son-ends-life-101624299396772.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: HSC students will have to wait for clarity on results||Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) students will have to wait a little longer for clarity on the status of their results, an official from the state education department told Hindustan Times. In a meeting held on Monday to discuss formula-based results for state board Class 12 students, it was decided to seek clarity from legal experts and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray before announcing a final decision. “While both the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council of Indian Secondary Certificate Examinations (CISCE) have announced their evaluation criteria, there have been challenges coming from several states against the formula-based results. We have decided to further study this before announcing something for our (HSC) students,” said a senior official from the state education department.Last week, the CBSE and CISCE boards submitted their decision on the evaluation criteria for Class 12 students to the Supreme Court.The approved mechanism for CBSE includes a 30:30:40 formula, which takes into account a student’s performance in the past three examinations (Class 12 pre-board, Class 11 finals, and Class 10 board) to settle at a score for the theory component of the examination that could not be held.The theory portion accounts for 70% or 80% of a subject score, with the remainder coming from internal practical tests that most schools managed to complete prior to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19. In the case of CISCE, the formula will take into consideration the students’ Class 10 ICSE Board exam results, project and practical work in subjects, and best marks obtained in school exams in Classes 11 and 12. “We have news from some states of parent groups challenging the CBSE evaluation formula, so announcing any decision before understanding the response of the stakeholders will be difficult,” said the state government official. He added that the government will release a decision on this subject soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-hsc-students-will-have-to-wait-for-clarity-on-results-101624299337276.html
21-06-2021||Indore||Indore sets national record with over 200,000 people receiving Covid-19 jabs in 1 day: Official||Over two lakh people were administered anti-COVID 19 jabs in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district on Monday which is a national record for the highest number of vaccinations in a single day for any district in the country, officials said. “We vaccinated over two lakh people on the first day of the mega vaccination campaign against Covid-19 on Monday, which is the highest number of vaccinations in a single day for any district across the country,” Indore District Immunisation Officer Pravin Jadia told PTI. Jadia said the district administration had set a target of vaccinating two lakh people during the day and set up 675 immunization centers where a total of 1,140 sessions of vaccinations were organised from 8 am to 9 pm. He said 1,200 health department employees administered jabs to people. Indore collector Manish Singh said the final figure of inoculation in the district could be between 2.25 lakh to 2.50 lakh during the day. "Many technical hurdles were also encountered while registering beneficiaries on the portal. However, with the help of experts and officers sitting in the control room the vaccination continued continuously," he said. Indore is the worst-affected district by the pandemic in Madhya Pradesh. As per the official figures, 1.52 lakh Covid-19 cases were reported in the district and 1,376 patients died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-sets-national-record-with-over-200-000-people-receiving-covid-19-jabs-in-1-day-official-101624298853704.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||MCZMA rap for Thane civic body over mangroves||The Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has rapped the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) and district collector for inaction on complaints of mangrove destruction in Mouje Kopari village. In a strongly worded remark made during MCZMA’s last meeting on June 10 (the minutes of which were made public late last week), the authority expressed its displeasure at corporation and collector, warning them of punitive action. As per the minutes, TMC (in partnership with a private real estate venture) was alleged to have buried a number of mangrove trees in Kopari village under waste and debris, on plot bearing survey number 86 in land records, last year. The move, which violates both the Coastal Regulatory Zone notification and previous orders of the Bombay high court concerning mangrove conservation, was first flagged in August 2020 by Janshakti Bahuuddeshiya Sanstha, a non-profit operating across Maharashtra in the fields of environment and agriculture. The sanstha has since continued to draw attention to the recurring violations on three different occasions, writing to MCMZA in October, November and December last year. Taking note of these complaints, MCZMA itself wrote to TMC on at least five different occasions between September 2020 and January 2021, instructing the latter to take appropriate action in the matter and submit a formal report. The mangrove cell, which was also asked to look into the matter, deferred it to the district collector “as the land does not fall under protected notified mangrove forest”. “Despite repeated reminders and continuous follow-up with the offices of the district collector and TMC, no report is received from them... the authority expressed displeasure over the same. As last opportunity, the authority decided to direct the district coastal zone management authority and the TMC to submit the report immediately within one week, failing which necessary action would be initiated.” When contacted, Dr Vipin Sharma, commissioner, TMC, said he would have to look up details of the specific instance before providing a comment, and he would respond with details. The commissioner had not responded to HT’s request until late on Monday. Despite efforts, Rajesh Narvekar, Thane district collector, could not be reached for a comment on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mczma-rap-for-thane-civic-body-over-mangroves-101624299037437.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay’s donations up to ₹80cr in ’20-21||Annual donations collected by the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-B) from corporate and alumni networks grew to ₹80 crore in 2020-21, from ₹20 crore in 2017-18. IIT-B, which has been recording an annual fund deficit to the tune of around ₹100 crore in its annual reports, recently ramped up its efforts to raise funds from alumni and industry networks to fund various infrastructure and research projects. In 2015, the institute set up a not-for-profit and charitable company registered under the section 8 of the Companies Act for raising donations. “In the recent past, to upscale the efforts towards building up alumni and corporate relations and fundraising in a systematic, dedicated and professional manner, akin to that in many foreign Universities, but customised to our needs and ecosystem, the Institute decided to start a separate Section 8 Company for this purpose. The company, named IITB Development & Relations Foundation, is now leading this effort as an arm of the institute,” said Prasanna M Mujumdar, deputy director (Finance & External Affairs) and professor in the department of aerospace engineering at IIT-B. The company is led by the Dean (alumni and corporate relations), supported by other functionaries, he added. “Over the years, the bond between IIT-B and its alumni has become very strong. The alumni want their alma mater to reach to the same pinnacle as they themselves have reached in their very successful careers. Their strong support, not just in terms of donations but also in mentorship and vision, has been of tremendous help in taking the institute to newer heights,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B. The primary sources of income at the institute are from academic receipts such as tuition, examination fees, hostel rent, royalty and consultancy charges for research and development, and grants from the union Ministry of Education. While the Covid-19 pandemic affected the income of the institute, owing to minimum operations and maintenance on campus, the institute was able to manage with the reduced income, said Mujumdar. “As government orders on expenditure management were received right towards the beginning of the financial year, the budgets were adjusted, anticipating the naturally expected reduction in expenditure due to regulated functioning,” said Mujumdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombays-donations-up-to-80cr-in-2021-101624299036741.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Four arrested for kidnapping, murdering 23-year-old driver||A month after a 23-year-old driver was allegedly kidnapped and murdered, the Mumbai Police’s crime branch has arrested three people from their hometown in Madhubani, Bihar, and a fourth accused from Karnataka.“The four were brought to Mumbai on Saturday on transit remand and a local court remanded them in police custody till Thursday,” said police inspector Ghanshyam Nair from unit 5 of the crime branch.The police have claimed that the main accused – Surendra Mandal, 30 – along with his associates – Shambhu Sadai, 30; Ram Kumar Sadai, 23; and Vijay Kumar Mistry, 50, allegedly abducted Rajesh Chaupal on May 13, suspecting that he was having an affair with Mandal’s wife in Bihar.The accused took the victim to a construction site at Fort where they worked and slit his throat and dumped Chaupal’s body in a water tank and filled it with 25-kg salt to ensure that the body did not stench, said Nair.“Chaupal is also from Mandal’s village and had been to his hometown last year due to the pandemic. He stayed around a year and was allegedly having an affair with Mandal’s wife. Mandal learnt about the affair and allegedly threatened to kill the victim,” said Nair.Chaupal came to Mumbai last month, and on May 13, Mandal asked him to meet near Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, after which he went missing. Chaupal’s father registered a missing person complaint when he did not return home, said Nair.During investigation, the crime branch learnt that the victim’s last location was near a construction site, where Mandal and the other accused were working. On probing further, they found out that the four had not reported to work at the construction site after May 14. The police suspected foul play and a team immediately rushed to Madhubani and arrested Mandal and the Sadai brothers, while another team arrested Mistry from Karnataka.“During interrogation, they confessed to the crime and the victim’s body was recovered from the water tank on May 20,” said Nair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-four-arrested-for-kidnapping-murdering-23-year-old-driver-101624298916677.html
21-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal governor shown black flags by TMC, Gorkha group in Darjeeling||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, who arrived at Darjeeling on Monday on a week-long visit, was shown black flags by supporters of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and its ally, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung faction). The demonstrators also shouted ‘go back’ slogans at several locations. Raju Bista, BJP Lok Sabha MP from Darjeeling, said, “It is a black day for people of West Bengal. Those who are into politics for money showed black flags to the Governor at the behest of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and TMC leaders.”“The black flags were actually shown to the nation’s law and the Constitution,” Bista said.At loggerheads with the state administration over a host of issues, including alleged post-poll violence, Dhankhar broke his silence on Monday night and said in a tweet that the district magistrate and the superintendent of police (SP) of Darjeeling breached protocol during his visit.Without spilling any details, Dhankhar tweeted, “DMs & SPs-members @IASassociation @IPS_Association have consistently breached protocol on my visits in State. Called upon CS @MamataOfficial to direct Darjeeling DM and SP, who faulted, to see me today, which they did. Sought their response by tomorrow on protocol violation.”Dhankar was shown black flags while he was on his way to Darjeeling. The demonstrators gathered at Rohini Gate and Kurseong but did not attempt to stop the convoy. In Darjeeling, a group of GJM supporters led by Binita Roka shouted slogans. Shanta Chhetri, TMC Rajya Sabha member and a local leader, said, “The governor has come to Darjeeling only to do politics.”Referring to the decade-old demand for a separate of Gorkhaland, Roka said, “The governor should not visit Darjeeling as a tourist. He should find a permanent political solution to the problem.”Addressing the media at Bagdogra airport, Dhankhar said, “The magnitude of post-poll violence is the highest since Independence. This has created a serious situation and people are in trauma. It is unfortunate that even seven weeks after the polls ended the state government has not admitted that it is a big problem.”“There has been no rehabilitation and no confidence-building exercise. This is not democratic governance. I appeal to the government to see the writing on the wall. Confrontation with every constitutional body is most unfortunate,” the Governor said. In Kolkata, TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said, “Publicity and television coverage is all the Governor is after. Having met Union home minister Amit Shah in Delhi, he has to do something to remain in news. So, he decided to spend a week in north Bengal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-governor-shown-black-flags-by-tmc-gorkha-group-in-darjeeling-101624298857602.html
21-06-2021||Lucknow||Procure maximum wheat from farmers: Priyanka to UP CM||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has demanded that all procurement centres in Uttar Pradesh should function till July 15, 2021 to guarantee purchase of wheat from all farmers in the state. In a letter sent to chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday, Priyanka said she was getting reports from different districts that only 30 to 50 quintal of wheat was being bought from a farmer at one time in the state. She said it was causing a lot of troubles to farmers and must be stopped immediately. She said arrangements for procurement of wheat should be made at all centres and maximum wheat be procured. Priyanka said wheat procurement though was started in the state on April 1, 2021 most of the procurement centres remained closed due to Covid-19. She said states like Punjab and Haryana procured 80 to 85% of the total wheat produced there whereas only 14 % of about 378 metric tonnes wheat produced has been procured in UP. She said the officers were not procuring wheat from the farmers apparently due to orders from their higher ups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/procure-maximum-wheat-from-farmers-priyanka-to-upcm-101624298741108.html
21-06-2021||Patna||Bihar offices can function at 100% capacity, night curfews shorter: Nitish Kumar||Government and private offices in Bihar can function with full strength from Wednesday and shops can stay open an hour longer till 7 pm from Wednesday, chief minister Nirtish Kumar said on Monday after chairing the meeting of the crisis management group with ministers and senior officials.The new set of relaxations, which also allow parks to reopen for six hours from 6am, will be effective from June 23 till July 6.“After reviewing the situation in the state, it has been decided that all government and private offices will now work with their full workforce from June 23. The shops will remain open till 7pm and parks will open from 6am till 12 noon. The duration of night curfew has been reduced further and it will now remain from 9pm till 5am,” said Kumar.Offices were earlier allowed to function till 5 pm with 50% attendance during Unlock 2, which was announced last week on June 16 while shops were allowed to be opened on alternate days till 6pm.On Monday, Bihar had less than 2,200 active Covid cases.Bihar imposed a hard lockdown on May 5, an order that was extended four times to contain a record rise in Covid-19 infections in the state, the last on June 2. The severe restrictions helped control the spread of the infection that paralysed the healthcare system and led to death of hundreds of patients while the state struggled to augment the number of beds, oxygen supply and essential medicines.The restrictions were eased in phases, first when shops were allowed to open from 6am-5pm on alternate days while the night curfew barred movement of people from 5pm till 6am. These restrictions were further eased on June 16, described by state officials as Unlock 2.“During the Unlock 3 period, parks and gardens have been allowed to open from 6am till 12 noon with proper Covid protocol while the duration of night curfew has been further reduced by an hour from 9pm till 5am,” additional chief secretary (home), Chaitanya Prasad.Prasad said the state government has allowed certain relaxations for weddings and last rites. “In both these functions, now 25 persons have been allowed while restaurants have also been allowed to provide take-away services in addition to home delivery. However, cinema halls, malls, swimming pools, clubs would continue to remain closed,” he said.The official said schools, colleges and coaching institutes will continue to remain closed and a decision on their opening will be taken at a later date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-offices-can-function-at-100-capacity-night-curfews-shorter-nitish-kumar-101624298738081.html
21-06-2021||Noida||Mercury to soar in Noida over next three days: IMD||Noida: The city and its adjoining areas will witness dry weather, while the daytime mercury may spike and hover around 38 degrees Celsius (°C) for the next three days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday. However, IMD said that some areas may see patchy rains. As the monsoon is likely to arrive around its normal time, the maximum temperature is likely to increase by 4°C and will hover around 38°C for the next three days, said an IMD official. On Monday, IMD recorded maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida at 34°C and 25.7°C against 34°C and 25.5°C on Sunday. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the National Capital Region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 37.4°C and 25.3°C, respectively.“The region will see steep rise in daytime mercury from Tuesday onwards. The major reason of the sudden dry weather is that the thunderstorm activities leading to patchy rains around NCR and western UP are likely to subside for the next few days. The dry westerly winds will weaken the monsoon flow over the region. The mercury is likely to soar till June 25 when the region may see strong winds and thunderstorm activities. The southwest monsoon is likely to be ready around its normal time on June 27,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency.Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad were well under ‘good’ level on Monday.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Monday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 70 against 52 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 65 against 33 a day earlier, while Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 92 against 46 a day earlier. An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-to-soar-in-noida-over-next-three-days-imd-101624298617293.html
21-06-2021||Noida||Yamuna pollution: Artificial wetland to naturally treat Kondli drain to be ready by November||Noida: The Uttar Pradesh irrigation department has started work on the creation of a wetland to naturally clean stinking murky water of Kondli drain, a major source contributing to the pollution of river Yamuna. About 500 metres in length, the wetland is being built between sectors 51 and 52 and will be ready by November this year, officials said on Monday.The Noida authority, which is financing and monitoring the project, said that six more such wetlands will be created at different locations. “The wetland is being built where the drain is the widest. The estimated cost of the first wetland is ₹7 crore, and all seven may cost around ₹42 crore. The first wetland is likely to be ready by November,” said RP Singh, deputy general manager (waters), Noida authority.In February last year, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ordered in-situ treatment of the Kondli drain jointly by the UP irrigation department and the Noida authority, in consultation with Delhi University professor emeritus CR Babu. In continuation to the NGT order, the authority had proposed to create six wetlands at different sites of the drain that cuts Noida into two parts and finally merges with the Yamuna at Sector 168.“The drain was originally intended as a flood water drain that would also help with irrigation. As the city grew, the drain was fed with untreated sewage. We hope that the artificial wetland will work by decreasing the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) levels and increasing the dissolved oxygen in the drain water,” said VK Singh, assistant engineer, UP irrigation department.According to Prof CR Babu, the wetland being built is unique as it aims in-situ remediation of effluents. “We have successfully treated sewage using the wetlands at a Delhi biodiversity park and elsewhere. For Kondli, it’s for the first time the wetland is being built over or on the site of the drain, thus it will lead to in-situ remediation of the effluent. It will be 100% successful in treating even the industrial effluents. However, we will need all seven wetlands to completely clean the drain,” said Babu.An engineered wetland used to treat the sewage using natural resources including flora and fauna, Babu explained that the wetland will incorporate 25 to 30 species of plants, layers of stones and boulders and two zones. The first zone is for oxidation, where microbes will decompose pollutants and benthic fauna such as snails will eat coliform or bacterial pollutant, while the second zone will be the physical filter zone where stones will provide turbulence and increase oxygen levels, he said.Various studies, conducted over the years, have identified the sewage in Kondli drain to be the main cause of pollution in the Yamuna. According to a Central Pollution Control Board report, about 64 MLD untreated sewage in Noida flows through the Kondli drain into the Yamuna.The 40-year-old and 20km long Kondli drain originates from Kondli village in Delhi and enters Noida (via Ghaziabad) near Hari Darshan police post in Sector 11. After travelling through Noida sectors 11, 12, 22, 50, and 92 for about 17km, the drain empties into the Yamuna near Chak Mangrola in Sector 168.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yamuna-pollution-artificial-wetland-to-naturally-treat-kondli-drain-to-be-ready-by-november-101624298616699.html
21-06-2021||Noida||Ethics seminars held at three medical colleges in GB Nagar||Ethics seminars were held at three medical colleges in GB Nagar as per directives from the Uttar Pradesh government over the weekend. On Saturday, Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital & Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) held the seminar while on Monday, Sharda Hospital concluded the same with an address from the district magistrate to 400 medical professionals.“These seminars are being conducted regularly for the past one year on every 1st and 3rd Saturdays of each month, to discuss the ethical issues that the doctors face in dealing with the patients during the pandemic and to boost the morale of all health care workers,” said Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, Director, GIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ethics-seminars-held-at-three-medical-colleges-in-gb-nagar-101624298557388.html
21-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Residents hold virtual sessions, small camps on Yoga Day||Noida: On the occasion of the seventh International Yoga Day, several Noida residents took to the exercises with gusto across the city. Individuals, residential bodies, institutions, etc participated in the day via small camps, at home or in virtual workshops.“Practice of yoga, especially pranayama, is good for a healthy lifestyle. I defeated Covid-19 after fighting for nearly 15 days. However, I kept facing issues like fatigue, shortness of breath, etc. I was advised post-Covid care and since then have been practicing yoga regularly. Now I have recovered almost completely and I urge people to engage in these activities for a healthier life,” said KK Jain, secretary general, federation of Noida residents’ welfare associations.Officials from the district administration, the police department, etc also participated in various yoga camps across the city.“Senior officials participated in a yoga camp at the police lines on Monday morning, following all necessary Covid guidelines. They have urged all personnel to incorporate the practice in their daily lives for better health,” said a police spokesperson. “Over 23,000 students joined in from all across the country to celebrate the international Yoga Day and World Music Day through a live virtual workshop, which was aired from our Noida studio. Conducting the workshop virtually seemed most appropriate keeping in mind the pandemic. The idea was to promote the activity with children in an interactive manner,” said a spokesperson for Routes2roots, a cultural exchange-based NGO. Meanwhile, a group of bicyclists in the city said they rode for 50 kilometres on Monday morning to promote exercising among the youth. “We started from Sector 34 and went via Sector 61 to the elevated road on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway before coming back. Any form of exercise helps with both mental and physical health, whether it is yoga or bicycling. They are good forms of stress relief as well, especially for the youth,” said Dharmendra Sharma, president, sector 34, RWA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-residents-hold-virtual-sessions-small-camps-on-yoga-day-101624298556701.html
21-06-2021||Noida||Noida shuts nine oxygen counters||NOIDA: As the number of active Covid-19 cases decrease in the Gautam Budh Nagar district subsequently bringing down the demand for medical oxygen, the Noida authority has closed nine of its oxygen counters and decided to supply oxygen cylinders from only one cylinder refilling facility, located in Sector 93B.“As the demand for oxygen has come down to a large extent for the past many days at all centres, the authority has decided to provide medical oxygen service only from the Sector 93B community centre from Monday. Those who need oxygen can avail the service from there,” said Mukesh Vaish, project engineer of the authority.From May 3 to June 19, the authority provided 1,859 oxygen cylinders and 93 oxygen concentrators from its 10 facilities.The authority provides D-type oxygen cylinders of two different capacities – 40 litre and five litre -- for ₹500 and ₹200, respectively.The authority started supplying oxygen cylinders on May 3 from its two counters set up at community centres in sectors 93B and 135, amid shortage of medical oxygen in the city during the second wave of the pandemic.On May 11, the authority decentralised the process and started refilling empty cylinders at eight more locations in the city, said officials. On May 16, it also started home delivery of cylinders.“There is no demand for cylinders for home delivery and hardly anyone is turning up these days at the facilities for oxygen. However, we have kept one centre open so that anyone in urgent need can avail of the service,” said Vaish.As of Monday, there were 121 active Covid-19 cases in the district and in the last 24 hours, as per the state health bulletin, while 17 new cases were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-shuts-nine-oxygen-counters-101624298497945.html
21-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Markets, malls see decent footfall as curbs eased||Several markets and malls in the city saw brisk business on Monday when night curfew timings were further relaxed to 9pm till 7am the next day.The latest unlock guidelines have extended timings of restaurants too, while keeping the weekend curfew in place. Malls and restaurants were required to keep the footfall at 50% capacity. They had been shut for almost two months due to the second wave of Covid-19 infections.“Today saw an increase in the customer turnout as more establishments and restaurants opened. We expect the footfall to rise 25-30% more than what we saw in the last two weeks. Businesses have suffered major losses in the last 14 months which will hopefully start improving soon,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, president, sector 18 market association.Logix Mall’s vice president of operations Amit Taneja too had a similar view although he hoped there would be further relaxations soon.“By the afternoon we had seen several customers at the mall. The numbers will go up as the days progress. However, the weekend restrictions and nighttime guidelines is not very conducive to business. For a 9pm closing time, we need to start herding crowds out by 8pm. To sustain our operations, we need some more relaxations with timings,” said Taneja.It would still take some time till all businesses in the district opened.“Most of my staff had gone home during the lockdown. It will still take me a couple of days to reorganise everything with my suppliers and employees before I can start the dine-in here. As it is, not many people are expected to come out. Most of them are content with online orders,” said Shubham, an eatery owner in sector 76.Many shoppers in the Sector 18 market on Monday were those for whom online services are not an option.“My sister is getting married in July and we needed to do some last-minute jewellery shopping. Somehow, we have managed to do most of it through known contacts during the last one month because this is something that we are not very comfortable doing online. Plus, it seemed like a good time to come out as not many people are roaming in markets right now both because of the pandemic and the weather,” said Ruby Chawla, a customer.“In the past year, I have become used to a different kind of lifestyle where going out happens only in very necessary cases. There might be a drop in the number of Covid-19 cases, but we are still not going to risk it. All of our needs can be taken care of online so there is no reason for us to go to malls for shopping or even dining,” said Ritika Singh, a resident of sector 75.Meanwhile, police are urging people to follow all requisite guidelines.“No undue incidents of violations occurred during the day and our teams will be out to ensure that the night curfew is enforced,” said deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Rajesh S.During the weekend lockdown, police prosecuted 4,699 people for not wearing masks and spitting in public and collected ₹4.75 lakh in fines. Similarly, over ₹1 lakh was collected in fines from nearly 1,983 vehicles. Over 130 people were booked for not following Covid-19 protocols and 110 registered cases across the district in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-markets-malls-see-decent-footfall-as-curbs-eased-101624298436759.html
21-06-2021||Other||Hallmark on gold jewellery mandatory but checking cheating by sellers to remain a challenge||Hallmarking of gold jewellery has finally become mandatory , even if only in 256 of the 718 districts in the country. .The journey from voluntary to mandatory hallmarking has taken the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) and the union ministry of consumer affairs, 21 long years and today the enforcement of the mandatory order puts to test the capabilities and the tenacity of the national standards body.In a country where roughly about 88% of the jewellers misrepresent the purity of gold sold by them, mandatory hallmarking was an absolute necessity. But inculcating honesty in all those disreputable jewellers who have thrived on unethical practices all these years, is not going to be an easy task.In fact in the last several years, as consumer demand for hallmarked jewellery slowly picked up, many dishonest jewellers have been found to use fake BIS marks to fool consumers. Press releases issued by the BIS following raids on such jewellers bear testimony to this.In one such case that came up before the Madhya Pradesh High Court , the jeweller was forced to forfeit all pieces of jewellery with fake hallmarking and also pay a fine of ₹45,000.(BIS, Bhopal Vs D.P.Jewellers, April 5, 2019)That case was decided under the old BIS Act. Today, under the new BIS Act of 2016, such offences invite stiff financial penalties and even jail term of one to two years and it is extremely important to mete out the toughest penalty provided under the Act and instil the fear of the law in these jewellers. Now mandatory hallmarking brings the added responsibility on the BIS to not only nab those who fail to comply with compulsory hallmarking or use spurious markings, but also those assaying and hallmarking centres that indulge in corrupt and dishonest practices. In February this year, BIS officials raided a fake hallmarking centre in Jammu, but there have also been instances of BIS recognized assaying centres issuing the hallmark of purity without even testing the gold.After a study initiated by the consumer affairs ministry threw light on some of these malpractices, the BIS introduced several new measures, including a software for real time monitoring of the activities of the centres, so as to prevent fake and fraudulent markings. All in all it’s a tough call to ensure the integrity of the entire hallmarking system, but consumer protection demands that the BIS accomplish this. Besides, on the success of the first phase rests the mandatory scheme in the remaining districts.It was in the summer of 2000 that the BIS first brought gold jewellery under hallmarking under a voluntary scheme. As can be expected, the response from the jewellers was lukewarm. By November that year only 149 jewellers had taken the license from the BIS . Even these had only a few pieces of hallmarked jewellery because of lack of consumer demand . A market survey of non-hallmarked jewellery undertaken a year later by the BIS along with consumer activists in eight cities, showed that a whopping 88 per cent of jewellers cheated on caratage. This raised the demand for mandatory hallmarkingHowever, an expert committee constituted by the ministry in 2003 , said while mandatory hallmarking was necessary to protect consumer interest, it can only be done after building the required infrastructure, , the most important being assaying and hallmarking centres- covering all the districts in the country. The ministry has since been making efforts , including through several incentives, to increase the number of testing centres.Thus from 12 hallmarking centres in February 2002, today their numbers have swelled to 943. Yet, a large number of districts and even some of the states do not have even one assaying centre. This has forced the government to introduce mandatory hallmarking in a phased manner, covering only 256 districts that have hallmarking centres.From just 265 in 2002, today 39,000 jewellers have taken the license from BIS for getting their jewellery hallmarked through BIS recognized assaying and hallmarking centres. Rough estimates put the total number of jewellers in the country at about two to four lakhs. At present, government has exempted from the mandatory scheme, jewellers whose annual turnover is less than ₹40 lakh. However, such small outlets cater mostly to the poor and the rural consumers and it is imperative that these too be brought under mandatory hallmarking at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hallmark-on-gold-jewellery-mandatory-but-checking-cheating-by-sellers-to-remain-a-challenge-101624298378011.html
21-06-2021||Other||Pune district reports 634 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths||PUNE Pune district reported 634 new Covid-19 cases and 10 deaths in 24 hours on Monday. This takes the progressive count to 1.044 million. The total death toll stands at 16,491 with 16,827 active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment, or in home isolation. This is the second time since the second wave began this year that the district has reported fewer than 1,000 fresh Covid-19 cases; 934 new cases were reported on June 7. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 339 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 3,04,532. With four more deaths, the death toll stands at 5,595. Pune city reported 147 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 4,91,640. Six deaths reported on Monday takes the toll to 8,057. PCMC reported 148 new Covid-19 cases. The progressive count went up to 2,48,618. With no more deaths, the toll stands at 2,645.The state reported 13,758 patients discharged and 5,733,215 Covid-19 patients discharged after full recovery. The recovery rate in the state is 95.89%. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.98%. Currently, 6,71,685 people are in home quarantine and 4,472 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-634-new-covid-19-cases-and-10-deaths-101624298137260.html
21-06-2021||Noida||Trial run of near-to-home vaccination begins in Noida, Ghaziabad||For 52-year-old Randhir Nagar of Birondi Chakrasenpur village in Dadri block, Monday was a day of celebration. After a long wait he finally got his first shot of vaccination against Covid-19.“Right from the day when my son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren got infected in the second week of March, I had been waiting for this day. Today, I finally got the jab with my wife and children. My fear has suddenly disappeared now,” he said.Forty-eight-year-old Murari Kishan of Bhagwantpur Chhatanga village in Jewar block, said that for the last 45 days, all the attempts of most of the villagers, to get the vaccination was futile. “Even today, we waited to book our slots till 3 pm. Suddenly, someone came and told us to reach the vaccination booth near our home. Had the administration or health department cleared our confusion on time, probably all my 200-odd villagers – eligible for vaccines could have been inoculated today. But due to confusion, only 62 of us could get our first shots,” he said.This seemed to be the major drawback of Monday’s trial run of the “near-to-home” vaccination drive in Jewar and Dadri blocks in the Gautam Budh Nagar district.District magistrate Suhas LY admitted as much saying that the turnout in Jewar block was only 22%. “It appears that the villagers were not informed properly about the drive. I’ve asked the health department officials to look into the shortcomings. It was better in Dadri where we vaccinated 2,700 people out of a target of 3,000,” he said.The vaccination required no prior-booking and was a precursor to the July 1 mass vaccination drive when all districts of Uttar Pradesh would have to target 1 million vaccinations.GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said, “The trial run will continue in both these blocks till June 30. I hope from Tuesday, we’ll have good numbers.”District immunisation officer, Dr Neeraj Tyagi said that altogether 18,958 persons got their different vaccine doses at 120 vaccination sites in the district, including 77 at government health centres. “Till the date, total vaccination doses given in the district are 1,019,694. Out of it, while 9,00833 have taken their first dose, 118,861 have taken both doses,” he said.GhaziabadIn Ghaziabad, the cluster vaccination drive for all adults resulted in the highest daily number of 28,001 doses at two blocks, surpassing the target of 20,000.A major share of 10053 (35.9%) doses administered at six Covid vaccination centres (CVCs), including five in urban segments, in the clusters of Indirapuram urban centres and Bhojpur rural centres. Together, there were XXX CVCs.The cluster at Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan administered the most doses (4272) , followed by Maharajpur and Bhojpur (1,930), Vasundhara (909), Adarsh Nagar (Khoda) (819), and Sadik Nagar (748).“Earlier, I had tried several times to book the slots online, but I could not. This time, I got the vaccine easily,” said Nimit Tyagi, a beneficiary at Bhovapur centre under Maharajpur CVC. “However, I feel that turnout at these centres could be more if proper awareness is spread among people and prior information is provided.”Some beneficiaries faced issues as staff at Makanpur was not familiar with the registration process.“I got myself, my wife and my sister vaccination at the centre on Monday morning and when I checked if I could get my mother vaccinated as well, the staff said that she will have to go to a camp meant for 45+ age group category. However, when other staff arrived, they got the issue resolved and finally I took my mother to the centre for vaccination,” said Kishan Singh, another beneficiary at the centre.Under the cluster vaccination drive from June 21 to June 30, specific areas in urban and rural segments have been identified. Teams from the health department have been assigned a cluster, having several residential wards or villages, which they will try and fully saturate with vaccination to the local population.Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr N K Gupta said that CVC staff will be briefed about the age criteria. “We will also seek help from local councillors and RWAs and this will help us achieve better vaccination per day,” he said.According to the Cowin portal, the state of UP till Monday night achieved vaccination of 26304025 beneficiaries and this included 690552 doses administered on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/trial-run-of-near-to-home-vaccination-begins-in-noida-ghaziabad-101624298136701.html
21-06-2021||Other||Online diploma course in “Basics of Yoga” at SPPU from this academic year||PUNE The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has announced an online diploma course in the “Basics of Yoga” from this academic year. SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar made the announcement on June 21, marked as International Yoga Day. It will be a 60-hour online course and interested students can apply for admission through the official website of the SPPU. “This unique course is built on the guidelines of in the new education policy (NEP). There is a balance of traditional Yoga knowledge and modern science in the syllabus of this course. It will be beneficial to students to maintain their physical and mental health. A student completing the course will get two credits,” said Prof Karmalkar. “ Soon we are going to upload the admission process details and other information about the course on our website. My appeal to students as well as other interested candidates would be to take the benefit of this unique course on yoga,” he added. Yoga guru Dr Samprasad Vinod said, “To keep a balance between body, mind and emotions yoga is important for everyone. Doing daily yoga makes us more strong and mentally fit for life’s challenges.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/online-diploma-course-in-basics-of-yoga-at-sppu-from-this-academic-year-101624298077679.html
21-06-2021||Other||Education minister meets with experts, colleges to discuss HSC evaluation; CBSE formula not on the table||PUNE In a bid to decide on the evaluation process for the Class 12 students, a meeting was held on Monday between state education minister Varsha Gaikwad and education experts, senior education officials and representatives of colleges. While evaluation of students on the basis of the results of Class 11 and an internal assessment for Class 12, was discussed, implementing a formula taken by the CBSE board of evaluation was not considered. “The common discussion point was not to implement the CBSE board evaluation formula as it is for the state board students. Rather, take the class 11 marks and internal assessment marks for the class 12 while declaring the results,” said Gaikwad. Due to the increase in Covid cases in the state, the class 12 board exams were cancelled this year by the state government. The assessment will affect 1,317,000 students of Class 12. Earlier the CBSE board announced evaluation of their students on the basis of marks obtained in Class 10, 11 and 12, together, for the Class 12 results. Dhananjay Kulkarni, an education expert and who had filed a PIL in the Bombay High Court about conducting the Class 10 exams, said, “The state government should not go along with the CBSE formula. Either giving 50 per cent weightage to CET exam for admissions or entire 100 per cent marks of CET exam should be taken into consideration. When the Covid situation normalises, the exams should be conducted for the further admission processes.”Students and parents are worried about the evaluation process for Class 12. Mahesh Kirani a parent of a Class 12 student said, “My daughter wants to take admission for MBBS and she is worried about the evaluation process which will decide her future. The state government should take the decision as early as possible, because lakhs of students are waiting for the results and depending on that their further admissions are going to happen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/education-minister-meets-with-experts-colleges-to-discuss-hsc-evaluation-cbse-formula-not-on-the-table-101624298076735.html
21-06-2021||Other||COEP Jumbo Covid care centre likely to shut down next week||PUNE As second wave of Covid-19 infections ebbs, with the number of active cases in Pune district dropping, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is likely to shut down its jumbo Covid care facility at the COEP grounds next week. The centre currently has 43 active patients who are likely to be discharged within a week’s time. The jumbo facility is the largest government Covid-19 centre in the district with a capacity of 800 oxygenated and ICU beds. The centre, however, never operated at capacity.Dr Shreyansh Kapale, director of Medbros, the company running the centre, said, “We will shut down services soon. We had stopped admitting new Covid19 patients a week ago and those admitted will be discharged after treatment, which should be this week. After the first wave too, we had stopped admission after the number of new cases dropped. The centre was then shut down.”The decision on whether to maintain the structure or demolish it, will be taken by the PMC. Additional commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “Regarding the structure, we will take a call after a structural audit. As of now, the current audit is valid till July 15. Once all the patients are discharged we will take a call.” As of June 20, the hospital had seen 3,000 admissions since its inauguration in August. Of these, 43 were active Covid-19 patients. The remaining included 650 deaths, 445 under the grouping of “discharge against medical advice (Dama) and 1,871 sent to home isolation or transferred elsewhere.The jumbo centre has a case fatality rate of 21.60% and a Dama rate of 15%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/coep-jumbo-covid-care-centre-likely-to-shut-down-next-week-101624298020506.html
21-06-2021||Other||Number of oxygen plants in the district to increase from 15 to 54 by July end||PUNE As a preparatory measure for the anticipated third wave, the district administration will set up 54 oxygen plants in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), and rural Pune areas.Out of 54, 15 have been already installed (see box), while 39 will be installed in the coming months. A total of 7,729 litres per minute (LPM) of oxygen is currently generated from the 15 existing plants. With the proposed 39 plants that figure will go up to 26, 243 LPM.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said, “All the district administrations in the state should be prepared for the anticipated third wave. Planning should be done to measure the required amount of health facilities, medicine, and oxygen storage. Every district should prepare to produce 3,000 metric tonnes of oxygen every day. The proposed oxygen plants should be completed by the end of July.”“In the anticipated third wave, we cannot predict which state will have how many patients. So it is better to be self-dependent for oxygen. Whichever district is noticing a surge in patients, oxygen storage should be increased at such places. Administration should also focus on increasing oxygen assembled ambulances,” Thackeray added.The decision was taken to increase oxygen storage after the second wave, where major hospitals in district suffered shortages of oxygen supply.“The administration has taken the decision to increase the oxygen storage in the district to avoid situations like the second wave. Currently, the demand for oxygen has gone down. The decision to increase oxygen storage before the anticipated third wave is taken to strengthen the health infrastructure,” said Rajesh Deshmukh, Pune district collector.Within the PMC limit the work of installing five oxygen plants is done, while eight more will be added in coming days.“Quote of Rubal Agarwal after 8:30pm” said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner, PMC.“Having enough storage is always beneficial. During the second wave we had to import oxygen from Raigad. Such a situation can be avoided if need arises in anticipated third wave,” said Suresh Patil, joint commissioner, Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Pune division.In PCMC, the work of installing an oxygen plant in Bhosari is under process.PCMC has approved the acquisition of a 465 square metre area for a new Bhosari hospital.The PCMC will pay a total of ₹80,39,850 to the owner at the rate of Rs13,000 per square metre. The oxygen will be supplied to the new Bhosari hospital.“The oxygen plants will come up at Jija mata hospital, new Bhosari hospital and new facilities at Thergaon and Akurdi,”said Vikas Dhakane, additional commissioner, PCMC.Rural Pune will get 32 oxygen plants. Eight plants are ready.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/number-of-oxygen-plants-in-the-district-to-increase-from-15-to-54-by-july-end-101624298017567.html
21-06-2021||Noida||Found abandoned during Covid-19, Noida’s ‘Nari Niketan’ reports highest admissions in April-May||Between April and May, when the second wave of Covid infections ravaged the country, Gautam Budh Nagar’s only women’s shelter - Nari Niketan - in Sector 34 got 10 new inmates, which officials say is a record for a two-month period. Overall last year, there were 18 admissions.The shelter houses those who are brought in by the police. These are usually those who are mentally challenged and abandoned by their families or fled from their homes due to some distress, said officials. From January to March this year, there had been seven admissions.The shelter’s superintendent Deepika Patel, said, “The shelter is housing 158 inmates against the maximum capacity of 150.” Last year, only one person was admitted in April and May, she added. “The 10 in the last two months is some sort of new record.”Atul Soni, the district probationary officer, too agrees with Patel. “We have never seen as many women being brought to the centre as much we saw between April and May this year. Usually it is one or two,” he said. The shelter home has been admitting inmates since 2018 and often housed women who were transferred from other districts. In fact, of the 158 in the house currently, 50 were from Bareilly and Vrindavan.“Before each admission, medical tests, including for Covid-19 and pregnancy, are mandatory so that the lives of other inmates are not at risk,” said Patel. Patel added that the shelter home also homes children. “One is the child of an inmate, while the other six are girls. We do not know their history,” he said.The sudden spike in admissions and the months when Covid’s second wave was at its peak in GB Nagar, was no coincidence, according to women’s rights activists. Mala Bhandari of Social And Development Research & Action Group (SADRAG) said, “It is safe to assume that under the garb of Covid-19 reactionary abuse, women are being deserted. Abandonment is also another kind of abuse or violence against women”. Earlier HT had reported that 813 such domestic violence cases were reported in April and May this year in the district, according to data from the 112 emergency number. “It is possible that these women may have lost their families during the second wave of Covid and wandered from their homes in shock,” said Patel. “Another possibility is also of abuse because we have often seen that when we try to reunite a mentally challenged woman with her parents or husband, they refuse to taking her back. There have been numerous cases when domestic violence at the hands of the husband have also led the women to run away from their homes.”As per Dr Ritu Gautam, Family Dispute Resolution Clinic coordinator who conducts counselling for cases of violence against women, the background of the women is needed in order to ascertain a reason for the spike. However, she added, “Usually women end up in such a situation when they are highly dependent on their father or spouse and suddenly lose that support. This could be due to their death or could be due to dispute.” Deputy commissioner of police (Women’s Safety, GB Nagar) Vrinda Shukla said that these women are found in a state of shock, distress and trauma by the police officials.“While some of the women are reported by residents of the district to the police on Dial 112, some are found by the police on patrol. When police officials ask them about their whereabouts, they are unable to give any answer and require special counselling. Hence, they are sent to the Nari Niketan at Sector 34,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/found-abandoned-during-covid-19-noida-s-nari-niketan-reports-highest-admissions-in-aprilmay-101624296216612.html
21-06-2021||Gurugram||HSVP to auction over 200 properties on July 8, aims to raise ₹200 crore||The Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) will auction over 200 residential and commercial properties on July 8. This will be the authority’s first property e-auction this year.Officials of the HSVP, formerly known as Haryana Urban Development Authority, said that around 100 residential and 100 commercial plots of various sizes spread across Gurugram, Dharuhera, and Rewari will be auctioned to the highest bidders. The authority is expecting to earn around ₹200 crore from the auction, while similar auctions are also on the anvil for Faridabad, Hisar, Rohtak, and Panchkula.Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP, Gurugram, said that interested buyers can check the details of the properties put on auction on the authority’s website, at the time of registration. “We have carried out due diligence on these properties in different sectors. We got a positive response to the auction in 2020. Properties worth over ₹150 crore were sold. The plots being offered to the people are at good locations, and will certainly generate a premium for the HSVP... Given the portfolio of properties on offer, it is likely that many would bid for the plots this year,” Yadav said.Apart from Gurugram, the auction would be held for HSVP plots in Faridabad on July 2, Hisar plots on July 1, Rohtak plots on June 25, and Panchkula plots on June 23, according to Yadav.The HSVP had sold 100 commercial and residential properties in Gurugram, Dharuhera, and Rewari worth ₹165 crore during the mega property auction in October 2020. The authority had sold maximum properties from Sector 1 to Sector 57, worth ₹135 crore. Officials, however, admitted that more than 200 properties were on auction, but had managed to sell 102 properties due to the slowdown amidst the coronavirus pandemic.The authority suffered a major setback in 2020, after Punjab and Haryana High Court ordered a stay on sale and e-auction of property sites after an applicant filed a petition saying that several cases of plot reallotment and alternatives to be provided by the HSVP had been pending for several years. Later, the HSVP managed to get the stay order vacated and resume the real estate auction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hsvp-to-auction-over-200-properties-on-july-8-aims-to-raise-200-crore-101624295437232.html
21-06-2021||Gurugram||Illegal colony in Bhondsi demolished by DTCP||The enforcement team of Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) demolished an under-construction illegal colony in Bhondsi village on Monday.According to the DTCP officials, the violators had laid a road network, and several plinths were being constructed on plots with the help of two earthmover machines. The enforcement team and around 50 officers of the Gurugram police demolished the illegal colony, they added.The district town planner, RS Bhath, said that the colony was in the initial stage of development. “Our objective is to stop such colonies at the initial stage, so that gullible homebuyers don’t invest their hard-earned money in illegal plots. The demolition drives are yielding results as the development of illegal colonies has slowed down considerably,” said Bhath, adding that action is being taken against property dealers, landowners and those supporting the development of such colonies.The DTCP officials said that another under-construction structure was also demolished during the Monday drive.“We have planned a series of meetings with landowners on the outskirts of the city, such as Bhondsi, Manesar, Farrukhnagar, and Sohna, to make them aware about the various land development policies whereby licenses can be obtained to develop lands legally,” said Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-colony-in-bhondsi-demolished-by-dtcp-101624295436554.html
21-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Over 104,000 doses of vaccine administered in a day||At least 104,000 doses of the Covishield Covid-19 vaccine were administered on Monday in the district, which was the highest vaccination coverage in a day, as the health department targeted domestic helps, drivers, security staff, workers and daily wage labourers as part of the statewide mega vaccination drive. The number of jabs given on Monday was more than three times the target of 30,000 for the state, said health department officials. The overall vaccination tally in the district shot up to 1,034,988, which is the highest in the state. On Monday, over 627,000 vaccine jabs were given in the state.“It is a major achievement by the health team to conduct vaccination on a massive scale. We have utilised all the doses available with the health department. The target is to vaccinate the maximum number of people before the third wave of coronavirus infections,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. In Gurugram, vaccination was conducted at 209 sites, including five drive-through facilities and four special camps for daily wage labourers. According to the district health department data, over 87,555 vaccine shots were given at 190 government session sites, with 49,247 people in urban areas and 38,308 in rural areas covered. As many as 16,623 doses were administered at 19 session sites run by private hospitals. At least 93, 297 people who took the jabs were in the 18-45 age bracket, while 10, 314 were older than 45 years. Also, 117 healthcare workers and 450 front-line workers were inoculated. Officials said that 3,020 doses were administered at the drive-through facilities at Woolmark in Sector 65, AIPL Joy Street in Sector 66, Airia Mall in Sector 68, M3M Urbana in Sector 67 and South Point Carnival on Golf Course Road. Over 644 people took their jabs at the wholesale vegetable and grains market at Khandsa, while 274 auto drivers and 398 daily wage labourers took their first vaccine shot on the day. Beneficiaries started reaching government health centres from 4am. “Our employers directed us to get vaccinated at the earliest, otherwise, they won’t allow us to work,” said Preeti, who lives in the slum behind Tau Devi Lal Botanical Garden and works as a domestic helper. She reached the Waziarabad health centre with her neighbours around 4am to get tokens for vaccination. Karobi, who works as a domestic help in Sushant Lok, said she reached the Chanderlok health centre at 8am to get vaccinated and took the day off from work. “It is not possible to take an off every day and stand in a vaccination queue. The employer asked us to get vaccinated before June 25. Otherwise they won’t allow us to resume work. Our work has already been affected due to lockdown,” said Karobi. Many beneficiaries said that despite several attempts to get vaccinated, they could not get the vaccine shot before Monday. Raju Singh, of West Bengal, who works as a driver, said, “For the last four to five days, I have been visiting health centres but by the time we reached, all tokens were distributed.” Dr MP Singh, the district immunisation officer, said, “No one can be left behind in the Covid-19 vaccination coverage. The target was to reach out to them in large numbers. The message was circulated through health teams.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-over-104-000-doses-of-vaccine-administered-in-a-day-101624295380873.html
21-06-2021||Gurugram||Pre-monsoon showers in Gurugram delayed||The wait for pre-monsoon showers in Gurugram is set to get longer due to slow advancement of the season, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Monday.IMD officials also predicted that humid weather is likely to prevail for the next two days, with the temperature expected to touch a maximum of 40 degrees Celsius (°C) by the end of the week. Officials also said that one or two spells of rainfall or thundershowers are expected on Thursday and Friday.Despite a rain prediction, according to the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature may remain around 38°C to 39°C and the minimum temperature may remain around 28°C over the next four days.The maximum temperature is likely to reach 40°C by the weekend, as per the weekly forecast.“Advancement of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, and Punjab will be slow as largescale features and forecast wind patterns by the numerical weather prediction do not indicate any favourable condition for rainfall over the region during the period,” said the IMD.On Monday, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 38.2°C and a minimum temperature of 25.9°C, both of which were 1° C below the normal. The district also recorded 64% humidity in the evening.Last week, the IMD had predicted that Gurugram would receive pre-monsoon showers over the weekend, but there was no rainfall.Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) of the district was recorded at 74 on Monday, a slight dip from the reading of 64 on Sunday, according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin. The air quality in Gurugram has been in the satisfactory category for the past two days, it said.According to the Air Quality Early Warning System (AQEWS) for Delhi on Monday, the AQI in Delhi-NCR is likely to remain between satisfactory and moderate categories due to the presence of surface winds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/premonsoon-showers-in-gurugram-delayed-101624295379851.html
21-06-2021||Gurugram||300,000 saplings to be planted by Gurugram civic body this monsoon||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is targeting to plant 300,000 saplings, comprising 100,000 trees and 200,000 shrubs, this monsoon, according to a release issued by the civic body on Monday.Officials said that at least 10,000 peepal (sacred fig) and banyan trees, each, will be planted, as part of the exercise. The information was shared by MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja during a meeting with councillors at the PWD rest house.“At present, the main objective of the MCG is to make adequate arrangements for the drainage of rainwater and increase the city’s green cover through planting saplings. A target of planting three lakh (300,000) saplings has been set by the MCG this monsoon. MCG has prepared a list of identified areas for the plantation and during today’s meeting councillors were asked to cooperate and identify more such places in their respective wards,” said Ahuja.Only 9.2% of Gurugram’s total geographical area is under forest cover, a decline from 9.3% in 2017, according to a 2019 Forest Survey of India (FSI) report.Last year, the MCG had planted at least 105,910 saplings across the city with the help of 269 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), the largest drive undertaken by the civic body.This time around, for the second edition of the citywide plantation drive, the MCG and Gurujal — an integrated water management initiative under the Gurugram administration to address the water crises in the district — opened registrations for RWAs and NGOs last week for taking part in the drive.The sapling distribution will be carried out between mid-July and September.Officials said that a key part of this year’s drive will be for RWAs and NGOs to sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for maintaining the saplings for three years. Each RWA or NGO will only be given a maximum of 500 saplings and all saplings will be sourced from MCG’s four nurseries, located in Kadipur, and sectors 15, 44 and 46.However, environmentalists said that the civic body must not only focus on increasing the number of saplings.Vaishali Rana Chandra, an environmentalist, said, “Rather than increasing the quantity, the MCG should focus on increasing the survival rate of saplings. The onus of saplings cannot be 100% on RWAs and NGOs. The MCG’s horticulture team should follow up on the growth of the saplings periodically and closely monitor it. The MCG should also publicly disclose the repercussions if RWAs or NGOs fail to maintain the saplings properly.”First physical meeting in over two monthsMonday’s meeting of MCG officials and councillors was the first physical meeting since April. The meeting started with a tribute to the late RS Rathee, the former councillor of Ward 35, who succumbed to Covid-19 last month, followed by a two-minute silence.Ahuja asked all councillors to prepare a priority list of their respective wards, and make a separate list of pending development works, slow development works, future development works and poor quality works. He also apprised the councillors that the MCG is in the process of developing an online portal for addressing public grievances.Issues of incorrect water bills, sanitation, streetlights, roads, the takeover of private colonies, drainage and internal transfers of ward officials and employees were discussed in the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/300000-saplings-to-be-planted-by-gurugram-civic-body-this-monsoon-101624295378664.html
21-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Health staff struggle to maintain crowds at vaccination centres||Health staff struggled to manage large crowds at vaccination centres and follow vaccination protocols at several session sites on Monday, as the health department held a walk-in mega vaccination drive. Social distancing norms went for a toss while monitoring of beneficiaries for adverse effects of the vaccine was not possible due to the large crowds, a visit by HT found. At a few centres, vaccination was done before registration on the Co-WIN portal. The problems were especially acute at four sites set up for daily wagers at Labour Chowk in Sector 5, Khandsa and Patel Nagar. The sites were set up along the roadside, under a tree canopy, with little space for social distancing and a lack of a dedicated observation area. “It was difficult to handle the crowd as people other than daily wage workers turned up in large numbers. Even commuters stopped by to get vaccinated. They showed their Aadhaar cards to get their vaccine shot,” said Pankaj, a data entry operator at the Anaj Mandi vaccination centre, where a minor scuffle broke out as people argued over their turns. Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “It was a major vaccination drive and some mismanagement might have taken place at some centres. These four sites were the special vaccination sites to cover people who did not have proper ID proof.” According to the health department data, at least 398 daily wage workers were inoculated on Monday.“There are now two processes to do on-spot registration, one with proper ID and another for those lacking any ID proof, as daily wage workers do not always carry their identity card. After registration and vaccination, they are given a receipt mentioning the date of vaccination, along with the seal of the medical department,” said Rajesh Kumar, a data entry operator at the Labour Chowk vaccination camp Rishikesh, a native of Munger in Bihar, who works as a daily wage labourer in the city, said that he is unaware of when or where to get the second dose. “I have been given a receipt mentioning name and data of the vaccination but there is no mention of the date for the second dose,” he said. Officials said that there was hesitancy among migrant workers to take the jab. “Despite repeated attempts, many workers refused to get vaccinated as they feared getting sick and not being able to work,” said Kumar. Anil Kumar, a construction worker who was waiting at Sector 5, said, “If I don’t get a job before 11am, then I can think of getting vaccinated. I cannot afford to lose my day’s wage for vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-health-staff-struggle-to-maintain-crowds-at-vaccination-centres-101624295378203.html
21-06-2021||Gurugram||Green tribunal pulls up state over delay in plan to protect Najafgarh Jheel||Awaiting an environment management plan (EMP) for the Najafgarh Jheel from the Haryana government for over 10 months, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) ordered the chief secretary of Haryana to be present for the next hearing, scheduled for October 10, along with the status of compliance.On June 17, the principal bench of NGT, headed by chairperson justice AK Goel, while hearing a petition filed by the Indian National Trust for Art & Cultural Heritage (Intach) for the protection of the water body, said, “We have considered the matter and find that the issue of restoration of water body in question is significant for the environment but has not received the attention it requires from the authorities. The State of Haryana has neither prepared EMP nor given any explanation for not doing so. None appears for the State of Haryana...” “In these circumstances, we consider it necessary to direct chief secretaries of Haryana and Delhi to coordinate with the concerned departments to ensure further remedial action expeditiously and to remain present in person by video conference on the next date with the status of compliance,” stated the order, a copy of which is with HT. While the Delhi government has submitted a draft EMP, officials from the state environment department said that several committees have been formed to look into the matter and the state will be able to give a response to NGT by the next hearing. RK Chauhan, the joint director of state environment, said, “We have been working in this matter continuously and reports of the technical committee formed to study the matter have been submitted. In our case, we have a lot of area around the lake which falls under different categories like private land, agricultural land. At present, deliberations are underway regarding the area of the lake and we should be able to reach a conclusion by July-end after which an environment management plan will be devised.” The seven-square kilometre water body is important for Gurugram as it acts as a large aquifer to recharge groundwater. Many creeks in the Aravallis flow into the Najafgarh Jheel, which is further carried to the Yamuna. Akash Vashishtha, the advocate for the petitioner, said, “While Delhi has prepared the draft EMP, the Haryana government made no response in compliance with the NGT’s directions from September 19, 2020. The Najafgarh Jheel is a natural hazard zone, as it falls in Seismic Zone-IV and is also the highest zone of soil liquefaction. The two factors, if combined, would be catastrophic to people’s lives and property. Despite that, the Haryana government and its agencies are allowing high-rise constructions near the water body.” Experts privy to the details of the draft EMP prepared by the Delhi government said that the same can be adopted by the Haryana government. Ritu Rao, a PhD scholar at the TERI School of Advanced Studies, who specialises and works on urban water bodies, said that protecting the Najafgarh Jheel can help solve problems of both water scarcity and waterlogging in the city. “To address the issues of water scarcity and flooding in Gurugram, we need to restore the existing hydrological channel and water bodies in Gurugram. Haryana should declare Najafgarh Jheel a wetland up to contour 212.5 metres above mean sea level, in accordance with the high flood level of the past 100 years in the area. If this is not complied with, there is always a risk of flooding and collapsing of buildings constructed on this wetland,” said Rao. Objectives of Draft EMP prepared by Delhi Land use and land cover of the wetland is maintained in line with regulatory requirements under Wetland Rules 2017, and in accordance with master plans of NCT of Delhi and Gurugram Efficient treatment of sewage received within the wetland Maintenance of diversity of biota within Najafgarh Jheel Participation of wetland communities in management plan implementation and affirmative behaviour change within community Systematic wetland inventory, assessment and monitoring system is used to inform management decisions and assess effectiveness Integration of multiple values of wetland in sectoral development planning to be enhanced Restoration of wetland habitat and removal of invasive species||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/green-tribunal-pulls-up-state-over-delay-in-plan-to-protect-najafgarh-jheel-101624295377137.html
21-06-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19 cases drop in Karnataka, so does demand for hospital beds and oxygen||Karnataka has been witnessing a drop in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases for the last fortnight leading to reduced demand for hospital beds and oxygen. Almost half of the hospital beds are now vacant in the state, reported Kannada Prabha, citing Dr Prasanna HM, the president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association.The Covid-19 war room in the state's bulletin showed on Sunday that 63.64% of the 48,167 beds with oxygen were booked on June 3. However, on June 17 only 32.53 % beds were booked out of 48,105 beds available with oxygen.Victoria hospital, the biggest Covid-19 care hospital in Bengaluru, registered 361 of 416 vacant beds.Dr. Prasanna observed in the report that those who are occupying the beds in various hospitals are “mainly asymptomatic and need very little care.”“They do not require as much medical care and attention. The number of daily admissions for Covid-19 has also come down drastically,” he said.Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) bed portal updated the number of vacant beds under the government quota to be 6,750 against the installed capacity of 7,172 in the general category.In the high dependency units, 4,243 beds are vacant out of 4,913 beds. In addition to this, 288 ventilator beds are unoccupied out of 642 beds under the government quota.In Karnataka, 15 districts that have recorded less than 5% positivity rate, are not under lockdown anymore. But in 13 other districts, the lockdown protocol will continue as announced on June 11.Mysuru with more than 10 % positivity rate will continue to be under lockdown according to a government notification.The news comes after Bengaluru and Dakshina Kannada registered the highest and second-highest number of cases in Karnataka on Friday.The positive cases reported for Bengaluru and Dakshina Kannada were 1100 and 1007 respectively, and the corresponding figures for fatalities were 39 and 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-cases-drop-in-karnataka-so-does-demand-for-hospital-beds-and-oxygen-101624294377964.html
21-06-2021||Ranchi||First week of May was J’khand’s deadliest with 951 casualties||The seven days between April 29 and May 5 this year proved to be the deadliest in terms of loss of lives with 951 people falling prey to the second wave of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, according to an analysis of the state health department’s bulletin. The week also recorded the highest positivity rate. The aforementioned week accounted for around 19% of the total fatalities in the state due to the pandemic.Till now, as many as 5,099 persons have officially died due to Covid-19 during the first and second wave in the state. “The state recorded the highest number of deaths between April 29 and May 5 as compared to other weeks. The weekly positivity rate was also highest in that week at 16.25%. In a big relief, it is now down to 0.33%, while the ongoing week has recorded only seven deaths till now,” said Siddharth Tripathi, nodal officer of IEC wing in the health department. While the week beginning April 29 recorded the maximum deaths and positivity rate, the maximum number of fresh cases 44,133 was registered in the preceding week starting April 22. However, according to health experts,the state is well past its peak,with a heavy dip in number of cases, fatalities and active cases. “On June 20, no death was registered in the state, while four districts (total 24 )--Godda, Latehar, Seraikela and Pakur--recorded zero new cases,” said Tripathi. The state recorded 138 fresh cases on June 20 and the number of actives cases stood at 1,639, of which only 435 are symptomatic, the health department’s bulletin stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/first-week-of-may-was-j-khand-s-deadliest-with-951-casualties-101624294236494.html
21-06-2021||Patna||Nitish inaugurates Bihar Sadan, 168 other buildings||Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday inaugurated 169 buildings for 21 departments, including the Bihar Sadan in national capital Delhi, built at an estimated cost of ₹1,411 crore and laid foundation stone for another 73 buildings for 12 departments at an estimated cost of ₹725.22 crore through video conferencing. Kumar said the 10-storey Bihar Sadan in Delhi was in addition to the existing Bihar Bhawan and Bihar Niwas. “As the two buildings were not able to meet the growing need due to increase in number of people visiting Delhi, I thought of a third building long ago and I am happy it has taken shape. The two existing buildings will also be expanded to ensure that people of Bihar visiting Delhi don’t face any problem,” he said. The Bihar Sadan is a state-of-the-art building and is equipped with solar panels, and will also house offices of all the departments, Kumar said. “I also thank the then vice chairman of Delhi Development Authority (DDA) UP Singh for making land available for Bihar Sadan,” the Bihar chief minister added. Kumar said all the new and upcoming buildings in Bihar were now using fly ash bricks, citing its importance in environment protection. Fly ash bricks have also been used in construction of Bihar Sadan, he added. The CM also said that a Mahabodhi Cultural Centre was being built at the holy Bodh Gaya. “It is being built at the under construction state guest house at an estimated cost of ₹136 crore. It will be a one of its kind in the country. Besides, a museum is also coming up at Bodh Gaya to aquaint people with the life and work of Buddha,” he added. He said a number of new mega projects were coming up, including Science City being in Patna at a cost of ₹640 crore. A Bapu tower is also being built in Patna dedicated to Mahatma Gandhi. The Patna Museum is also being expanded, while a new international cricket stadium at Rajgir is also under construction. Prakash Punj, which will have special significance for the Sikh community, is also being built, Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-inaugurates-bihar-sadan-168-other-buildings-101624293816516.html
21-06-2021||Patna||Make vaccination must for panchayat polls candidate, minister tells poll body||The upcoming panchayat polls in the state may require aspiring candidates to get vaccinated as a prerequisite to contest elections if a suggestion made to this effect by the state’s panchayati raj department gets approved by the state election commission (SEC).Panchayati Raj minister Samrat Choudhary said he has suggested that all candidates keen to contest the panchayat polls should get vaccinated mandatorily and provide their certificates so that the rural population also gets inoculated and the safety parameters during the campaign of the three-tier local bodies are maintained. The possible spread of the coronavirus during campaigning in the rural areas during the panchayat polls, expected to be held from October onwards, is a major cause of concern for both the government and state poll body, amid warnings from experts of a third wave. Vaccine hesitancy in rural areas continues to be a big challenge for the health department.“If the vaccination clause is made mandatory for aspiring candidates, we expect to inoculate several lakhs of people in the rural areas. This will be a big achievement in terms of vaccination and provide protection to rural people,” said the minister. “I have suggested to the SEC, which is yet to take a call on it,” he said.Panchayat polls in Bihar were due to begin in March, but had to be deferred because of the deadly second wave. The five-year term of the rural local bodies ended on June 15.The state government, through an ordinance, has decided that panchayats will be run through advisory committees till fresh elections are held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/make-vaccination-must-for-panchayat-polls-candidate-minister-tells-poll-body-101624293757971.html
21-06-2021||Other||River erosion leaves Purnia, Katihar villages on edge||Erosion by rivers in northeaster Bihar over the years is threatening the existence of several villages, especially in Purnia and Katihar districts, where rivers Parman, Mahananda and Kankai have devoured vast tracts of arable land and houses.At Mala Harintol village in Baisi block of Purnia, Parman river is unforgiving. “The river is constantly expanding and will devour our houses as well as the graveyard of our ancestors,” says 45-year-old Shah Alam says, pointing to tracts of land devoured by the river during the last two decades.Manjur Alam laments the “missing” local MLA Syed Rukunuddin of AIMIM at a time when they were in danger.At Simalbari in the same block, over 300 houses and a government middle school have already been devoured by the Kankai river and people have started shifting to other places. “Even after devastation, anti-erosion work has not been done here, leading to forced displacement of villagers,” says Shahbaz Alam, a resident.Mahananda, Das and Bakra rivers have been causing similar erosion. “We were once big farmers, but river erosion has made us landless,” says Parwez Alam of Mala Harintol village. “We have now been reduced to migrant labourers.”Shamim Akhtar of Simalbari says the erosion first caused damaged to agricultural land and is now threatening homestead land. “We have already shifted our houses twice and leaving for some other place once again.”In Katihar district, Amdabad, Pranpur and Kadwa blocks face similar problem, where Mahananda river has caused extensive damage. Mohammed Wahid, a local social activist, said, “Erosion has led to sharp migration because of shrinking arable land. About 70% to 80% people migrate to other states like Punjab, Delhi, Haryana, Kashmir to earn their living.”“They toil in other provinces and get their houses built with remittances only to be devoured by the rivers,” Wahid says.Purnia district magistrate (DM) Rahul Kumar said he had visited all the vulnerable spots and has directed the officials concerned to expedite the anti-erosion work.Meanwhile all the five AIMIM MLAs of Seemanchal have sought a special package for the region. “We are committed to finding a permanent solution to floods and erosion,” said Akhatarul Iman, AIMIM MLA from Amour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/river-erosion-leaves-purnia-katihar-villages-on-edge-101624293756517.html
21-06-2021||Patna||Unlock 3.0: Offices to run with full strength; shops to open till 7pm, parks opened||All government and private offices will function with full strength, while shops will be allowed to operate for one extra hour till 7pm from Wednesday, chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Monday. The state government has also announced to open parks from 6am till 12 noon. Kumar, who was chairing a meeting of crisis management group with ministers and senior officials of the state, said the new set of relaxations will remain effective for a fortnight till July 6.“After reviewing the situation in the state, it has been decided that all government and private offices will now work with full workforce from June 23. Shops will remain open till 7pm, and parks will open from 6am till 12 noon. The duration of night curfew has also been reduced further and it will now be in place from 9pm till 5am,” said Kumar.Till now, offices were allowed to function till 5pm with 50% attendance during Unlock 2.0, that was announced last week on June 16, while shops were allowed to be opened on alternate days till 6pm. Prior to that, shops were allowed to open from 6am till 5pm on alternate days during unlock 1.0, and night curfew was imposed from 5pm till 6am.“Under Unlock 3.0, parks and gardens have been allowed to open from 6am till 12 noon while following proper Covid-19 protocol. Besides, duration of night curfew has been further reduced by an hour from 9pm till 5 am,” said additional chief secretary (home) Chaitanya Prasad. The state government also gave certain relaxations for wedding functions and last rites by increasing the maximum number of attendees to 25 from the earlier 20 for both functions, Prasad said. Restaurants have also been allowed to provide takeaway services in addition to home delivery, he added. However, cinema halls, malls, swimming pools, clubs will continue to remain closed, the additional chief secretary (home) said.Schools, colleges and coaching institutes will also continue o remain closed, he said, adding that a decision on their opening will be taken at a later date. The lockdown was clamped on May 5 in the state and was extended four times after that, the last being on June 2, to contain a surge in Covid-19 cases during the second of the pandemic that began in April and continued till May end, paralysing health care system and resulting into hundreds of deaths. The state at the time also struggled to augment the number of hospital beds, oxygen supply and essential medicines, while containing black marketing of life-saving drugs and equipment by unscrupulous elements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/unlock-3-0-offices-to-run-with-full-strength-shops-to-open-till-7pm-parks-opened-101624293757301.html
21-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: Mob runs riots after murder, lynches suspect’s wife, torches vehicles||Tension prevailed in Adharpur area of Samastipur district where a mob ran riot after murder of a 30-year-old man and lynched the suspect’s wife and torched their vehicles and property on Monday morning.No arrest has been made yet. A police contingent, including Bihar Military Police personnel, has been deployed in the area, police sources said. According to police, it all started around 9 am when deputy mukhia of Adharpur panchayat, Mohammad Husnain, fired twice at his neighbour Shrawan Kumar over a petty dispute. The two were partners in property deals but had fallen out. Eyewitness said Shrawan’s family members were busy preparing for a wedding function to be held in evening and were draining out the water after incessant rain. Husnain protested, which led to an altercation. Suddenly, he whipped out his pistol and fired two rounds at Shrawan, who was declared brought dead at the Sadar Hospital. Agitated over the incident, locals attacked Husnain’s house and torched two vehicles. They also thrashed three of his family members, including his wife Munawwar Khatoon (35), uncle Noor Alam (60) and nephew Mohammad Anwar. After much struggle, the police brought the situation under control. Samastipur superintendent of police M S Dhillon said Khatoon died on the way to hospital while Anwar and Alam had been refereed to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). “The mob later also set on fire a customer service point run by the deputy Mukhiya at Khadi Bhandar Chowk,” the SP said, adding that the situation was now under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharmob-runs-riots-after-murder-lynches-suspect-s-wife-torches-vehicles-101624293696539.html
21-06-2021||Other||At 340, Punjab records lowest number of daily cases in 4 months||Chandigarh Punjab on Monday registered its lowest number of cases of Covid-19 over the four months at just 340 infections. Such low daily count was last recorded on February 24. In another first, the positivity rate in the state has touched an all-time low of 0.79%. The number of samples tested on Monday were 42,770. On April 28, 2020, the state had registered a positivity rate of 0.9%; this was the time when the pandemic had just entered the state and case count was very low. Punjab’s daily death count has also come down to 24 cases with Rupnagar registering the maximum, three deaths. As many as 1,271 patients were declared discharged. Among fresh cases, Bathinda and Jalandhar registered 33 cases each, followed by 30 in Muktsar, 29 in Amritsar, 23 in Gurdaspur, 21 in Kapurthala, 19 in Ludhiana. The six districts of Barnala, Pathankot, Ropar, SBS Nagar, Tarn Taran and Moga registered less than 10 cases each. Moga registered the lowest tally of two cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-340-punjab-records-lowest-number-of-daily-cases-in-4-months-101624293336985.html
21-06-2021||Patna||Bihar eases Covid-19 restrictions from June 23, offices to open with 100% staff||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday announced that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) lockdown in place will be eased in the state from June 23 onward.The decision was announced after the CM chaired a meeting with the crisis management group, ministers and senior officials. The new set of relaxations will remain effective till July 6.Also Read: Covid-19 lockdown in Bihar again? Here's what CM Nitish Kumar said“After reviewing the situation in the state, it has been decided that all government and private offices will now work with their full workforce from June 23. The shops will remain open till 7pm and parks will open from 6am till 12 noon. The duration of night curfew has been reduced further and it will now remain from 9pm till 5am,” said the CM.Here is all you need to know about Bihar's Covid-19 lockdown:-- All government and private offices will function with 100% strength from June 23 onward. During the previous phase of the lockdown, which was announced on June 16, offices were allowed to function till 5pm with 50% attendance.-- Shops will be allowed to operate till 7pm. Earlier, shops were allowed to operate on alternate days till 6pm.-- Parks will be open from 6am to 12 noon.-- The duration of night curfew has also been reduced. It will now be in place from 9pm to 5am.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage-- Chaitanya Prasad, additional chief secretary (home), said that the state government has also allowed relaxations for marriage and funerals. “Now, 25 people will be allowed to attend marriages and funerals. Restaurants have also been allowed to provide take away services in addition to home delivery. However, cinema halls, malls, swimming pools, clubs would continue to remain closed,” he said.-- Schools, colleges and coaching institutes will continue to remain closed and a decision on their opening will be taken later, Prasad said.Lockdown in Bihar was imposed on May 5 and extended four times to contain the spike in Covid-19 infections. The state currently has 3,189 active Covid-19 cases, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-eases-covid-19-restrictions-from-june-23-offices-to-open-with-100-staff-101624289267256.html
21-06-2021||Pune||Number of passport applicants shrinks in Pune||The number of passport applications for police verification for 2021 have almost shrank by half going by the record of the previous two years. In 2019, 1.34 lakh passport applications were received while in 2020, 57,695 passport applications were received. According to the police, the applicants have gone down due to an international travel ban due to Covid-19. According to the police verification department, there is a drastic increase in the number of passport applicants since the year began till date. DCP (special branch) Mitesh Gatte said that since the outbreak of Covid-19 had an impact internationally, it was natural that the number of applicants seeking jobs, going abroad for studies and tourism came down for the current year. “It is obvious that the number of passport applications have reduced. As of today, the wave is receding so there is a possibility that the number of applicants will go up in the next few days,” he said. Police inspector Milind Gaikwad said “The number of passport applicants applying for tourism purposes is high and their choice is Europe and North America. There is an international travel ban and as a result those applying for jobs also don’t have much opening. All these Covid-19 related factors had led to a lesser number of citizens applying for passports.” Passport applicants queuing up at police stations for getting their verifications done is a regular site in the city but during the past six months, a few persons are seen visiting the police stations due to Covid-19 fear and spread of infection. Pune Passport Seva Kendra (PSK) releases 1,200 normal applications and 200 tatkal applications every day and a majority of them are being filled out quickly at this time. Pune does not have direct connectivity with many international airports and currently has only one international flight from Pune airport, which connects with Dubai. The city due to its large pool of student population as well as IT professionals, the city had unprecedented growth in passports in 2019 and has seen the reduced numbers of applications with the onset of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/number-of-passport-applicants-shrinks-in-pune-101624291176385.html
21-06-2021||Pune||Katraj-Kondhwa road project costs to rise due to delays||The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) Katraj-Kondhwa four-kilometre road widening project is not going to complete within the deadline due to lack of land acquisition. The contractor has been able to complete only 25 per cent of work in the last two and half years. Now, the estimate of the cost of the project is going to increase due to the delay. Katraj –Kondwa road is one of the major parts that link Satara road to Solapur road. The heavy traffic is going out of the city through this route from Westerly bypass to Solapur road. However, the road is too narrow (15 meter to 20 meter in width) and it is always facing traffic chaos on the stretch of around four kilometres from Kondwa to Katraj junction through a Khadi Machine chowk. Only 25 per cent work complete In December 2018, a PMC-appointed contractor began the work of road widening from existing (15 to 20 meter) to 84 metres. The project cost was ₹215 crore including Goods Service Tax (GST). The deadline was three years, to be completed in December 2021. After almost two and half years, the contractor has completed only 25 per cent of work as the PMC is not able to hand over land required for road widening. The contractor has completed road widening works in patches where he received the land to widen the road. Vishal Lokhande, resident of Tilekarnagar Katraj-Kondhwa road said, “My office is located in Katraj area. It is very dangerous to pass through on Katraj-Kondhwa road. The work is incomplete. Most of the road is dug and hard to drive for two-wheelers and four-wheelers. Potholes are visible on roads and it is filled with water. I don’t know when the work is going to be completed and taxpayers will get a better road.” V G Kulkarni, chief superintendent engineer of the road department said, “On paper, we have acquired 70 per cent of land for both sides of roads. But we have acquired only 50 per cent of the actual land. The deadline will be missed as only 25 per cent of work has been completed so far and the deadline of the project will end in the month December 2021. The budget of the project will increase as project delays.” Sudhir Chavan, executive engineer of road department who is handling the project said, “Lack of land acquisition and Covid-19 pandemic hampered the project. At present, road widening work is going on at Shatrunjay Bhaktamar Jain Mandir on Kondhwa road. It is a 300-meter road widening stretch. We acquired 70 per cent of land but it is in scatter form. So, work is also completed in bits and pieces. We cannot complete it in a continuous stretch.” He added, “Old bungalows, houses and shops are coming in the road widening. There are around 80 such structures in a four kilometre stretch of road. PMC offered a Floor space Index (FSI) and Transfer Development Rights (TDR) as compensation as per land acquisition rules. But they are not ready to take FSI and TDR as compensation. They are demanding cash compensation. Some house owners want a piece of land or a readymade house or flat. Builders can utilize FSI or TDR, but it is not possible for small households to use FSI or TDR in the market.” PMC needs ₹700 crore for land acquisition Chavan further said, “The administration has calculated ₹700 crore for land acquisition. Due to the financial crunch, it is not possible for the PMC to pay that much as compensation.” Earlier, PMC decided to carry out a road widening project with deferred payment option-temporary postponement of the payment of an outstanding bill or debt, usually involving repayment by instalments. But, PMC came to know that the corporation would have to pay an additional ₹100 crore in the deferred payment option to the contractor. So, it was discarded by the PMC’s standing committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/katrajkondhwa-road-project-costs-to-rise-due-to-delays-101624291116468.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar working to unite Opposition: NCP||NCP chief Sharad Pawar is working to unite all opposition leaders, party spokesperson Nawab Malik said while commenting on a meeting between Pawar and political strategist Prashant Kishor in New Delhi, their second one-on-one interaction this month, on Monday on the eve of the NCP's national executive meet.Malik also said Pawar will host political leaders and eminent persons from different sections of society at his residence in New Delhi on Tuesday afternoon to discuss the "current scenario in the country". When asked about the meeting held between Pawar and Kishor, Malik said, "Pawar is working to unite all opposition leaders. Maybe, the meeting was to discuss it. The party's national executive meeting is also taking place in the national capital tomorrow."The closed-door discussions between Kishor and Pawar at the latter’s residence in the national capital lasted for about one-and-a-half hours amid speculation of the formation of a Third Front to take on the BJP. Malik tweeted: "Prominent political leaders and eminent persons from different sections of the society will attend the meeting at Pawar's residence in Delhi on Tuesday to discuss the current scenario in the country". Also Read: Prashant Kishor meets Pawar over lunch, NCP's Nawab Malik explains"Yashwant Sinha, Pawan Verma, Sanjay Singh, D Raja, Farooq Abdullah, Vandana Chavan, Justice A P Singh, Javed Akhtar, K T S Tulsi, Karan Thapar, Ashutosh, advocate Majeed Memon, former chief election commissioner S Y Qureshi, K C Singh, Sanjay Jha, Sudheendra Kulkarni, Colin Gonsalves, Arun Kumar Economist, Ghanshyam Tiwari and Pritish Nandi will attend the meeting," Malik tweeted. The NCP currently shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra. Earlier, Kishor called on Pawar at the latter's residence in Mumbai on June 11 when the two held talks for around three hours, setting tongues wagging in political circles. Kishor had helped craft the election strategy for the DMK and the TMC in the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, respectively. After these two parties emerged victorious in the polls held earlier this year, the election strategist had said he was "quitting this space".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-working-to-unite-opposition-ncp-101624290428142.html
21-06-2021||Pune||Man booked for duping several people under pretext of Army recruitment||A man was booked for posing as an Indian Army officer, marrying a woman, and duping her family, and at least 10 others, with false promises of recruitment of her brother and other young men as jawan. The complainant in the matter is a 21-year-old class 12 graduate who works in the private sector, according to the police. The accused, whose name has been withheld pending his arrest, has also been booked by Ahmednagar police in 2019 for duping a man under false pretext of placing his son in the armed force. The two had met in January 2020 outside a hospital where the woman takes her father for treatment of sugar and blood pressure, according to her complaint. “He dropped his ID card and the girl picked it up and gave it to him. He thanked her and they exchanged numbers. They first spoke on a messaging app after which they started talking on the phone. He soon proposed marriage and on the day of the wedding, when she reached Aurangabad, he was alone. He claimed that his parents had Covid19 and got married in haste and clicked a photograph. They lived together for 10-12 days and then he brought her to Pune and left saying he had been awarded Shaurya pathak,” said assistant police inspector Rajesh Usgaonkar of Bibwewadi police station who is investigating the case. The man had presented with multiple doctored documents showing that he went to the National Defence Academy, had worked in the ammunition factory in Khadki, and that he was a major general by rank, according to the police. “The documents appear fake at the first glance. The spelling of ammunition and Khadakwasla are wrong in these documents,” said API Usgaonkar. The man then offered to employ the girl’s brother get inducted into the Indian Army and asked her father to pay ₹2 lakh for it. The man had made scores of other people pay similar amounts under guise of getting their children recruitment in the armed force. “The girl started getting suspicious after people whom he owed money started approaching her, asking for their money back. So far we have 10 witnesses at least but there are definitely more,” said API Usgaonkar. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 419 (personation), 170 (personating a public servant), 171 (wearing garb or carrying token, used by public servant, with fraudulent intent), and 140 (wearing garb or carrying token used by soldier, sailor or airman without being one) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Bibwewadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-booked-for-duping-several-people-under-pretext-of-army-recruitment-101624290996525.html
21-06-2021||Pune||All parties lash out at PMC after frequent water cuts||Despite rainy season and adequate water capacity in dams, many areas in the city are facing water cuts. As the central part of the city and periphery areas are facing water problems, all political parties have lashed out at the municipal administration. The ruling Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) members blamed that their areas are facing water scarcity for the last many days. After almost 23 elected members raised the water issue, the mayor instructed the water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar to ask the administration to visit these areas and sort out the issue.NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “Though 2.5 TMC water was added from Bhama Askhed dam this year, it is sad that the city is facing water issues. Earlier it was said that once the water from Bhama Askhed arrived, the rest of the city would get enough water but there is no improvement.” BJP leader Gopal Chintal said, “For the last many years we have been hearing the same issues. On one side we are executing many mega projects like the metro. Even the city got a new identity like IT city, Smart city but we failed to sort out the water issue despite having good rainfall.” Sachin Dodke raised the issue of pipelines in the recently merged villages. Dodke said, “The four years before villages merged in the city PMC laid the new water pipelines in these areas but did not connect these lines to main water pipelines. If the water pipelines are not connected to PMC water supply, what is the use in erecting these pipelines which are lying idle? Even PMC did not acquire water projects from Jeevan Pradikaran which is state owned and used to provide water for these areas earlier.” Many corporators from merged villages said, “PMC is collecting water tax from these areas but providing water once in a week. Ambegaon, Sadesatra Nali, Warje, Uruli Devachi, Phursungi all these areas are not getting water.” PMC water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar said, “It is true that the water supply in some areas was disturbed. The work of a 24x7 water pipeline is going on, including the work to construct 88 water tanks. Once this scheme would get operational, the problem of each area would get sorted out.”Pawaskar also assured that the senior officials from the water department would visit areas mentioned by elected members in coming days and sort out the issue by offering local solutions. Pawaskar said, “The PMC is giving daily 200 water tankers for Phursungi and Uruli Devachi.” The leader of house Ganesh Bidkar instructed to increase some water tankers in merged villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/all-parties-lash-out-at-pmc-after-frequent-water-cuts-101624290636389.html
21-06-2021||Pune||Former mayor Prashant Jagtap arrested for flouting Covid norms||Former Pune mayor and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Prashant Jagtap was arrested by the Shivajinagar police on Monday for violating Covid-19 rules during the inauguration of the new party office in Shivajinagar on Saturday. Jagtap was arrested and later released on bail along with a few other party office bearers who had been booked in the case. A large number of NCP party workers gathered at the spot after the news of arrests spread in the city via social media. Jagtap was among the six office-bearers including party youth leader Mahesh Hande, Pradeep Deshmukh, Nilesh Nikam and Rohan Paygude, Balasaheb Bodake booked according to a statement issued by Shivajinagar police station that suo moto filed a case under Sections 188, 269, 270 of Indian Penal Code, Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act, and Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid-19 regulation. Hande had applied for permission at Shivajingaar police station to hold the inauguration of the new party office, and the application mentioned that the people in attendance at the event will strictly follow Covid norms. According to Hande’s application, permission was granted on the condition of following noise pollution and other relevant rules. He was also served with a Section 149 CrPC warning notice. On June 19 at 5pm, the office was inaugurated at Palashri Apartment, Loksahir Annabhau Sathe Chowk, Dengle bridge, Shivajinagar. But instead of 100-150 people, which was mentioned verbally by Hande and not in writing, over 400-500 people attended event inaugurated by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. The officials were not maintaining social distance and some were not wearing masks, a statement released from Shivajinagar police station stated. Sometime before the party office inauguration, deputy chief minister had chided a press reporter for asking about social distancing norms at the gathering. Police constable Ganesh Veer had lodged the complaint against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-mayor-prashant-jagtap-arrested-for-flouting-covid-norms-101624290576390.html
21-06-2021||Pune||PMC to seek five-TMC water from Mulshi dam||The water department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will be submittign a proposal to receive five TMC (Thousand Million Cubic feet) water from Mulshi dam for Pune city. Recently Pune district Guardian Minister Ajit Pawar instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation to submit the proposal for getting the water from Mulshi dam. While inaugurating the Bhama Askhed water project both Pawar and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis instructed the PMC to get water from Mulshi dam. The elected members on Monday raised the issue, “Why is the PMC not submitting the proposal yet despite instructions given by senior state level leaders?” Water department head Aniruddha Pawaskar assured, “The administration will submit it to the city improvement committee soon and later it would get to the general body.” As Pune is the fastest growing city and urbanization is increasing, its water demand is increasing. Even after merging 11 villages and proposing 23 villages, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had become the state’s biggest municipal corporation by area. Fadnavis said while inaugurating the Bhama Askhed project, “During my tenure, I appointed the committee under the senior official from the irrigation department to get water from Mulshi dam. The existing government and PMC must follow it. As it is the water after generating hydroelectricity going to sea directly.” Pawar said, “There are many legal issues as the dam’s ownership is with private company Tata. After getting the report from the irrigation department, the state will sort out legal issues.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-seek-five-tmc-water-from-mulshi-dam-101624290516439.html
21-06-2021||Pune||Three arrested in cheating case worth ₹3.6 cr||The Pune city police officials from Lonikalbhor police station arrested three men on Monday from Gujarat wanted in a cheating case worth over ₹3.6 crore in which poor people had been duped under false promise of double returns on investment. The three were identified as Bharatkumar Charandas Joshi, Deepak Joshi and Hiren Joshi, all resident fo Sahyog nagar in Bhuj, Kutch, Gujarat. The three men owned companies named LC Joshi and Company; Hiren Trading Company; Shri Omkar Traders; and Deepak Tea Suppliers, according to the police. “They had a business of jute sacks as well as tea powder and he had sought investment from a lot of people including local businessmen to very poor rickshaw drivers and domestic helps in Uruli Kanchan, Loni area. He had promised them double money in return of their investment amount and one day he packed everything and disappeared,” said senior police inspector Rajendra Mokashi of Lonikalbhor police station. Based on complaints by a few people, a case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Lonikabhor police station when it was under the jurisdiction of Pune rural police. “It was first with the Economic offence wing (EOW) of Pune rural police who were investigating it and had also gone to arrest these men but could not. When the police station was moved to Pune city police, one of our officers Police sub inspector Amit Gore, who has experience in cybercrime investigation, took up the case and tracked them down and arrested them,” said PI Mokashi. The police have urged residents of Lonikalbhor, Uruli Kanchan, and surrounding areas to come forward if they have been duped by any of these companies or the three people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-arrested-in-cheating-case-worth-rs-3-6-cr-101624290396377.html
21-06-2021||Pune||Mishap stalls e-way for two hours||Commuters experienced a heavy traffic jam for two hours on the Pune-Mumbai expressway due to a head-on collision between a truck and a container on the 66-kilometre Mumbai line on Monday. The incident happened at 8.02 am near Khandala ghat, in which the cleaner suffered an injury on the left leg. Due to the inability of the crane to pull the container on the side, traffic police had to divert cars from the side line to clear the traffic. “The cleaner had a deep cut on the left leg and blunt trauma while the truck driver complained of chest pain. Both of them were shifted to Pawana hospital for treatment. No injuries were reported to the crane driver,” said an officer on duty from highway police. With the incident happening during peak office morning hours, a long queue of vehicles upto five kilometres stalled on the Mumbai line. “Vehicle flow has increased again due to reopening of offices, due to long queues it took two hours to clear the jam, otherwise it could have been managed in 40 minutes,” added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mishap-stalls-e-way-for-two-hours-101624290336358.html
21-06-2021||Pune||BJP corporator booked for suicide abetment||A corporator from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) serving in Dattawadi area of Pune was booked for abetment to suicide of a local businessman on Monday. The accused was identified as Anand Ramesh Rithe, a resident of Sai Temple area in Dattawadi, the deceased was identified as a 53-year-old businessman. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the deceased man’s 26-year-old son. The deceased man had a mobile network tower on his house. In exchange of not felling the tower, Rithe allegedly asked the now-deceased man to pay him money. Failing to pay the money, Rithe allegedly brought the officials of Pune municipal corporation (PMC) and felled the tower and threatened to come for his house next if he still refused to give the money, according to the complainant. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dattawadi police station. Police sub inspector P Jadhav of Dattawadi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-corporator-booked-for-suicide-abetment-101624290216424.html
21-06-2021||Other||Punjab chief secretary interacts with top virologist to brace up for next covid wave||Chandigarh Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan on Monday held a discussion with an eminent virologist Dr Shahid Jameel, the former head of the advisory group to the Indian SARS-COV-2 Genomics Consortia (INSACOG), to ramp up arrangements and prepare the state to thwart the imminent third Covid wave. Speaking on Covid variants of concern, Dr Jameel said India ranked second among Covid infections and third among deaths and vaccination in the world. He highlighted the presence of the Delta variant in India, adding that the Delta Plus variant, which is a combination of Delta and Beta variants, has also started spreading its tentacles in India with seven such cases confirmed in the country. Highlighting the importance of vaccination, he said it was the only way to prevent the pandemic and also reduce the Covid severity. “Vaccination is the most cost-effective way of protection from the dreaded virus,” he stressed. Dr Jameel appreciated Punjab government’s much-needed initiative in this regard, and urged all to be cautious and continue exercising Covid appropriate behaviour including wearing mask, washing hands, and maintaining social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-chief-secretary-interacts-with-top-virologist-to-brace-up-for-next-covid-wave-101624289797134.html
21-06-2021||Other||Amritsar man kills father for refusing to fund drug addiction||AMRITSAR A 55-year-old man, Sukhchain Singha, was assaulted by his son for refusing to give him money for drugs at Sarangra village in Chogawan block, police said on Monday. The crime happened around a week ago, but police say they received a complaint after Sukhchain succumbed to his injuries in a hospital on Monday. The victim’s wife Kulwant Kaur said, “My elder son Jaswinder Singh is a drug addict and kept demanding money from my husband to fund this addiction. Our refusal always led to fights. Some time ago, my husband sold a part of our land and my son wanted that money for drugs. Our neighbour Ranjit Singh instigated my son to fight with my husband to get that money.”She added, “A few days ago, he again asked for money. On my husband’s refusal, he hit him on the head with a hatchet. On Monday, he succumbed to injuries.”Lopoke SHO said the victim was a farmer. “The accused, a drug addict, is absconding. He is married and has two children.” A case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered against Jaswinder at Lopoke police station. The family’s neighbour Ranjit Singh has also been booked for instigating the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amritsar-man-kills-father-for-refusing-to-fund-drug-addiction-101624288476888.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||DMRC to work out SOPs after monkey enters Delhi Metro coach||A day after a monkey traveled in a Delhi metro train, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Monday said it has planned to work out a standard operating procedure to tackle issues like that in the future.The monkey entered and roamed around in coaches of the train on the Blue Line route before getting seated, leaving some passengers scared and some amused at the scene. The video of the incident went viral on social media.Also read| Metro phase-4 work on track despite Covid constraints: DMRC"The DMRC in consultation with the forest department plans to work out a standard operating procedure to deal with such unexpected situations arising out of their entry into metro premises for passengers' safety," a statement by the DMRC read, reported PTI.The monkey was spotted around 4.45pm in a metro train from Yamuna Bank to Indraprashta and moved away on its own by the time DMRC got to know about it. No passengers were harmed and the monkey was not spotted thereafter in metro premises, according to ANI.In the video shared on social media platforms, the money can be seen roaming around and climbing onto the handrail bar before settling down."The monkey had sneaked into the train at the Akshardham Metro Station and remained in the system for 3-4 minutes. DMRC staff acted swiftly after getting information on the issue and the train was evacuated at the next station," the statement added.The DMRC also appealed and advised passengers to refrain from encouraging, feeding (animals) or indulging in any activity which may endanger them in such a situation.It also urged the public to inform the train operators or metro authorities in case of any such incident for immediate remedial action, as per the statement.Earlier, the DMRC had used services wherein a person could scare away the monkeys when spotted at vulnerable stations, by mimicking a langur's voice, PTI quoted the officials as saying.(From agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-to-work-out-sops-after-monkey-enters-delhi-metro-coach-101624284998719.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Daily Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra fall to 6,270; death toll touches 118,313||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally rose by 6,270 on Monday, while the number of people succumbing to the disease over the previous 24 hours stood at 94. With this, the state's overall tally soared to 5,979,051 and the death toll jumped to 118,313. As many as 13,758 people recovered from the disease, according to the daily bulletin issued by the state health department.The capital city, Mumbai saw a jump of 518 cases which pushed the total number of infection to 720,531. Seven people lost their lives and the death count stood at 15,305.In Thane, 522 people contracted the disease in the previous 24 hours raising the infection count to 528,126. The virus also claimed the lives of 28 more people, pushing the death toll in Thane to 10,517. In neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 case count soared to 114,888, while the death toll reached 2,481.On Sunday, there were 9,361 cases the Covid-19. The number of fatalities registered in a span of 24 hours was at 190.Meanwhile, the state recorded 7,998 cases of black fungus, or Mucormycosis, till Monday and 729 people have succumbed to the deadly infection, state health department also informed in the release.Of these, 4,398 patients are currently under treatment for the disease.The maximum number of black fungus cases were reported in Nagpur (1,296), Pune (1,187) and Aurangabad (940).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/daily-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-fall-to-6-270-death-toll-touches-118313-101624287869109.html
21-06-2021||Other||{Row over remarks} Bittu appears before state SC panel; told to file written reply within 2 days||Chandigarh Ludhiana Member Parliament (MP) Ravneet Singh Bittu appeared before the Punjab State Scheduled Castes Commission on Monday and presented his version on alleged unparliamentary comments attributed to him.Commission chairperson Tejinder Kaur said during the hearing, Bittu defended himself saying that it was never his intention to make any statement against Schedule Castes. “If my statement has hurt anyone’s sentiments, I offer unconditional apology,” he said. The commission has now directed Bittu to present his version in writing within two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-over-remarks-bittu-appears-before-state-sc-panel-told-to-file-written-reply-within-2-days-101624288058527.html
21-06-2021||Other||Cousin, uncle shoot dead Patiala man over land dispute||Bathinda A 28-year-old Patiala resident Paramjit Singh was shot dead at his ancestral village, Maur Kalan, in Bathinda on Monday, allegedly by his cousin and uncle. Paramjit’s family claimed that they had visited the village to settle a farmland dispute within their extended clan, when the crime was committed. The accused have been identified as Paramjit’s cousin, Ravi Inder Singh, alias Lally Brar, a proclaimed offender, and uncle Darshan Singh. Police sources said the deceased’s father Nirbhai Singh has 5 acre in his name and the ownership demarcation had led to simmering tensions. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk, “We have come to know that initially the family had settled the dispute. Later, however, six persons, led by Lally and Darshan, attacked Paramjit. He was shot dead at his ancestral house. No one else was injured.”.The SSP added that Lally was wanted in another case, where a person was shot dead near the Bathinda Improvement Trust office in August 2020. Lally had been declared a proclaimed offender since. Police have booked six persons, including Lally and Darshan under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cousin-uncle-shoot-dead-patiala-man-over-land-dispute-101624287576867.html
21-06-2021||Bhopal||Lockdown revives aquatic life in Chambal river||The aquatic animal population, including dolphins and gharial, in the Chambal river passing through Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh has increased significantly in the past year due to a decrease in demand for fish and sand amid the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, officials said.“We have identified the dolphin pools in 2019 and spotted 25 calves. We deployed Ghat (bank) in-charge near the pools to check illegal net fishing as it was a major reason behind the death of calves. Decrease of demand of both sand and fish due to lockdown also helped us in saving calves,” District Forest Officer (DFO) Chambal Amit Nikam said. The dolphin population was falling every year between 2016 and 2020 but for the first time in six years the population has increased. This year, 82 dolphins and 20 calves were spotted in river Chambal, according to the annual animal survey in Chambal river conducted by three states.Forest department officials said improvement of quality of aquatic life in the Chambal river also caused an increase in the population of gharial (type of crocodile) by 17% and crocodiles by 24%, according to the survey. In the year 2016, only, 1,162 gharial were spotted in the river during the survey but this year, the population increased to 2,176. Similarly, there were 454 crocodiles in the river in 2016 which increased to 886.The experts in UP, MP and Rajsthan said after illegal sand mining, illegal net fishing emerged as a new threat for dolphins in Chambal river and baby dolphin were dying every year due to this.Nikam said the decrease in the number of dolphins was a matter of concern for them because illegal sand mining was spoiling the habitat and illegal net fishing was killing calves.He further said this year, too, they spotted 20 calves and will put extra effort to save them.“Dolphins were caught in the nets laid to catch other small fish, such as Rohu, Kirawat and Patola. With the slowdown of the business of hotels and restaurants during the lockdown and other restrictions imposed due to Covid-19, illegal net fishing has almost stopped. We have also increased our surveillance at the banks to save calves,” said Diwakar Shrivasatav, divisional forest officer, Chambal Sanctuary, Agra.Experts feel the state government should come up with a plan to maintain this quality of aquatic life and habitat so that net fishing and sand mining does not increase once the lockdown is eased.Senior scientist at Turtle Survival Alliance and working for Aquatic Animals of Ganga River System, Shailendra Singh, said, “A dolphin gives birth to only one child in a year and rarely two. It is necessary to save them from getting trapped in the net. Lockdown stopped illegal net fishing but the state government should also come up with a plan to control it.”As the numbers have increased, experts will study the dolphin habitat as most of them were found in 40 kilometre stretch of the river only. “This time we received separate instructions to calculate the dolphins and collect maximum information about their habitats. This time many dolphins were seen together downstream of Chambal river, which is a rare phenomenon. The maximum numbers of dolphins were seen from Barhi area of Bhind to Sahaso village of Etawaha in UP. More than 35 dolphins were seen in this 40-kilometre-long stretch,” said Jyoti Dandotia, expert at Chambal Sanctuary, who was part of the Aquatic Survey Team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/lockdown-revives-aquatic-life-in-chambal-river-101624287337996.html
21-06-2021||Kolkata||NHRC sets up panel to probe post-poll violence after HC rejects Bengal plea||Kolkata: Hours after the Calcutta high court dismissed a petition by the West Bengal government on Monday, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) constituted a seven-member panel to “enquire into complaints of post-poll violence in West Bengal” and told the panel to identify people who were prima facie responsible for the violence and the officers who maintained a “calculated silence”.The committee will be led by Rajiv Jain, the former Intelligence Bureau chief who assumed charge as NHRC member on June 2, a statement by the human rights body said about the panel that has been set up on the orders of the high court’s five-judge bench led by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal.The high court, which has been hearing a bunch of petitions on the violence that erupted after the ruling Trinamool Congress’ third straight win in the state elections, ordered the NHRC to constitute the committee on Friday. The West Bengal government rushed to the high court the following day with a review petition, requesting the five judges to recall their order.On Monday, the judges heard out the state government but weren’t convinced. The bench, which told the West Bengal government that it could give its action taken report on the complaints received by the NHRC, made a pointed reference to complaints of police inaction and observed that the conduct of the state did not inspire confidence of the court.The court also pointed out how the NHRC had received 541 complaints in contrast to the state’s human rights commission, which hasn’t received a single one.The NHRC committee headed by Rajiv Jain also comprises National Commission for Minorities vice chairman Atif Rasheed, National Commission for Women member Rajulben L Desai, NHRC’s (director) investigation Santosh Mehra and DIG (investigation) Manzil Saini, West Bengal Human Rights Commission registrar Pradip Kumar Panja and the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority Member Secretary Raju Mukherjee.The BJP, which has mounted a relentless campaign against the Mamata Banerjee government over the violence that allegedly targeted supporters of the Bharatiya Janata Party after the May 2 verdict, called Monday’s ruling a “tight slap”.“Rape, murder, arson, every heinous crime took place and the state government denied it. Bengal’s politics of violence is established today. This is a tight slap on the face of the @MamataOfficial and the @AITCofficial govt,” tweeted Ritesh Tiwari, BJP state vice-president. TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy refused to comment. “We will not comment on the court’s decision. The government will examine it and take action,” he said.In proceedings before the high court and the Supreme Court – the top court is hearing a plea for compensation for the victims - the Bengal government has insisted that the government was able to control the violence that broke out before Banerjee was sworn-in on May 3. Victims of the post-poll violence, however, told the top court last week that they were still facing a “hostile attitude”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/nhrc-sets-up-panel-to-probe-post-poll-violence-after-hc-rejects-bengal-plea-101624287336878.html
21-06-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC rejects Bengal govt’s petition; NHRC to examine post-poll violence||A five-judge bench of the Calcutta High Court on Monday refused to recall its June 18 order directing the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to constitute a committee to examine all cases of alleged human rights violation during violence after the recent assembly polls, HT has learnt.Arguing for a section of the complainants, lawyer and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Priyanka Tibrewal cited a Supreme Court order and said court orders are recalled only in exceptional situations and there was no such ground in the ongoing case. “Since the high court passed an interim order (asking the NHRC to examine the complaints), the state government should not face any difficulty or suffer any injury,” she argued. The court said the NHRC has to submit its report on June 30 when the case will be heard again.Rejecting the petition for recall that the West Bengal government filed on Saturday, the five-judge bench, headed by acting chief justice Rajesh Bindal, made sharp observations on the law and order situation. Justice Bindal remarked that there are allegations that police are not taking action while more complaints are being filed. He observed that the conduct of the state does not inspire the confidence of the court. Justice Harish Tandon, another judge in the bench, said while 541 complaints have been received by the NHRC, not a single one was received by the West Bengal Human Rights Commission. The court told advocate general Kishore Dutta, who represented the state, that the government can submit before the NHRC’s committee its report on the action taken on the complaints. Dutta told the court that he was not in a position to argue his case as the state was not served a copy of the report filed by the West Bengal State Legal Services Authority (WBSLSA) regarding complaints received from people. Tibrewal told the court that Dutta’s argument was untenable as she, too, had not received a copy of the WBSLSA report.More than 3,400 complaints had been received till Monday, Tibrewal told the court. On Friday, the bench heard several public interest litigations (PIL) and directed the NHRC to form a committee and examine the complaints it has received and visit the affected areas if required. The court said the committee must restore the confidence of the people and see whether their safety and livelihood have been affected by the alleged violence. The bench directed the state government to provide logistic support to the committee during visits to the affected areas and said action would be taken if the NHRC faces any obstruction. The court also asked the member secretary of the WBSLSA to be a part of the NHRC’s committee along with a member of the state human rights commission.“It is the duty of the state to maintain law and order and instil confidence in citizens,” the bench observed on Friday. It said a report prepared by the member secretary of WBSLSA mentioned that complaints were received from 3,243 people till June 10. The complaints were divided into six categories ranging from looting and arson to demand of ransom. The first significant order, in this case, was passed on May 31 when the bench ordered the constitution of a three-member committee comprising officers from the NHRC, state human rights commission, and the WBSLSA to monitor the return of people who were forced to leave their homes owing to post-poll violence at the Entally assembly constituency in Kolkata.The order was passed while hearing a case filed by Tibrewal, who contested the Entally seat but lost to Swarna Kamal Saha of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Tibrewal alleged that people were threatened and forced to flee. On June 4, the five-judge bench directed the state to rehabilitate people who left home because of post-poll violence in the districts of Bengal. ‘’On receipt of the aforesaid complaints filed by the persons concerned in different districts in the state of West Bengal, the competent authority shall take appropriate steps for their rehabilitation immediately thereafter and report to this court on the next date of hearing,’’ the bench said. After the bench refused to recall its order to the NHRC on Monday, TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said, “We will not comment on the court’s decision. The government will examine it and take action.”The BJP took a dig at the administration.“Rape, murder, arson, every heinous crime took place and the state government denied it. Bengal’s politics of violence is established today. This is a tight slap on the face of the @MamataOfficial and the @AITCofficial govt,” tweeted Ritesh Tiwari, BJP state vice-president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-hc-rejects-bengal-govt-s-petition-nhrc-to-examine-post-poll-violence-101624280976810.html
21-06-2021||Other||Himachal Congress leader seeks audit of number of Covid deaths||Himachal Pradesh Congress leader Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu has demanded that the state government conduct an audit of the number of Covid-19 deaths in the state. In a statement in Shimla on Monday, Sukhu said the audit will help reveal the cause of non-Covid deaths in the state during the pandemic. Also read: Kin have edge as parties choose nominees for Himachal bypollsHe said the government should make a record of the number of days specialist doctors discharged duty in Covid wards. He also sought to know the number of surgeries conducted during the pandemic. “The audit has become necessary because many corona-infected people were suffering from other diseases. After catching Covid-19, they did not get treatment for other illnesses,” he said. These included patients of cancer, kidney and liver ailments besides diabetes, high blood pressure and heart problems. “Since they had contracted the virus, all such deaths were counted as Covid deaths,” Sukhu said. He said the government should share the number of deaths that occurred after the first dose of vaccine or both doses were administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-congress-leader-seeks-audit-of-number-of-covid-deaths-101624277916433.html
21-06-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand locals perform yoga on garbage heaps, protest against trenching ground||In one of the biggest trenching grounds in Uttarakhand’s Kumaon, locals performed yoga on garbage heaps in Haldwani to mark their protest, HT has learnt. Locals in Uttarakhand’s Haldwani in Nainital district protested against the trenching ground in their vicinity by performing yoga on garbage heaps on the occasion of International Yoga Day on Monday. They alleged that the construction of the trenching ground has made it difficult for people to live in the area due to continuous foul smell and smoke emanating from the massive ground. Sartaj Alam, social worker and resident of Banbhulpura said, “Haldwani Kathgodam municipal corporation has made a trenching ground on the forest land adjacent to Indira Nagar in Gaulapar area of Haldwani. About 10,000 to 12,000 people live in Indira Nagar near it. Due to the construction of the trenching ground here, it has become difficult for the residents of Indira Nagar”. He said the ground gets littered every day due to which poisonous gases are released which causes problems for the elderly, pregnant women, children and those who are sick. At the same time, healthy people are also getting affected with smoke coming out of the trenching ground as it often catches fire,” he alleged. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given the slogan of Swachh Bharat but the government machinery here makes a trenching ground in the area adjacent to the residential population. Earlier, there was a green forest here where children used to play and people used to come for a walk. But since the trenching ground has been built, it is difficult for people even to walk near it,” Alam said. According to municipal officials, over 120 metric tons of garbage is thrown every day in the trenching ground from nearby towns like Nainital, Bhowali, Bhimtal, among others. Locals said in July 2018, Uttarakhand high court ordered the state government to set up a waste treatment plant in nine months but the government has not yet set up the same on the pretext of the Covid-19 pandemic. Apart from this, due to the trenching ground on the banks of the river, pollution control rules are also being flouted. “We demand that this trenching ground should be moved elsewhere. Until this trenching ground is not moved, such protests will continue,” he added. In April, locals staged a protest against fire breaking out at the Haldwani trenching ground, expressing their serious concern about the impact of the same on the health of the residents. Uvais Raza, the coordinator of Banbhulpura Bachao Sangharsh Samiti, said they protested last year also for shifting of the trenching ground from the area. “But the government allotted land here for the trenching ground. People here are having difficulty in breathing due to the smoke emanating from the burning garbage,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-locals-perform-yoga-on-garbage-heaps-protest-against-trenching-ground-101624277616436.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||All is well with alliance, says Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut amid rumours of patch-up with BJP||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said on Monday attempts to break the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) will go in vain as he stressed that the alliance is united and committed to complete its five-year term in Maharashtra amid rumours of a reconciliation with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). "The parties in MVA - the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP - support the chief minister. They are standing together and will remain together. We are committed to run the government for five years," Raut said.Watch: Sena responds to rift rumours in MVA, Sharad Pawar meets Prashant Kishor again﻿﻿"Outsiders who want to form government in the state and are restless after losing power may try but the alliance will continue. People may try to break the Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP but they would not succeed," the Shiv Sena leader said.Taking a jibe at the opposition, Sanjay Raut said that the opposition leaders should perform Shavasana on the occasion of International Yoga Day.Also read | Sena-BJP trade charges over Hindutva and Marathi manoosSanjay Raut's comments come amid indications from the Congress that it may fight the assembly elections in Maharashtra alone. Congress' Maharashtra unit chief Nana Patole said on Sunday that the MVA alliance was formed in Maharashtra for five years and was not a permanent fixture. Patole on June 14, too, indicated that the party will contest the next assembly polls alone and not under the Maha Vikas Aghadi. Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap told news agency ANI that his party will contest the elections to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) alone.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Saturday, without naming the Congress party said that people would "beat with chappals" those who only talk about contesting polls alone without offering solutions to people's problems. A day later Patole toned down and said the Congress party stands strong with Thackeray with "all its might" until the government completes its full five-year term.Also read | Uddhav Thackeray slams ‘party-centric talk’ of fighting elections aloneMeanwhile, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar has called a meeting of the coalition Rashtra Manch with Trinamool Congress’ Yashwant Sinha in Delhi on Tuesday. However, the Congress party is not part of these meetings.Raut also commented on the letter of the Shiv Sena leader Pratap Sarnaik to Uddhav Thackeray urging the chief minister to join hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party once again to save its leaders from being harassed by central agencies. "This is his opinion but the role of the party is decided by the party chief Uddhav Thackeray after discussing with all," he said.The Shiv Sena, the Congress and the NCP came together to form the MVA government in Maharashtra after the Uddhav Thackeray-led party fell out with the BJP in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-rumours-of-patch-up-with-bjp-sena-says-all-is-well-with-alliance-101624276225840.html
21-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Gurugram mall, restaurants offer discounts to vaccinated customers||With cases of coronavirus dipping, the Haryana government has allowed relaxations in lockdown restrictions permitting markets and shopping malls to open. Owners of malls and restaurants are offering discounts and freebies to people who have taken the coronavirus vaccine, in a move to encourage vaccinations.A Gurugram mall has started an initiative for heathcare workers while pub bar and restaurants in the Millenium city of India have rolled-out special offers for vaccinated people.While Ambience Mall in Gurugram is providing free parking and discounted rates on shopping from different brands available in the mall to healthcare workers, various pub bar and restaurants are offering specal discounts to people who are vaccinated against Covid-19.Digvijay, a pub bar operator told ANI, "Currently the footfall s down due to the pandemic. Therefore, the sales are down. So to increase sales there is a need to attract customers. Hence, such offers are introduced. This offer not only attract customers but will also ensure that there is no spread of infection. It will also encourage people to get vaccinated which is a must."We have introduced a discount offer of 25 per cent for those who have received forst dose of vaccine and 50 per cent discount for thse fully vaccinated. This has been done to encourage vaccination and at the same time regularise customers to our pub and bar. Basically it will not only increase our customer base but also ensure that the infection does not spread. The customers will also feel safe. People will also feel good that when they step out of their house after a long time, they are able to dine and entertain themselves at a discounted price," said another pub bar operator Paras Katariya.Geeta, official, management, Ambience Mall, Gurugram said, "Our mall is providing free parking facility to healthcare workers. All the brands in the mall are providing special discounts to them. To avail these offers healthcare workers just need to show their ID cards which validates that they are a healthcare worker or a medical practitioner. During this pandemic heathcare workers are doing so much for the people. So it is small initiative to thank them for their efforts. ""We are providing 10 per cent discount to frontline workers. This is a special initiative for them launched by the mall management. Although we have offers going on for our other customers but we have special offers exclusively for frontline workers," said Neha, a showroom manger at the mall."Manu, a customer, said, "It is a very good initiative. This will not only benefit the brands which are providing the discount but also provide financial assistance to people. It will also encourage people to get vaccinated.""The restaurant industry has been severly affected due to the pandemic. We ensure that our staff is vaccinated. So first got them vaccinated so that our customers feel secure. Then we introduced discouns for vaccinated customers so that they avila our services. We want that everybosy gets vaccinated so that we get rid of this disease as soon as possible and our business is back on track just like pre-pandemic," added Yudhveer Yadav, a restaurant owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-gurugram-mall-restaurants-offer-discounts-to-vaccinated-customers-101624276311078.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kin have edge as parties choose nominees for Himachal bypolls||The kin factor is evident as both the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress zero in on candidates for the byelections to the two assembly seats. The Fatehpur assembly seat, represented by Congress legislator and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania, fell vacant following his death due to a prolonged illness on February 12, while the Jubbal-Kotkhai seat fell vacant after former horticulture minister and BJP chief whip Narendra Bragta died of post Covid-19 complications on June 5. Also read: In Indian politics, a crisis of leadershipThe BJP’s core group that met in Shimla last week to deliberate on its poll strategy shortlisted three names from Jubbal-Kotkhai, including Chetan Bragta, the elder son of Narendra Bragta. Besides Chetan, who heads the party’s IT wing in the state, the names of former Zila Parishad member Neelam Seraik and Dr Shushant Deshta were discussed. To keep the rival faction in check, the BJP was quick to appoint state urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj as the bypoll in-charge for Jubbal-Kotkhai even though he did not share good ties with Bragta. Seraik and Deshta are considered close to Bhardwaj. In the Congress camp, former chief parliamentary secretary (CPS) Rohit Thakur is the frontrunner for the Jubbal-Kotkhai ticket though a few leaders owing allegiance to former chief minister Virbhadra Singh are vying for the ticket. Rohit, the grandson of Thakur Ram Lal, a former chief minister of the state, was born on August 14, 1974. He did his schooling in Shimla and graduated from Panjab University, Chandigarh. He was active in student politics during his college days. Rohit Thakur was elected to the assembly from Jubbal-Kotkhai in 2003, a year after the death of his grandfather. He lost the election in 2007 but bounced back with an emphatic win in 2012. He was appointed CPS, agriculture, in the Virbhadra Singh-led government in 2012. Thakur lost the 2017 assembly elections. Stepping into his father’s shoes The Congress has already finalised the name of Bhawani Singh Pathania from Fatehpur, the seat that fell vacant after the death of his father Sujan Singh Pathania. Bhawani, 46, studied at St Edwards and Bishop Cotton School, Shimla, before graduating from Shaheed Bhagat Singh College, Delhi University, and doing diploma in management from Institute of Management Technology, Ghaziabad. He has been working in the private sector for the past 23 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kin-have-edge-as-parties-choose-nominees-for-himachal-bypolls-101624276537085.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Days of juicy jamuns, ice-lollies at India Gate||My mother was furious when she saw a purple stain on my white school shirt. “There you go picking jamuns from the pavements on your way back from school. Now how am I going to remove this purple blob from your uniform? There is a jamun tree right outside our home. You can come back and have your fill. No more jamun feasts on your way back from school, I tell you!” She would scold me and try to cleanse the mark with unboiled milk. In spite of the scolding and the fear of staining clothes, one could not resist the taste of this tropical fruit that also goes by the name of Java plum or Malabar plum and a complicated botanical name, Syzygium cumini. What she has managed to do by sloganeering thus is take me back in time to that one year of Class 6 way back in 1966 in the environs of India Gate and bring back a flood of memories and the mouth watering for the jamun fruit. Those trees then were just a little over 50 and now they are over a century old, staking a claim to heritage rights. Now these protestors have little sense of mythology. It is said that the fruit that ardent devotee Shabri offered Lord Rama was not ber (berry) but jamun. It is also believed that the Lord lived on the jamun fruit in the forests during his exile from the kingdom of Ayodhya. Another supportive myth for the jamun, which is now known as the diabetic fruit because of its healing power in defeating rising sugar levels, is that Lord Krishna is also believed to have four symbols of the Jamun on his right foot. Even Lord Megha, the Lord of the Clouds, came down to the earth in the form of a jamun fruit. Perhaps, this myth-rich heritage of the dark-skinned fruit compelled a Union minister to cry out that no jamun tree has been cut and only a few will be transplanted. Transplanting trees over a century old is no mean task. Anyway, forgetting protest, politics and myths, I just want to relive the joy of long ago when one ate ice-lollies for just 25 paise sitting on the lawns surrounding India Gate and savoured the taste of the purple fruit. And look back with love as we schoolgirls, returning from the Mater Dei Convent on Tilak Lane to the Wellesley Road Hostel for army officers, picked the ripe jamuns for free from the wayside and rolled them in our mouths with joy, often staining our uniforms and getting scolded by our mothers. nirudutt@gmail.comThe writer is a senior journalist at HT, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/days-of-juicy-jamuns-ice-lollies-at-india-gate-101624275756443.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Two drown in lake in Thane’s Sanjay Gandhi National Park||Two people drowned in the Nilapani Lake in Yeoor range of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) on Monday in Thane. Two people had drowned at the same spot on Sunday as well. This has prompted the local police to write to the forest department, seeking measures to stop people from entering the lake. According to Thane municipal corporation officials, the two boys who drowned on Monday were both 17 and had gone to the lake along with their five of their friends. The group entered the lake for a swim and around 10.05 am, these two boys drowned. Their friends immediately raised an alarm, after which officials from the Vartak Nagar police station as well as the TMC, the Regional Disaster Management Cell, the Thane Disaster Response Force and the Thane Fire Brigade rushed to the spot. A search and rescue operation was undertaken immediately. Also Read | Tree surgeon appointed in Mumbai to protect vulnerable trees from falling“While one boy’s body was located at around 12.45 pm and handed over to the police, search is still underway for that of the other one,” a civic official said. Meanwhile, the police said picnickers continue to enter the lake even though it is forbidden, leading to fatalities. On Sunday alone, a minor boy and 20-year-old Juber Sayyed drowned in the same lake. “People have been coming in large numbers ever since the monsoons started and Covid-19 related restrictions were relaxed. Picnickers enter the dense forest area, which makes it hard for the authorities to track them, and then enter the lake. As a result, even if there is an incident, rushing timely help to the spot becomes difficult as the spot is not easily reachable. We have submitted a letter to the forest department today, asking them to put up signboards warning visitors against entering the forest and the lake,” police inspector Santosh Ghatekar, Vartak Nagar police station said. They have also registered an accidental death case for the boy whose body was found.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-drown-in-lake-in-thane-s-sanjay-gandhi-national-park-101624275396655.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bajwa appeals to brother to give up Punjab cabinet job offer for his son||In a new twist to the ongoing tussle within the Congress over the Punjab cabinet’s decision of giving government jobs to the sons of party MLAs Fateh Jung Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey, Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa on Monday appealed to the MLAs to voluntarily give up the jobs. “I appeal to my younger brother and my associate Rakesh Pandey to voluntarily give up the offer from the cabinet for jobs to their kin on compassionate grounds. I am certain that this will be the best way to honour the memory of the departed leaders,” said Bajwa, who is the elder brother of Fateh Jung whose son has been given the job of an inspector. Also read: ‘Capt Amarinder is not the Congress... he lies every day’: Navjot Singh SidhuUrging both the MLAs to consider his plea, Bajwa described his father Satnam Singh Bajwa and Joginder Pal Pandey (Rakesh Pandey’s father) as “mass leaders who served the public with distinction for decades. They laid their lives defending the unity and integrity of the nation during the dark times of militancy in Punjab. The MLAs should consider their long legacy.” Pandey’s son has been offered the job of naib tehsildar. These jobs were given by the cabinet on compassionate grounds last week with claims that their grandfathers were killed by terrorists 33 years ago. Cabinet decision divides Congress The cabinet decision has divided the Congress with many MLAs and Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar opposing the move and asking the cabinet to withdraw the decision. Within the cabinet as well, senior ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Bajwa, Charanjit Channi, Razia Sultana and Sukhbinder Sarkaria are opposed to the move. However, on Sunday, nine ministers backed the decision. Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh defended the move, terming it a tribute to the sacrifices made by families of Congress leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bajwa-appeals-to-brother-to-give-up-punjab-cabinet-job-offer-for-his-son-101624275157885.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 cases in Delhi fall to 89, lowest in 2021; 11 deaths recorded in 24 hrs||Delhi on Monday reported the lowest daily count of this year, as only 89 people were detected positive with the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection in the previous 24 hours, while 11 succumbed to the disease, according to the state health bulletin.The positivity rate of the virus has also decreased to 0.16%, the data showed. The record decline in new cases comes a day after the national capital registered 124 infections, the lowest since February 16. On that day, Delhi logged 94 new cases in 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 0.17%.Also read: Will Centre provide ₹4 lakh to kin of Covid-19 victims? SC reserves verdictThe new cases and deaths in the last one day took the case tally to 1,432,381 and the death toll to 24,925, according to the Covid dashboard of the Capital. The active cases in Delhi currently amount to 1996, dropping from 2,091 the previous day.As per the Covid data of Delhi, the number of active cases is also at its lowest, as on Sunday the active caseload was at the lowest since March 11, 2020.The case fatality rate in the national capital stands at 1.74%, the data showed.Around 173 patients recovered from the disease in the previous 24 hours in comparison to 398 on Sunday, the data showed.The highest fall in the number of new cases comes in the backdrop of fall in testing since the last day. Around 57,128 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours for the identification of the virus in contrast to 72,670 on Sunday. There has been a decline of more than 15,000 tests in the last 24 hours, as per the data.The number of vaccinations also fell since Sunday, as over 11,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated against the fatal disease on Monday. On Sunday more than 86,000 beneficiaries were vaccinated in 24 hours to curb the spread of the disease. From the 11,662 people who got the vaccine dose in the last 24 hours, over 10,000 received their first dose and over 1,600 were administered their second dose.A total of 6, 521,959 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Delhi to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-cases-in-delhi-fall-to-89-lowest-in-2021-11-deaths-recorded-in-24-hrs-101624270266723.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||BMC extends level 3 restrictions in Mumbai till June 27||Mumbai will continue with level 3 restrictions till, June 27, according to an official order issued by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday. This, when the positivity rate in Mumbai (3.79%) and oxygen bed occupancy (23.56%) qualify the city for level 1 restrictions, which effectively means large scale easing of curbs. The BMC order said, “Considering Mumbai’s population density, also considering a large number of people travel in crowded local trains, and due to predictions regarding the third wave made by Maharashtra Covid task force, BMC has decided to keep in force its level 3 status.” This decision has come into force from Monday, June 21, and will remain in force till June 27, the order reads. Also Read | Sharad Pawar, Prashant Kishor meet for second time in 2 weeksLevel 3 restrictions mean essential shops and establishments can remain open till 4pm on all days, non-essential shops and establishments can remain open till 4pm on weekdays, restaurants are allowed to operate dine-in with 50% capacity, till 4pm on weekdays, and can allow takeaways and home deliveries after, use of local trains is restricted for medical and essential services,gyms, salons and spas are open till 4pm, operational on 50% capacity.Local governments have the authority to opt for the status of a higher level of restrictions, based on the caseload, bed availability, and overall situation at hand within the jurisdiction. BMC received the state disaster management department’s nod for extending its level 3 status on June 18. As of June 20, 9,024 of 10,930 oxygen beds are vacant in Mumbai, 1,216 of 2,633 ICU beds are vacant, and 542 of 1,450 ventilator beds are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-extends-level-3-restrictions-in-mumbai-till-june-27-101624272156292.html
21-06-2021||Kolkata||In Bengal’s Alipurduar, where BJP won all assembly seats, district president joins TMC||Ganga Prasad Sharma, president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit in north Bengal’s Alipurduar district, where the party bagged all five assembly seats in the recent polls, joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Monday afternoon, HT has learnt. “I was aggrieved for a long time because the BJP state leadership did not consult the district unit before inducting a lot of people. Had I left earlier, the party would have called me a traitor. I decided to leave after ensuring the BJP’s victory in the five assembly seats in Alipurduar,” Sharma said after joining the ruling party in Kolkata along with eight BJP office-bearers from the district.Sharma was welcomed by TMC Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, education minister Bratya Basu and Mukul Roy, who left the BJP, where he was the national vice-president, on June 11.“This is the beginning of the BJP’s end in Bengal. The process has started,” quipped Roy who joined the saffron camp in November 2017 following differences with his colleagues. He was instrumental in engineering defections from the TMC over the last three years. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, as well as the recent state elections, the BJP outperformed the TMC in the north Bengal region. In 2019, the saffron camp bagged seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the eight districts starting from Malda to Darjeeling. In the state polls, two prominent TMC ministers lost in north Bengal while BJP candidates won 30 of the region’s 54 assembly segments where identity politics played a key role. Even as BJP leaders in Alipurduar quickly convened a meeting of district functionaries to review the situation and stop more defections, the state leadership attempted to play down the development.“Sharma was an old leader but his departure will not affect the organisation. The selection of a new district president was on the cards. He probably got a hint and decided to leave,” said BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu.Meanwhile, TMC workers lodged a complaint at five police stations in north Bengal against John Barla, BJP’s Lok Sabha member from Alipurduar, for demanding a Union territory comprising the north Bengal districts. Barla voiced the demand before the local media last week and reiterated it on Sunday. “North Bengal has been neglected for decades. Only Central rule can ensure development,” he said.BJP state president Dilip Ghosh and other leaders have said the party has made no such demand and Barla expressed his personal opinion. Ghosh also called up Barla.TMC state leaders, however, have started a hashtag campaign, alleging that Barla’s demand has exposed the BJP’s plans to divide Bengal after failing to win the people’s mandate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/in-bengal-s-alipurduar-where-bjp-won-all-assembly-seats-district-president-joins-tmc-101624272037911.html
21-06-2021||Kolkata||Alipurduar district BJP president joins Trinamool Congress||In a major setback for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in north Bengal, Alipurduar district BJP president Ganga Prasad Sharma on Monday joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the presence of party leaders Sukhendu Sekhar Roy and Mukul Roy in Kolkata.Sharma had said he was changing parties as working for the people was becoming increasingly difficult for him in his current circumstances. "I did everything to ensure that the BJP wins the polls, and the party did bag five seats. But some of us are feeling suffocated in the party now, which is expanding in size without establishing links with grassroots workers," he said, according to news agency PTI.Also Read | ‘Wrote thrice to PM seeking Governor's withdrawal’: Mamata on Jagdeep Dhankhar“I had to work hard to consolidate the party’s base in the district. I can no longer stay in a party where the district president is not given importance. I have left the BJP,” he said.He also said that the recent demand by "our local MP for a union territory status for north Bengal" has further pushed him to take the decision, adding that a few other members of the party will also follow in his footsteps.Responding to Sharma's comments, BJP MLA and opposition leader in Bengal assembly Suvendu Adhikari said, "Our organisation is strong in north Bengal. Ganga Prasad's exit hardly matters, adding, "We will create another Ganga Prasad. Individuals don't matter, BJP matters.”Adhikari had joined the BJP in December last year after accusing the TMC of lacking discipline and had vowed to bring the BJP to power in the state. “We who have quit TMC will work as disciplined soldiers so that BJP comes to power in the state in the assembly poll in 2021 and West Bengal becomes Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal),” he had said.Adhikari contested from the Nandigram assembly constituency against his once-mentor and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and won the seat by a thin margin.The BJP won 77 of the total 291 constituencies in West Bengal which was seen as an impressive gain from the previous assembly elections, while the TMC bagged 213 seats, to form the government for the third consecutive time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/alipurduar-district-bjp-president-joins-trinamool-congress-101624268554813.html
21-06-2021||Kolkata||No universal vaccination: Only priority groups to get vaccine in Bengal||The West Bengal government will not launch the universal vaccination programme (providing free vaccines to all in the age bracket 18-45 years) and will instead continue to vaccinate priority groups, due to a shortage of vaccines, senior health officials said. The Centre launched the universal vaccination programme against Covid-19 from Monday to provide states with free vaccines for the 18-45 category, a move that is expected to help scale up daily vaccination numbers. “There will be no change in the policy. We will continue to vaccinate priority groups. We don’t have enough vaccines. If we start universal vaccination, there will be a mismatch and the priority groups won’t get the vaccines. Until we complete vaccinating the target groups we won’t be able to vaccinate others,” said Ajoy Chakraborty, director of health services. Also Read | ‘So what happened now?’: Nadda slams oppn over ‘politicising’ vaccination driveThe state had identified a few priority groups, including sex workers, jail inmates, hawkers and transport workers, who could be Covid-19 super-spreaders. The groups include Covid-19 volunteers, jail inmates, retail sellers in markets, hawkers, sex workers and transgenders, lawyers and court staff, journalists, transport workers, dealers of essential goods, and government employees, including teacher, who were not vaccinated during the assembly elections. “On an average, we were getting around 200,000 vaccines per day. The flow will be a little healthier now and we may get around 300,000 doses per day. We have the capacity to scale it up to 500,000 per day. We have vaccinated 475,000 persons in one day, which has been the highest till date,” said a senior health official. Till date, the state has vaccinated 19,010,700 persons, of which 2,142,859 vaccines were given to people in the 18-45 age group. The Union government will procure 75% of the total overall Covid-19 vaccine supplies, and distribute it among states for free to vaccinate all adults. According to senior officials of the Union health ministry, more vaccine supplies are in the pipeline than before and the companies are also ramping up production; therefore, there should be no problem covering the target population. “We will increase the vaccination as per the quantity we receive. It will take some time for us to start universal vaccination. We will first complete the priority groups, which include super-spreaders, persons forcibly exposed to public mingling, and those facing public,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/no-universal-vaccination-only-priority-groups-to-get-vaccine-in-bengal-101624267296040.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||Happy hours: Delhi restaurateurs hail reopening of bars, extension in timings of eateries||The Delhi government, in a fresh order, permitted reopening of bars in the Capital, with 50% seating occupancy, from noon till 10pm. It also granted permission to restaurants to operate till 10pm instead of 8pm, giving them an additional two hours. And, restaurateurs in the city could not be happier, for they feel extended timings and permission to serve alcohol will help revive the dining scene. “All table reservations were coming in late evening, as patrons were unaware of timings. Also, most customers asked for alcohol. Now, even if we won’t see large groups coming in, the average person cost is going to go up, adding to the revenue,” says Radhika Khandelwal, chef-owner of Fig & Maple.Renowned bartender Yangdup Lama, and founder, Sidecar, says the extension in timings will greatly benefit bartenders, bar and restaurant owners. “At a bar, there are hardly any takeaway orders. An extension gives a window to operate for additional hours, and will help space out reservations,” he says. Hoping to see an increase in patrons, Avantika Sinha Bahl, owner of Kampai and Mai Bao, says, “We were losing dinner service, with the 8pm restriction. Footfall seems to be promising in the coming days.”Owners of eateries with multiple outlets are relieved, as they can now reopen branches that had to be shut. “I opened only one outlet out of three, as with limited serving hours and no liquor, the other two would see more losses than gains. I’m now happy, as well be able to open all three outlets and serve the complete experience,” says Kanishk Tuteja, founder of 1 Oak, Nukkad and We Qutub.Moreover, restaurateur Priyank Sukhija wishes to get a further extension as he says, “Hopefully the numbers [of Covid-19 cases] decline further and the industry gets to open beyond 10pm soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/happy-hours-delhi-restaurateurs-hail-reopening-of-bars-extension-in-timings-of-eateries-101624266756021.html
21-06-2021||Lucknow||Etah railway station in UP awaits a viable rail link for 62 years||Despite home to 130,000 people, the railway station in western Uttar Pradesh’s Etah district -- inaugurated on January 18, 1959 by then President Rajendra Prasad-- has failed to live up to its promise even 62 years later with only a single local train scheduled to stop at the station and in the absence of connectivity to the busy Agra-Bareilly route through Kasganj station. This despite the district being home to former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh.The station these days wears a deserted look with the only train that halted here-- connecting Etah with Tundla and Agra-- getting cancelled two months ago due to curtailment of rail traffic amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Little wonder, Vijay Singh Verma, the station superintendent at Etah railway station, doesn’t look busy.A stroll on the empty platform reveals the fading inscriptions on a marble plaque, proudly announcing that the station was unveiled by then President Dr Rajendra Prasad on January 18, 1959. A member of parliament from Etah, Rohan Lal Chaturvedi, who was the deputy railway minister in Jawaharlal Nehru’s cabinet, was instrumental in organising the inauguration, old timers recall.“The railway station at Etah has been awaiting [proper] connectivity for the last 62 years. The railway station at Kasganj is merely 30 kilometres away. Despite promises, the train link to Kasganj is yet to be laid. Once linked with Kasganj, the railway station of Etah will be connected to the busy Agra-Bareilly route,” says Rakesh Gandhi, former chairman of Etah Nagar Palika Parishad. The expansion of the rail network remains a sore point during every election in Etah and protests on the issue were organised twice at Jantar Mantar, near the Parliament, in New Delhi in January 2015 and 2016, but the situation hasn’t changed.The fact that former CM Kalyan Singh’s son Rajveer currently represents the seat in Lok Sabha or that two other former CMs in Ram Naresh Yadav and Mulayam Singh Yadav also represented Nidholi Kalan (now Marhara) assembly constituency in Etah in 1977 and 1993 respectively, has also not made any difference to the fortune of the station.“We have been raising the issue of rail connectivity to Etah and even met senior railway officials. We get assurances. There was a budgetary allocation of ₹279 crore for the Etah-Kasganj section but yet again Etah could not have a train link with Kasganj, since the survey could not be completed in time,” complains Anuj Gupta, a local businessman. Locals say the current link is not preferred since it takes twice as long to reach either Agra or Tundla. “The passenger train is the choice of only those who find the fare less than the bus fare,” says a sanitation worker at the railway station.In absence of a viable option, a large number of students from Etah travel to Agra shelling out higher bus fares. Agra is 80 kilometres from Etah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/etah-railway-station-in-up-awaits-a-viable-rail-link-for-62-years-101624266336050.html
21-06-2021||Pune||Former Pune mayor, other NCP leaders arrested for violating Covid protocol||Former Pune mayor and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) city president Prashant Jagtap was arrested by the Shivajinagar Police on Monday for violating Covid-19 protocol during the inauguration of the new party office in Shivajinagar on Saturday. Jagtap was arrested and later released on bail along with a few other party office bearers who had been booked in the case. A large number of NCP workers had gathered at the spot after the news of the arrests spread via social media.Jagtap was among the six office-bearers, including party youth leader Mahesh Hande, Pradeep Deshmukh, Nilesh Nikam and Rohan Paygude, Balasaheb Bodake, booked according to a statement issued by Shivajinagar police station that suo motu filed a case under sections 188, 269, 270 of Indian Penal Code, Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act, and Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid-19 Regulations. Hande had applied for permission at Shivajinagar police station to hold the inauguration of the new party office, and the application stated that the people in attendance at the event would strictly follow Covid-19 norms.Also Read | Over 900 Covid violators fined at tourist spots in Pune Over 400-500 people attended the party office’s inauguration by deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on June 19 at 5pm. The officials did not maintain enough social distance and some did not wear masks, a statement released from Shivajinagar police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-pune-mayor-other-ncp-leaders-arrested-for-violating-covid-protocol-101624265676111.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal inducts former Punjab ex-IG Kunwar Vijay into AAP||In a significant development in the run-up to the 2022 assembly elections, Aam Aadmi Party national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal inducted former inspector general (IG) of Punjab Police Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh, who probed the post-sacrilege police firing cases, into the AAP in Amritsar on Monday. Kunwar Vijay started his political innings in the presence of state party chief Bhagwant Mann, state party affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh, co-incharge Raghav Chadha and leader of opposition in the state assembly Harpal Singh Cheema. Also read: Arvind Kejriwal reveals Punjab poll plans, says AAP’s CM candidate will be localKejriwal presented Kunwar Vijay a siropa (robe of honour) at a press conference at Circuit House in Amritsar The report prepared by the special investigation team (SIT) led by him in the Kotkapura firing incident that injured Sikh protesters in 2015, was quashed by the Punjab and Haryana high court on April 9. The court directed the state government to reconstitute a new SIT without him on board. Two days after the order, he opted for voluntary retirement. Two Sikh protesters were killed in police firing at Behbal Kalan village in Faridkot district in October 2015. The incidents took place during the tenure of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), which was opposed to Kunwar Vijay’s role in the probe. The AAP and Sikh hardliners, however, hailed his role. He was even felicitated by the hardliners on April 30 outside Golden Temple. Kunwar Vijay Partap has served as the Amritsar city senior superintendent of police and was the deputy inspector general (DIG), border range. Even when he was posted outside Amritsar, he remained in touch with the city and attended public functions here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-inducts-former-punjab-ex-ig-kunwar-vijay-into-aap-101624265135949.html
21-06-2021||Bhopal||MP forest dept to test tigers for Covid-19 in wake of unexplained deaths||Madhya Pradesh forest department’s officials will take blood and oropharyngeal swab samples of tigers in Pench Tiger Reserve, Seoni, to test for coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The officials said the decision was taken after the forensic science laboratory could not reach a conclusion as to the cause of three tigers’ deaths at the reserve since January. The reserve, at last count, had 53 tigers.The forest officers claimed Covid-19 testing of tigers will take place for the first time in India.Pench Tiger Reserve field director VS Parihar said, “For the past 20 days, six forest department officials on two elephants are trying to locate tigers in the forest to tranquillise them and take samples. They are yet to find any as it is a difficult task--the rainy season has started.” Also Watch | Tiger rescued from defunct rubber factory in Uttar Pradesh“The decision was taken because three tigers aged between 5 and 8 years have died in Pench Tiger Reserve since January. The post mortem and FSL reports ruled out the possibility of poaching as no poison, electrocution or injury mark was found on the tigers’ carcasses,” he added. “To know the cause of the tigers’ deaths, the Pench Tiger Reserve administration wrote to the head office of the forest department last month, and requested for permission to take the samples of five tigers randomly. The samples will be tested for Covid-19 test and other viral diseases,” said Alok Kumar, principal chief conservator of forest (PCCF), wildlife department. Last year, wildlife activist Sangeeta Dogra filed a petition in the Supreme Court, seeking a thorough investigation into the death of a 10-year-old tiger in Pench. She said she suspected it had died of Covid-19. The apex court asked the Ministry of Environment and Forests to ascertain the cause of death. However, the state government denied that the cause of death was Covid-19. Dogra said, “Last year, a tiger died due to Covid 19 in Pench but the state government showed a forged report from a veterinary institute in Jabalpur to prove that it was not a Covid-19 death. This year too, I filed a petition as the MP government defied the order of NTCA which stated that tigers reserves and national parks must be closed in wake of a lioness’s death in Chennai due to Covid-19.” “They are doing random sampling as they suspect that coronavirus is spreading in the forests of MP. This is a serious issue and needs to be addressed soon to save the wildlife,” she added.“We haven’t received any reports from MP or other states on tigers in the wild suspected of contracting Covid-19,” said Soumitra Dasgupta, inspector general of forests (wildlife), under the Union ministry of environment.With inputs from Bhojraj Raghuvanshi from Chhindwara||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-forest-dept-to-test-tigers-for-covid-19-in-wake-of-unexplained-deaths-101624261415812.html
21-06-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: 41st Oxygen Express reaches Bengaluru||The forty-first "Oxygen Express" carrying 114 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO), in six cryogenic containers has reached the city, the South Western Railway said on Monday.So far, Karnataka has received 4,526.29 tonnes of LMO by rail."The 41th Oxygen Express has reached Inland Container Depot, Whitefield, Bengaluru at 05:35 AM today. It had started from Jamnagar, Gujarat at 01:45 PM on June19," South Western Railway said in a statement.Indian Railways has so far run 448 Oxygen Expresses and transported more than 32,464 tonnes of LMO in 1,854 tankers to all over the country and has brought relief to 15 states in their fight against Covid -19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-41st-oxygen-express-reaches-bengaluru-101624259898826.html
21-06-2021||Bhopal||Row over soybean seeds ‘shortage’ in MP, farmers allege black marketing||Several soybean farmers in Madhya Pradesh have alleged that the sowing of the Kharif crop has not even begun in 60% area even two months after the beginning of the season due to shortage of certified seeds, provided by the government. However, the state claimed to have more seeds than last year and blamed the shortage on additional demand by farmers who have not been able to grow their own seed due to crop failure.Soybean was sowed in 5,854 million hectares of land last year but farmers said 60% of the area remained uncultivated this year due to unavailability of certified seeds at cooperative societies and seed centres. They also accused the government of turning a blind eye to black marketing of seeds, which is available at double the government rate in the open market.“I used to sow soybean in 20 acres of land till last year but this year I don’t have seeds. In the market, the seeds are available at ₹9,000 to ₹12,000 per tonne, which we can’t afford,” Bhem Singh Meena, a farmer from Rajgarh, said.The government sells the soybean seeds for ₹4,000 per tonne at state-run seed centres and cooperative societies. Meena said it was also upsetting that instead of supplying them with enough quality seeds, the agriculture minister had advised farmers to opt for some other crop for better profitability.MP farmers body’s president Anil Yadav claimed the state government was in truck with private businessmen, who were “minting money by selling substandard seeds at much higher rates.”“The state government is asking [farmers] to opt [for] some other crops. But in reality, the state government is shedding its responsibility,” Yadav alleged.Agriculture minister Kamal Patel said it was his responsibility to offer correct advice to farmers. “I have suggested growing some other crops not to run away from my responsibility but to help them earn more money. Due to the decrease of export, poor weather, diseases in plants, the soybean yield has decreased a lot in the past three years.” Soybean Processors Association of India chairman Davish Jain said: “Instead of de-motivating farmers, the state government should encourage them by providing quality seeds. Soybean is a crop which has multiple uses and has important nutrients to fight against malnutrition and protein deficiency among people.” However, the agriculture department claimed there was no shortage as 1.3 million tonnes of seeds was procured by MP for distribution among farmers compared to 1 million tonnes last year. “Those farmers, who used to sow their own seed until last year, don’t have seeds for this season as the crop failed due to incessant rainfall. Every year, only 40% farmers used to purchase certified seeds from the government, and this year too, we have seeds for 40% farmers, said an officer of agriculture department, who didn’t wish to be named. Agriculture department data shows that MP had procured 1 million tonne seeds last year and that figure increased to 1.3m tonne this year. 340,000 tonnes of these are available at cooperatives and government’s seed centres while the remaining 930,000 tonnes was available at government’s certified private shops.“The prices in the private market are not regulated by the government, so we are helpless,’’ said another government officer on condition of anonymity. Another senior officer of the agriculture department said that the government had realised that the demand may increase this year and therefore banned the sale of soybean seeds to other states in April but it had to be lifted on Centre’s intervention.“Citing problems to farmers, we have [again] requested the Centre to ban the sale of seeds to other states but it is yet to take any decision,” he said.Minister Patel said efforts were on to make seeds available for the left out farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/row-over-soybean-seeds-shortage-in-mp-farmers-allege-black-marketing-101624259496262.html
21-06-2021||Lucknow||International Yoga Day: UP CM tells people to make yoga part of their lives||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday described yoga as an invaluable gift which keeps both the body and mind healthy, and asked people to make it a part of their lives.Extending greetings on International Yoga Day, the chief minister said due to the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the United Nations has given international recognition to this ancient discipline of India and since then it is being celebrated all over the world.On this day, let us all take a pledge to make yoga a part of our lives, he said.The BJP on Monday organised yoga camps at the divisional level to mark the day.According to the BJP, the party organised yoga camps in all 1,918 'mandals' of the state.BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh performed yoga at his residence in the state capital Lucknow, while state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal performed yoga-pranayam with party workers at the BJP state headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/international-yoga-day-up-cm-tells-people-to-make-yoga-part-of-their-lives-101624258568581.html
21-06-2021||Other||Tamil Nadu illegal firecracker factory explosion leaves 3 dead, 2 injured||Two women and a five-year-old boy died in an explosion at an illegal firecracker unit on Monday morning in Tamil Nadu’s Virudhunagar district. Two men were injured and are being treated at the Sivakasi government hospital. One of the injured is in a critical condition with more than 70% burn injuries.Also Read | Fire breaks out at Delhi shoe factory; 6 feared missingThe house where the blast occurred is located in Kalaignar Colony in Sattur which is about 20km away from the firecracker manufacturing hub of Sivakasi in the same district. “They were operating [the factory] from inside a house,” Virudhunagar collector J Meghanatha Reddy told HT. “All of them were recovered from inside the house,” he said.The explosion occurred around 8.30am on Monday and firefighters were pressed into service. Officials said that it was too early to ascertain the number of people involved in running this unit as they operated without a license.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tamil-nadu-illegal-firecracker-factory-explosion-leaves-3-dead-2-injured-101624258896017.html
21-06-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal officials trek to vaccinate residents of remote Alipurduar village||West Bengal government officials on Sunday travelled for more than 10 kilometres through forests and hilly areas to reach Adma, a remote village in the state’s Alipurduar district, to administer vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to residents above the age of 45.Alipurduar district magistrate Surendra Kumar Meena said the Covid-19 vaccination drive was carried out under the Bengal government’s ‘Duare Tikakaran Abhiyan’. “The Adma village in the Alipurduar district is one of the most remote areas of the state. Other vaccination centres and sub-centres are very far from there,” Meena said, according to news agency ANI. He added the drive was specifically for residents over 45 years so that they do not have to travel to faraway places to get inoculated.“Around 50 people have been vaccinated as part of this drive. We have a target of vaccinating 100 people. We are also providing vaccination certificates to beneficiaries,” Meena said.He also spoke to residents regarding the development which should take place in the village. “We took people’s opinions on any demands they have regarding development, infrastructure, health etc which we need to work upon,” the district magistrate said.West Bengal: Alipurduar DM Surendra Kumar Meena (in red & white T-shirt) along with health officials trekked more than 10-km through forests & hilly areas to reach a remote village, Adma for vaccinating villagers against COVID-19, yesterday. pic.twitter.com/BulXxBOaXQRural areas across the country have been massively affected due to the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on May 14 that Covid-19 is rapidly spreading in villages and urged farmers to be aware of this ‘invisible enemy’ and take precautions accordingly.The team, which conducted the vaccination drive in Adma, also distributed face masks, hand sanitisers to residents for maintaining hygiene.One of the people, who was given the shot, told ANI that residents were worried about the vaccination as Adma is in a remote location. The person thanked the district administration for visiting the area and conducting the vaccination drive.West Bengal has so far vaccinated 18.8 million people against the Covid-19 disease, of which 278,000 were vaccinated on Sunday, as per the state health department’s bulletin. As the state continues to grapple with a shortage of vaccine doses, the government has said it will not launch the universal vaccination program of administering free doses to beneficiaries between 18-45 years, senior health officials told Hindustan Times on Monday.The state reported 2184 new Covid-19 cases and 53 more fatalities due to the viral disease on Sunday, taking the caseload and death toll to 1,481,707 and 17,348 respectively. The active cases have come down to 23,016 while the total recoveries have climbed to 1,441,343 and the recovery rate is at 97.28 per cent.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-officials-trek-to-vaccinate-residents-of-remote-alipurduar-village-101624256276714.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||JNU to close its central library in view of Covid-19 situation||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has announced that the Dr. BR Ambedkar Central Library will remain closed in view of the coronavirus situation.The decision comes amid demands by students to reopen the library.On June 11, the university had said that it would reopen the library soon in line with the government's orders."Due to the prevailing situation of Covid-19 and curfew announced by the Delhi government, the Dr. BR Ambedkar Central Library will remain closed till further orders," the university said on Sunday.Earlier this month, the university administration had alleged that a few students broke into the library and scuffled with security guards, following which they "occupied" the Dr. BR Ambedkar Central library.It had also lodged an FIR against them for allegedly breaking into the facility and clashing with the staff there.Talking about the opening of the library, the university had said, "After due deliberations, keeping in line with government orders and the academic interests of the student community, the university administration has decided to take appropriate steps to open the Dr. BR Ambedkar Central Library soon.""This will comply with the expected announcement of the government regarding further unlocking measures in Delhi," it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnu-to-close-its-central-library-in-view-of-covid-19-situation-101624255460171.html
21-06-2021||Dehradun||Tiger found dead in Corbett Tiger Reserve’s Dhela range||The carcass of an eight-year-old tiger has been found in Corbett Tiger Reserve’s (CTR) Dhela range, said forest officials. Kalyani (who goes by her first name), deputy director of CTR, said patrolling staff of the CTR spotted the carcass of the tiger in Dhela range on Sunday. “It seems five or six days old. We have conducted tiger’s post-mortem examination, following which the tiger was cremated. The tiger likely died fighting another tiger or tigress”, she said. She said, “The tiger’s body was scavenged so it was not possible to collect viscera. Its skull was fractured. So likely the tiger died fighting”. Also Watch | Tiger rescued from defunct rubber factory in Uttar PradeshThis is not the first such incident in the region. On April 15, a tigress was found injured in Danibangar forests of Terai East forest division. On March 21 and March 15, two tigers were found dead in Dhela forest range. On January 7, a 12-year-old tiger was killed in an accident while it was crossing the road at Kaladhungi near Bhakhra bridge in Haldwani. Last year, a 10-year-old tigress was found dead in CTR’s Jhirna range in May. In the second week of April last year, the carcass of a five-year-old male tiger was found in Ramnagar forest division near Corbett Tiger Reserve.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/tiger-found-dead-in-corbett-tiger-reserve-s-dhela-range-101624255716089.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out at Delhi shoe factory; 6 feared missing||A major fire broke out at a shoe factory in Peeragarhi Udyog Nagar in outer Delhi on Monday morning. A total of 31 fire tenders and more than 50 firefighters have been pressed into service to douse the flames, fire department officials said.Although no casualties have been reported yet, the owner of the factory told the firefighters that six of his employees were missing and were not responding to calls on their mobile phones, said Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg. Also Read | 2 killed, 2 injured in explosion at illegal firecracker factory in Tamil Nadu“It’s a major category fire and the fire-fighting operation may continue till late evening. As far as casualties are concerned, we have not found any bodies. The factory owner is saying that six workers are missing. They may be trapped inside but we cannot confirm or deny it at this moment,” said Garg. According to Garg, the fire control room received a call at 8.22am regarding fire at a shoe factory in Peeragarhi Udyog Nagar. Initially, 24 fire tenders were sent. As the fire was big, seven more such vehicles were rushed. The fire fighting operation is still on. Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parminder Singh said the building also has a godown of shoes. Two ambulances have also been called to the spot. Five-six persons are suspected to be inside the premises, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-delhi-shoe-factory-no-casualties-reported-101624254996154.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt launches 1-year diploma course in 'Meditation and Yoga Sciences'||The one-year diploma course in 'Meditation and Yoga Sciences', launched by the Delhi government on Monday, started from Monday on the occasion of International Yoga Day 2021. The government said that around 450 candidates have enrolled themselves in the course."With the aim of making Yoga and Meditation reach door to door, we launched a new Yoga Center in Delhi today. Yoga is very important for better health in this time of pandemic," chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted after launching the course on Sunday. He also said that from October 1, the instructors completing the course will train people in different parts of Delhi free of cost.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Twitter, "Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today, upon the upcoming occasion of International Yoga Day addressed the first batch of 'Yoga and Meditation Diploma' at Delhi Pharmaceutical Sciences and Research University. To take Yoga and Meditation to the masses, these youths will be -available in the service of Delhiites from October 2."The main theme of International Day of Yoga (IDY) 2021 is 'Yoga For Wellness' that focuses on practising Yoga for physical and mental well-being.International Yoga Day is celebrated every year on June 21. The UN General Assembly in 2014 overwhelmingly adopted a draft resolution, declaring June 21 as International Yoga Day.India is celebrating the seventh International Day of Yoga virtually due to Covid-19 pandemic. The lead programme of the event, held by the Union Ayush ministry, began at 6:30am with an address from Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-1-year-diploma-course-in-meditation-and-yoga-sciences-101624250449147.html
21-06-2021||Jaipur||Unite to make Covid-19 vaccination in Rajasthan successful: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday said every citizen of the state should play their role in helping combat the coronavirus pandemic and make the vaccination campaign successful.He said this is the time to rise above all other commitments, including political thinking and party ideologies, to unite and save lives."We have to fulfil the duty of humanity by sidelining narrow-mindedness and discrimination. It should be our endeavour that no person is left out from vaccination," Gehlot said in a statement.The CM was addressing a video conference organised on Sunday to increase vaccine participation.He said the state government is conducting the vaccination drive across cities and villages in a planned manner. Every person should get the protective shield of the vaccine to prevent the spread of the pandemic.Gehlot said the government has been successful in keeping vaccine wastage much less than the prescribed standards.The Chief Minister said free vaccines have been announced by the Centre from June 21 for the age group of 18 to 44 years.After the change in the Centre's vaccine procurement policy, ₹600 crore taken from the MLAs fund and deposited in the Chief Minister's Covid-19 Mitigation Fund would be returned. But in view of the effect of the pandemic, it will be appropriate to spend this amount this year itself for strengthening the medical services in the state.Rajasthan Assembly Speaker C P Joshi said public representatives and political workers have access to the booth level in villages and hamlets.In such a situation, they can play a more active role in raising awareness about vaccination at the grassroots level and removing the misconceptions related to vaccines among the backward and uneducated people, he said.Health Minister Raghu Sharma said 2,444 cold-chain points have been made across the state while capacity has been developed to administer doses to 12 to 15 lakh people per day.Minister of State for Education Govind Singh Dotasra said all public representatives should rise above political ideologies and make the vaccination campaign successful to save the people of the state from the pandemic.Deputy Leader of Opposition in the Rajasthan Assembly Rajendra Rathore said the Opposition will fully cooperate with the state government in the vaccination campaign as it did in preventing the spread of Covid-19 cases last year.Health Secretary Siddharth Mahajan said so far about 2.08 crore people of the state have been given vaccine doses. Of these, 1.74 crore people have received the first dose and more than 34 lakh people have received both the doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/unite-to-make-covid-19-vaccination-in-rajasthan-successful-ashok-gehlot-101624250589960.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||HT EXCLUSIVE: On International Day of Yoga, PM Modi’s personal yoga consultant gives us a peek into his routine||It is widely known that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has brought the art of yoga into the spotlight, but do you know that there isn’t a single day when he doesn’t take out the time for yoga, or that he is dedicated to the avartan dhyan practice. On International Yoga Day, we exclusively talk to PM’s personal yoga consultant, HR Nagendra, as he shares a glimpse of Modi’s dedication towards the ancient practice, calling him a ‘devoted Yoga Sadhaka’.“It’s very heartening to note that Modi ji is a devoted Yoga Sadhaka himself and he regularly practices yoga in spite of having such a busy schedule. Avartan Dhyan or cyclic meditation, which I had conceptualised years ago, is one practice that he religiously follows every day,” Nagendra tells us.The principle of this meditation is to stimulate the body, followed by deep relaxation of the body and mind. “Modi ji’s dedication towards yoga is so high that even if he’s travelling around the world, he never fails to dedicate some time to his yoga routine,” mentions Nagendra, lauding Modi for leading the proposal to make July 21 as International Day of Yoga, which the United Nation’s General Assembly accepted in 2014. Nagendra further reveals that Modi’s fondness for yoga is not just limited to the practice of asanas that strengthen physical health, but “he’s also focused on strengthening the mind to achieve a state of holistic health and well-being”.In fact, yoga plays a very important role in helping people find a way to good health in the times of Covid-19 crisis.“The pandemic has given us the opportunity to stay home, work on family relations and spend more time with them. However, this quarantine or isolation has also impacted the mind negatively. Hence, it’s imperative for us to practice and introduce yoga at home to help tackle mental issues such as depression and anxiety,” shares Nagendra, the Chancellor, S-VYASA, President, Indian Yoga Association. He suggests everyone to include “Bhakti Yoga, Jnana Yoga and Karma Yoga, Pranayama, Kriyas and relaxation techniques” into their life for holistic living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ht-exclusive-on-international-day-of-yoga-pm-modi-s-personal-yoga-consultant-gives-us-a-peek-into-his-routine-101624250435612.html
21-06-2021||Lucknow||Top BJP leaders in Lucknow today for round 2 of feedback sessions||On Monday, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders in Uttar Pradesh (UP) will meet national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, who will hold feedback sessions for the second time in 20 days to thrash out issues between the party and the government and prepare a blueprint for Mission 2022--the UP assembly elections.BL Santhosh’s visit will be followed by a series of visits by the party’s leadership. BJP chief JP Nadda and Prime Minister Narendra Modi are expected to visit UP regularly in the run-up to the assembly polls, due in about nine months’ time.The BJP could also hold a state working committee meeting by June-end or early July, some party leaders indicated. Before the 2022 UP polls, BJP faces elections to the zila panchayat chairpersons’ post on July 3.Also Read | After BJP, Congress battles infighting, power tussle over Karnataka CM faceDuring his three-day unprecedented one-on-one feedback session with ministers of the Yogi Adityanath government, Santhosh had stressed on the need for unity and coordination between the party and the government in the election year, party leaders said.The spotlight, this time, will be as much on Santhosh as on the new UP BJP vice-president AK Sharma, an IAS officer and a former aide of Prime Minister Modi, who earlier joined the BJP, was made an MLC from UP and has since earned applause for Covid management in and around Varanasi, Modi’s Lok Sabha constituency.Sharma’s induction in the Yogi Adityanath government as the new UP BJP vice-president came two days before Santhosh’s arrival.There are 17 vice-presidents in the UP BJP, but party leaders admit that spotlight is on Sharma.“It is clear that Sharma is not going to be a regular state party vice-president. He was recently in Delhi meeting Nishad Party chief Sanjay Nishad who has since firmed up his alliance with the BJP. He also met a Brahmin body in Delhi,” a party leader said.Sharma, who has adopted two health centres – a community health centre in Ranipur and a primary health centre in Suggichauri, both in his home district of Mau – in keeping with the party direction to all ministers, lawmakers and party functionaries to adopt health centres in the state, is expected to attend party meetings with Santhosh and national vice-president Radha Mohan Singh, who is also the UP in-charge.Ahead of Santhosh’s arrival, BJP also announced office bearers to head the various party wings and declared the party’s media, IT and social media panels. Former Congress heavyweight Jitin Prasada, who arrived in Lucknow to meet party functionaries and chief minister Yogi Adityanath, could also be among the leaders expected to meet BL Santhosh and Radha Mohan Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/top-bjp-leaders-in-lucknow-today-for-round-2-of-feedback-sessions-101624248455259.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Why be ordinary when you can become extraordinary?||International Day of Yoga is celebrated on June 21 as it’s the longest day in the northern hemisphere, and the shortest in the southern after which days become longer there. This year, the theme is, yoga for wellness. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the emphasis is on the importance of maintaining health within the constraints of social distancing. Unlike a gym or regular workout, yoga is not confined to physical health and goes beyond bending and twisting. It instils calm that helps think clear and explore one’s potential. It encourages upgrading oneself to become unique and special. Also read: International Yoga Day: Yoga takes us from stress to strength, says PM ModiAfter performing asanas (body postures), the prana shakti (life force) in the body goes up and the mind gets energised. It’s the mind that determines whether one is successful in life or not. Physically, we are by and large similar, but our achievements are unique. Some of us achieve the extraordinary, while most are ordinary. The body is just the framework. The driver of this body is the mind, and that’s the differentiator. Just like software needs to be upgraded to get the best out of the hardware, the mind needs an upgrade to get the best out of this body. Few people are able to expand the bandwidth of the mind, while most work only on the information given. Yoga helps widen the mind’s bandwidth and tap into the spectrum of wisdom gained in previous lives. It can be achieved by being sincerely committed to the sadhna (daily yoga practice), including meditation. When the mind is calm, it can see beyond distractions and temptations as the hidden spectrum of wisdom opens up. Yoga means to connect, within and with others. The world is like the body. If all parts are connected and working in a coordinated manner, there is a sense of completeness. Similarly, all nations should be healthy for a healthy world. Yoga urges to come to the centre and take a balanced view. It teaches to live in harmony and enrich the world with our unique contribution. It leads to acceptance and tolerance and not to get hung up with one viewpoint or belief. Yoga preaches wellness. It urges governments across the globe to focus on preventive health than cure. With life expectancy on the rise, budgets on healthcare will always fall short if the idea is restricted to building hospitals alone. A healthy community is equipped to bounce back from a pandemic faster. Generally, material wealth is perceived as prosperity and a measure of a successful life. But as one ages, one realises that health is wealth. Material wealth is sustainable only if one leads a value-based life. Values need to be inculcated. Our scriptures define a value-based person as one who is down to earth yet full of ambition, hope, positivity and conviction. Such a person has physical strength, mental stamina and spiritual strength to overcome the odds. Each one of us has the potential to be extraordinary. Yoga offers the tool to realise that potential by enriching and enlivening the mind. yyadav@hindustantimes.com The writer is senior news editor at Hindustan Times, Chandigarh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/why-be-ordinary-when-you-can-become-extraordinary-101624245816888.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky in Delhi today, possibility of thunder lightning: IMD||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky with possibility of development of thunder lightning on Monday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be at 27 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 37°C.Also Read | Delhi allows more relaxations in Covid-19 curbs: Check details hereThe minimum temperature on Sunday was 25.2°C, four notches below the normal, and the maximum temperature was 34.2°C.Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 66. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 62.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-partly-cloudy-sky-today-says-imd-101624245755259.html
21-06-2021||City||UP to ease Covid-19 curbs from today: Check latest guidelines here||The relaxations in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) curbs, announced by Uttar Pradesh government , came into effect from Monday. The new guidelines will allow markets to operate from 7am to 9pm, while restaurants will be allowed to operate with 50% seating capacity.However, the Uttar Pradesh government has also said that the people in the state should not lower their guard, otherwise a "corona curfew" will be reimposed in the districts where more than 500 Covid-19 cases are reported.The new guidelines will be effective for all the places other than containment zones.Here are the fresh set of guidelines:10.Schools, colleges and other educational institutions will remain closed for educational purposes, while online classes will have to be held as per the directions from the department concerned.11.Cinema halls, gyms, swimming pools, stadiums will continue to remain closed until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid-curbs-to-be-relaxed-in-up-from-today-malls-to-open-with-50-capacity-101624243377092.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Nine districts account for 50% of fresh Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra||Even as the number of Maharashtra’s daily Covid-19 cases has reduced comparatively, a major chunk of the fresh infections is being recorded from the rural areas of nine districts. The state added 9,361 infections on Sunday, of which 5,194 were from the rural parts of Raigad, Ahmednagar, Pune, Solapur, Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg districts. The state’s active case count was 132,241, while the state’s overall tally rose to 5,972,781. Mumbai reported 747 fresh Covid-19 infections and 19 deaths. The city’s active caseload was 18,591.These nine districts have been reporting around 50% of the state’s cases for some time now. The state health department and experts said that the viral activity works in a different manner and parts showing higher numbers will eventually go down. On Sunday, 761 cases were reported in Ratnagiri, 728 in Satara, 725 in Kolhapur rural, 643 in Raigad, 579 in Pune rural, 572 in Sangli rural, 549 in Ahmednagar rural, 329 in Sindhudurg and 308 in Solapur rural, the state data said. These areas reported 55.48% of the new cases on Sunday.Also Read | Free Covid-19 vaccination for all adults from today: All you need to knowDr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services (Maharashtra) and advisor to the state on Covid-19, said, “Western Maharashtra areas, particularly Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, and Ratnagiri and Sindhdurg in the Konkan region, are not showing a distinct decline as we are seeing in other parts. The virus does not behave in the same manner across geographical limits. The virus could have entered late in these rural areas,” he said. Besides these areas, the other major contributors remain Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad. These areas clock around 25% of the state’s daily case count. On Sunday, MMR (excluding Mumbai) added 1,253 cases, while Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad added 553 cases. Collectively, Mumbai, MMR, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad contributed to 27.27% of Sunday’s cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nine-districts-account-for-50-of-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-101624245155336.html
21-06-2021||Patna||Bihar artists demand pension, life insurance citing poor financial status||Artists from Bihar including Padma Shri awardee Shyam Sharma have requested the state government to consider life insurance cover and monthly pension apart from government jobs to support artists- a community, whose earnings has been hit hard due to the coronavirus pandemic. A group of performing and visual artists submitted their demands to Bihar’s chief secretary Tripurari Sharan stating that state patronage was required to help artists support their families while they devoted their time to their art. “Who will take care of the artists who are old and have no money? Monthly pension is important for them and equally important is the provision of life insurance. Something should be done by the government in this direction,” Shyam Sharma, former principal of the College of Arts and Crafts, said. The community has cited government job quotas for sports persons to demand similar support including scholarships for artists. In contrast, state support to artists is irregular and mainly comes through various awards. While their work gets promoted through government organised or supported cultural festivals and exhibitions, they do not enjoy the security of a stable government job.Birendra Kumar, former member of the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre (EZCC) and a painter said the need for economic support has been felt intensely during the Covid pandemic induced lockdown. “Most of those artists who have been dependent upon government programmes like exhibitions, art camps, workshops are in severe financial crisis as all activities have remained suspended due to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Those dependent on the sale of art works to different government departments, too, need support to survive,” he said. He added that the government should also consider setting up an art counsel to sort out issues related to artists and events, he added. Kathak danseuses Anjula and Rajeev said state patronage was also needed to support classical art and artists, but it was missing. “Though the place has produced musicians like Bharat Ratna Bismillah Khan, the kind of patronage which is needed for the art and artists to flourish, is missing here.”Shehnai Maestro Bismillah Khan was born into a family of court musicians in Bihar. Chief secretary Tripurari Sharan could not be contacted for comments. Khan was born into a family of court musicians in Bihar. He was apprenticed to his uncle, Ali Baksh, who played the shehnai in Vishvanatha, a Hindu temple in Varanasi.Chief secretary Tripurari Sharan could not be contacted for comments, but culture minister Alok Ranjan said his department has invited artists to submit their work by July 15, which will then be judged for cash rewards. “Solo performers will be given ₹1,500, while a group will be given ₹3,000 and the best artists will be given ₹10,000,” he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-artists-demand-pension-life-insurance-citing-poor-financial-status-101624244735110.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi allows more relaxations in Covid-19 curbs: Check details here||As daily Covid-19 cases in the national capital continue to drop, the Delhi government has announced further relaxation in the lockdown-like restrictions from Monday. The relaxations have been extended till 5am on June 28.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has eased the ongoing curbs by allowing bars, golf clubs, gardens and public parks to reopen from Monday. The DDMA has also allowed outdoor yoga activities.Bars will be able to open from noon to 10pm with 50% seating capacity, the Delhi government said in a fresh order. Restaurants can stay open from 8am to 10pm, instead of the current 10am to 8pm.The fresh phase of relaxation comes amid warnings by doctors and public health experts about the risks of a rapid unlock.Delhi on Sunday recorded 124 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths in the last 24 hours. This is the lowest daily Covid-19 count the city has seen after February 16 when Delhi had recorded 97 Covid-19 cases.Here's what allowed:Here's what not allowed:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-allows-more-relaxations-in-covid-19-curbs-check-details-here-101624240909915.html
21-06-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru Metro services resume from today as K'taka relaxes Covid-19 curbs||The metro services in Bengaluru resumed operation from Monday, following an order form the Karnataka government which relaxed Covid-19 restrictions in the state due to decline in coronavirus disease cases in the past few weeks. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa has allowed shops, hotels, clubs and restaurants in districts that have a positivity rate of less than five per cent to operate till 5pm from Monday.In Bengaluru, metro rail services have been permitted, with 50 per cent occupancy, strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the concerned departments.The services of Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) will also be available from 6am to 7pm. Taxis, and auto rickshaws have been permitted to operate and can carry a maximum of two passengers only.The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), meanwhile, said that it plans to operate about 3,000 buses initially from Monday. "The Government of Karnataka has issued orders relaxing the Covid-19 restrictions imposed in the state, except in Mysuru District and has permitted bus operations with 50 per cent seating capacity," KSRTC said in a statement.The corporation further said that it will commence local and inter-district long route bus operations based on traffic density and need.In fresh guidelines announced on Saturday, the Karnataka government had said buses are permitted to operate with 50 per cent seating capacity, strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, and no travel by standing would be allowed. The revised guidelines will remain effective till July 5.As per the order of Karnataka government, the districts that have less than 5 per cent positivity are - Uttara Kannada, Belagavi, Koppal, Chikkabalapura, Tumakuru, Kolar, Bengaluru Urban (including BBMP Area), Gadag, Raichur, Bagalkot, Kalaburagi, Haveri, Ramanagara, Yadgir and Bidar."All hotels, restaurants, eateries, bars and clubs allowed to function from 6 am to 5 pm for in-dining with 50 per cent capacity strictly adhering to COVID appropriate behaviour and no liquor will be permitted to be served while in-dining. Home delivery is permitted 24/7. However, hotels, restaurants cateries, bars and chibs with air-conditioning are not permitted to operate," the order said.Karnataka reported less than 5,000 new Covid-19 cases and 120 deaths on Sunday, taking the total caseload to 28.06 lakh and the toll to 33,883.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-metro-services-resume-from-today-as-karnataka-relaxes-covid-19-curbs-101624242144260.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||Presenting the right gift to mark occasions||Yesterday was Father’s Day, an occasion we had no idea about till the last decade or so. I’m not one of those who condemns it. I welcome it as an occasion to think of other such days too: Children’s Day and Mother’s Day. Still, I want to point out the fallacy in celebrating close family by shopping and consuming.The best gift for a parent is that their child grows up in a safe world. This won’t happen if inequity and poverty aren’t erased. And that, in turn, won’t happen if the middle classes continue to consume the way they do. Think of this number from Oxfam International: It will take 941 years for a minimum wage worker to earn as much as a top executive at a garment export company.This consumption requires gobbling resources: forests must be erased for underground resources or infrastructure. Clean air must be violated. Sand has to be mined, decapitating riverine systems. This only accelerates climate change, wiping out assets. India was left with 14 billion dollars loss by Cyclone Amphan. The poor find it hard to build back, destabilizing the country.Instead of scurrying to find unique ways to consume on these ‘days,’ shouldn’t we figure out how to celebrate primary relationships in ways that actually sustain life, not reduce it’s quality? Changing social norms about celebrations and expressing affection is key. We should push in that direction, so being a parent or a child is less fraught with anxieties about environmental uncertainty.(The writer is founder and director Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/presenting-the-right-gift-to-mark-occasions-101624236866067.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: An unmarried man||Only yesterday, it seems, he was in his 20s. Today he’s in his 40s. “Samay (time) passes quickly,” says rickshaw puller Vishwakarma Lal, during a leisurely chat lasting to almost half an hour, while he was waiting for passengers, this early evening near Gurugram’s bus stand.Tapping on his chest, he complains that “people think I must be having a wife and many sons, but I’m still unmarried.”Eldest among four siblings—he has sisters—Mr Lal found himself becoming their guardian when he was only a teenager, in his village in Mirzapur, UP. Both his parents died in quick succession. “My father was a rickshaw walla in Allahabad.” Then, one day, the young Vishwakarma Lal migrated to that same city to follow his father’s footsteps. “My sisters had to move to our chachi’s (aunt’s) house in the village, and I would come home every month to give some money to chachi for the expenses.”Over the years, he stayed a puller but changed cities, moving from Allahabad to Delhi, and from Delhi to Gurugram. “I wanted to work in Bambai.” Mr Lal reveals that almost all his earnings, until a few years ago, would be spent in raising his sisters and in arranging their weddings. He feels the absence of a brother; he might have shared the burden. “My plan was to marry after marrying off all my sisters.” They became so involved in their own families that they never looked for a wife for him, he says matter-of-factly.Of course, Mr Lal knows so many rick pullers in the city who, like him, live alone, “but they have their wives and children in their villages.” He shares a rented hall near the bus stand with nine other pullers. At night, most of them lie on their respective bed talking to their families on mobile, or watching news/movies on the phone screen. Mr Lal, instead, settles down on the floor and performs pooja for at least one hour, “because prayer lightens my heart, and one day the Gods might help me find a wife.”He now poses for a portrait but playfully covers his face “because I’m not wearing the mask, and that is not good.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-an-unmarried-man-101624235661805.html
21-06-2021||Delhi||More vaccination camps for workers at Delhi Metro project sites soon||The Delhi Metro will organise more vaccination camps at construction sites for its workers for their inoculation against Covid-19, officials said on Sunday.The DMRC is already conducting an awareness campaign at various project sites to tell the benefits of vaccination to workers."Already, multiple vaccination camps have been organised at the sites for the workers, and more are expected to follow," the DMRC said in a statement.In the statement, the DMRC also shared that despite several constraints induced by the second wave of the Covid pandemic, the Delhi Metro has continued with the construction work of its Ph IV corridors, and achieved a few important construction landmarks as well."The DMRC is currently engaged in construction of 65 km of new lines across three priority corridors as part of its Ph-IV expansion. These corridors are expected to be completed by 2025. However, given the fact that the Covid scenario is still evolving, the completion targets shall be reviewed accordingly," it said.During the lockdown period this year, all Covid related guidelines given by the government from time to time were stringently followed. After the lifting of restrictions, now there is a gradual increase in the manpower available at DMRC's sites, officials said.The tunnelling work between Janakpuri West and Krishna Park Extension on the Janakpuri West – RK Ashram Marg corridor for DMRC's first underground section of Phase 4 achieved many important targets during this period, they said.During these months, the DMRC completed the tunnelling of 500 m of one of the 2.8-km-long twin tunnels. Delhi Metro has also completed casting of over 50 per cent of tunnel segments in the casting yard. The first of the twin tunnels on this stretch is expected to be completed by September this year, the officials said.On the same stretch, the DMRC achieved another major milestone by erecting Ph-IV's first ever T-girder at Mukarba Chowk last month, they said.On the Majlis Park – Maujpur corridor as well, steady progress was made despite the manpower related constraints. Work on Delhi Metro's fifth bridge over the river Yamuna is also going on as part of this corridor near the Signature Bridge. This corridor is significant as its completion will complete the entire ring of connectivity on the Pink Line, the statement said.In April and May, 2021, four major civil tenders of DMRC's Ph-IV underground sections were also floated. These are all being funded by the loan received through JICA. While three tenders are from the Aerocity – Tughalakabad corridor, one is from the Janakpuri West – RK Ashram Marg corridor. All the tenders are at different stages of processing now, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-vaccination-camps-for-workers-at-delhi-metro-project-sites-soon-101624233142758.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at plastic godown in Mumbai's Malad, tenders rush to site||A fire broke out in Maharashtra's Malad area early on Monday, news agency ANI reported. The incident was reported at a plastic godown located in the Masterji Compound in the Malad West area of Mumbai. Photos shared by the news agency on social media show flames and black smoke reaching out to the sky. However, no casualties have been reported yet.#UPDATE | No injuries reported so far. Both police and fire tenders at the spot.According to the news agency, as many as five tenders have been deployed to the spot to bring the fire under control. Mumbai police are also said to have reached the spot. No injuries or casualties have yet been reported in the fire.This is a developing story. Further details are to be updated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-plastic-godown-in-mumbai-s-malad-fire-tenders-rush-to-site-101624232578130.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records no Covid death after 81 days||Chandigarh on Sunday announced zero Covid-19 deaths for the first time since March 31, a milestone that the city had been looking forward to after a deadly second wave.The cases also declined further to 22 in a new low since February 19, when 19 people had tested positive 121 days ago.Just a day after the Chandigarh administration had imposed the lockdown on May 4, Chandigarh had seen its daily deaths peaking to 14, a number it recorded twice again on May 12 and May 21 as the city’s health infrastructure continued to battle the sudden stream of critical patients.But after the city completed three weeks under lockdown on May 24, the day also saw the daily deaths dropping below 10, with seven people succumbing to the virus.For the subsequent seven days less than 10 people died every day and the figure further dropped to five or less through the first 19 days of June, until the city recorded no death on Sunday.In all, the city recorded 275 virus-related deaths in May, its deadliest phase in the pandemic since it started in March last year. The month alone makes up for 29% of Chandigarh’s Covid deaths.In terms of cases, May’s figure of 17,399 also accounts for the most infections in Chandigarh, forming 28% of the tally.But after staying under lockdown for five weeks till June 8, the city’s cases have dropped from the all-time high of 895 on May 9 to 22 on June 20 – a slump of 97.5%.UT’s health director Dr Amandeep Kaur Kang said the zero deaths were worth celebrating after a tremendously difficult phase.“But I wish people would realise the importance of following Covid-appropriate behaviour, as people tend to forget with drop in numbers. Residents need to be more responsible as every life is precious. The pandemic numbers may peak again after staying low for a couple of months,” she cautioned.No Covid death in Mohali for second consecutive dayIn more good news, Mohali also reported no Covid death for the second day in a row. On Saturday, Mohali’s daily casualties came down to zero after a gap of 84 days. However, two people died in Panchkula that has recorded zero deaths on nine days in June.Both districts also saw their daily cases dropping further. Against 28 cases on Saturday, Mohali had 27 on Sunday and Panchkula’s infections also came down from five to four. With this, tricity’s active cases slipped below the 1,000 mark for the first time in over three months. Currently, 924 patients are recuperating, including 469 in Mohali, 353 in Chandigarh and 102 in Panchkula. The daily positivity rate across the tricity remains below 3%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-no-covid-death-after-81-days-101624223614859.html
21-06-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath assures all help to Samsung delegation||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday assured a Samsung delegation all help in carrying out business activities in the state. A delegation of Samsung led by CEO Ken Kang (India and South-West Asia) met the chief minister and apprised him of the company’s business activities in the state. Adityanath said investors and companies of the country and from abroad were enthusiastic about setting up industries in the state, said an official release by the state governmentThe delegation told Yogi that its Noida-based unit had emerged as the biggest mobile manufacturing and exporting unit in the country due to the Centre’s production-linked incentive policy. It may be pointed out that Samsung has relocated its display manufacturing unit from China to India after the Covid-19 pandemic. The unit has been relocated to Noida. The Samsung delegation appreciated the state government’s decision to allow business activity even during the corona curfew period. The delegates also appreciated the state government’s efforts to fight the second wave of the pandemic. Samsung had donated one million US dollars to the state government during the pandemic along with oxygen concentrators, oxygen cylinders and syringes. Industrial development commissioner Sanjeev Mittal, additional chief secretary Arvind Kumar and senior vice president of Samsung (India and South-West Asia) Manu Kapoor were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-assures-all-help-to-samsung-delegation-101624221214794.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali: 10 GMADA services go online||For the convenience of residents and to bring transparency in the system, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has moved 10 services online on the sites puda.gov.in and gmada.gov.in. More services will be available online in the first week of July.With this, the allottee can now get relevant certificates sitting at home without the need for physical submission of files. Earlier, they would have to wait for months to get the certificates, but now these will be processed within five to 30 days depending upon the services.The 10 services, which are already on the virtual platforms, include change of ownership in case of death (registered will, unregistered will, registered legal heirs), permission to mortgage, no dues certificate, transfer permission before conveyance deed (CD), issuance of the re-allotment letter, issuance of CD and transfer permission after CD. From the first week of July, the allottees will also get letters of intent (LoI) online only with digital signatures on it. GMADA’s additional chief administrator Rajesh Dhiman said, “This will create a positive sentiment among the real estate industry and also boost the confidence of allottees. We have proposed some other services also including demarcation permission, DPC certificate, occupational certificate, water connection and sewerage connection in the first week of July.” Shailander Anand, former chairman of the Mohali Property Consultants’ Association (MPCA), said, “It is a great move as earlier the allottees had to wait for weeks and months to get their certificates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-10-gmada-services-go-online-101624220915517.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||‘Capt Amarinder is not the Congress... he lies every day’: Navjot Singh Sidhu||As former opener for Team India, an astute sense of timing comes naturally to cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Sidhu who is at the centre of a raging rebellion in the ruling Punjab Congress arising chiefly out of his running duel with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for last two years since his exit from the cabinet. Even as the high command looks to pacify the feuding leaders and “suitably accommodate” Sidhu, as recommended by a party panel ten days ago, the Amritsar MLA’s patience may be wearing thin. In an exclusive hour-long interview with Executive Editor Ramesh Vinayak and Associate Editor Navneet Sharma at his Patiala residence on Sunday. Sidhu, 59, made a blistering attack on Amarinder and laid out his expectations but played an artful dodger on his next course of action. His tone and timing came as the clearest indicator yet of tough task the high command faces in balancing Sidhu’s ambition and Captain’s authority. Edited excerpts:What does Navjot Sidhu want?The constancy of purpose of my political career was to observe a system and change it. A system run by two powerful families who are controlling Punjab, belittling the legislature, overriding the interests of the state and purely for their vested, selfish interests and businesses as a collusion. They have controlled everything. They have fended for each other, defended each other. My fight has been against that system. I joined the (Congress) party after Prashant Kishor met me 60 times. I told them I have a pro-Punjab agenda. I campaigned in 56 assembly seats and party won in 54 of them, and 23 out of 24 were in Majha. This is the agenda I followed from the very first cabinet meeting where I gave a proposal to the chief minister to change the liquor policy for more revenue and give jobs with that money. You are taking loans to return loans and the state exchequer is being looted. The system said ‘no’. I took the mining policy to the system, saying that this is state’s treasure. Telangana earns ₹2,500 crore from one river annually. Punjab has three rivers. The last Akali-BJP government deposited only ₹40 crore from sand auctions in 10 years. Where is this money going? I told them ‘you fix the rate for sand and sell it at government rates. The system said, ‘no’.Why couldn’t your own government do all this?That’s the explanation I am always demanding. But they never said anything. I told them there is nothing called sand mafia. It is the transport mafia because sand cannot be transported without trucks. I said ‘impound them’. The system said ‘no’. No reasons are given. I went to the system and gave them a vision of my department to make everything such as birth certificate and death certificate online. Who brought drinking water to towns? Look at advertisement policy in Ludhiana that helped increase revenue. They are two sides of the same coin. I raised the issue of illegal encroachments on thousands of acres of land. The system said ‘no’. We formed the government on drugs issue. I said that people are not going to spare us. Let this be a deterrent for future generations. There is special task force report. As minister, I was speaking and Jagdish Bhola was giving statements against (Bikram Singh) Majithia. The court said there was enough prima facie evidence to proceed against him. I said take action, but the system said it has not read the report. I am telling you only one-hundredth of what happened. On sacrilege issue on which Akalis were running scared, the assembly session was called to fool people. A commission and an SIT were set up. If someone is killed, who sets up SIT? Inspector registers case, investigates, takes action, and the matter goes to court. There was evidence available. The system said ‘we will do in the last six months and make it an election issue’. They made me renewable energy and power minister, but I said ‘no’ and rejected the system that ignored my proposals for the welfare of the people of Punjab. I went home, introspected and meditated. They mislead people. They do not want to tell what they have done on loan waiver. Why no white paper on power purchase agreements? What about cheap power? They have again remembered Sidhu before the (assembly) polls. I was invited to CM’s house and told ‘take this’ (ministry). What had changed? I have never sought any post.But you were part of the system, first as minister and are now as an MLA.Who allows you to work in the system? What’s the value of a legislator? The system is ruined. It has mortgaged Punjab. You don’t want the officers to be accountable to them (MLAs and ministers). People did not elect officers. They elected ministers and MLAs. Power of the people must return to the people. I have no personal fight with anyone. There is no personal agenda.But, why didn’t you fight the system while being part of it?How? I have told you the system said ‘no’. If you are close to these two families and do what they want, then everything gets done.Which two families you are talking about?You are smart. You know this. Everyone knows this.You have access to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and former president Rahul Gandhi and must have raised these issues with them. What did they do about all this?I cannot answer that question. I can only answer what is in my hands. I discussed these things with them. This is all I have discussed with the three-member committee. I have apprised everyone in the party, not for myself but for the people. Now they have given jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs.What is wrong with that?There are so many things wrong with this. Is it on merit? What is the ground for giving this job? Sympathy? Who do you want to sympathise with - the man standing last in the queue, poorest of the poor or the privileged after two generations? This is against the spirit of the Constitution. You are tarnishing the party. The day my son was appointed assistant advocate general, he resigned. The day my wife was appointed chairperson with cabinet rank, she left it. That’s why I speak up with clear conscience and courage.What role do you want?I do not want any role. I want this agenda implemented. I want benefit of people. I want sacrilege issue solved. I want cheap power. I want solutions.How do you fix in six months what, according to you, couldn’t be done in last four-and-a-half years of your party’s rule in Punjab?If ifs and ands were pots and pans, there would have been no takers. There are no ifs and buts. If you give me the power to change people’s lives, I will do it. Why do you think people made me win five elections?So, you want power?I have asked for nothing. The power is already with me but there is a bigger power which overrules and says ‘sit down’. Either you are with us, or no. At the time of elections, they want Sidhu. They changed my portfolio, and I left. So why do they remember me again ? Why are they giving me ministry? What has happened now? I am not a party to their wrongdoings.Your party colleagues say you are overambitious and want the top job?If 200 people say something about you, does it become true. These are just diversionary tactics to mislead. I have no personal agenda with anyone. People will decide who I am. They give the power. Have I asked for something? Let anyone prove that I have asked for any position from anyone.The chief minister says you joined the Congress only five years ago, while there are many long-time party leaders.A man loses three elections, loses his security deposit, polls 736 votes, forms his party and then goes running to madam Gandhi and becomes president in six months. Us nu surkhab de parr lagge si. Was he a taksali ( traditional Congressman) ?You are referring to Capt Amarinder Singh?You tell me who lost his security deposits. Who lost from Talwandi Sabo? Who lost to (Prem Singh) Chandumajra. Three elections. I was repeatedly requested to join (Congress). Prashant Kishor had come to me 60 times. I am still standing on my agenda.Then what is the crisis in the Congress?Crisis is simple. Nobody is prepared to do this (fulfil the agenda). Everybody is prepared to loot. These two people have looted the state. They have made the state debt-ridden, finished it. They have gone against their promises. I am raising people’s voice.Democracy is all about numbers. Capt Amarinder Singh has a majority of MLAs on his side.How do you know? Capt Amarinder Singh is not the Congress. The Congress is the high command. Who is he to say that doors are closed for me? I am talking about the beadbi (sacrilege) issue, and he is saying fight election with me. What is he doing?But the high command made him the CM?We made him the chief minister. We also campaigned. I was campaigning for whom? Under whose name? Had he fulfilled the promises, we would have been singing his praises. Why this resentment? It is not just me; all are upset.If everyone is upset, why is the high command not changing the leadership?I can only talk about my agenda. The high command is supreme. Let them decide.There is a perception in some quarters that the high command is weak.Don’t put words into my mouth. The high command was ruling this country six years ago. It ruled India for 70 years. The high command is not our topic of discussion. It is supreme. I am a soldier.Why couldn’t the high command bring about a course correction?You ask them. I don’t question them. I discuss with them.How come Sidhu is seen as a lone ranger?Who says so? 78 MLAs are my group. If nobody was supporting me, would you be talking about me? Why do people criticise me? You are criticised when you are strong. Zikr ussi ka hota hai jiski fiqr hoti hai. Trust characteran te hunda hai, kirdaran te hunda hai. That which needs to be proven is not worth a toss. In a democracy, proof is what people think about you.Capt Amarinder says that Navjot Sidhu is like my son and the position in the cabinet is lying vacant for him and he can come and take it.You insult a person, remove him and then single him out because he is asking justice for sacrilege. You see him through your insecurity and then you say he is your son. What did you do to all of his wishes for the welfare of people of Punjab? Did I ask anything for myself? I rejected every offer that you made for my family and me. I have rejected all your posts offered to me. Why would he make personal attacks on me? Have I made any personal attacks on him? Why did he say I met Kejriwal? Do you say that to a son?Aren’t you asking for too much?This is what the people are asking. This is what the president of Punjab Congress asked. This is what the MLAs asked for. This is what he said publicly. Why are they giving me ministry? What has happened now?There is a perception that you enjoy very good equity with the Gandhi family and that’s your only strength in the party.Is that so? Did they make me win five elections? What was his strength when he ran to them after making a party, after losing his deposit two times. Somebody has to be your boss.Capt Amarinder has repeatedly said that parties operate on the principle of seniority (interrupts).What was his seniority in the Congress at that time when he was made president in six months? A person who lost his security deposit and would not be given ticket. Sidhu is a five-time MP and come to Congress after giving up as member of the Rajya Sabha. What was his locus standi? What was the perception at that time? The perception was made by the high command. I have faith in the high command.You have been camping in Patiala for several months. Why did you leave Amritsar and come here?My father built this house in 1960. I have come here to my house after 15 years to recover from a life-threatening disease. Is that a crime? If someone feels scared and tells me to fight against him, I rubbished it.But, doesn’t your criticism of the Congress government about unkept promises show it in a poor light ahead of assembly polls?Who am I to judge? Do not blame the party for one man’s failure. Everyone was raising the beadbi issue. Why he didn’t do it? Now, 25 MLAs are questioning these jobs (to sons on MLAs). I do not assess the govt or any individual. I am not a party to their wrongdoings If anyone can declare it pass or fail, it is the people of Punjab. Just try to hear their voice. I only raise the voice of people.If they have not been able to do what people want, who is responsible – the government, CM or the party?I do not get into the blame game. He has to take the responsibility.You are saying things that the opposition says?No. Each one of the Congress MLAs is asking why justice has not been delivered sacrilege cases. Punjab Congress president has said this.What went wrong?He will tell. How can I tell? When you get into a bus, it is written there that sawari apne samaan di aap zimmedar hai.A new SIT has been set up to investigate the Kotkapura police firing case. Are you hopeful of quick action?When you set up three SITs, evidence becomes weak. I am a lawyer and that’s why I was asking questions. Did they pay attention? When four SIT members ran away, it is for the home minister to see why that happened. Who was there to supervise? Or, was it deliberate? He was to answer these questions. When they say votes were cast in the name of CM, then he should reply to all these things.The Kharge committee gave its report 10 days ago with its recommendations. If nothing comes out of it, what will be your next step?Agar meri chachi de muchchan hundian, main ohnu chacha na kehnda (If my aunt had a moustache, she would be my uncle). I live for what is in my hands. What is there tomorrow is not in my hands. The past is a bucket full of ashes. Between yesterday’s regret and today’s opportunity, I will take the latter. My intentions are clear and there are no covert operations in my life.How true are the reports that you are adamant on the PCC president’s post?Who said so? Prove it. In 17 years of politics, I have never asked for a position.Capt Amarinder is on record that you tried to be deputy CM with charge of home dept.Trash! He lies every day. He said things about my meetings (with AAP). Has he proved it?. What nonsense he is talking about? Talk about issues. Why is he showing his back to issues such beadbi, loan waiver and white paper? What have you done about drugs? Give your report card.There is a profusion of billboards and posters in Patiala, saying ‘Captain for 2022’. In case the Congress goes into the assembly polls under Capt’s leadership, will you campaign for the party?I will stay on my agenda. I will not speculate. As for posters, I have never asked anyone to put up a poster. There are 1,000 posters of mine. There are Bajwa’s posters. They don’t mean anything? Question is how many posters are there in the hearts of people. Apne mooh shadi mubarak kare jao, ohda ki hunda hai. There is no need for posters because people know who has done what. As for campaigning, there are no ‘ifs’ in my life. Let’s see what happens tomorrow.Punjab Police claims that people who did sacrilege have been arrested. What justice do you want?I used to hear chameleons change colour. I have not heard this statement about the arrests, but we will play for you what he said openly (asks an associate to play a clip of Amarinder’s statement in the run-up to the state polls on police firing in which he had promised action against the then CM Badal).Why is it taking so long to resolve the Congress crisis?How would I know? I don’t think it is a crisis. It is a difference of opinion.What is your assessment of the party in Punjab?I am loyal soldier of the party. I will fight.Do you want leadership change in Punjab?Why do you say that? I have never said that. I want things done.How do you respond to allegations that you are power hungry?(Laughs) I will not waste my breath. Ask the people of Punjab.Who is the Captain of Punjab?I will not answer this question. This is a TRP question. Let us talk about people of Punjab and welfare of the state.You seem to be upping the ante at a time when the high command is trying to resolve the issue. Aren’t you jumping the gun?Why would I? They are my bosses. I go public for the people of Punjab, not for my personal interest.The CM calls this indiscipline.Is challenging your own MLA to fight with him from his own constituency, accusing his own MLAs, threatening them discipline? Is that what discipline is? You asked for it.What next?The high command has to decide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/captain-is-not-the-congress-i-ll-fight-says-navjot-sidhu-101624220794352.html
21-06-2021||Other||50 false complaints in two months, Panipat cops warn of action||Panipat police are in a tizzy as at least 50 cases registered in the last two months turned out to be false. Taking note of this, Panipat superintendent of police (SP) issued directions to all police stations to booked persons filing false complaints under Sections 182 (false information with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Officials said most such complaints were related to crimes against women, snatching or assault. A total of 39 complaints of crimes against women filed in the various police stations of the district were found to be false during the investigation.On being contacted, Panipat superintendent of police Shashank Kumar Sawan said action is being taken against people whose complaints were found false during the investigation. “Yes, dealing with false cases is also a time-consuming exercise for the police as cops work on the complaints of crimes against women immediately after the complaint is filed,” he saidHe added that the priority of the police was to register the FIR immediately after getting a complaint. At this point, police cannot identify whether the complaint was filed to target someone so, it becomes matter of investigation, the SP said.Police officials dealing with such cases said there were also instances where the complaints were filed to target a person or a family. In some false complaints of rape, the complaints deliberately delay recording the statement before the magistrate under Section 164 CrPC to settle the case outside and have an opportunity to make a deal with their ‘accused’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-false-complaints-in-twomonths-panipat-cops-in-a-tizzy-101624220434221.html
21-06-2021||Other||Dhankar, farmers caught in cat-and-mouse game in Karnal||Bharatiya Janata Party’s Haryana unit president OP Dhankar was seemingly caught in a cat-and-mouse game with farmers throughout the day in Karnal on Sunday.Hundreds of farmers, under the banner of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, gathered at Karnal’s Salaru village around 9am after learning that Dhankar, along with sports minister Sandeep Singh, was to inaugurate a blood donation camp here. They came armed with black flags but the BJP leader did not turn up. After waiting and raising slogans against the government till 3pm, the farmers left the site.But around 6pm, three hours after the farmers had left, Dhankar arrived at the venue. As soon as the farmers got information about his arrival, they reassembled at the venue. The BJP leader, however, was whisked away amid heavy police deployment. This agitated the farmers, who blocked the Karnal-Yamunanagar highway. The farmers also accused the cops of manhandling a farmer.Jagdip Singh Aulakh, a local leader of BKU (Charuni), said, “We had got information about the programme from social media and gathered the farmers to register our protest.”Farmers’ bodies have been protesting at all public functions involving the leaders of the ruling regime in Haryana. Protest is political, says DhankarLater during an interaction with mediapersons at BJP office in Karnal, Dhankar said, “This agitation is political. People who are leading this agitation have political interests. The (new farm) laws are not being imposed on anybody forcibly. These are optional. We want the farmers to get better prices for their produce,” said Dhankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhankar-farmers-caught-in-cat-and-mouse-game-in-karnal-101624220254568.html
21-06-2021||Lucknow||Yoga Day: UP CM appeals to people to follow Covid protocol||Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath have greeted the people of the state on the occasion of the 7th International Yoga Day on Monday.The chief minister has requested everyone to follow Covid protocols and maintain social distancing, according to a press statement. He has also called upon everyone to celebrate Yoga Day inside their homes.“It is because of the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that our ancient science of yoga has got international recognition. This year’s theme of International Yoga Day is yoga for wellness,” he said on Sunday.In her message, governor Anandiben Patel said, “Yoga is essential in increasing the immunity of the body and it creates balance of the body with nature.”“Yoga is a precious gift to the world by India,” she added.The chief minister would celebrate the Yoga Day at his residence from 7am. There would be a number of competitions at the division and district levels. The state government has appealed to everyone to do yoga at home and upload their videos online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yoga-day-up-cm-appeals-to-people-to-follow-covid-protocol-101624219894196.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Headless body of man found in Mohali, two arrested||Two men have been arrested for beheading a 40-year-old goatherd with a sword during a drunken brawl in Siswan on June 12, police said on Sunday.After the murder, the accused, Satnam Singh of Parol village, Desh Raj of Nagal village and their absconding accomplice, Jagir Singh, buried the victim’s body near the farmhouse of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in Siswan. The murder came to fore after the buried body’s feet were noticed by a passer-by on Sunday and the police were informed.The victim, Sucha Singh, a resident of Chotti-Baddi Nangal, was identified with the help of his clothes and physique. Police are working to trace the head.“The arrests came after the victim’s wife suspected the accused’s involvement as Sucha and the trio had met for a drinking session on June 12, following which he never returned home. Sucha owed Jagir some money which led to the brawl. Efforts are on to arrest the third accused,” said senior superintendent of police Satinder Singh.All accused, who are farmers and also work on daily wages, have been booked for murder and causing disappearance of evidence. The deceased is survived by his wife, an 18-year-old son and two minor daughters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/headless-body-of-man-found-in-mohali-two-arrested-101624219774239.html
21-06-2021||Other||Sonepat village panchayat wants farmers to lift blockade on route to Delhi||Citing commuting hassles due to the blockade at Kundli-Singhu border, residents of Sersa village in Sonepat have given the agitating farmers a week’s time to clear one side of the road leading to Delhi. Holding a panchayat on Sunday, the village residents said many of them have to commute to Delhi on a daily basis for work and they have been suffering due to the farmers’ protest. They said that they will start an agitation of their own if the farmers don’t clear the road. Ramphal Saroha, one of the organisers of the panchayat, said, “We are in solidarity with the farmers but we are suffering due to their blockade. Many people of Kundli villages who work in Delhi are facing troubles in commuting. If farmers don’t open one side of the road in the next seven days, we will hold a massive gathering in Delhi,” he added.Reacting sharply to the panchayat’s decision, Samyukta Kisan morcha leaders alleged the panchayat was called people supporting the Bharatiya Janata Party. “Locals have been supporting the farm agitation. A few people backed by the BJP are holding such meetings to defame us. We will hold a protest march across the nation on June 26 to mark the completion of seven months of the agitation. On Monday, we will protest against BJP-JJP leaders on the occasion of Yoga day,” the SKM leaders added in a press statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sonepat-village-panchayat-wants-farmers-to-lift-blockade-on-route-to-delhi-101624219595926.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali admn invites applications for Independence Day awards||The Mohali administration has invited applications for bravery and commendable achievements awards which will be presented during the state-level function on Independence Day. As per a Punjab government press release, the applications have to be submitted to sub-divisional magistrates of the area concerned before June 25. Those who have shown bravery against terrorism or other anti-social elements can apply. Also, commendable services in the fields of social service, arts, literature, science and technology and other professions are also eligible. The winners will be honoured with a gold polished silver medal and warm shawl. In addition to this, names of employees of various departments who have performed commendably amid the pandemic can be forwarded to the government by the departments concerned through a senior official of their department, after police verification. For the “Punjab Government Certificate-2021”, it is mandatory to send five copies in Punjabi and English, detailing the relevant recommendations, biography, biodata and work done by the applicant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-admn-invites-applications-for-independence-day-awards-101624219474216.html
21-06-2021||Other||Agitating farmers build pucca structure near Jind’s Khatkar toll plaza||Farmers protesting against the three farm laws have started raising pucca brick-and- cement structures on the Jind-Patiala highway near Khatkar toll plaza, where scores of farmers gather everyday to demand the repeal of the three new farm laws.Farmers said they have started raising cement structures for the main stage as they are in for a long haul and are preparing to beat the summer heat and to tackle the upcoming winter season.“Our main stage has been destroyed due to the gusty winds and storms. Now, we have inserted iron pipes in the ground and constructed a pucca structure in the middle of the highway with the help of cement and bricks. Two lanes have been left untouched for the passage of vehicles,” said Khera Khap president Satbir Pahalwan.Randhir Singh, another farmer, said they have been waiting for the government’s proposal to hold talks to end the deadlock. “If the government does not address our issues, we will continue our stir till 2024,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agitating-farmers-build-pucca-structure-near-jind-s-khatkar-toll-plaza-101624219414523.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Widow, aide thrash 11-year-old daughter for opposing relationship||A widow and her aide have been booked for beating up the woman’s 11-year-old daughter when she objected to their relationship on Saturday. The victim has alleged that she was beaten up by the couple multiple times. She also accused the man of molesting her. An FIR was lodged on the complaint of Rajwinder Kaur of Partap Nagar, the girl’s neighbour.The complainant said she had seen her neighbour beat her daughter many times after the death of her husband. On Saturday, she went to their house on hearing the girl’s cries and found the woman and her aide beating the girl and dragging her upstairs. She rescued the girl and called the cops. Assistant sub-inspector Sethi Kumar, who is investigating the case, said the girl had suffered injuries and was in shock. She has been admitted to a hospital and a case has been registered under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354A (sexual harassment), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Protection Of Children From Sexual Offences Act and Sections of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act against the accused, who are on the run.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/widow-aide-thrash-11-year-old-daughter-for-opposing-relationship-101624219295732.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-MP Chandumajra shifts base to Ghanaur segment for assembly polls||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) general secretary and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra has shifted his base to the Ghanaur constituency ahead of the 2022 Punjab assembly elections. Even as the party has not made any formal announcement on his candidature, the veteran leader has been holding meetings in the segment. He was first elected as MLA from Dakala (now Sanaur) in 1985 by defeating Congress heavyweight Lal Singh and became a minister. Ever since, he has been changing assembly segments. Besides Dakala (1985), Chandumajra contested the assembly polls from Lehra (2007) and Sirhind (2012). He never contested the assembly polls from the same seat. Also, he remained MP from Patiala (1996, 1998) and Anandpur Sahib (2014) but contested unsuccessfully from Patiala (1999) and Anandpur Sahib (2019). Ghanaur is considered a tough seat for SAD, as Congress MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur secured a massive lead of more than 30,000 in the assembly and Lok Sabha elections for the party. Chandumajra remained MP from Patiala by defeating Sant Ram Singla in 1996 and Congress heavyweight Captain Amarinder Singh in 1998. He lost in the 1999 parliamentary polls, when Preneet Kaur (Congress) defeated him as he was candidate of splinter Akali Dal — Sarb Hind Shiromani Akali Dal led by Gurcharan Singh Tohra. He didn’t contest polls in 2004 and formed his own splinter group SAD (Longowal), which he merged with SAD in 2007. In 2007, he contested from Lehra, while in 2012 he was in the fray from Sirhind for assembly elections, but lost in both. His son Harinderpal Singh Chandumajra was elected MLA from Sanaur in 2017. Chandumajra said that he has contested from tough seats on his party’s directive. “I have defeated heavyweights like Amarinder Singh and Ambika Soni and will win in the 2022 assembly elections too,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exmp-chandumajra-shifts-base-to-ghanaur-segment-for-assembly-polls-101624219295259.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers fear flooding of land due to upcoming dhusi bandh in Tarn Taran village||A forthcoming 1,000-foot-long dhusi bandh (embankment) along the Beas river at Dhunda village of Tarn Taran district has become a bone of contention between the administration and local farmers who are claiming that the work will leave thousands of acres of agriculture land prone to flooding.The government has already approved ₹1 crore for the purpose but the farmers say the embankment will protect only 150 acres of land that belongs to the village sarpanch, Sarwan Singh, who is affiliated to the state’s ruling Congress. They say if the dhusi bandh is constructed, nearly 2,000 acres of land will become vulnerable to the river’s gushing waters. The administration, on the other hand, claims that in the absence of embankment, the river will inundate nearly 3,000 acre land of other villages this monsoon season. The Dhunda residents have now started an indefinite protest at the bandh site with nearly 100-200 farmers, including women, taking part in it on a daily basis. They say they would not allow the administration to go ahead with the construction work at any cost. Baldev Singh, who owns 8 acres of land along the riverbed, said, “We have been asking for a dhusi bandh from Dhunda to Munda Pind village on both sides of the river. The demand was accepted, but the government is not paying attention to it. Now, it is being done to save the land of sarpanch Sarwan Singh, who is a close associate of MLA Ramanjit Singh Sikki.” Nirvail Singh, another farmer who owns 26 acres of land, said, “If the government is really serious about our problem, the river should be given a canal-like shape by paving both its sides. And the farmers whose land will fall in the riverbed should be compensated.”Tarn Taran sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Rajneesh Arora said, “The project is to strengthen the already existing bandh. If it is not paved, the river water will cause damage to thisands of acres of farmland in the coming monsoon season. We will not allow the farmers to stop the construction work.”He added, “The sarpanch has nothing to do with the project. The farmers are deliberately giving it a political colour.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-fear-flooding-of-land-due-to-upcoming-dhusi-bandh-in-tarn-taran-village-101624219294246.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal to visit Amritsar today amid speculations of Kunwar Vijay joining AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will visit Amritsar on Monday amid speculations of former Punjab-cadre inspector general of police (IG) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh joining the party ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. Kejriwal shared the information about his visit on Twitter. “Punjab wants change. The Aam Aadmi Party is the only hope. See you at Amritsar tomorrow,” he tweeted in Punjabi. Though he or his party did not disclose the purpose of his visit, he is likely to induct Kunwar Vijay into the party fold in the holy city, sources said. Kejriwal had earlier visited the state in March this year to address a maha kisan panchayat in Moga. When contacted, Kunwar Vijay, who led the special investigation team (SIT) probing the high-profile post-sacrilege police firing cases, did not confirm the development. He, however, hinted at “starting a new kind of politics”. “Whenever I have such plan, I will inform you,” he said. He also refused to comment on Kejriwal’s visit to Amritsar. “Joining a party and its timing are my personal choices. After all, I am a citizen with the right to enter politics. You will see what kind of politics we will do. Our kind of politics is mentioned in our holy scriptures” The party in a statement said Kejriwal will address a press conference in presence of state president and MP Bhagwant Mann and others “on an important issue” at Circuit House in the city. Then he will pay obeisance at the Golden Temple and the Durgiana Temple, it read.Tie-up buzz as Dhindsa, Brahmpura to visit Golden Temple Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD-Sanyukt) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and patron Ranjit Singh Brahmpura will visit the Golden Temple at the same time when Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal will pay obeisance at the shrine, creating a buzz in political circles about a possible tie-up between the two parties ahead of the 2021 Punjab assembly elections. “Dhindsa and Brahmpura along with the entire SAD (Sanyukt) leadership will pay obeisance at the Golden Temple at 2:30pm on Monday. They will offer prayer for the party and the people,” said Brahmpura’s media adviser Raminder Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwal-to-visit-amritsar-today-amid-speculations-of-kunwar-vijay-joining-aap-101624219239380.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Former Jalandhar Youth Congress president shot dead||A former Jalandhar (rural) Youth Congress president, Sukhmeet Singh ‘Deputy’ (43), was shot dead in broad daylight by three unidentified assailants in the Gopal Nagar area of the city on Thursday. Sukhmeet was convicted in the 2008 Mickey kidnapping case and was sentenced to life imprisonment. Mickey, son of film distributor and developer Subhash Nanda, was released by the kidnappers for a ransom of ₹1 crore of which ₹65 lakh was recovered after their arrest. Sukhmeet, who was held guilty in the kidnapping case in 2011, had come out of jail after completing his sentence. Deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Gurmeet Singh said Sukhmeet, also elected councillor in 2007, was going from Workshop Chowk to Gopal Nagar on a bike when a car following him hit his two-wheeler from behind. Sukhmeet fell from the bike and the assailants fired 10-11 rounds at him. The victim sustained 8-9 bullet injuries and was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead.” “We are trying to procure CCTV footage from the area besides recording statements of his family members. We have got the registration number of the car used by assailants and investigation is underway,” the DCP added. The police said the motive behind the murder was not clear yet. Sukhmeet had enmity with some inmates in jails where he served life term. “We are probing all the angles,” Gurmeet Singh said. Sukhmeet’s cousin Rajbir Singh said he (Sukhmeet) received a call in the afternoon and went to attend a birthday party saying he will return soon. “We received a call after 5-10 minutes that Sukhmeet had a fight with someone. But when we reached the spot we found him dead. We have shared details with the police,” he added. The body was sent for the postmortem. The police said they had initiated the process of registering a case under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Jalandhar police commissioner Gurpreet Singh Bhullar said they have got some major clues and the case will be cracked soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-jalandhar-youth-congress-president-shot-dead-101624219238369.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Divide deepens in Cong govt over jobs to MLAs’ sons; 13 ministers, MPs back Capt||The divide in the ruling Congress in Punjab deepened on Sunday as at least nine ministers and four MPs endorsed the state cabinet’s decision to give government jobs to sons of two party MLAs and slammed those who criticised it. These leaders lashed out at the critics, including Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and other party leaders, of the decision for failing to appreciate the “state policy that has been in force for many years now”. Cabinet ministers Rana Gurmeet Singh Sodhi, Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, Vijay Inder Singla, Aruna Chaudhary, Sunder Sham Arora, Gurpreet Singh Kangar, Balbir Singh Sidhu, OP Soni, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and MPs Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Jasbir Singh Dimpa and Mohammad Sadiq were among those named in the joint statement. The decision to give appointments to sons of Congress MLA Fateh Jang Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey on “compassionate grounds” was taken by the state cabinet at a virtual meeting on Friday amid strong opposition by five cabinet ministers. Jakhar, Gidderbaha MLA Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Fatehgarh Sahib MLA Kuljit Singh Nagra had slammed the move on Saturday. Responding to criticism, the ministers and MPs termed the collective decision of the cabinet to give government jobs as correct and in line with appointments given to similarly situated persons in the past. Lal Singh, chairman, Punjab Mandi Board, also came out strongly in support of the decision and advised all political leaders of the Congress to refrain from making any statement that could potentially weaken the party. Amarinder’s backers, while giving details of initiatives taken by the government to accord top priority to the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar Te Karobar Mission’, said the state has been giving jobs to various classes of people keeping in view the hardship faced by them as a result of unforeseen and tragic circumstances. “Apart from terrorism-affected families, jobs and/or financial assistance has been given to handicapped persons, rape survivors and the families of the 1984 riot victims, defence personnel killed in action and government employees who die in harness to name a few,” they said. Giving details of appointments given in the past to families of terrorism-affected families, it was pointed out that there are at present at least five such officers in the Punjab IAS cadre who had originally been appointed to the Punjab Civil Service (Executive) on these grounds. They further cited the case of the department of excise and taxation where 108 jobs, including two ETOs, have been given to the victims on these grounds. Similarly, six terror victims had been appointed as naib tehsildar and many other were given appointments as DSP, inspector, etc in other departments and continue to serve on senior positions in the state, they said. Petrol pumps, ration depots besides other self-employment avenues have been provided on priority to such families. The victims of the 1984 Sikh riots have also been given similar benefits in addition to financial aid, they said.It’s ‘horse trading’, says Pargat; Nawanshahr MLA seeks relookCongress MLA Pargat Singh on Sunday questioned the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government’s decision of giving jobs to sons of two ruling party legislators, terming it “horse-trading” to keep the leaders on his side. Addressing a press conference in Jalandhar, the former Olympian said, “What kind of perception we were creating by giving jobs to sons of two MLAs? Despite being opposed by his five cabinet colleagues, the chief minister firmly took the decision of giving jobs. Why didn’t he (CM) take decisions on other issues?” Also, Congress MLA from Nawanshahr Angad Singh urged the state government to relook at the decision of giving jobs to sons of two party legislators. He said he will request the party legislators Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey to reconsider the decision of accepting jobs for their sons. Instead they should contribute in giving jobs to the needy, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/divide-deepens-in-cong-govt-over-jobs-to-mlas-sons-13-ministers-mps-back-capt-101624219176497.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Paper mill owner defrauded of ₹7 lakh in Ludhiana||Fraudsters presenting themselves as customer care executives of a private bank defrauded the owner of a paper mill of ₹7 lakh on April 10. Upon procuring the personal details of the complainant, Gurbir Singh of Jhammat village, the accused transferred the money to different bank accounts after hacking his mobile phone. The accused, who have been identified as Samar Bahadur Patel of Gujarat, Raju Atha, Samrat Ali, Ishan Chaudhary and Sonali Mandal of West Bengal, targeted Gurbir after he searched for his bank’s customer care number on a search engine. Gurbir wanted to increase the per day transaction limit of ₹10 lakh and called the fake number listed on the search engine. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Amritpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been filed under Section 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).In another case, fraudsters duped a Chet Singh Nagar resident of ₹8,500 on the pretext of generating his Know Your Customer (KYC) number. Bhuvneshwar Manjhi and Yogesh Kumar of Delhi have ben booked on the complaint of Kewal Singh Panesar, 42, of Chet Singh Nagar. The complainant said that on December 12, 2019, he had received a text message stating that his KYC for a digital payment system had expired. When he contacted the phone number listed in the message, the accused procured his personal details and stole ₹8,500 from his bank account. Division number 6 station house officer inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said a case under Sections 420, 120 B of the IPC, and sections of the Information and Technology Act has been lodged against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paper-mill-owner-defrauded-of-7-lakh-in-ludhiana-101624219174150.html
21-06-2021||Lucknow||Yogi asks police not to allow crowds to gather as UP govt eases more Covid-19 curbs||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said the police should step up patrolling and not let crowds gather anywhere as there will be greater relaxation in the Covid-19 curbs from Monday. The relaxation will be in force from 7am to 9pm instead of 7am to 7pm on weekdays (Mondays to Fridays). Weekend closure will continue to be observed on Saturdays and Sundays.From Monday, various activities, including the opening of markets outside the containment zones, full attendance in government offices, opening of eateries with 50 per cent capacity and malls with strict Covid protocols will be allowed. A maximum of 50 people will be allowed at weddings and only 50 people will be allowed in a religious place at a time, depending on the size of the premises.The chief minister also said a state-level expert committee on Covid-19 had prepared a study report on the possible third wave of the pandemic.All districts should make the necessary preparations in view of the analysis and recommendations of the experts, he said.He also said awareness should be raised to make people stick to Covid appropriate behaviour to curtail the spread of the pandemic.“The state with a population of 25 crore could control the pandemic because of better teamwork. Now, most of the districts are not reporting any fresh Covid cases. In anticipation of the third wave of the pandemic, all necessary safety arrangements should be made in advance,” Yogi Adityanath said.He said paediatric intensive care units (PICUs) and neonatal ICUs were being set up in all the medical colleges in the state as part of the preparedness for the possible third wave.The total number of Covid hospital beds in the state was further increased by 100 in the last couple of days despite a decline in cases, he said.“Continue increasing the number of beds. All the medical colleges must have 100 beds more than their current number,” he said to officials at the meeting.The chief minister said 74 of the 75 districts in UP had less than 200 active Covid-19 cases while 55 districts had less than ten active cases. The positivity rate in the state on Saturday was 0.2%, he said.“UP has proved that be it the Covid-19 pandemic or any other challenge, if efforts are done with the spirit of collective endeavour and responsibly, then it doesn’t take time to achieve positive results,” Yogi said.In the past 24 hours, 2.63 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19 and 251 were positive. A total of 561 patients recovered during the same period. At present, the state has 4569 active Covid cases.“The recovery rate is 98.4% now”, he said.Once the central government’s scheme of supplying free vaccines to the states for vaccinating the 18+ age group rolls out from Monday, the state’s vaccination process will further speed up, he said.“So far, the state has administered a total of 2.56 crore doses of the (Covid-19) vaccine. Among them, 40.23 lakh people in the state got both their doses while 1.47 lakh doses were administered to the youth,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-asks-police-not-to-allow-crowds-to-gather-as-up-govt-eases-more-covid-19-curbs-101624218994220.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||201 new Covid cases, 357 recoveries in Haryana||Haryana reported 201 Covid-19 cases, 357 recoveries and 30 deaths on Sunday. The number of active cases further declined to 2,491. A day before, the active case count was 2,677.Besides, there were 1, 470 persons in home isolation on Sunday. A medical bulletin said that the day’s positivity rate was 0.64%, the recovery rate was 98.47% and the fatality rate was 1.20%. Health authorities tested 28,519 persons for the viral infection on Sunday. Hisar district, with 242 active cases, once again had the highest number of active infections followed by Gurugram (219), Sirsa (215) Panipat (206), Karnal (176) and Faridabad (163).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/201-new-covid-cases-357-recoveries-in-haryana-101624218875338.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Six entry points to Chandigarh to be beautified||For long, visitors to the City Beautiful have been greeted by unmaintained and aesthetically unpleasant entry points.But, this is going to change, as the UT administration has decided to give a major facelift to six points which connect Chandigarh to other cities in the region.“Currently, the entry points don’t do justice to one of the greenest cities in the country. These also don’t reflect the fact that Chandigarh is the first planned city of independent India. The Zirakpur-Chandigarh entry point was beautified long back, but has lost all its sheen now,” said a senior UT official, associated with the project.“Not all the points will be covered. The emphasis is on covering roads which are public transport routes,” the official said.Panchkula-Chandigarh entry point near Mauli Jagran, leading to Chandigarh Railway Station; Chandigarh-Zirakpur entry on Chandigarh-Ambala Road and Mohali-Chandigarh entry leading to Airport Road in Mohali are among the points which will be beautified.To prepare the detailed landscaping plan, services of the landscaping consultant have been availed. “The work is expected to start at the Chandigarh-Panchkula entry point in Mauli Jagran. The architectural plan for beautification is ready for this site,” said the official.Views of Panchkula MLA and Haryana legislative speaker Gian Chand Gupta, who had also expressed interest in beautification of this point, will also be taken. A meeting is scheduled for Monday to discuss the plan.After the architectural plans get the go-ahead, the UT engineering department which is the implementation authority, will prepare the cost estimates for the project. Thereafter, tenders will be floated for the construction work.Landscaping in sync with city’s architectural ethos“The beautification mainly involves landscaping of these entry points, which will be in sync with the planning and architectural ethos of the city,” said the official.The city has a specific theme for trees on its streets, which will be followed in the landscaping of these points also. “Commercial trees like eucalyptus, which were lately used alongside roads even in Chandigarh, will be substituted with fruit bearing, ornamental and flowering trees and decorative plants. Here, the vision and concepts set by Dr MS Randhawa, the first administrator of the city and noted horticulturalist, will be followed,” added the official.Dr Randhawa had played a key role in the selection of trees and overall beautification of the city. “Along with city’s planner Le Corbusier, Dr Randhawa had constituted a landscape committee of experts. A comprehensive list of plants and trees was prepared, with careful cataloguing of their shapes, colours and textures, which was later used to create particular themes on specific roads,” said the official.Notably, the UT engineering department recently also took up the beautification of the road dividers under its jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-entry-points-to-chandigarh-to-be-beautified-101624218874199.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Extra marks to students who plant more saplings: Haryana CM||Laying emphasis on the concept of “oxy van”, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday announced a new policy wherein extra marks would be given to students of Classes 8 to 12 who plant and nurture saplings.The CM was inaugurating the Panchkarma Wellness Centre located at Nature Camp, Thapli, and Nature Trails in Morni Hills. The CM also digitally laid the foundation stone of Nakshatra Vatika, Navgrah Vatika and Rashi Van, collectively known as Antriksh Van.These green areas will be developed in the government forest near Masjidwala village in Panchkula—Nakshatra Vatika will be developed on 10 acres, Sugandh and Rashi Van will be raised on five acres each.The CM also announced a pension of ₹2,500 per year for the preservers of trees that were aged above 75 years as part of the “oxy van” initiative.Khattar said the state already had 23 panchkarma centres, 500 yoga shalas and vyayam shalas. He added that the state had set a target of planting 3 crore saplings in the near future.A small trek from Thapli Nature Camp to Thapli village was inaugurated on Sunday. Under purview of the forest department, 11 nature trails in Morni Hills are being developed. Two youths from the villages are being trained as nature guides and are being taught about the flora and fauna of Morni, etiquettes of nature tourism, how to conduct nature tours, dealing with injuries, walking techniques, first aid etc.The CM also took part in adventure sports activities. He reviewed paragliding, hot-air balloon, parasailing, power motor, e-hydrofoil, jet scooter, boating and also rode the jet scooter.Union minister of state for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria, Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker Gian Chand Gupta, Haryana tourism minister Kanwar Pal, minister of state for sports Sandeep Singh, and Panchkula mayor Kulbhushan Goyal were also present on the occasion.Khattar said a club, named after Flying Sikh Milkha Singh, would be formed where youth from the neighbouring areas will be given training for paragliding and similar activities.He said Morni would prove to be a suitable place for paragliding and the use of hot-air balloons would be started in Pinjore. Besides, Kalka to Kalesar was being developed as a tourist route.Khattar said ₹49 crore had been received from the Centre for the development of Nada Sahib and Mansa Devi pilgrimage sites. Another ₹52 crore had been received for Adi Badri, he said, adding that Morni was also connected by this route.Police detained around 50 farmers who gathered at the site of inauguration of the wellness centre to protest against the CM before his arrival.They were released after five hours. A senior police official said that the farmers were marching towards the CM’s helipad, so they had to detain them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/extra-marks-to-students-who-plant-more-saplings-haryana-cm-101624218814213.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Rising fuel rates in Punjab push vegetable prices up in Chandigarh||The price of diesel shooting up to over ₹90 per litre in Punjab has made vegetables costlier and also impacted their supply.“The increasing price of fuel has hit farmers hard. Earlier only those who travelled from far away were affected but now even local farmers, who drive their produce into Chandigarh from nearby villages, are charging more. The supply of vegetables coming into the mandis has also started to dwindle,” said Satbir Singh, mandi supervisor with Punjab Mandi Board.Singh said a rise in the prices of vegetables like potatoes and tomatoes can be attributed to large distances, however it was concerning that even prices of bottle gourd and pumpkin were increasing.“Farmers are using nets to safeguard summer vegetables from rain. They are adding the cost of using this technique to the vegetables’ price,” he said.Meanwhile, with the administration lifting the Sunday lockdown, the apni mandi at Sector 34 opened after over a month. Other apni mandis are also recording a rise in footfall as Covid cases continue to decline.As per mandi officials, the Sector 34 mandi on Sunday used to get most customers and the decision to reopen it will help farmers as well as people.“Earlier mandis would be closed by 5pm but now the timing has been extended to 7pm, which is helpful for people preferring to step out in the evening due to heat or day work hours,” said an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rising-fuel-rates-in-punjab-push-vegetable-prices-up-in-chandigarh-101624218694147.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||42-year-old NRI woman shot in stomach in Mohali||A Canada-based NRI woman was injured after a shot fired from her husband’s licensed revolver hit her stomach at her Sector 91 house on Sunday.According to the police, they are still verifying whether it was a case of accidental firing or suicide attempt. They said the woman, Amritpal Kaur, 42, was home with her 16-year daughter when the shot was fired around 5pm.Her husband, who is also an NRI, was at his farmhouse near Kharar. His father, Avtar Singh, is a retired Punjab Police deputy superintendent of police. Kaur was rushed to the Sohana hospital, where her condition is stated to be out of danger. “Things will get clear after we record her statement,” said superintendent of police (SP, City) Harvinder Singh Virk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/42yearold-nri-woman-shot-in-stomach-in-mohali-101624218574060.html
21-06-2021||Other||Nearly 50% dip in private school enrollments in Haryana this year||For the second consecutive year, Haryana has seen a massive shift of students from private to government schools. As per the figures provided by the Haryana education department, 89,138 private school students moved to government schools during the academic session 2021-22. Last year (2020-21), around 1.46 lakh students had made the switch. The education department’s data further shows that as many as 19.95 lakh students have been enrolled in the state’s government schools this year while the figure stood at 21.78 lakh last year. Private schools, on the other hand, have reported only 15.78 lakh new admissions this year, compared to 29.83 lakh last year. This is a 47% percent dip in enrollments at private schools this year. What is drawing more kids to govt schoolsA senior official, not wishing to be named, said, “We are expecting more students to shift from private to government schools by the end of this month. Not just do government schools provide education free of cost, but also offer better infrastructure as compared to private schools. Besides, students can also avail benefits such as mid-day meals here.” The official added that parents of many students have been rendered jobless or are facing financial constraints due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. “At a time like this, some private schools are refusing to enroll students in the next class until the previous year’s dues are cleared. So, most parents are transferring their wards to government schools,” the official added. “Besides, in view of the anticipated third wave, which is likely to hit children the most, it is unlikely that schools may open up any time soon. So, parents are enrolling their children in government schools, that are likely to be located close to their homes, than sending the kids to a private school located miles away,” he added. On reports of private schools not issuing transfer certificates and other documents to students, the official said no school has the authority to deny documents to a student when she/he wants to move to another school. Parent speakRakesh Kumar, a resident of Charkhi Dadri, said he shifted both his daughters to a government school as he lost his job at a private factory in Gurugram after the second wave. “It became difficult for me to run the house. So I decided to move my kids to a government school. There is uncertainty over the opening of schools and further the private school, where my children were previously enrolled, had refused to reduce the fee even when schools are closed,” Kumar added. A rough patch for private schoolsTwo private school owners –one from Hisar and another from Bhiwani – requesting anonymity, said with no sign of schools opening up, they have hit a rough patch. “It has been nearly one-and-a-half year since we have not had physical classes. Some parents told us that they have been sending their children don’t gauge much during online classes so they have had to send them for tuitions. So they ask us why they should pay the full school fee,” one of the private school owners said.Another owner said, “Some parents are also unwilling to pay the fee as they feel that when children are not physically visiting the school, why should they pay charges such as library fee etc. But what the parents don’t understand is that we still have to bear the maintenance charges regardless of whether these services are being used. For instance, we had bought buses on loan. When parents refuse to pay the full fee, we struggle to pay off the installments.” Edu minister lauds govt schools Meanwhile, Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal Gurjar applauded the teachers and educational staff for increasing enrollments in government schools for the second year in a row.“This year, Class 10 and 12 exams were cancelled but last year, both the toppers in Haryana board’s Class 12 exams were from government schools. We have started online classes on Edusat and local cable TV channels free of cost. We have also decided to provide laptops to students so that they can access online education if a third wave hits the state,” the education minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nearly-50-dip-in-private-school-enrollments-in-haryana-this-year-101624218515413.html
21-06-2021||Other||GST bogus billing scam: ₹40 lakh seized from Ludhiana hosiery trader||The anti-evasion wing of the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Commissionerate seized ₹40 lakh from hosiery trader Yogesh Jain’s house in Kalyan Nagar on Saturday. The amount is suspected to be the proceeds from the ₹393 crore GST scam unearthed in November last year. Yogesh is a distant uncle of the kingpin of the multi-crore GST scam, Sahil Jain, who was arrested by the department in November. Sahil had availed input tax credit (ITC) worth ₹33 crore through the bogus billing scam.The department was tracking the crucial documents and whereabouts of the accused Sahil Jain when they landed at Yogesh Jain’s house and caught him evading GST too.Principal commissioner Ashutosh Baranwal said that Sahil had availed ITC with ₹33 crores and it was believed that some crucial documents relating to the GST fraud were hidden at his relatives’ house.During the search operation at the house of Yogesh, who is running a firm called M/s Maha Bhagwati S Jain Traders, ₹40 lakh was recovered from the cupboard of a bedroom. When questioned about the cash, he confessed that he was evading GST by indulging in undeclared supply transactions, receiving and supplying goods without issuing proper invoices, and mostly generating ‘Kacha bills’ for the goods supplied, said Baranwal.The department officials said the amount has been seized and the matter is under investigation, following which appropriate action will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gst-bogus-billing-scam-rs-40-lakh-seized-from-ludhiana-hosiery-trader-101624218275973.html
21-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 91 applicants give recruitment exam for master cadre in English, science a miss||As many as 943 candidates appeared in the recruitment test of master cadre in English and science that was conducted at three examination centres in the city government schools on Sunday. Over 91 applicants remained absent during the exams. The state government will be enlisting 2,527 teachers to fill vacancies in border area schools.A total of 743 candidates had applied for the English exam, out of which only 676 appeared between 9.30 am to 12 pm. While 267 appeared for the science exam at two centres between 2 pm to 4.30 pm, and 91 applicants remained absent.In the morning shift, candidates started reporting at 8.15 am and in the afternoon, at 12.45 pm.At Government Model Senior Secondary School, Punjab Agricultural University, out of 291 candidates, 264 appeared in the exams, and at Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Jawahar Nagar, 223 applicants took the exam while 20 did not turn up. At GSSS, Mundian Kalan, 456 out of a total of 500 applicants took the exam.Lakhvir Singh district education officer (DEO), secondary, inspected all three examination centres in the morning and two in the afternoon shift. He said, “Proper arrangements were made at all the centres, and the paper was conducted peacefully. We did not receive any complaint from any exam centre.”As per Covid protocols, 24 candidates were accommodated in a room and social distancing was maintained. Cops were deployed at the exam centres to maintain order.The candidates found both the English and science exams balanced.Sarabjeet Singh, a resident of Ludhiana, who appeared for the English exam at Government Model Senior Secondary Smart School, Punjab Agricultural University, said, “The paper was simple and I am confident that I will clear the exam. I was able to complete the paper in the allotted time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-91-applicants-give-recruitment-exam-for-master-cadre-in-english-science-a-miss-101624218274046.html
21-06-2021||Chandigarh||Friends, canteen food, youth fests: Ludhiana’s college freshers say they have missed out on a lot||From side-splitting anecdotes to sobering misadventures, for 19-year-old Bharti Arora the best conversation starters always seemed to originate on the college or university campus, but unfortunately when it was finally time for her to embark upon the much-touted “golden phase of life”, the pandemic struck and online classes became the way of life. “Really, the coronavirus pandemic could not have come at a worse time!” laments Arora, who is pursuing bachelor of commerce at Khalsa College for Women, Civil Lines. “I had been looking forward to participating in the youth festival and inter-college dance festivals the most, but the virus threw a wrench into the works and colleges remained closed for the whole year.” On the threshold of their adult lives, the newly inducted batch of college students feels it has been robbed of a pivotal milestone. Asked what they have missed out on while home-bound due to the pandemic, students listed freshers’ and farewell parties, a chance to get ready for college after years in uniform, evening strolls on the college lawns, canteen food, student body elections, cultural events and the quiet of the reading room of the library. Around 25,000 first-year students enrolled at Panjab Univertsity-affiliated colleges will be starting with their second year in two months time without having enjoyed campus life. It was the lure of the vast college library that had Government College for Girls BA first-year student Manveer Kaur on tenterhooks. “ I was planning on issuing four-five books a week but thanks to the pandemic I have had to make do with my collection at home.” It was greenery, lawns and the iconic annual freshers’ party that had sold Kaur on the idea of studying at Government College for Girls over some colleges in Chandigarh. Little did she know that she would not get to enjoy the facilities at all. ‘Deprived of a chance to develop life skills’A teacher, who did not wish to be named said, “Interacting with classmates and participating in extra-curricular activities teaches students team work, time management, and an assortment of life skills. However, the freshers could not experience it last year.” When 18-year-old Geetika Kalra was admitted to Guru Nanak Khalsa College for Women, Model Town, in the bachelor of arts course last year she was excited to impress classmates with her oratory and anchoring skills. However, now she spends most days listening to virtual presentations on her laptop. “I would participate in all events at school, but I have not gotten an opportunity at college so far. It is surreal to think that we have been at home for a year,” she says. However, the silver lining is that Kalra has been able to make two new friends during online classes. ‘Haven’t been able to make friends’However, Rohit Kumar, 19, of Satish Chander Dhawan Government College, says he hardly knows anybody in class. “Last year was tough in itself because of the pandemic and attending online classes for two whole semesters was also a challenge. I worry about how I will cope once college reopens as I have no friends there.” “While teachers are doing their best by organising online seminars and contests, the virtual is no substitute for the real. Lack of physical interactions, I feel, has hampered our growth and all-round personality development,” he said . DD Jain College for Women principal Sarita Behl said, “All colleges have switched to online classes during the pandemic and students have not been able to participate in extra cultural activities. So, whenever colleges reopen, we will hold more cultural and sports events.”Colleges in Ludhiana have been shut since March last year. While final-year students were able to visit their colleges earlier this year to attend physical classes for two months and then for practicals, first-year undergraduate students have not been able to visit campus since their induction in August 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/friends-canteen-food-youth-fests-ludhiana-s-college-freshers-say-they-have-missed-out-on-a-lot-101624218214184.html
21-06-2021||Other||Punjab to set up 75 plants to ensure adequate medical O2||Chandigarh To augment supplies and ensure adequate medical oxygen across the state with healthcare institutions as well as private hospitals, the Punjab government will set up 75 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants. These will be set up in every district to combat the imminent third Covid wave. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan, chaired a meeting to review the management of medical oxygen in healthcare institutions, where it was decided to set up these plants. Two plants at Barnala and Nangal have already been made functional, and work on others is in full swing. Two undertrial plants at medical colleges of Amritsar and Patiala have also been commissioned. Besides, over 5,000 oxygen concentrators (OCs) have also been provided to all state hospitals, CHCs and health and wellness centres to take care of any emergent requirement. A government release added that 3,000 OCs that the state government had purchased with World Bank assistance are being distributed to the state hospitals. A state oxygen management group, headed by principal secretary, water supply and sanitation, Jaspreet Talwar with director, industry and commerce, C Sibin, PHSC MD Tanu Kashyap and additional secretary, water supply and sanitation, Amit Talwar, as members was also constituted. Talwar has been appointed as state nodal officer to liaison with the Centre in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-to-set-up-75-plants-to-ensure-adequate-medical-o2-101624217974482.html
21-06-2021||Lucknow||UP Law Commission framing draft law on population growth||Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission chairman Justice AN Mittal on Sunday stated that there must be a law in place to check the state’s increasing population so that future generations could get better facilities and resources. Justice Mittal, former judge of the Allahabad high court, is framing a draft law for the Uttar Pradesh government to help check rising population of the state. “The draft law will be prepared in the next two months and the report will be submitted to the state government,” Justice Mittal said.Stressing on the requirement of such a law, Justice Mittal said: “Resources are already overstretched due to increasing population. Be it medical facilities, food grains and jobs, everything is under stress due to rising population.” “Imagine if the population of the state remains 22 crore to 23 crore even after 20 years, then what will be the state’s condition? There will be availability of everything in abundance for the future generation. There will be no scarcity of resources,” Justice Mittal said.Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state in the country with a population of around 22 crore. “While drafting this law, all aspects will be looked into and exhaustive study of all such laws will be carried out,” he added. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma has already announced the gradual implementation of the two-child policy for availing of government benefits in Assam. However, tea garden workers and members of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities have been exempted from its purview.Justice Mittal’s report and a draft bill on Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion had played a key role in the framing of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Act 2021.The State Law Commission had also submitted a draft law to the state government for removal of religious structures from public places, recommending a three-year prison term and fine for violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-law-commission-framing-draft-law-on-population-growth-101624217674149.html
21-06-2021||Other||23 deaths, 549 fresh covid cases in Punjab||Chandigarh Twenty-three more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday as 549 fresh cases surfaced, taking the state’s infection count to 5,92,303, according to a medical bulletin. The infection has killed 15,826 in the state. Deaths were reported from several districts, including Amritsar, Barnala, Bathinda, Fazilka, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar and Ludhiana. Bathinda reported 71 cases, followed by 52 in Amritsar and 45 in Hoshiarpur. The number of active cases stood at 7,421, with the positivity rate of 0.94%. With 1,173 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,69,056, as per the bulletin.There are 168 critical patients who are on ventilator while 1,896 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 1,04,12,909 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, Chandigarh, the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, reported 22 cases. So far, the infection has claimed 806 lives with the UT’s infection count at 61,430, according to a medical bulletin. The UT has 353 active cases. Seventy patients were discharged after they recovered, taking the number of cured people to 60,271, the bulletin said.A total of 5,51,578 samples have been taken for testing so far, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/23-deaths-549-fresh-covid-cases-in-punjab-101624217374058.html
21-06-2021||Other||585 more test Covid positive in J&K, 14 succumb||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 14 deaths and 585 Covid-19 infections on Sunday.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 1,354 with active positive cases dropping to 8,631 from the highest ever count of 52,848 on May 13.There were 462 cases and seven deaths in Kashmir valley. The Jammu division saw 123 infections and seven fatalities.The overall cases in J&K have reached 3,11,794 and the death toll has hit 4,252.The total recoveries reached 2,98,911 prompting the cure rate to climb to 95.86%.The officials said that 46,958 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT with the overall number of tests crossing 9.49 million.Officials said that with 136 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by Budgam with 69 cases and Kulgam with 51. All other 17 districts had below 50 cases.Srinagar and Jammu districts account for about 1.21 lakh cases and 1,942 deaths in all. Jammu district has the highest number of 1,124 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 818 deaths.From June 7, the UT has mostly recorded below-20 daily fatalities with lowest of four on June 19.The second Covid wave peaked in May in the UT with the highest daily cases of 5,443 on May 7 and the highest daily deaths of 73 on May 17.The month of May was most devastating as J&K recorded the highest of 1,14,382 Covid-19 cases and 1,625 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/585-more-test-covid-positive-in-j-k-14-succumb-101624217197856.html
21-06-2021||Other||J&K horticulture seeks to end ban on axing old walnut trees||The horticulture department has written to the Jammu and Kashmir administration to end the ban on axing old walnut trees in order to increase plantation of hybrid quality of the fruit.Walnut kernels produced in Kashmir are known for their quality and the organic fruit is in great demand across the globe.Horticulture department director general Ajaz Bhat said he has written to the administration tol allow axing of old walnut trees. “Time has changed now and people want to plant hybrid varieties of the walnut which has good yield and doesn’t occupy much space, but the law is the biggest hindrance,” he said.A reply from the administration is awaited. “Unless the government brings another law or cancels the old one, people can’t axe or go for the pruning of these trees. I will again write to the authorities to change the law for the sake of the growers.”To fell the old walnut trees, growers have to seek permission from the Kashmir divisional commissioner which takes years. “I had suggested making the process easy. The UT administration should to take a decision.”Over 95% of the land under organic fruit cultivation grows walnut. As much as 1.85 lakh tonne of fruit is produced in Kashmir and 85,000 tonne in the Jammu region. Walnut is considered the only organic fruit which generates more than ₹500 crore as revenue.Anantnag and Kupwara top the state in walnut cultivation with 11,939 and 8,797 hectares under the fruit. Over the past 40 years, the state has seen an astronomical rise in walnut production from 10,500 tonne to more than 2.7 lakh tonne.Officials say that five to six varieties of walnuts — Suleman, Hamdan, Central Institute of Temperate Horticulture (CITH) 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 — are produced in different parts of Kashmir nurseries and given to growers for high yield.“The emphasis is to produce more varieties with better yield. We have released more than five to six new varieties of walnuts for J&K and witnessed better production in the past few years,” said Dr Imtiaz an expert from Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology (SKUAST).As per the horticulture department, over 85,000 hectares are under walnut cultivation and most of the trees are very old varieties.“The walnut trees in my compound have become a nuisance and threat to my property. I can neither axe them nor replace them with new varieties. I have tried to seek permission, but all in vain,” said Surjeet Singh a resident of Baramulla.A senior officer of department said strict laws give rise to corruption. “When the laws are too tough, people go for unfair means to axe or prune the walnut trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-horticulture-seeks-end-to-ban-on-axing-old-walnut-trees-101624217196555.html
21-06-2021||Other||J&K lifts weekend curfew in 8 districts||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday lifted the weekend curfew from eight districts of the union territory after significant improvement in Covid-19 situation.Businesses can now open throughout the week during the day in Shopian, Ganderbal and Bandipora districts in Kashmir valley and in five districts of Jammu division, including Jammu, Samba, Kathua, Reasi and Udhampur.The officials, after conducting a review of the spread of the pandemic this week, observed that there has been significant improvement in these eight districts (out of the 20 districts of the UT) in terms of total weekly cases, positivity rate, bed occupancy, case fatality rate and vaccination coverage.“There will be no weekend curfew in these districts. However, the daily night curfew will continue from 8pm to 7am,” said an order signed by state executive committee (SEC) chairman and chief secretary Arun Kumar Mehta.The daily Covid cases and deaths in the UT have witnessed a sharp fall with 650 average daily infections and nine average deaths per day in the past one week.The second Covid wave had peaked in May in the UT with the highest daily cases of 5,443 on May 7 and the most single-day deaths of 73 on May 17.The order said that all the outdoor shops and trades are permitted to open in these districts on all days from 7am to 7pm.“The market associations will have to fully cooperate with the local administration in ensuring strict compliance to Covid appropriate behaviour,” the order said while allowing only 50% of the shops in indoor shopping complexes and malls to open subject to a roster to be issued by the deputy commissioners concerned.All government and private offices can function without any restrictions subject to adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour.The officials said that the weekend curfew from Friday evening to Monday morning in other 12 districts of the UT will continue to remain in force.“All the outdoor shops and bazaars are permitted to open on five days in a week except on Saturdays and Sundays. Twenty five percent of the shops in indoor shopping complexes and malls can open subject to a roster to be issued by deputy commissioners concerned,” the SEC ordered.The deputy commissioners were authorised to allow opening of paid and unpaid parks for the use of public, only after local assessment of the conditions.The officials urged the district magistrates to ensure that there is full compliance to Covid appropriate behaviour. “The district magistrates shall constitute joint teams of police and executive magistrates for enforcement of Covid appropriate behaviour,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-lifts-weekend-curfew-in-8-districts-101624217195538.html
21-06-2021||Other||Himachal plans to inoculate of 1 lakh people against Covid today||The vaccination drive in Himachal Pradesh will gather full momentum on Monday with the state health authorities eying inoculation of one lakh people in a single day.National Health Mission director Dr Nipun Jindal said as per the guidelines issued by the Centre, vaccination would be done free of cost for the 18-plus population at government jab centres.As per the state’s strategy, vaccination of healthcare workers, frontline workers, prioritised groups and persons above 45 years of age for the first or second dose shall be held on Thursday, Friday and Saturday.People of 18-plus age group would be given jabs on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.“The state has gained considerable ground in the past one week in the vaccination of its 18-45 population and till date has vaccinated around 2.92 lakh people of this group,” said Jindal.809 jab centres to be set up It was further informed that the number of eligible beneficiaries (18+) in the state for Covid vaccine is around 55 lakh and around 42% have already been vaccinated with at least the first dose. Jindal said 809 vaccination centres will be established in the state on Monday, 724 of which will be in rural areas and 85 in urban areas.Around one lakh eligible beneficiaries are targeted to be vaccinated on Monday, he said.In the tribal, hard and rural areas, sessions will be published with the facility of onsite registration. Government vaccination centres established in the urban areas falling under municipal corporations and nagar panchayats will be published with the option of vaccination to only those who have prescheduled their appointment online only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachalplans-to-inoculate-of-1-lakh-people-against-covid-today-101624217140756.html
21-06-2021||Other||Himachal logs 128 fresh Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 128 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday taking the state’s tally to 2,00,410 while the death toll mounted to 3,426 after three more people succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 27 were reported in Shimla, 18 each in Hamirpur and Mandi, 15 each in Bilaspur and Chamba, 10 in Solan, seven each in Kangra, Kullu and Sirmaur and four in Una.No cases in Kinnaur, Lahaul-Spiti No cases were reported in tribal districts of Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti. Meanwhile, all the three deaths were reported in Kangra district only.Recoveries have reached 1,94,249 after 399 people recuperated, while the active cases have come down to 2,711.In terms of the caseload, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 45,647 cases so far followed by Mandi where 26,906 people have been tested positive to date and Shimla with 24,914 cases. Solan has 22,133 cases, Sirmaur 15,250, Hamirpur 14,251, Una 13,183, Bilaspur 12,533, Chamba 10,931, Kullu, 8,766, Kinnaur 3,203 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,693.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-128-fresh-covid-cases-101624217139819.html
21-06-2021||Other||Himachal CM hints at reopening religious places||With a considerable decline in Covid-19 cases, Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur has hinted at reopening temples and other religious places in the state.He, however, said the restrictions would not be lifted on marriage functions and gatherings would remain capped at 20 persons.Thakur said the second wave of Covid-19 has ebbed and it is matter of relief.“The government is considering reopening the temples and religious places,” he said.There is no prohibition on wedding functions, but the restrictions would continue as earlier, he said adding, “It would not be right to allow people to gather in large numbers in such events as it may result in a spike and further spread of virus.”He said the government may decide on recalling all the employees to offices in the cabinet meeting scheduled on June 23. Currently, offices are functioning with 50% staff strength.On opening the schools, the chief minister said the matter would be taken up by the government in the cabinet meeting.Thakur, however, said that a third wave of pandemic is anticipated, and it may affect the children so any decision will be taken keeping in view all the facts.He said the state has fought the first and second waves of coronavirus valiantly and the government is all geared up to tackle the third wave.All the arrangements are being put in place in case the third wave comes.The chief minister said it is not possible to keep the state locked down for a long time and the activities would be opened in a phased manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-cm-hints-at-reopening-religious-places-101624217138805.html
21-06-2021||Other||In just six weeks, HP police collected ₹1.23-crore fine for curfew violations||Himachal Pradesh has collected more than ₹1.23 crore as penalty from curfew violators in the last month and half. As per the consolidated data obtained from the state police, between May 7 and June 20, more than 18,900 curfew violations were detected. Maximum offenders fined for not wearing masksPolice issued a total of 16,628 challans for not wearing masks and collected fine amounting to ₹97.15 lakh. At 2,941, the highest such violations were reported in Kangra, the most populous district, and violators were made to cough up ₹18.85 as fine. Similarly, Baddi-Barotiwala-Nalagarh industrial area saw 2,243 mask violations and an amount of ₹11.74 lakh was collected as fine while in Mandi, 2,057 people were challaned for not wearing a mask and made to pay ₹11.45 lakh as fine. Violations at markets Besides, police also collected fine amounting to ₹17.08 lakh for violations at market places. These violations were mostly related to unauthorised opening of shops and flouting of social distancing norms. The maximum, 812, marketplace violations were reported in Chamba district where the police collected a sum of ₹4.09 lakh as fine, followed by 338 violations and ₹4.74 lakh fine in Kangra. Sirmaur reported 137 violations and violators had to pay ₹1.65 lakh as fine.Transport violations A total of 673 vehicles were involved in transport violations. Of these, seven vehicles have been impounded and six FIRs have been registered. A fine of more than ₹6.01 lakh was recovered. Apart from it, ₹93,000 fine was realised for not wearing masks in vehicles.Functions and gatherings As per the data, 2,675 permissions were sought by people for wedding functions, out of which surprise checking was conducted at 1,897 functions. A total of 34 challans were issued and ₹1.37 fine recovered besides FIR in two cases. Eighty-four wedding functions were found to be held without permission. Seven FIRs were registered against the organisers and 16 were issued challan for violation of norms. A sum of ₹80,500 was realised as fine. The maximum such violations were reported in Sirmaur district where 16 challans were issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-just-six-weeks-hp-police-collected-1-23-crore-fine-for-curfew-violations-101624217135337.html
21-06-2021||Other||Two-lane tunnel at Dhalli will help ease traffic congestion: Jai Ram||A new two-lane tunnel that is coming up at Dhalli, at a cost of ₹55 crore, will help ease traffic congestion in Shimla, Himachal chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday. He said the construction of the tunnel will be complete by August next year. The CM said this while he was being briefed about the proposed alignment on Shimla bypass four-laning project from Kaithlighat to Dhalli section, and construction of a highway tunnel parallel to the Dhalli tunnel under the Shimla Smart City Mission. The CM was apprised that five tunnels were required to be constructed on the Kaithlighat-Dhalli section. The present proposal of twin tunnels from Bhattakufar to Dhalli will completely bypass the urban area and bare minimum forest area/structures will be impacted during the construction of this four lane project. Thakur said that the present proposal of this four-lane bypass must have negligible effect on the lives of residents of the area. He expressed hope that separate twin tunnel proposed to connect the Sanjauli bypass will ensure better connectivity to the people of Shimla town. He also felt the need for improvement of Dhalli junction and Dhalli bypass. He suggested that since the construction of tunnels involves huge muck generation, efforts must be made for creating facilities like stadium etc. on these dumping sites for best utilisation of the land. He directed the officers of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) to ensure time-bound completion of this project so that benefits could be derived in time. Thakur said that Dhalli tunnel was over 175 years old and had outlived its design life. This tunnel has become a bottleneck as it connects upper Shimla area, Mandi, Kullu as well as Kinnuar districts. He said that the government has decided to construct a parallel two-lane tunnel along this tunnel to ensure smooth plying of vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/twolane-tunnel-at-dhalli-will-help-ease-traffic-congestion-jai-ram-101624217136324.html
21-06-2021||Other||J&K all-party meet: Most Valley leaders to take call on PM’s invite today||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti and National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah will separately take a call for their parties on the invitation of the Centre to mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir for talks, senior leaders of both the parties said on Sunday.The political affairs committee (PAC) — the highest decision-making body of the PDP — on Sunday authorised Mehbooba Mufti to take a call on the Centre’s invite.The decision was taken after a two-hour-long meeting of the PAC chaired by Mehbooba at her ‘Fairview’ residence in Gupkar area of the city here. The meeting was called to take a call on the party’s participation in the meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi on June 24. “The PAC unanimously authorised the party president to take a final decision on the matter,” PDP chief spokesperson Syed Suhail Bukhari told the media after the meeting.PAGD to adopt joint strategyMeanwhile, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) has called for a meeting on Tuesday to discuss a joint strategy about the invitation.“PAGD leaders are to meet on June 22, 11am, at the residence of Farooq Abdullah. All constituents have been called to discuss the Centre’s invitation. The PAGD will adopt a joint strategy after this meeting,” said alliance spokesman Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami, who is also the CPI (M) general secretary.National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah will discuss with his senior colleagues and a decision to attend an all-party meeting of J&K’s leaders in New Delhi next week will be declared by Monday, said Nasir Aslam Wani, a leader of the NC on Sunday.“NC president Farooq Abdullah will discuss this with his senior colleagues. I think discussions will be complete by tomorrow. I think we will be able to tell you more by tomorrow afternoon,” he said.Party spokesman Imran Nabi Dar said, “The party president is consulting leaders individually on the issue. Then a meeting of PAGD is expected within a day or two and decision will be taken thereafter.”However, NC’s Baramulla MP Mohammad Akbar Lone told reporters that the party will participate in the Centre’s meeting. “We will talk about all the issues, including Articles 370, 35-A and statehood. Everything will be fine. It’s good that the BJP-led Centre has realised that talks should be held,” he said.Other leaderships also huddling Apni Party will be meeting on Monday to form an agenda for the Centre meeting which will be attended by party president Altaf Bukhari. People’s Conference chairman Sajjad Lone will also discuss the issue on Monday. “We are meeting tomorrow to discuss the issue,” said Adnan Ashraf, Peoples Conference spokesman.Invitations were sent out to 14 political leaders from Jammu and Kashmir, including four former chief ministers, for participation in a high-level meeting to be chaired by the prime minister, which is expected to set the road map for holding assembly elections in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-all-party-meet-most-valley-leaders-to-take-call-on-pm-s-invite-today-101624217134168.html
21-06-2021||Lucknow||Major rivers cross danger mark in UP after heavy rainfall, alert sounded in low-lying districts||Heavy rainfall in many districts led to major rivers in Uttar Pradesh flowing near or above the danger mark and an alert was sounded in the low-lying districts of the state, officials said.Relief commissioner Ranvir Prasad said some areas of 10 districts — Bahraich, Balrampur, Gorakhpur, Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri, Siddharthnagar, Maharajganj, Kushinagar, Sitapur and Shravasti — were flood-affected. Twenty-two villages in these 10 districts were marooned, he said.One death was reported in the Laliya area of Balrampur district where a person drowned in the Rapti. The SDRF (State Disaster Response Force) was trying to fish out the body, he said.The state government launched relief and rescue operations in the flood-affected villages. A total of 242 flood protection centres and 222 flood posts were set up in various districts. The distribution of flood packets started in the affected villages and 58 teams of the health department were activated in the flood-affected districts, Prasad said.According to information released by Flood Management Information System Centre (FMISC), the Ganga at Kachhala Ghat in Badaun and in Ballia was flowing at the danger mark. Also, Rapti river at Rapti barrage in Shravasti and in Balrampur district was flowing above the danger mark.“The districts in the basin of Ganga, Yamuna, Rapti and Sharda rivers have been issued fresh alert after the water level in these rivers reached the danger mark,” said Mithilesh Kumar, executive engineer, FMISC. “The district magistrates and other officials concerned have been alerted through phone calls and electronic channels,” the officer added.The Rohini river was flowing above the danger level at Trimohanighat in Maharajganj district and the Sharda at Paliya Kala in Lakhimpur Kheri.The state government deployed teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in six districts, including Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Bahraich, Siddharthnagar and Shravasti. Teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed in 11 districts.The low-laying districts, where an alert has been sounded include Muzaffarnagar, Badaun, Shahajanpur and Pilibhit in west UP and Chandauli, Varanasi, Sant Kabir Nagar, Mirzapur, Bahraich, Gonda, Basti, Gorakhpur, Maharjganj and Deoria in east UP.In the past 24 hours, the state recorded 13.5mm rainfall, which is 400 % more than the average 2.7 mm rainfall whereas the cumulative rainfall in the state is 125 mm rainfall, which is 200% more than the average 43.2mm rainfall, he said.Twelve districts recorded above 25 mm rainfall in the past 24 hours, including Azamgarh, Badaun, Varanasi, Mirzapur, Ghazipur, Sambhal, Rampur, Moradabad, Ambedkar Nagar, Ballia, Sant Kabir Nagar and Bareilly, the relief commissioner said.Gonda DM Markandey Shahi said, “We have established 45 flood posts across the district where local officials are monitoring the level of water in the river around the clock. The district also also 30 rescue boats on standby.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/major-rivers-cross-danger-mark-in-up-after-heavy-rainfall-alert-sounded-in-low-lying-districts-101624216835576.html
21-06-2021||Other||Isolated, invisible: LGBTQ scientists talk about their experience at workplace||Throughout her pre-transition period, A Mani, a mathematician and scientist at the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, remained closeted, introverted and preferred working alone. “Some teachers, colleagues at times did try to say anti-gender diverse stuff to me because I appeared too femme. But I never bothered about them and their degenerate views,” said Mani, one of the very few lesbian trans-women in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). Collectively, people from sexual minorities such as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer persons and their allies are referred to as the LGBTQ+ community. Even as campuses endeavour to create safe spaces for sexual and gender minorities, past trauma, invisibility and discrimination is rife in this marginalised community. In celebrations to mark the Pride month — which recognises the community’s impact on history locally, nationally, and internationally — HT interviewed LGBTQ+ scientists about their experiences in STEM. A nagging sense of invisibility lingered among all the scientists interviewed by HT. Visibility matters While there are no surveys that can ascertain the number of LGBTQ+ scientists in India, community members said there were only few in number. Out of fear of ostracisation, many preferred to hide their identities. “I don’t see any reason why I can’t or shouldn’t openly assert my sexuality now, but because of the stigma and taboo experienced in the past, I don’t feel like going through the process again” said a professor at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), on the condition of anonymity. While many of his friends and colleagues know that he is gay, this professor has “not come out of the closet entirely”. “So far I have not received any backlash, but that could be because I have shared my truth with only a selected group of people. I come from a time when discussing sexual orientation and gender identity was absolutely damned. During my school and undergraduate days, I had started to believe that I am the only one in my species. It was not until the beginning of social media in the early 2000s when I came across support groups discussing LGBTQ+ rights online that I realised the extent of invisibility,” he said. To address this lack of representation and alienation, this professor and his two friends formed Pravriti — a pan IIT support group for LGBTQ+ members of faculty, students and staff. In 2018, 20 members of Pravriti, excluding the professor, had filed a petition in the Supreme Court against section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, which criminalised homosexuality and any ‘unnatural sex’. “Invisibility itself is at least a two-fold problem: one can invisibilise the LGBTQ+ scientist or invisibilise the LGBTQ+ scientist’s work. Needless to say, both have tremendous impact on the person’s work and mental health. Queer-trans scientists, who are not out, have to deal with constant mental stress of living double lives while dealing with the immense pressure of practising science in formal settings. Even queer-trans scientists who are out are met with discrimination and dismissal,” said Sayantan Datta, a queer-trans science writer, who holds a master’s degree in neural and cognitive sciences from the University of Hyderabad. Another fallout of the invisibility is that without role models, sexual and gender minority students find STEM less welcoming. Last year, IIT-B renamed its women’s cell – meant for handling sexual harassment complaints – to the gender cell. “Gender violence can happen to anybody, irrespective of their gender. It sends a message to students of all sexual orientations and gender identities that we see you and your struggles,” said Abhijit Majumder, associate professor and faculty advisor to Saathi, IIT-B’s official LGBTQ+ resource group for students, staff and faculty. Out and proud, yet isolated Mani transitioned medically and legally between 2012 and 2014 during her doctoral days. Prior to that, she preferred working independently. “The very idea of a workplace is rather new to me. Visibility meant that I had to learn to interact. Yes, it takes some effort to get used to. Many people are not aware or are ill-informed. I think that means many people may be avoiding any interaction or that they may be acting against my interests. So I have to work against the tide,” she said. Stigma, casual sexism, misgendering, jokes and hidden discriminatory rules aggravate the alienation. A 2019 survey of 1,000 UK-based physical scientists found that almost 30% of LGBTQ+ scientists and half of transgender scientists said that they had considered leaving their workplace because of an unfriendly or hostile climate or because of discrimination. Discrimination against women is a symptom that the system of academia is not healthy, said Prajval Shastri, an astrophysicist retired from the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, Bengaluru. “The notion that science is all about merit and everything else — caste and religious lineage, gender and sexual identities — don’t matter is not borne out by evidence. When it comes to women in STEM, there is clear evidence that unconscious bias and hidden norms compromise merit, and institutes must acknowledge that,” said Shastri, who advocates intersectional feminism at academic spaces. Mental health Growing up, Mani experienced gender dysphoria—a psychological distress that results from incongruence between one’s sex assigned at birth and one’s gender identity. Being closeted only added to the distress, and she suffered from depression. Datta, earlier this year, surveyed 47 people in STEM in India, who are from the LGBTQ+ community. The survey found that 38% of respondents agreed that being LGBTQIA+ in STEM has affected their mental health. Another 38% said that being LGBTQIA+ in STEM may have impacted their mental health, although they were not sure. While most campuses now have in-house psychologists and counsellors, it is important to have counsellors who are LGBTQ-friendly, said Niruj Mohan Ramanujam, scientist at Indian Institute of Astrophysics. More than a safe space On June 17 – marked as the International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia – the IIT-B professor came across a homophobic comment made by an international scientist on a global messaging group which he is a part of. The comment was flagged and the scientist was removed from the group, only to be allowed again due to procedural issues. Some members of that global group of scientists also commented that the person had the right to express an opinion, even if it is homophobic. “Had it been a racist comment, the reaction would have been different. But when it comes to gender and sexual minorities, people are willing to offer a discount to discrimination,” said the professor. Saathi at IIT-B became one of the first LGTBQ+ support groups at any IIT in 2011. Since then, it has been advocating the creation of an inclusive campus. In 2019, it became an official body with a say in hostel and cultural affairs at the institute. “With the help of Saathi, we have been able to create a safe space for our LGBTQ+ members on campus. The next step is to make it more welcoming,” said Majumder. “Sexuality of an individual sometimes evolves with time, and it is a good idea to see such an evolution getting an expressional space in the broad, plural and diversity enriched society,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director, IIT-B. However, a lot more needs to be done. “Specifically for the purpose of making campuses safer and accessible for the LGBTQ community, apart from reservation, it is necessary to increase sensitisation, have related programmes, appoint qualified feminists to help with issues, provide for inclusive healthcare and infrastructure. For example, lesbian research scholars do not get to live with their spouses in special hostels, while other married straight research scholars are permitted to live together. Most non-binary identified people do not have access to gender-neutral toilets,” said Mani, whose research areas include algebra, logic, rough sets, formal approaches to vagueness and allied areas. The draft science, technology and innovation policy, issued by the ministry of science and technology last December, attempts to correct some of these problems. It proposes to offer spousal benefits to LGBTQ+ community, including retirement benefits to any partner irrespective of their gender. Many feel that gender and sexuality in STEM spaces and syllabi were invisible. For example, use of the gender-neutral pronouns ‘they’ or ‘ze’ in the academic space. Artificial intelligence (AI), too, can be discriminatory. “Many AI algorithms are trained on data sets [collected from anywhere] and the results of training are used to make predictions on other situations. Such algorithms can end up learning misogyny and toxic behaviours. People are working in this area to rectify this. Usually, it is not possible to label large data sets and rectify them. Intelligent higher order methods need to be devised,” said Mani. Need for allies “Institutions must make it explicit in their advertisements for students and faculty that they are striving to be welcoming of candidates from all caste and gender backgrounds, have bias-trained medical and psychological counsellors, and build unisex toilets,” said Shastri. Diversity and inclusion committees must be set up at institutions, with outside experts, if necessary, she said. “I believe it to be particularly important that even as all faculty must make it their cause to bring in equity, diversity and inclusion within the workplace, allyship training of the existing STEM members by expert trainers from outside the profession, in order to make the workplace welcoming of LGBTQ+ people, is critical,” said Shastri. Mani has taken up activism, promoting lesbian rights and the free software movement. “Within the free software communities, I have helped with codes of conduct in mailing lists, other forums, conferences, and have helped in initiating action against people indulging in sexist behaviour and harassment,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/isolated-invisible-lgbtq-scientists-talk-about-their-experience-at-workplace-101624216113486.html
21-06-2021||Other||2 months after results, University of Mumbai yet to begin PhD, MPhil admissions||Results for the preliminary eligibility test (PET) for PhD and MPhil aspirants were announced by the University of Mumbai (MU) in April. However, admissions for the courses are yet to take off. In a call to speed up the pending admissions process, the varsity has now decided to decentralise the process for PhD and MPhil subjects, with plans to kick-off the procedure in the next couple of weeks.“We have taken stock of the resources to make sure that we have appropriate number of guides for the students. By decentralising this admissions process, we’ll entrust each department to handle the oral exams so that the admission process can start, said B N Gaikwad, in-charge registrar, MU. He added that the varsity is currently waiting to find out if oral exams for candidates can be conducted in physical form instead of online. “If the situation permits, we will push for face-to-face meetings, but it all depends on the Covid-19 situation. If left with no choice, the process will be conducted online,” added Gaikwad.Before 2021, MU had conducted its last PET exam in December 2018, and the applications made headlines, with an almost 85% rise in PhD applicants. From 3,350 and 3,333 applications in 2016 and 2017 respectively, the varsity received 6,168 applications in 2018, with the maximum being for the science and technology streams, followed by humanities, commerce and management sector.After being unable to hold the exam due to various reasons in 2019 and due to Covid-19 in 2020, MU was expecting an even bigger turnout for the entrance exam this year. “In 2018 itself we witnessed a rise in applications because the exam was held after a break of almost 16 months. This year, PET was held after over two years. So we were not surprised to receive 11,351 applications for PhD alone,” said a senior official from MPhil and PhD department of the university.The university had originally planned to conduct PET in May 2020, for which registrations took place between February 27 and March 31. But due to the national lockdown, MU could not conduct the entrance exam. This year, registrations began in January and were extended till March, in order to accommodate students who cleared their master’s programmes in December 2020, after which the entrance exam was held between March 25 and 27.“The number of applications is almost double because applicants from last year and this year have applied together. We were also very happy to see almost 55% of the applications were that of female candidates,” said the MU official.Experts, however, feel that the rise in PhD applications will not materialise into student count due to the lack of appropriate number of guides across various departments of the university. At present, officials have confirmed that MU boasts of around 1,500 professors, associate professors as well as assistant professors who can work as guides with PhD as well as MPhil students. However, these guides are already working with enough number of students at present making it impossible for them to mentor anymore.“MU is currently understaffed and the lockdown is making matters worse, leading to delay in basic work. I submitted my thesis in January, but the research and recognition committee (RRC) for my chosen subject has not met yet, which means my final interview based on my thesis has not taken place,” said a 36-year-old PhD student, who is waiting for this doctorate to apply for higher studies abroad. “Without this PhD certificate, many like me can’t apply for higher studies or better job prospects,” he added.Gaikwad, however, confirmed that RRCs for nearly 66 of 90 subjects have already been conducted, and the process is on for the remaining subjects as well. “We are making sure that candidates who have already submitted their thesis are cleared by the individual departments at the earliest, so that the guides have more vacancies for new candidates,” added Gaikwad.In 2020-21, the total number of PhD and MPhil degrees awarded at the annual convocation ceremony dropped by over 63% compared to 2019-20 academic year. Many blamed the Covid-imposed lockdown on the small number of doctorates awarded by the varsity this year. Not only was the university and its various departments under complete shutdown for the first few months of the lockdown, but candidates also highlighted several other issues, including lack of proper e-learning resources, unavailability of remote access to science labs and/or libraries and poor internet facility, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-months-after-results-university-of-mumbai-yet-to-begin-phd-mphil-admissions-101624215933528.html
21-06-2021||Other||Cargo helps pandemic-hit Indian airlines beat the blues||The two waves of Covid-19 pandemic have severely dented the air passenger segment with the demand hitting a rock bottom in both domestic and international markets. However, amid these challenging times, the cargo segment came to the rescue of domestic airlines. A massive shift towards online buying, triggered by repeated lockdowns and restrictions on people’s movement since the first wave last year, and movement of Covid-19 vaccines, medicines and other related-essentials, led to an increased transportation of cargo with air cargo cornering a major share in it. For instance, budget carrier SpiceJet – the only passenger airline in the country with a dedicated freighter fleet – saw its cargo revenue growing by 36% in the third quarter (October-December) of the last financial year. Its bigger rival IndiGo, which has been carrying in-seat cargo on its passenger aircraft along with cargo in their belly space, logged a 9.6% growth in cargo revenue in the previous fiscal. Air cargo is carried in two modes – through dedicated cargo aircraft and the belly space of a passenger aircraft. However last year, a week after the government announced the suspension of commercial passenger services and a large number of these planes were grounded, aviation safety regulator Directorate General Civil Aviation (DGCA) allowed passenger airlines to carry cargo within cabin and on-seats to help meet demand for more supplies. In the post-pandemic period, air cargo traffic recovered faster than passenger traffic, according to credit ratings agency CRISIL. While passenger traffic for financial year (FY) 2020-21 was only 34%, cargo traffic was at 74% due to the rising demand for freight during the first wave of the pandemic led by rise in e-commerce demand and disrupted global supply chains necessitating quick transport by air. Moreover, cargo volumes in this March crossed pre-Covid levels (February 2020). The faster recovery in the cargo volumes is owing to the trade of essential supplies, primarily in the pharmaceutical, medical equipment and agricultural produce sectors, according to another ratings agency, ICRA. In the past FY (2016-2020), air cargo recorded a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of 5.3%, with domestic cargo recording a faster 6% CAGR over the same period, along with international cargo which has grown at 4.8% said CRISIL. However, the share of international cargo continues to be higher at around 60%. Starting FY2013-14, the cargo traffic had witnessed continued growth till FY2018-19, with increase in both domestic and international cargo traffic, although the growth rates had remained volatile, stated ICRA. CRISIL said the proportion of domestic cargo carried as belly cargo by airlines is expected to be around 80-85% and the remaining 15-20% by dedicated cargo during FY2015-16 to FY2019-20. The proportion of international cargo carried by foreign carriers will be 80-85% and remaining 15-20% by Indian carriers during FY2015-16 to FY2019-20. The country did not have a policy for air cargo until January 2019, said former civil aviation minister Suresh Prabhu, adding that it was during his tenure that such a policy was announced to push cargo traffic amid the rapid growth in domestic passenger traffic. “The idea was to provide a backup to the airlines in the eventuality of a slowdown in passenger traffic, which is exactly happening at present. I didn’t know Covid-19 was going to come one year later. So if you don’t prepare for the worst when the going is good, you always run into difficulties,” Prabhu told HT. William Boulter, chief commercial officer at IndiGo, said that for the 2020-21 fiscal, the cargo revenue increased by 9.6%, compared to the previous year. “This has really supported IndiGo during this pandemic period when its operations have been severely impacted,” he said. “The pandemic has given us the opportunity to look at new ways of doing business. We always find new ways to combat difficult situations. We entered the crisis with no freighters but deployed around 10 A320/ A321 passenger aircraft for cargo operations as our ‘CarGo-in-cabin’ charters,” added Boulter. As per ICRA, lack of significant niche cargo (over dimensional and hazardous cargo and express shipments) and intense competition from airlines – which also carry cargo in aircraft belly – are expected to continue, restricting growth of domestic dedicated freighters in India. It also noted that airlines transport cargo at lower prices compared to dedicated freighters (given that airlines are not dependent on cargo and only operate it as an ancillary business). Observing that the Indian airline space is highly competitive and while one passenger carrier has freighter operations and another has announced plans to induct cargo aircraft, CRISIL says more players entering the cargo market may replicate the passenger space where several airlines are competing for limited demand, leading to airlines resorting to price cuts to fill aircraft. Indian airlines are structurally weak, and diversification into cargo in a changed situation seems unlikely. As the Covid-19 situation improves and capacity starts getting back into the market, belly cargo capacity would return to pre-Covid levels while the additional freight aircraft/cargo only aircraft would lead to excess capacity in the market. Furthermore, dedicated freighters command higher yields globally. The cargo yields for UPS – a US-based cargo airline – for instance, are two or two-and-a-half times more over the past three years, compared to those for Blue Dart as yields for global freighters are based on end-to-end movement of express segment, whereas for domestic freighters, it is airport-to-airport movement for the most part, according to CRISIL. “The airline continues studying the market, and as it was important not to be too influenced by the unusual demand caused by the shortage of passenger belly capacity, that will inevitably return, “ said Boulter, whose airline is set to induct four freighter aircraft into the fleet, starting next year. “We have initiated a freighter programme and are in the process of sourcing four A321CEO aircraft. The A321P2F passenger-to-freighter conversion is the most efficient narrow-bodied freighter available, offering 24 container positions and supporting a payload of up to 27 tonnes. The delivery of our first freighter is expected in the first half of 2022,” he said. As per CRISIL, air cargo is expected to grow at a CAGR of 8-10% over FY20-26, higher than the growth rate over FY2015-16 to 2019-20. According to Boulter, Indian carriers currently transport only around 10% of total export and import air cargo. “Clearly, this is not satisfactory, and IndiGo, with the acquisition of freighter aircraft and optimal use of belly space, will do its best to help redress the balance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cargo-helps-pandemic-hit-indian-airlines-beat-the-blues-101624215873515.html
21-06-2021||Bangalore||After BJP, Congress battles infighting, power tussle over Karnataka CM face||Bengaluru Far from capitalizing the growing rift within the Karnataka BJP over leadership change, the Congress in the state too finds itself in a similar position with reports of infighting emerging from within their party ranks over the chief ministerial candidate for the 2023 assembly polls.While discord between party president DK Shivakumar and opposition leader Siddaramiah is no secret, however, those who side with the leaders have unleashed a war of words on the probable Congress’s chief ministerial candidate, two years before the state heads to the polls. Zameer Ahmed Khan, the Congress legislator from Chamarajapet in Bengaluru, who continues to moot Siddaramaiah’s name has irked party president, Shivakumar, who also nurses the ambitions for the top job in the state.Though Khan has clarified that the statements were his “own opinion”, Shivakumar on Saturday issued a warning saying that everyone in the party should remain in their limits.The Congress has shown some signs of revival in recent months in the Belagavi and Maski bypolls held on April 17 as well as elections in urban local bodies ,the results of which was announced on May 1. .“There is a wave in favour of the Congress and such statements give room for growth of confusion,” R Dhruvanarayana, the working president of the party said on Sunday.Though legislators are trying to brush off the incident, they are wary that the current problems could get bigger over the next few months, making it harder for the Congress to regroup and prepare for the elections. However, they admit that the clash is due to the nursing of ambitions for the top job.“This is his best chance and he has never been closer to the opportunity than now,” said one party legislator on Sunday, referring to Shivakumar.Since Siddaramaiah joined the Congress in 2006, he has been at the helm of affairs irrespective of who holds the post of state president, making it harder for those who may not endorse him as the undisputed leader within the party.The Congress has faced similar problems in Rajasthan where the camps headed by chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot have been at each other for almost two years now. Similarly, in Punjab, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and Navjot Singh Sidhu have openly aired their differences.The leader has countered Shivakumar on several occasions, according to people aware of the developments.“This is how he (Siddaramaiah) functions,” said the legislator cited above.People aware of the developments said that Shivakumar has tried to bury the hatchet with Siddaramaiah, but with little success as the latter continues to consolidate his support base.Despite the presence of senior leaders in the Congress, the party backed Siddaramaiah in 2013 for the post of chief minister.Siddaramaiah had stormed to power on the back of the AHINDA (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits) movement and challenged the dominant caste theory prevalent in the state. The Lingayats and Vokkaligas, believed to be the two largest caste groups in the state, have their axes to grind against Siddaramaiah, people aware of the developments said.The decision to accord a separate religious status to Lingayats that left out the Veerashaivas was seen as an attempt to break the community which cost Siddaramaiah the 2018 elections.The commissioning of a caste-census in 2015 (unreleased till date) was also seen as an attempt by Siddaramaiah to challenge the political dominance enjoyed by the two communities.Siddaramaiah is from the Kuruba community that backed him in 2013. But leaders like KS Eshwarappa, a senior BJP leader and minister in the Yediyurappa government, are trying to cut into this.“Caste groups support those in power,” said a senior BJP legislator to HT during an interaction last week.The legislator said that just because a person is from a community, he does not become their leader. He applied it to Yediyurappa who has so far enjoyed the support of the Lingayats and Siddaramaiah, who is believed to have the support of the Kuruba community.Analysts add that the Congress and BJP have faced a problem in growth of second rung of leaders as people like Siddaramaiah and Yediyurappa have turned into “local chieftains”. The two leaders grew powerful when their respective central leadership was at the weakest, consolidating their clout and resisting any attempts to replace them.While the Congress may have faced a rout in most states of the country, Karnataka has been a steady source of hope where it has enjoyed power for 12 years since 2000, of which nine are on its own and the remaining in partnership with Janata Dal (Secular).Siddaramaiah is among a handful of chief ministers in the state’s history to have completed five full years in power between 2013 and 2018.Though the question of chief ministerial candidate does not arise at this juncture for a party that rarely announces a face before the results, the minor scuffle, people aware of the developments said, could snowball into a larger problem for the Congress in Karnataka.With volatility continuing within the BJP on the issue of change of leadership and fresh charges of corruption on chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his son, levelled by its own partymen, the Congress stands a chance to regroup from their rivals discord to its own advantage.As Eshwarappa said on June 16, “We have problems and we will find solutions for them. They (Congress) should have ideally exploited the problems but where are they.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/after-bjp-congress-battles-infighting-power-tussle-over-karnataka-cm-face-101624215814064.html
21-06-2021||Bangalore||K’taka further eases Covid restrictions as cases decline||Bengaluru The decline in new Covid-19 infections has prompted the BS Yediyurappa government to announce further easing of restrictions in most parts of the state and its capital, Bengaluru, from Monday. Taking a cautious approach, Karnataka has made three categories of its 30 districts where restrictions will vary and will remain in force till July 5. Though the state government has termed it graded-lifting of restrictions, people have been moving freely in places such as Bengaluru where businesses that are not listed in the guidelines continue to operate, increasing the risk of surge in infections. Experts said that the graded lifting of restrictions serve as a reminder that we are still at risk and curb movement where it is not required. “Unlock-2 is also graded in the sense, film theaters are not open, swimming pools, cap on crowding continues, capping on marriage attendees continues. It is not a total release of lockdown. It is a little more than a semi-lockdown,” Dr CN Manjunath, senior cardiologist and director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research told Hindustan Times on Sunday. Karnataka was among the worst affected regions in the country but has seen a steady decline in new infections. There are fears that by lifting restrictions too soon, crowding could resurface and increase the chances of infections. The new guidelines will see public transport like bus services and the metro operate in districts under category-I, which includes Bengaluru. The state government on Sunday said that Dharwad will also remain under category I, which will see maximum relaxations. This means that most shops, companies and other establishments in most districts, including Bengaluru, will remain open between 6 am to 5 pm. Karnataka recorded 4,517 new infections on Sunday while the positivity rate stood at 2.58%, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department. There were 8,456 recoveries that brought active caseload down to 126,813, according to the bulletin. The fatality rate continues to remain high at 2.65% as 120 more deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the toll to 33,883. Bengaluru remains the biggest contributor of new infections as India’s IT capital recorded 933 new cases and 12 deaths. There were 1902 recoveries that brought down the active caseload to 71,282, according to government data. Mysuru, one of the largest cities in Karnataka continues to remain under strict restrictions as it reported 545 new infections and 17 deaths. Meanwhile, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Sunday said that it will initiate a special vaccination campaign. Karnataka has targeted to give at least the first dose to all eligible citizens of the state by the end of the year and cover at least 80% of all above 45 years of age before the end of the month. “(The) chief commissioner (of the BBMP) said that by making micro plans in every zone under BBMP, the eligible beneficiaries must be vaccinated. More camps must be set up and teams should be formed accordingly to vaccinate more people,” according to a statement by the civic body on Sunday, attributing it to Gaurav Gupta. The chief commissioner also said that camps must be set up to vaccinate street vendors, garment workers, cab-auto drivers, vendors in the APMC market, bank staff, hotel staff, and construction workers. “As per the direction of the Government of India, a nationwide vaccination campaign is being conducted tomorrow(Monday). Priority will be given to beneficiaries over the age of 45. The vaccination of beneficiaries whose 2nd dose is pending, vaccination of health workers and frontline workers, eligible beneficiaries recognized by the government in the age group of 18 to 45 years, and the frontline workers who’ve worked in the health sector will be conducted as per government’s directions,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-further-eases-covid-restrictions-as-cases-decline-101624215574195.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Join hands with BJP, Shiv Sena MLA tells CM Uddhav Thackeray||Facing Enforcement Directorate probe in alleged money laundering cases, Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik has requested chief minister and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray to join hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party once again to save its leaders from being harassed by central agencies. Sarnaik, in a letter to Thackeray, also said that Sena’s allies Nationalist Congress Party and Congress are weakening the party and poaching its leaders. The letter has set tongues wagging in political circles, but a Sena spokesperson said the letter was written in personal capacity and is not the party’s stand. The legislator, who represents Thane’s Ovala-Majiwada constituency in the state Assembly, has faced raids by the ED on his properties. His son, Vihang, was also questioned by the agency in connection with the case. “While being in power, the Congress-NCP is poaching our party workers and weakening our party…In this situation we must get close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in my opinion. At least, with that the undeserved harassment to people like Pratap Sarnaik, Anil Parab and Ravindra Waikar will stop, such is the feeling of many party workers,” Sarnaik wrote in his letter, dated June 20. He added, “Next year there are many corporation elections including Mumbai and Thane. Though the alliance [with BJP] is off, the personal relations between many leaders of the two parties are still intact. Before it breaks, I think we must get back together.” Sarnaik claimed there are internal rumblings within Sena legislators that the work of NCP and Congress legislators are being completed in a jiffy, but even with a Shiv Sena chief minister, the work of its legislators is not happening. “By snapping alliance with the BJP, did the Shiv Sena forge Maha Vikas Aghadi for Congress-NCP to grow,” he said in his letter. “The letter is written by one MLA, and it may be his personal grievance. It is just one voice and the party does not accept such practices. It is an alliance; one cannot expect things to happen their way. There is no issue within the party [on the alliance front]. There is no faction, he is an individual. He should not have gone public [with the letter]. He could have gone and met the party chief and should have given his views,” said Arvind Sawant, Sena MP and chief spokesperson. Sanjay Raut, Sena chief spokesperson, did not comment on claims made by Sarnaik, but said that the important part of the letter was about harassment by central agencies. “He must have made some personal opinion on this, what is there to comment on that. Besides, there is an important part in the letter about “unnecessary harassment”, which is a big allegation. He may have written the letter after being fed up with the unnecessary harassment,” Raut said. State NCP chief Jayant Patil said the letter by Sarnaik is unlikely to sour the ties between the NCP and Sena or create any trouble for the MVA government. “I do not see that there has been anybody going from the Sena to Congress or NCP lately. I do not think that there will be any discomfort or clash between NCP and Shiv Sena due to this [letter]. If somebody has written a letter, we will have to see if there have been any instances in his constituency,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/join-hands-with-bjp-shiv-sena-mla-tells-cm-uddhav-thackeray-101624215453455.html
21-06-2021||Other||Mumbai housing society vax fraud: Fifth accused brought from MP||Mumbai Police have arrested Mohammed Karim Akbar Ali, the fifth person accused of holding an unauthorised vaccination drive at Hiranandani Heritage housing society, Kandivli, on May 30. Ali was detained by the Government Railway Police (GRP) on Friday after he alighted a train at Madhya Pradesh. He was brought to Mumbai on Sunday.According to senior police inspector Balasaheb Salunkhe, the investigating officers had given the name of the train on which Ali was trying to flee Mumbai to GRP. “Based on the information, GRP officers caught him,” said Salunkhe.Ali is said to be the link between two accused – Mahendra Singh and Ramesh Pandey – and a doctor, Manish Tripathi, who is absconding. Police officers said Ali, who was trained by Dr Tripathi, was responsible for finding data entry staff and ward boys to assist the vaccination drive by private hospitals and introducing them to Dr Tripathi and Singh. “Tripathi was the one who procured vials of Covishield vaccination. We are still investigating the source from where he got the vaccines,” said Salunkhe. The police also said that Dr Tripathi was present at Hiranandani Heritage and administered the vaccine to 390 members.Meanwhile on Sunday, a second first information report (FIR) was registered against the same accused at Versova police station in another unauthorised vaccine drive, where 150 employees of a film production house and their families were given Covishield in May, but did not receive the vaccine certificates. The FIR was registered under sections 268 (public nuisance), 270 (malignant act which is likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life), 274 (adulteration of drugs), 275 (sale of adulterated drugs), 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery) and relevant sections of the Information Technology (IT) and Epidemic Diseases Acts. Officers said that once Kandivli police complete their probe, the five accused will be arrested by Versova police.After the society members of Hiranandani Heritage approached the police, Borivli-based Aditya College also lodged a complaint about a similar unauthorised drive on their campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-housing-society-vax-fraud-fifth-accused-brought-from-mp-101624215393466.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||How fraudster scripted a ₹2-crore con by offering ‘lead roles’ in films||Cyber police arrested an actor and cyber fraudster for cheating parents by promising to get their children cast in lead roles of Bollywood and ad films featuring top celebrities. Police suspect he has duped over 100 parents of ₹2 crore.Borivli resident Mahesh Gupta paid ₹32.69 lakh to have his 15-year-old daughter play the lead role in a film titled Bachchon ki Duniya, while a senior executive of a hotel chain in Bengaluru shelled out ₹16.5 lakh to feature his 7-year-old son in an advertisement for a biscuit brand.After months of tracking of digital footprints of the suspect, the cyber police team of deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Dr Rashmi Karandikar, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Nitin Jadhav inspector Ravikiran Nale, assistant inspectors Amit Uttekar, S Pore and others nabbed the fraudster, Apurva Ashwin Dauda alias Dr Rishi Shroff, 47, last week.One of the complainants, Gupta, said, “In the middle of a pandemic, when there is a health emergency around, businesses are shutting down, people are losing jobs, economy is falling apart, lives of middle class and poor people are shattered, and in between all this if you see a golden opportunity that can brighten the future of your child, you are bound to jump on it.”Gupta, who supplies spare parts of aircrafts, said, “In August 2020, I received a random SMS and next day a woman named Alisha Kapoor called me informing about an opportunity for kids to be cast in cinema and ad films.” Gupta was encouraged to view some websites of modelling agencies named Ellee Advertising, Ford Advertising, Zara Kids, etc which were allegedly run by Dauda’s company. Gupta was promised that his daughter would be cast in an ad film of a biscuit brand with Virat Kohli and Deepika Padukone and in another ad film featuring players from Mumbai Indians.After seeing the websites, he thought them to be genuine. “Like every other parent, I also thought that if my daughter (a Class 10 student) gets some exposure to entertainment industry at an early stage it will be a good start for a brighter future for her,” said Gupta.Dauda allegedly also sent Gupta a memorandum of understanding promising that his daughter would get ₹1.25 lakh for each day’s shoot. The Bengaluru victim said, “Before casting my son, the accused wanted to take an audition and asked me to send a video of my son. He then said my son was selected and asked for registration fees of ₹1.25 lakh for five years of contract with his agency.” “Dauda played his game very cleverly and would never meet his targets in-person and always spoke to them over phone. To ensure that his victims do not raise any suspicion on him, he would fix a meeting with them in any five-star hotel and would cancel the meeting at the last moment claiming that some urgent work had come up,” said assistant commissioner of police (cyber) Nitin Jadhav.The Bangalore complainant said, “Since I am in the hotel industry I cross-checked his claims with Grand Hayat hotel where he claimed to have made bookings for our meeting which also included Virat Kohli. I found he had actually made the booking. But before my wife and I could board a flight to Mumbai, he called me saying Virat Kohli delayed the meeting by a few weeks due to Covid-19 spread.”However, Dauda told the victims that as their children had been finalised for the shoot and the quality of the ad film would be high scale they would use costumes only from celebrity designers. Under the pretext of buying designer clothes for the kids for shooting, the accused would ask the parents to pay to refundable deposits for the clothes. He would also extract money from the parents under the pretext of buying accessories for the kids for shooting purpose. However, it took time for the parents to understand that they were cheated. “After three months when he almost exhausted all excuses to delay the shooting further he started ignoring me. He stopped answering my calls and messages, deactivated his phone number. By this time, I had already sent ₹32.69 lakh to him in various bank accounts,” said Gupta. He then lodged a complaint with the Mumbai police.“The fraudster would always make WhatsApp calls saying he is shooting at a place where cellular network was poor. He did this to ensure his conversation with the victims were not recorded and do not reflect in CDRs (call data records),” said assistant inspector Amit Uttekar.“To ensure that his location is not traced he would use internet-based network and virtual private network (VPN) to contact his targets. He used multiple mobile phones and sim cards,” said DCP Karandikar.Cybercrime officers also questioned him about how he would find potential targets and their contacts. “Dauda would send boys to malls and collect data of affluent people in the name of contests, surveys, etc. He would also fraudulently obtain data of car owners, doctors and people from other reputed professions from various internet sites. He has data of nearly 50 lakh such people,” said inspector Ravikiran Naale.The Bangalore victim says that before beginning his game the accused would do a profiling of the accused. “He knew that I am from hotel industry so he first researched about my seniors and bosses of previous employments and took their names while speaking to me to build trust,” the victim said.Dauda also contacted a fashion designer company and somehow managed to get the contacts of models and then duped them similarly under the pretext of casting them in ad films, said the police,Graduated from a prominent college in south Mumbai, Dauda also studied at TFT Business School in Colorado, United States. He learnt acting from the acting school of Kishore Namit Kapoor, Juhu and worked nearly 10 years in the ad film industry for many popular FMCG brands.Claiming to be a member of known cinema, TV artists, writers associations, Dauda was making a film named Trance under the banner of his company Arman Films and needed ₹25 lakh to make the trailer. Hence, he came up with the idea of duping people under the pretext of offering them roles with the help of fake websites.According to the police, analysis of his bank accounts indicates that he has deceived more than 100 such parents and cheated them of around ₹2 crore over the past four years.After the police arrested Dauda, Gupta went to meet him. He said, “When I went to the police station to see him, he again made false emotional attempts, asking me to spare him. His wife too was begging me, but you cannot forgive someone who has destroyed your life,” He added, “Forget about my daughter’s career, he robbed all my savings that I had saved for my daughter’s future. When I realised that he has duped me, me and my family were in complete shock for months. My wife’s both kidneys have failed, she is now on the verge of losing vision completely. She is also diabetic. I had to face shortage of funds for her medical treatment as I had invested all savings for the kid’s future with a hope that soon I would get the refund. The last six to eight months were very traumatic and stressful for me and my family, especially in the middle of a pandemic.”“My 78-year-old father passed away in May month. He had heart attack. But even during his last days he would keep on consoling me saying, ‘Beta, don’t worry, he (the fraudster) would get caught one day’,” Gupta said.My daughter is a teenager and she knows that her family has been duped. She was very excited to work with film and cricket stars. But, the fraudster has shattered all her dreams. Such devastating things impact kids minds and confidence adversely.Police probe has revealed that Dauda has a company in Dubai and investigators are checking if it was used in the fraud. His three passports, cheques books of 11 different bank accounts and agreement documents of his bogus companies have been seized. The police believe that there are many other victim parents who still have not yet approached the police. “We urge all those victims to come forward, register their complaints, and help police,” DCP Dr Karandikar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-fraudster-scripted-a-2-crore-con-by-offering-lead-roles-in-films-101624215333444.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||3 people drown; 2 at the same spot in Thane’s Yeoor lake||Prasad Pavaskar, 16, drowned in Nilapani lake of Yeoor Patonapada on Sunday morning. Vartak Nagar police registered an accidental death report in the case.Pavaskar, son of constable Madhukar Pavaskar, was out on a picnic with his friends in Yeoor after six months. According to Vartak nagar police, he left home at 6am with six friends. During the trip, the deceased jumped into the lake and hit a stone, leading to head injury, following which one of his friends pulled him out of water. Santosh Kadam from the regional disaster management team said, “After some time, Pavaskar wanted to get back in the water and was standing at one of the stones when he fainted and fell. He got stuck in a gap between two stones and drowned by the time his friends called locals for help. Our team found his body and handed it over body to the police.”Inspector S Ghatekar said, “The boy came out with his friends after a long time. He knew how to swim and fainted due to his head injury. We sent the body for postmortem and registered an accidental death report in the matter.” Hundreds of citizens allegedly stepped out during the weekend. Vartak Nagar police and Yeoor locals have been removing people for the past two weekends from crowded places in their area.Shankar Janave, a local, said, “We seriously need a team of civic body, forest and police officers to control the crowd. Thousands of people have started visiting picnic spots here and do not follow any pandemic rules, risking villagers’ lives. We have requested the police for help, and are going to send a request letter to the collector to stop this crowd.”In two different incidents two more persons died by drowning on Sunday. The second death took place at the same spot around 3.30pm when Juber Sayyed, 20, who had gone swimming with his friends, drowned.In another incident, Sutesh Karavade, 33, went to swim in an artificial pond where he got stuck inside mud and drowned to death||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-people-drown-2-at-the-same-spot-in-thane-s-yeoor-lake-101624215214100.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Nine districts of Maharashtra accounting for 50% fresh Covid-19 cases||Even as the state’s daily Covid-19 cases have reduced comparatively, a major chunk of the infections come from the rural areas of nine districts of Maharashtra. The state added 9,361 fresh infections on Sunday, of which 5,194 come from the rural parts of Raigad, Ahmednagar, Pune, Solapur, Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli, Ratnagiri, and Sindhudurg districts. The state’s active case count was 132,241, while the state’s overall tally rose to 5,972,781. Mumbai reported 747 fresh Covid-19 infections and 19 deaths. The city’s active caseload was 18,591.These nine districts have been reporting around 50% of the state’s cases for some time now. State health department and health experts said that the viral activity works in a different manner and parts showing higher numbers will eventually go down. On Sunday, 761 cases were reported in Ratnagiri, 728 in Satara, 725 in Kolhapur rural, 643 in Raigad, 579 in Pune rural, 572 in Sangli rural, 549 in Ahmednagar rural, 329 in Sindhudurg and 308 in Solapur rural, the state data said. These areas reported 55.48% cases on Sunday.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services (Maharashtra) and advisor to the state government, on Covid-19 said that the pandemic does not behave in the same manner across areas. “Western Maharashtra places, particularly Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli, and Ratnagiri and Sindhdurg in the Konkan region, are not showing a distinct decline we are seeing in other parts of the state. The virus does not behave in the same manner across geographical limits. The virus could have entered late in these rural areas,” he said.Besides these areas, the other major contributors remain Mumbai, Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad. These areas clock around 25% of the state’s daily case count. On Sunday, MMR (excluding Mumbai) added 1,253 cases, while Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad added 553 cases. Collectively, Mumbai, MMR, Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad contributed to 27.27% of the state’s cases on Sunday.The case fatality rate (CFR) of the state has climbed in the past month as the state added over 21,000 fatalities in its data reconciliation process since May 21. A whopping 21,147 deaths have been added to the state’s tally in almost a month, which has taken the CFR from 1.54% on May 20 to 1.97% on Sunday. Between May 20 and June 20, 32,606 deaths were added, of which 21,147 were as part of the data-cleaning process. “Deaths have occurred in the second wave, but rather than looking at the absolute numbers, we must see that the CFR has remained under control. CFR was much lower than what we saw in the first wave,” said a health department official, who did not wish to be named.The state added 415 deaths to the state’s progressive death tally on Sunday, besides the 190 deaths in the past 24 hours. Out of the 415 deaths, 164 occurred in Pune, 81 in Nashik, 59 in Ahmednagar, 25 in Thane, 20 in Ratnagiri, 12 in Aurangabad, 11 in Beed, 10 in Satara, seven in Buldhana, five in Akola, four each in Nagpur and Sangli, two each in Hingoli, Solapur and Wardha, one each in in Amravati, Jalna, Kolhapur, Latur, Parbhani, Washim and Yavatmal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nine-districts-of-maharashtra-accounting-for-50-fresh-covid-19-cases-101624215213493.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 20 Delta+ Covid variant cases: Officials||A total of 20 cases of the new Sars-CoV-2 variant AY.1, also dubbed the Delta-plus, have been found in samples collected from at least four districts of Maharashtra — Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Palghar and Jalgaon. More samples have been sent for genome sequencing to understand whether the new variant is dominant or scattered, state government officials said.The Delta-plus, formed by mutation in the Delta (B.1.617.2) variant, is currently a “variant of interest”, and hasn’t been classified as a “variant of concern” by the Union health ministry yet.In April, the state government signed an MoU with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research’s (CSIR) Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) to sequence 100 Covid positive samples each from 36 districts per month.Genome sequencing is an exercise to study changes in the structure of the virus over time.State health minister Rajesh Tope while confirmed receiving a genome sequencing report from CSIR-IGIB, refused to discuss the matter till Monday. “CSIR-IGIB has prepared a report based on samples collected of Covid positive patients from all districts of the state... The contents of the report will be discussed in a meeting to be held on Monday and inferences will be drawn...,” he said.In Ratnagiri, Dr Sanghamitra Gawde, a civil surgeon, said she has not received the final report confirming the presence of the Delta-plus variant, but said 50 samples have been sent to the National Institute of Virology for genome sequencing in June.“We are randomly collecting samples from areas that are recording high infections...”Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state advisor to Covid-19 task force, said he hasn’t received the official report from the public health department, but said: “The Delta variant is extremely infectious and contributed to a great extent in the second wave. So, we need to study the epidemiological characteristics of the mutated virus (Delta plus) to understand its implications in the general population.”Earlier this week, Dr VK Paul, Niti Aayog member (health), said the variant was first observed in Europe in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/20-delta-plus-covid-cases-found-in-maharashtra-101624215154627.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Part of MVA till 2024 but alliance not permanent: Nana Patole||A day after the Maharashtra chief minister’s remark that people will “beat with footwear” those who talk of contesting assembly polls alone, the state Congress chief Nana Patole on Sunday clarified that it “will continue to be part of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition” till the five-year tenure is completed, adding that MVA is not a “permanent arrangement”.“The Congress will remain with Uddhav Thackeray for five years. The promise has been made by none other than Sonia Gandhiji,” Nana Patole, state Congress chief, told reporters in Pune. “...Sonia Gandhi’s stand to be a part of the MVA was to prevent the BJP from coming to power (in 2019) . However, it had no mention that we are permanent in alliance,” he added.Addressing Shiv Sena’s 55th foundation day on Saturday, Thackeray said, “If we do not offer solutions to people’s problems but only talk about going it alone in politics, people will beat us with footwear...” Though he chose not to name anyone, the remarks made clear that he was not happy with the stand taken by the Congress state unit.Patole said that Thackeray didn’t name any party and he would respond if that is cleared.Meanwhile, the Nationalist Congress Party insisted that the three allies — Sena, NCP and Congress — are together and will contest polls as an alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-will-remain-part-of-mva-till-end-of-tenure-says-congress-101624215155256.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body chalks vax plan for potential superspreaders; drive only for 30+||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to vaccinate on priority “potential superspreaders” or those who are in touch with multiple people daily, in order to control the spread of Covid-19, amid the threat of a third wave. This category includes auto-taxi drivers, hawkers, delivery executives, restaurant staff, daily wage workers, among others. Further, although the Central government has allowed all citizens above the age of 18 to get vaccinated for free starting Monday, however, in Mumbai, vaccination will be conducted only for those who are 30+, following the state’s directives.The BMC is exploring various options to develop a mechanism to start vaccination of citizens in these categories. A final decision on the same is expected to be taken this week. The plan is similar to the earlier model of testing on priority such individuals who come in touch with multiple citizens on a daily basis.According to BMC officials, one of the options is to start vaccination for citizens under the superspreader category on a walk-in basis, however, nothing has been decided yet. Also, there are deliberations over whether citizens above 18 must be allowed under this category or only citizens above 30, which is permitted by the state government.The state government had on Friday allowed vaccination for citizens between the age group of 30 and 45. The vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group will be restarted in a phased manner considering the supply of doses, the officials said.Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s Public Health Department said, “We are planning to vaccinate on priority a certain set of people who are in touch with multiple citizens. We are working on various options for the same and also deliberating on the age group for the same. For now, the vaccination drive for 30+ will continue in the city.”Earlier, a week ago the BMC had also decided to vaccinate all the staff of restaurants in the city, however, now the scope of the vaccination has been expanded to multiple categories.To give a boost to the vaccination drive in the city, the BMC will double the doses supplied to each vaccination centre in the city from the current 100 doses to 200-300, depending on demand and usage.The BMC said the supply in June from the central government is better than that of May, which saw a major fall when compared to April. The increased supply will, however, be valid for civic and government centres. For private hospitals, BMC will act as an aggregator for vaccine procurement.Dr Gomare added, “For now, we got supply of above 100,000 doses say three days back and also on Sunday we got around 100,000 doses. Hence, the supply is sufficient to have the vaccination drive ongoing.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “We are now giving 300 vaccine doses to each centre, considering the scope of vaccination has also increased now. Our priority will be to administer maximum doses on a daily basis.”As of now, the vaccination remains on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and on appointment basis between Thursday and Saturday, while vaccination remains shut on Sunday.Meanwhile, as of Saturday, 4,462,767 citizens have been vaccinated in the city. Of these, 1,063,792 are in age group of 18 to 44, 1,375,665 are above 45 to 59 years, 1,336,547 1 above 60 years, 3,089 are lactating mothers, 3901 are those students wanting to go abroad for further studies, and the rest are healthcare and frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-chalks-vax-plan-for-potential-superspreaders-drive-only-for-30-101624215154057.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants anticipatory bail to cop accused of sexual exploitation||The Bombay high court (HC) has granted anticipatory bail to a constable accused of sexual exploitation of a female colleague under the pretext of marriage. The court prima facie held that as the sexual relationship between the two police personnel was consensual and voluntary from the beginning, the application can be allowed and directed the release of the accused in the event of arrest. The accused constable is posted with the traffic department at Malabar Hill. The single-judge bench of justice SK Shinde, while hearing the anticipatory bail application of Madhav Krishna Vasave was informed by advocate Arjun Kadam on June 11, that he had approached the HC seeking relief in the case registered at Byculla police station by a female colleague, as the sessions court had rejected his plea for protection in March. Vasave was booked for offences of rape, outraging modesty of woman, cheating by personation under sections of the Indian Penal Code and for identity of theft under the Information Technology Act, 2000. According to the complaint, the two got acquainted in 2017 while working together and got into a relationship. Vasave allegedly had not disclosed that he was married, and later when it came to light Vasave had said he would divorce his wife as she was psychologically unfit. The complaint further states that on the promise of marriage Vasave forced her to have physical relation. He had allegedly also borrowed ₹1.5 lakh from her. When she asked him to return the money he allegedly abused her, following which she severed her ties with him. The complaint further said that Vasave emotionally and physically abused the woman, pressured her to maintain a relationship, and recorded her videos and was threatening to upload it on social media. The woman further said that after she agreed to marry another person in September 2020, the accused again threatened to post videos of her in compromising position. The marriage was later called off, following which she lodged the complaint in March, this year. Advocate SR Nargolkar for Vasave submitted that the sexual relationship between the applicant and complainant was consensual and voluntary and the woman was aware that he was married. He claimed the allegations of video recording were false and added that Vasave had cooperated with the investigating officer by handing over his mobile phone. In view of this, he urged the court to grant Vasave protection from arrest. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed, “The complaint, prima-facie, suggests that the love and sexual relationship between the applicant and the complainant was consensual and voluntary since beginning. It may be stated that after lodging the complaint, the complainant was examined by the medical officer.”The court also directed the forensic science laboratory (FSL) to trace the deleted or available data on the mobile photo and submit its opinion and report on or before July 16. The bench then posted further hearing to July 19 and directed Vasave’s release on executing personal bond of ₹50,000 in the event of arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-cop-accused-of-sexual-exploitation-101624215093377.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants anticipatory bail to man accused of abetting suicide||The Bombay high court (HC) has granted anticipatory bail to a man accused of abetting the suicide of a woman. The single judge bench of justice Prakash Naik, while hearing the anticipatory bail application of Samir Shaikh on June 11, was informed by advocate Sana Khan that the complaint by the brother of the deceased woman wherein her client has been named as the abettor is not true as the records prove otherwise. He said that though the man was serenading the woman, it was the constant harassment of her husband that pushed her to take the drastic step, and hence the man should be protected from arrest. In the complaint lodged at Nehru Nagar police station on January 23, the deceased’s brother alleged that as Shaikh had been calling his sister repeatedly, it led to the strains in the relation between his sister and her husband, as a result of which his sister committed suicide. However, while arguing for Shaikh, Khan submitted that the relationship between the deceased and her client were consensual and the woman had indicated that her husband intended to kill her. Khan further submitted that there was no suicide note and there were no previous complaints by the victim against the applicant, as there was no evidence to establish that the applicant had instigated or abetted the victim to commit suicide. However, additional public prosecutor YM Nakhwa for the state submitted that the husband had alleged that Shaikh was constantly harassing his wife by calling her. After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that as there was no incriminating evidence against Shaikh and he had complied with the earlier directions of the court to appear before the investigating officer and cooperate with the investigation, it was allowing the application and directed the release of Shaikh on a PR bond of ₹25,000 in the event of arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-man-accused-of-abetting-suicide-101624215035392.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai pot brownie supply case: Three more arrested||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested three persons in three separate cases and allegedly seized multiple drugs in commercial quantities, as part of its week-long intense efforts against drug suppliers and peddlers in the city ahead of International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking.In the first operation, the agency arrested Sachin Tupe, 26, a college drop-out, from Andheri in connection with last week’s case wherein the agency busted a marijuana brownie bakery in Malad (West). Tupe was allegedly supplying marijuana to drug supplier Jagat Chaurasia who was arrested by the agency on June 12 in the pot brownie bakery case. Chaurasia used to supply the contraband to Elston Fernandes and a 20-year-old woman who was running the bakery, said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede.The agency recovered 11 blots of LSD in commercial quantity from him and further investigation is on. The second operation was conducted on the basis of specific information and the agency intercepted one auto driver Afsar Khan from Goregaon (West) and during the search allegedly recovered 20 grams of cocaine worth ₹2 lakh. During interrogation, it was revealed that Khan was connected with an African national based in Mira Road and was supplying cocaine for him. NCB is trying to locate the African national, added Wankhede. The third operation was carried out in Mahim where the agency raided a house, recovered 60 gram of Mephedrone and 360 grams of marijuana and arrested Fahad Salim Qureshi. On June 12, NCB officers conducted raids in a bakery shop in Malad (West) and arrested three persons including a woman and main supplier of marijuana, and allegedly seized 830 grams of edible pot brownie and 160 grams of marijuana from them.A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act against three accused. During interrogation, it was learnt that the accused found the idea of selling edible weed with brownie cake through an online streaming service.The agency discovered a new trend among youths of consuming pot brownies. This was the first case in India in which the edible weed is used for baking and the agency cracked the nexus, added Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-pot-brownie-supply-case-three-more-arrested-101624215033466.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||No online classes, children take up odd jobs in Malshej||With the residents of adivasi padas in Malshej losing their livelihoods during lockdown, the children in the families are now helping parents in earning daily meals. As digital education has not reached these areas, the children are forced to work. Adivasi padas such as Shiravali and five padas near Tokawade village are facing severe scarcity due to loss of income since the past several months. Families who were selling vegetables, food items on the street to travellers, are now left with no option as all picnic spots are closed due to the pandemic. In addition, these areas face severe electricity issues, pushing the chance of digital education further away for the children residing here. Jayesh Pawar, a social worker, said, “Children of Shiravali village have started fishing or taking u other small work around the area to earn money for daily chores. I came to know about it when I found these children were using mosquito nets to catch fish and earn ₹30 to ₹40 by selling it. When the school started here a few years back, I convinced all parents to send their children to school. But now we cannot see these children as they lost their touch with school. It has become a difficult task for all of us to find them again and make them realise the importance of education.”Satish Thakare, a 10-year-old from Tokavade village who has been fishing for the past two months, said, “I joined the school four years ago but continued only for a year. Now I enjoy fishing, as my school is closed.” However, after seeing a lecture on a mobile phone, he got excited and said, “I would like to learn this.” A zilla parishad officer from Malshej said, “Our teachers and staff along with social workers would visit every adivasi pada and make the children sit in the school with several innovative ideas to attract them. Now due to Covid-19 duty, staff remain less and it’s hard to reach out to every Adivasi padas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-online-classes-children-take-up-odd-jobs-in-malshej-101624214973496.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: Diversify portfolio to tide over market volatility||The coronavirus pandemic coupled with the upheaval in the stock market has forced many to re-evaluate their mutual fund investments. Continued investments in mutual funds is the key to earning high returns though plunging net asset values (NAVs) and volatility in the market in these unprecedented times have changed people’s outlook towards debt and hybrid funds considering their relative stability over equities.That investments must be aligned to one’s goals is the mantra that guides every successful investor. Allocate, check, adjust, churn and re-adjust are simple steps to do to ensure that every investment you make is in tune with your short-term and long-term goals. Portfolio diversification is not a one-time task but involves a series of steps that could be repetitive. Here’s where you start.If you are a long-term investor, consider investing in mutual funds for returns that beat inflation and help you earn more. Adhil Shetty, CEO, BankBazaar.com, an online marketplace for financial products, said, “Mutual funds are a good investment if you have at least three years to remain invested. If you are investing in children’s education, a large-cap fund or a blue-chip fund would be a good idea as these are less risky and provide returns to the tune of 12-18%. The chances of capital erosion in these funds are also less. The risk-averse can also consider debt-oriented hybrid funds that earn usually between 8-12% depending on the fund.” Many people also invest in secure government instruments that earn returns more than the inflation rate. Choose your investments: Making the right pick of assets is an arduous decision and warrants a correct understanding of financial goals and risk tolerance. Mutual funds performing well under specific market conditions may not deliver similar results when the economy is in doldrums. The epidemic has shifted the focus from equity investments to mixed investments including debt instruments and fixed income schemes. Equity investments fall into different categories including investments in stocks/shares, equity mutual funds, arbitrage schemes and real estate funds. Debt instruments include bonds issued by companies, municipalities and various government sectors The fixed income schemes are mostly bank deposits including savings accounts and money invested in deposits promising fixed returns.Jayesh Faria, associate director, Motilal Oswal Private Wealth Management, an investment and fund management company, said, “Do detailed personal risk profiling activity and arrive at ideal asset allocation keeping circumstances and requirements in mind. Roughly 80% of the strategic portfolio must be allocated to stay invested all the time. The balance 20% can be looked at tactically to take the opportunity of market volatility.” The open-ended nature of mutual funds helps to minimize investors’ risk quotient as concerned fund managers allocate the pooled amount into multiple stocks depending on the fund subscription by the investors.Mere diversification of funds between the market and those earning fixed returns is not enough. You must also know how to diversify your allocations within your equity fund instruments depending on funds availability and understanding of risk versus returns. Also, holding several mutual funds incessantly without looking at their composition is tomfoolery. Instead, the focus must be on the diversification of mutual funds according to their market cap. You need to diversify across different fund categories such as flexicap, midcap, small-cap, and large & midcap. Even in debt instruments, pay attention to a proper mix of long-duration, medium duration, and short-term debt funds for better results.Lump sum or SIPs? The decision to invest a definite amount in mutual funds or pay for mutual fund investments through small instalments has sent many people into a quandary.Prashant Sawant, co-founder, Catalyst Wealth, a wealth management company, said, “SIP is a good option for the current volatile market. Since it is a disciplined investment plan it helps reduce the propensity to market fluctuations, cost averaging and render significant wealth creation in the long run.” Many investors are unable to decide if they must invest regularly in small chunks or wait for the right time to put their money in the market in a lump sum. Speaking on factors that guide investment making decisions in lump sum or SIPs, Dr Joseph Thomas, Head of Research, Emkay Wealth Management, a financial services firm, says, “In a country like India where retail participation in mutual funds is growing over the decades, SIP has served the purpose of giving access to funds for such investors even with very small monthly investments that are very much within the reach of the common man. Also, this mode is important is because one need not be bothered about the day-to-day happenings in the market. It is a matter of common experience that in a highly bullish market and one-way movement, a lump sum will provide you with better returns.”Diversification helps to bear the brunt of sudden bull market corrections or gain from the bear market rallies. The equity stock market does not promise linear returns, and hence, it helps to enter the market in a phased manner through small and regular investments over a long period.Monitor diversifications: Most people forget to check the performance of their investment portfolio. Once you have decided your investment choices and diversified accordingly, it is important to monitor their performance and plan the right step too. This is because some mutual funds may not perform as per your expectations. Their ineffectiveness must translate to relegating them to the lowest share of the investment portfolio while more money can be allocated to the more stable and outperforming ones. Check for the funds’ annual returns, growth in dividend income and asset allocation to assess your funds’ performance. Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-diversify-portfolio-to-tide-over-market-volatility-101624214914154.html
21-06-2021||Other||Slums in Mumbai breathed easy in the second Covid-19 wave||Mumbai In the second wave – marked by more infectious and transmissible new strains of Sars-Cov-2 – the cumulative Covid-19 cases in Mumbai surged by four times as compared to last year. However, the city’s slum pockets, where the possibility of prevalence and spread of the novel coronavirus infection was considered to be higher, showed more resilience, while the high-rise buildings turned into epicentres of transmission. Public health experts, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and medical practitioners have cited several reasons for fewer Covid-19 cases in slums. These include development of natural antibodies among slum dwellers that acted a protective shield, quicker response by stakeholders, the ongoing vaccination drive and better awareness. The civic body is now prepping up for studies to find answers for the change in the epidemiological characteristic of the pandemic. In March 2020, when Covid-19 struck Mumbai, the virus spread from residential buildings to slums, which emerged as the biggest cause of concern owing to their dense population. Asia’s biggest slum Dharavi was declared a ‘red zone’ area. Many slum dwellers migrated to their villages and no one was allowed to enter or exit containment zones, bringing the life of hundreds of residents to a standstill. As a result, public health experts feared a repeat of last year’s scenario at the start of the second wave in mid-February, especially due to mutation of the virus. However, data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows that 90% infections in the second wave were recorded in high-rise buildings. By the beginning of March this year, the civic body realised that the main challenge was to contain the spread of Covid-19 in in high-rise buildings and not slums. As on April 30, when Mumbai was at the peak of the second wave, 9,899 floors were sealed and 979 buildings were declared active containment zones, while the city’s slums had only 111 containment zones. Slums hit in first wave More than 50% (6,534,460) of Mumbai’s total population of 12,442,373 (as per 2011 census) resides in slum areas, making the inhabitants vulnerable to contracting the infection owing to their poor and unhygienic living conditions. Public health experts said slum pockets, from where a significant proportion are employed as domestic help, drivers, guards, gardeners in high-rise buildings, are like ticking bombs that can cause the virus to spread like a wildfire among the general population. Dharavi inhabitants, for instance, live in some of the most cramped spaces in the country. In an area measuring 2.1 square kilometres (sq km), the slum has over 57,000 shanties, huts and small flats, almost all being illegal. Its estimated population density – 66,000 people per sq km – is more than double of Mumbai (32,303 people per sq km), the fifth most-densely populated city in the world, according to a United Nations Population Prospects study released in July 2019. Till February 7, the area had reported 3,947 Covid-19 cases and 312 deaths. However, in the second wave, a total 2,917 cases and 47 deaths have been reported since February 1 till June 18. Of the total 6,864 infections, around 42% were reported during the second wave. At present, there are only five active Covid-19 cases. On June 15, Dharavi reported zero Covid-19 cases – a first since February 2. Civic ward officials said the infection rate this year was less than that in 2020 despite conducting similar number of daily Covid-19 tests during both the waves. “In May 2020, when the pandemic curve was at its peak, we tested 200-250 people every day. We undertook the same number of tests in the second wave too. By mid-March, we started observing that the infection rate was rising in high-rises than the slums. We then gradually started focusing on residential buildings,” said Kiran Dighavkar, ward officer, G-South ward that covers Dharavi, Mahim and Dadar. The trend is similar in other civic wards where the slum population is in a majority. For instance, L ward that covers Kurla constitutes over 80% slums. Manish Walunj, assistant municipal commissioner of the ward, said around 3,500 tests were conducted every day between March and May this year and last year, but the infection rate was lower than the first wave. “In mid-May last year, slum pockets in our ward had the highest number of containment zones (131) covering 10,699 households. But by April-end this year, we had only 15 active containment zones in slums. As on June 15, our ward has only 458 active patients, and over 90% are from non-slums,” said Walunj. The M-East ward, which includes slum clusters of Govandi and Mankhurd, has also witnessed a significant drop in cases compared to last year. “In May last year, the growth rate was 8.4%. In April this year, it was 4%. At the start of the second wave, we also increased our contact tracing to 17 individuals per infected patient,” said Dhanaji Herlekar, assistant municipal commissioner, M-East ward. Civic-run hospitals have also witnessed a significant fall in hospitalisation cases from slums in the second wave. Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital (Sion hospital), said, “There has been a 40-50% drop in hospitalisation of slum dwellers in the second wave. There was a spike in admissions in April but the death rate was minimal, below 1%.” Fewer Covid-19 cases in the city’s densely populated slum pockets have left public health officials curious about the possible reasons for low infection rates. Dr Varsha Puri, deputy executive health officer of zone-5 that covers areas including L, M-East and M-West wards, said, “To get answers as to why slums recorded fewer cases in the second wave, we have decided to conduct studies in these civic wards to understand the epidemiological characteristics of the virus. We are awaiting guidelines from BMC to initiate the study in slums.” Seropositivity higher in non-slum areas The first and second serological surveys in Mumbai, to ascertain the prevalence of antibodies, were conducted in July and August 2020. The third was conducted in March across all the 24 civic wards, which showed the presence of antibodies in 36.3% of the total 10,197 samples. Results of the third survey showed an increase in seropositivity rate in non-slums as compared to slums. The sero survey in slum areas showed seropositivity at 41.6% as against 57% and 45% in last July and August, respectively. In non-slum areas, the seropositivity was found in 28.5% samples (which increased from last July and August’s 16% and 18%), making the population more vulnerable to Covid-19 during the second wave. Dr Lancelot Pinto, pulmonologist, Hinduja Hospital, said, “The fact that most of the cases in the second wave were in high-rises possibly suggests two things— the rates of re-infection were low or, most of the infections were likely in individuals who hadn’t encountered the virus in the first wave, and were therefore vulnerable.” Dr Ravikant Singh, founder, Doctor For You, said natural antibodies produced in the first wave is still circulating among slum dwellers, making their immunity stronger to fight the virus. “In the second wave, the mutation of the virus made the infection more transmissible. This could have had severe repercussions in the densely-populated slums. But I assume that many who had already been infected once, have natural antibodies against the virus, and hence, have reduced risks of getting infected during the second wave. We however need to understand that it is just a temporary shield,” said Singh. Mass immunisation drives are therefore the need of the hour before the natural antibodies produced in the body become weak, said civic officials. “Antibodies remain in the body for four-six months. There is strong likelihood that once the slum population loses them, we could again see the virus spread through slums if there is another wave, unless we can catch up on vaccinations,” said Walunj. Dr Pinto suggested that prioritising vaccination for individuals in areas with low seroprevalence, especially among high-risk individuals, would possibly be a high-yield strategy. “We need to also conduct regular seroprevalence studies coupled with whole genome sequencing to identify vulnerable populations and variants of interest before they spread rapidly,” he said. Amita Bhide, dean, school of habitat studies, Tata Institute of Social Science (TISS), who has conducted several studies in M-East ward during the second wave, said the vaccination drive is still lagging in slums. “The priority has been middle and high-class [groups] as the infection rate among them was high. As vaccination in slums is facing a setback, there is a need to bring the drive to people’s doors. Individuals in slums are still sceptical about the need for vaccination. Hence, the civic body also needs to focus on awareness,” said Bhide. The Covid-19 containment proactive strategies not only helped BMC in controlling cases in slums, but their ‘Dharavi model’ also bagged them national fame and appreciation. Through door-to-door surveys at slums, BMC created a health map that helped diagnose Covid-19 patients faster and maintain a record of high-risk patients who were immediately isolated in Covid Care Centres (CCC). “We followed three strategies in slums— test, isolate and treat. Other than RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction), we have been conducting rapid antigen tests on the floating crowds in slums. In Dharavi, we have also started mobile van testing facilities,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner. Growing awareness among slum dwellers also helped curb transmission from residential buildings. “The first wave has taught slum dwellers lessons that helped them survive the second wave. They were extra careful and cautious even while serving in residential buildings. The question that now remains is how safe will slums be in the third wave,” said Bhide. BOX Domestic workers’ concern Dharavi resident Sunita Pradhan, 36, who lost her job as a domestic help last year, was terrified when the second wave hit the city. Like Pradhan, many domestic workers were anxious to work in high-rise buildings. In many cases, domestic helps were not informed by their employers if any of their family members contracted Covid-19. “In the first wave, we were asked to get Covid-19 test reports. In the second wave, they [employers] started hiding about Covid-19 among their family members from us,” said Pradhan. Ashish More, 41, who works as a security guard at a Carter Road apartment, said that during the second wave, those working as drivers, guards, cooks, gardeners in the high-rise building had to be extra cautious. “We had to wear double masks and regularly use hand sanitisers. They are our employers. So unlike them, we can’t ask for vaccination certificates or Covid-19 reports to work for them. But at least now, the employers treat us better and don’t shoo us away,” said More who lives in a 150 sq feet chawl in a slum at Bandra (East) with five family members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/slums-in-mumbai-breathed-easy-in-the-second-covid-19-wave-101624214733443.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||43-yr-old driver found murdered in his car in Thane||A 43-year-old cab driver was found murdered in his parked vehicle near Tikujiniwadi, Thane, on Sunday evening. There were strangulation marks on his neck, according to Manpada-Chitalsar police. The driver, identified as Sunil Asthana, 46, Thane resident, lived with his wife and two children. A resident of a nearby society passing through the area saw a man sitting unconscious on the driver’s seat and informed the police. “There were marks on his neck and blood inside the car. We have informed the forensic team. We are investigating the case further. We have sent the body for post-mortem,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/43yrold-driver-found-murdered-in-his-car-in-thane-101624214554004.html
21-06-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Retired railway employee brutally murdered by sons, daughters-in-law||In a shocking incident on Father’s Day, a 61-year-old retired railway employee was beaten to death by his two sons and daughters-in-law in the Manjhanpur area of Kaushambi district on Sunday morning. The accused have been taken into custody and the body has been sent for autopsy, police said.According to reports, a resident of Gandhi Nagar locality under Manjhanpur police station, Baijnath Pal was retired from the railways on January 29 this year. Baijnath had three sons and three daughters. The elder sons, Surendra, Virendra and daughters Ruma and Uma were married while the youngest son Narendra, and daughter Puja, were still unmarried.Baijnath had received a retirement fund, a part of which he had planned to spend on youngest daughter Puja’s marriage, which was to take place ten days later. However, his two elder sons were continuously pressuring him to give them their share before the marriage, while Baijnath was adamant about dividing the fund only after the marriage of his youngest daughter.On Sunday morning, Baijnath was cutting fodder for cattle when Surendra and his wife Lalita and Virendra and his wife Manoj reached there. After an argument over the division of retirement fund, they assaulted Baijnath brutally and stabbed him in his head with a pointed iron rod. Narendra rushed from inside the house on hearing the cries of his father and somehow rescued him. The police also reached the spot on receiving the information and took Baijnath to the district hospital, where he died while undergoing treatment.Police informed that Virendra, Surendra, Lalita and Manoj, along with Baijnath’s younger brother Chhotelal Pal, were arrested for the crime. In his complaint, Narendra has alleged that his uncle was also involved in conspiring the murder, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-retired-railway-employee-brutally-murdered-by-sons-daughtersinlaw-101624214553410.html
21-06-2021||Mumbai||BJP eyes Mumbai civic body elections||From corruption cases against ruling party leaders to national leaders for campaigning, the state unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is gearing up for the local body elections, especially for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) polls, which are expected to be held in January-February next year. Termed as mini Assembly elections, 23 municipal corporations, including Mumbai civic body, 29 district councils and more than 90 municipal councils will go to polls from September-October this year till the end of next year. It is expected that the outcome of results show whether people are happy with the ruling parties and whether the BJP managed to retain hold of the local self-government bodies it won the last time. The most talked-about election is likely to be Mumbai civic polls. The BJP will try to wrest power from the Shiv Sena, which is ruling the BMC for over two decades. The BJP, which has just two seats less than the Shiv Sena in the 2017 BMC polls, has vowed to win power in India’s richest civic body this time. In its recent core committee meeting held in Mumbai in the presence of party’s national leader BL Santosh and CT Ravi, the party discussed the strategy for the forthcoming elections. It was followed by a meeting of key Mumbai leaders to strategise for the Mumbai polls. According to insiders, the party is planning to constitute a core committee of top leaders to handle Mumbai civic polls, amid internal differences within the party’s city unit. Currently, the Shiv Sena’s strength in the 227-seat body is 97, after it engineered defection of corporators from other parties after civic polls. It had won 84 seats in 2017, while the BJP had jumped to 82 seats from 31 seats in 2012. The Congress and NCP have 29 and 8 corporators each. The SP has six, while Maharashtra Navnirman Sena has 1. The Hyderabad way? The BMC polls are likely to be keenly contested, just the way the BJP made a serious effort to win the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) in Telangana. The elections in December last year saw national leaders of the BJP campaigning for the polls, in which the party emerged second largest party by winning 48 seats, from just four it had in the 150-seat civic house. Party leaders, including union home minister Amit Shah, party’s national chief JP Nadda, Uttar Pradesh’s chief minister Yogi Aaditya Nath and several union ministers, came for campaigning.“With an annual budget of ₹39,039 crore, the BMC is the civic body which surpasses many smaller states in its annual outlay. The party controlling India’s richest civic body that governs financial capital wields significant political influence. We were short of just two seats last time and would have been in power if we wanted to. This time around, our aim is to cross the mark of 100 seats and have our mayor,” said a party leader, requesting anonymity. The leader said the BMC polls would not be fought on the Hindutva plank, like GHMC elections. He said that the party will play the development card, exposing how two-and-a-half decades of Shiv Sena rule has failed to give the city bare minimum amenities. The party has started galvanising its cadre at micro level under various programmes such as one booth, ten youths, Shakti Kendra and Active Youth Effective Booth in which the party’s youth and women wing workers get actively involved. War rooms in every city and districts that are going to poll are activated, while surveys are being conducted to weigh the party strength in each ward. The party has been emphasising on the ‘person to person’ and ‘home to home’ contact with voters and has roped in its youth and women wing in Mumbai and other cities that are going to polls. The party has started getting in touch with runner-up contestants from other parties from 2017 elections where the party has no effective face. All out against Shiv Sena Though it is said to be all three ruling parties – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – versus BJP, the contest is expected to be fought bitterly between the two saffron parties. “The Sena’s strength lies in power in the civic body. We have enough material about the corruption in the civic body gathered against Sena,” said a key BJP leader. “It was possible for us to grab power in the BMC in 2017 too, but we followed the dharma of friendship and let Sena elect the mayor. But it’s enough now,” Fadnavis had said recently while addressing party workers from Mumbai. Shiv Sena leader Sachin Ahir said, “We have started mobilising our workers at shakha level. The state has done a very good job in Covid-19 management and infrastructure works.”Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “Corruption has been raked up by opposition in every BMC poll, but the Sena has kept its power intact.”The BJP is expected to make a few internal changes. There is a buzz that the party leadership is not happy with its city chief Mangal Prabhat Lodha. The party is also looking to get MNS to dent the Sena in MMR. BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar said, “We are preparing to emerge single largest party and get the power in the civic body. We have started outreach programme. We will go to the voters with the development plank.” He insisted there would be no core group, but all senior leaders will guide city leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-eyes-mumbai-civic-body-elections-101624214493470.html
21-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Many Covid survivors turn to yoga for full recovery||Noida: Greater Noida (West) resident Arpan Khanal tested positive for Covid-19 on March 6 and spent about 14 days in the intensive care unit (ICU) as 65% of his lungs had been damaged. Three months on, Arpan hails Yoga to have been his lifeboat during his post-Covid recovery.The 42-year-old tested negative on March 28, but faced breathing issues and weakness. Yoga is not new to him as he and his family have been taking online Yoga sessions since the lockdown last year. His wife and son were also infected with Covid but were not in as critical a condition as him.“From April 1, my wife and I rejoined our online Yoga sessions and started doing light breathing exercises. It not only helped in respiratory issues, but also brought mental peace and positivity, which had been drained out of us because of sickness,” said Khanal.Khanal is one of the many people who have used Yoga to get back their health after recovering from Covid. Kush Singh, Khanal’s Yoga teacher, holds sessions for about 110 people daily.“Since April this year, around 25 new people from Noida-Ghaziabad have joined my sessions, who have recently recovered from Covid. We tell them to start Yoga only when they feel completely comfortable. It takes time for people to recover from weakness. Some light breathing exercises like ‘anulom vilom’ are taught, in order to help them increase their lung capacity,” said Kush Singh, a resident of Ghaziabad.Ravinder Singh Gill, an instructor from Noida’s Sector 107, adds that in the past year, more and more people have turned to Yoga. However, in the past few months, people who got Covid are also using Yoga to recover.“We have to be very careful while dealing with those who have had Covid as we do not want to exhaust them. Since we are teaching online, we cannot see the student’s expressions or body language clearly to ascertain what they are comfortable with. Hence, I prefer to give only light exercises for such people and progress only after they feel comfortable and confident of taking up heavier breathing exercises,” said Gill.He added that the proning exercises, which have been recommended by doctors to bring up oxygen levels in the body, find their roots in Yoga. “Proning exercises are a mix of various asanas of Yoga. Some of my students who had Covid were advised to exercise proning positions by doctors. They came back to tell us that they already knew those exercises as we had done them during Yoga as well,” said Gill.Dr NK Sharma, president, Indian Medical Association’s Noida chapter, said that Yoga is an important addition to the lifestyle in order to stay fit.“However, post-Covid patients should be highly cautious of the extent and strength of the Yoga exercises or asanas that they do. If the lungs have been infected severely, recovery will take time as the muscles in the lungs face constriction in relaxing and collapsing in order to breathe. Deep breathing can also be harmful if done excessively, as it may increase heart rate. Having said that, doctors recommend that mild or light Yoga exercises can be used in getting your health back on track after Covid,” said Dr Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-many-covid-survivors-turn-to-yoga-for-full-recovery-101624214014534.html
