22-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 78-year-old woman is city’s first Delta Plus patient||A 78-year-old woman from the eastern suburb of Mumbai is the first Covid-19 patient in Mumbai whose blood sample showed the presence of Delta Plus (AY.1) variant in April. As per civic officials, she was asymptomatic and recovered completely. Delta Plus, which is a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant of Sars-CoV-2 (B.1.617.2) and detected in the state during the second wave, is currently considered a “variant of interest” and is not yet a “variant of concern”.In April, when the pandemic curve was at its peak, public health officers noticed the transmission rate in some families was high thereby indicating a mutation of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. Taking this into consideration, the local health officers started sending blood samples for genome sequencing from hotspots and families with high infection rate.Genome sequencing is an exercise to study the changes in the structure of the virus over time. A combination of changes in the ribonucleic acid of the virus can give birth to a new variant.The septuagenarian was among hundreds whose blood samples were collected as her family recorded a high infection rate. “As per the report submitted to us, all her family members had Covid-19. So, randomly blood samples including hers were collected for genome sequencing. She was asymptomatic and didn’t even have any complications,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer. She has recovered completely without any post-Covid health complications, as per civic officials. On Monday, state health minister Rajesh Tope confirmed they had found 21 Delta Plus Covid-19 variant cases in Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Jalgaon, Palghar and Sindhudurg in the state. The file that has been sent to BMC doesn’t mention Delta Plus variant, but ‘variant of concern’ in the subject line. “So, officially on record, we are not being told that it is a Delta Plus variant. Also, out of the two mentioned cases in Mumbai, one of them is from Thane,” said a senior health officer from BMC.In view of the rise in infections across the state in March-April, the state government in April had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) to undertake genome sequencing of 4,000 positive swab samples.“It is a regular exercise for all districts to send samples for genome sequencing from hotspots, containment zones, families with high infection rate and international travellers,” said Dr Archana Patil, Maharashtra director of health service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-78-year-old-woman-is-city-s-first-delta-plus-patient-101624386585800.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||Invoke NSA, Gangster Act against those involved in conversions, says UP govt||Taking cognizance of mass religious conversion racket busted by UP Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS), the Uttar Pradesh government has issued strict directives to the police authorities and investigating agencies to invoke stringent provisions of National Security Act (NSA) and Gangster Act against them, said senior state government officials.In a press statement, the officials said the state government had geared up to eliminate such gangs who are forcing people to convert into other religions by offering them job, money, marriage, and other facilities.The officials said the CM Yogi Adityanath had directed the police and investigating agencies to enquire into the matter and take strict action against those found guilty.A senior police official said the police department was preparing to impose the NSA and the Gangster Act against those involved in the conspiracy to forcefully convert the religion.He said the network involved in conversion is being probed thoroughly. He said the investigators are tracking the financial transactions and funding of the people associated with such gangs by confiscating their properties.“We have applied for police custody of two arrested accused involved in religious conversion. We will be confiscating their illegally acquired property. The administration will also probe matter, and if found true, will register case under National Security Act,” said Prashant Kumar, ADG, Law & Order.Significantly, the UP ATS has claimed to bust a racket involved in a religious conversion racket that converted 1,000 people, including over 650 from UP and Delhi.According to police, the racket targeted poor families, unemployed youth, and the handicapped people, especially those who were hearing and speech impaired, children and forced them to change their religion. The police also stated that this might be a case of funding from various sources for religious conversions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/invoke-nsa-gangster-act-against-those-involved-in-conversions-says-up-govt-101624386584758.html
22-06-2021||Other||PMC to set-up ₹17.47 crore state-of-the-art library on Ghole road||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has taken a decision to set up a modern digital library in on Ghole road, demolishing its old printing press. The corporation has sanctioned ₹17.47 crore for the ground-plus -three storied library building.On Tuesday, the PMC standing committee sanctioned the proposal to construct the library.Hemant Rasane, chairman, standing committee, said, “Old printing press is located at a prime location on Ghole road. We have decided to demolish it and construct a new modern printing press along with a digital library. In Pune, there are many students who are preparing for UPSC and MPSC and other competitive examinations.”He added, “Pune is a hub for competitive examination coaching classes. But students don’t have proper facilities. So, we have decided to construct a modern library and provide them a study facility in the heart of the city.”According to the PMC building construction department officials, the project features a curvilinear library, printing press, conference room, record room, seminar hall, exhibition hall and a cafeteria. The building will also provide four- wheeler stack parking and two-wheeler parking. The curvilinear planning of the library welcomes more readers. The building will have a glass facade and a dome at the top.According to the PMC plan, the library will come up on a total 4,694 sqm of area. Ground floor will consist of mechanised parking for four-wheelers, two-wheelers and bicycles, with a lift and toilets.On the first floor, there will be commercial offices, a restaurant (capacity of 60 people at a time) and toilets.The second and third floor (total area – 2,115 sqm) will be the city library. It will comprise a study room, reference room along with 300 seating capacity, and a meeting room. PMC will keep 50,000 books of different subjects. There will be a book exhibition section on the second floor. Corporation will make arrangements of 750 square feet of area for audio visual presentation purposes. There will be an e-browsing centre with 40 computers on the third floor. In the study room, 400 people can be seated at a time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-set-up-rs-17-47-crore-state-of-the-art-library-on-ghole-road-101624386585239.html
22-06-2021||Other||Marathi theatre groups welcome govt aid announced by Dy CM Pawar||PUNE Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, on Tuesday, announced grants to be disbursed to theatre/drama companies. This announcement was made in a meeting held in Mumbai with officials and representatives from Marathi theatre groups.Pawar said that Marathi theatre has always been part of the culture of Maharashtra and it is necessary to lend a helping hand in this time of Covid.He also said that the state government has always strived to help solve the problems of the Marathi theatre and has given concessional rates for the government- owned theatres and rehearsal spaces. The government will now take into consideration demands for concessions on tolls for buses carrying equipment and parking spaces.Theatre companies and producers welcomed this move. “It is an important decision and it was needed to help theatre. It is also very encouraging for theatre, which unlike web or TV, needs a ‘live’ audience. The momentum has been punctured with this lockdown,” said Alok Rajwade, actor and director, Natak Company.Pradeep Vaidya, a veteran producer of many successful plays, feels that the government should not give out grants to producers. “Instead they should be allotted experimental theatre companies to reduce the chances of losses. Small theatres should be set up, so that a play can survive. Grants in the form of money should be given only for children’s plays and musicals,” said Vaidya. Girish Pardesi, actor/ director said, “It is a welcome move from the deputy CM, and very assuring for it will give us confidence and assurance that the state has not forgotten theatre. This action will help many people who work backstage, drama competition holders and experimental productions to revive plays with confidence.”Financial aid is always the need for experimental theatre and for full-time theatre performers feels Niranjan Pednekar, producer/writer, Rang Dhristi. “There are experimental platforms like Sudarshan Rang Manch, The Box, Lalit Kala who are solely dependent upon the audience to help them break even. With such aid from the government, it will help keep such spaces open for plays.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/marathi-theatre-groups-welcome-govt-aid-announced-by-dy-cm-pawar-101624386580717.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||IIT-K’s SIIC, UP govt launch capacity building programme for ITI principals||The Department of Training and Employment, Uttar Pradesh, has signed an MoU with the Startup Incubation and Innovation Centre (SIIC), IIT-Kanpur, to train principals of all the Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) across the state in new-age innovation technologies. The programme aims at developing capacity building of the ITIs to complement their exceptional academic know-how with a contemporary skill set. The week-long training workshop was inaugurated on Monday in an event by Kapil Dev Aggarwal, minister of state (Independent Charge), Skill Development and Vocational Education, Uttar Pradesh in the presence of Alok Kumar, IAS, secretary to the chief minister, Prof Abhay Karandikar, director, IIT-Kanpur, Prof Amitabha Bandyopadhyay, Professor-In-charge, Incubation and Innovation, IIT Kanpur, and Nikhil Agarwal, CEO, SIIC IIT Kanpur. The week-long workshop will be attended by principals from ITIs and other senior officials of Department of Training and Employment from Uttar Pradesh. The participants will be exposed to the volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous (VUCA) world which now experiences amplified dynamism in the post-Covid era. The workshop sessions will be conducted by subject experts, including IIT professors, who would train the ITI principals. Commenting on the timely implementation of this initiative, Kapil Dev Aggarwal said, “The initiative comes at an opportune moment when the education systems are transforming rapidly. We believe that this interdisciplinary programme would lead to confidence building of ITI staff which will further strengthen the educational outcomes of students in these institutions.” Alok Kumar congratulated the team for the initiative and envisioned a stronger association with IIT-Kanpur for similar future endeavors. He added, “In an increasingly digital world, we are striving to improve efficiency of our education system. With this initiative, we aim to bring novel opportunities for the esteemed principals of ITIs that can bring value-addition to their efforts.” The direct outcome of the workshop will be skill enhancement of the ITIs which would further increase the employability of students at ITIs as well as enhance knowledge sharing and collaboration between ITIs and IIT Kanpur, an amalgamation of research and technical skills which would improve the innovation outcomes for all the stakeholders involved, he said. Director, IIT Kanpur, Prof Abhay Karandikar said, “Education and training are strengths of educational institutes like IIT, and we would feel honored to assist in capacity building of ITIs and envisioned to scale the process in the future.” Workshop highlights ● IIT Kanpur signs MoU with Department of Training and Employment, Uttar Pradesh launched a Capability Building Program for ITIs. ● A week-long workshop is being organized for ITI principals to expose them to the Volatile, Uncertain, Complex and Ambiguous (VUCA) world that experiences amplified dynamism in the post-Covid era. ● This would directly lead to enhancements in skills as well as improvements in the educational outcomes and employability of ITI students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/iitks-siic-up-govt-launch-capacity-building-programme-for-iti-principals-101624386460082.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||BJP holds unity meetings to stitch up loose ends||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday put up massive unity show, scripted by general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, who is on his second back-to-back visit to the state capital. After a surprise luncheon meet, largely interpreted as a patch-up bid, for which chief minister Yogi Adityanath drove to his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya’s residence and that took place in the presence of key RSS leaders, including Dattatreya Hosbale and Krishna Gopal, the BJP leadership supervised another visible unity effort. Shortly, the scene shifted to the BJP office where the party held an even bigger show, inviting all the former state BJP chiefs for a crucial meeting that featured the chief minister, his ministers and top-level BJP functionaries. Described by UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev as meeting of ‘satta aur sangathan’ (government and organisation), the meeting featured sidelined leaders like former BJP chiefs Vinay Katiyar, an OBC and a product of the temple movement, and Laxmikant Bajpai, a Brahmin. Also seen was the newly inducted former Congress leader Jitin Prasada amid indications that the BJP would organise more high profile joining of key leaders of other parties in the run-up to the elections. BJP stalwarts, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, are expected to visit UP regularly from July onwards. Since Monday, BL Santhosh, seen as an emissary of top BJP leadership, has been holding series of meetings, including ones with RSS leaders, chief minister, ministers and party functionaries. He had also tweeted in praise of Adityanath on Monday, his third tweet praising the CM. “We will win an even bigger majority than in 2017 UP polls,” said Laxmikant Bajpai while denying that there were any misgivings between him and the party. Party leaders said ahead of assembly polls, the BJP, having fared behind Samajwadi Party in the first round of panchayat polls, is now looking to even the score by winning maximum number of zila panchayat chairpersons’ posts in the July 3 elections. Ever since he visited UP and held feedback sessions between May 31 to June 2, BL Santhosh has been working on party’s unity plan ahead of crucial assembly elections. Also, among those who arrived for the unity meeting was the newly appointed BJP vice president AK Sharma, a former IAS officer who worked with PM Modi, took voluntary retirement, was moved to UP where he was made an MLC. Sharma flashed the victory sign on his arrival but didn’t say anything. On Monday he had sent a missive to UP party chief Swatantradev Singh saying Modi’s name and patronage was sufficient to win polls and that people of UP loved him as much as they did in 2013-14. He had also added that the party would contest the 2022 UP polls with Adityanath as chief minister, an important statement given the fact that several of Yogi’s ministers had been making confusing, conflicting statements on who would be BJP’s face during the 2022 assembly polls. When asked about the party’s face in 2022 polls, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had said that the decision would be taken by the party’s central leadership, a point that was also reiterated by state’s labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya. “It’s an exercise to stitch up loose ends ahead of elections,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran journalist and political observer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-holds-unity-meetings-to-stitch-up-loose-ends-101624386220874.html
22-06-2021||Other||Four die while manufacturing illicit liquor in UP’s Moradabad||Four persons died after inhaling some toxic gas while they were allegedly manufacturing illicit liquor in Rajpur Kesaria village of Dilari police station limits in Moradabad on Monday night, police said.The deceased included illicit liquor trader Rajendra Singh (50), his sons Prateek Singh (30), Harkesh Singh (20) and servant Ramesh (35).SP (rural) of Moradabad Vidya Sagar Mishra said Rajendra was jailed last year too for manufacturing and supplying illicit liquor. On Monday, the bodies of the four were found inside the basement of their house and it appeared that they died after inhaling poisonous gas that was released while they were manufacturing illegal liquor, said the SP.During search of his underground room heap of cow dung cakes, illegally kept 74 boxes of branded desi liquor were also found. He said the bodies have been sent for post mortem and the exact cause of death will be known only after the reports come in.Mishra further said the police will lodge a case against the deceased trader and his family members for their involvement in trade of illicit liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-die-while-manufacturing-illicit-liquor-in-up-s-moradabad-101624385683546.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Fire at shop in Connaught Place, none hurt||A fire broke out at a tours and travels office in central Delhi’s Connaught Place on Tuesday morning and the flames were doused by four fire tenders that rushed to the spot. No casualty or injury was reported as the shop was closed, fire department officials said.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said the fire control room received a call at 6.45am about a fire at a shop in Connaught Place’s Block K in the Outer Circle. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot, and the firefighters doused the flames within half an hour, Garg said.“The fire was in the office of Amex tours and travels, located in the Outer Circle. Furniture, fixtures and documents were gutted. It was a small category fire,” Garg said.The cause of the fire is not yet known, but according to the fire brigade, a short-circuit may have led to the blaze. The fire engulfed the ground as well as the first floor of the shop.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-at-shop-in-connaught-place-none-hurt-101624385440605.html
22-06-2021||Other||Robbers break into businessman’s house in Shalimar Bagh, decamp with cash and jewellery worth ₹20 lakh||New Delhi: Five unidentified robbers, four of them wearing masks, broke into the house of a businessman in Shalimar Bagh, held his 24-year-old daughter hostage, ransacked her room and decamped with cash and jewellery worth over ₹20 lakh in the early hours of Tuesday, police said. The robbers remained in the house for nearly one and a half hours and ransacked the entire room in which the woman slept. Their activities were captured in a CCTV camera installed inside the house. The businessman and his 22-year-old son were sleeping in their respective rooms with the air-conditioners (ACs) on when the dacoity was being committed at their house. They could not hear anything and remained in their sleep when the robbers fled with the cash and jewellery, the police said.“The robbers also took away the woman’s iPhone so that she could not call the police or anyone about it. While leaving the house, they threatened to kill her family members if she raised an alarm. The woman was so scared that she did not wake up her father or brother, fearing that the robbers were inside and they may harm them. She in fact alerted her friend through a messaging application on her laptop,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.The woman’s friend informed the police about the crime. The woman’s family members learnt about the crime when the police reached their home. The dacoity took place between 2.30 am and 4 am, the police said.“We have registered a case and are trying to identify and nab the robbers. Prime facie, it appears that someone known to the family had tipped off the robbers about the cash and jewellery. It is because the robbers specifically asked the woman about the jewellery her family members had purchased for her wedding,” the officer added. Police said that the businessman, Ramesh Bansal, deals in steel utensils and has a factory in Wazirpur. He lives with his daughter, Arushi, and son, Chetan, at their ground floor flat in BN block in Shalimarg Bagh. His other family members live on the upper two floors of the building. Arushi is pursuing her physiotherapy course from a private institute, the police said.Initial investigation into the case revealed that since security guards were present at the entry and exit gates of the residential society, the suspects cut the iron fencing of a park close to the businessman’s house and entered the building premises by scaling the boundary wall. They twisted the lock of a slider door and entered his ground floor flat.“The robbers went straight to the woman’s room and overpowered her. They threatened to kill her if she screamed. The robbers asked her to tell them where the jewellery purchased for her wedding were kept. They broke open the almirah, took out cash and the jewellery and fled,” said the officer, adding that the suspects appeared to be in the age group of 30 and 35.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/robbers-break-into-businessman-s-house-in-shalimar-bagh-decamp-with-cash-and-jewellery-worth-rs-20-lakh-101624385440006.html
22-06-2021||Other||Delhi govt’s scheme to provide financial aid to families of Covid-19 victims notified||New Delhi: The Delhi government’s scheme to provide financial assistance to families of those who died of Covid-19 was notified on Tuesday. The scheme - Mukhya Mantri Covid-19 Pariwar Aarthik Sahayata Yojana - will offer a monthly financial assistance of ₹2,500 to the families of those who have lost their earning member and also a one-time compensation of ₹50,000 if a member has died due to Covid-19. These benefits will be in addition to the ongoing social welfare scheme of the Delhi government such as old-age pension and widow pension. “The government will also consider a single member of the affected family to be enrolled as a civil defence volunteer. Besides these, the state affirms to look after the health and education needs of the dependent children as per the existing policy,” read the notification, a copy of which is with HT. The notification also stated that if a family is survived by only minor children, then the applicant or beneficiary will be the foster parent or guardian who has been declared fir under the provisions of the Juvenile Justice Act by the Child Welfare Committee. The financial assistance shall be transferred to the joint bank account in the name of the minor child and the foster parent or guardian, it stated. On June 20 (Sunday), HT reported that the Delhi government had issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for family-based sponsorship of children who have either lost their parents or their guardians are not in a position to support them financially. With this, Delhi formally opened the system of child foster care or sponsorship, which was pending for nearly six years despite it being mandated under the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015.Tuesday’s notification stated that to claim these financial assistance, the death must be certified as a “Covid death” as per the data with the Ministry of Home Affairs or the death should have happened within one month of testing Covid-19 positive. It stated that such deaths will also have to be verified by the state health department as a Covid death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-s-scheme-to-provide-financial-aid-to-families-of-covid-19-victims-notified-101624385380033.html
22-06-2021||Gurugram||DTCP demolishes 2 illegal colonies in Pataudi||The enforcement team of Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) demolished two under-construction illegal colonies, that were in the initial stage of development, in Pataudi on Tuesday.The DTCP team demolished around 25 plinths, seven under-construction structures, and a road network laid over 10 acres of land. They also razed 10 under-construction shops on the land.During the demolition drive, the developer resisted the action being taken by the enforcement team, but 150 officers of the Gurugram police, who were present at the sites, ensured that no obstruction was caused, said the DTCP officials.RS Bhath, district town planner, said that the two colonies were being constructed on agricultural land without any permission, or license acquired by the developer. “The enforcement team used two earth-moving machines to demolish the structures. We had repeatedly asked the people to refrain from buying plots in these illegal colonies, as these are liable for demolition,” said Bhath.Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner (enforcement), said that they are conducting a survey on the outskirts of the city, particularly in rural areas, to ensure no illegal colonies are built. “During the lockdown, some people tried to take advantage and carve out such colonies, but we are taking strict action against the violators,” Sharma said.In Gurugram, illegal structures on around 700 acres of land have been demolished in the past two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-demolishes-2-illegal-colonies-in-pataudi-101624385325302.html
22-06-2021||Gurugram||Interstate bus services resumed on select routes||With cases of Covid-19 declining in the city, the Haryana Roadways on Tuesday resumed interstate bus service on select routes after almost one-and-a-half months. Kuldip Singh Dhaka, general manager, Haryana State Road Transport Corporation, said that interstate bus service has been started to Jaipur and Alwar in Rajasthan and Lakhanpur in Jammu and Kashmir in a limited manner. Before resuming the service, the transport department conducted a dry run on these routes last week.Dhaka said that they are strictly following the Covid-19 guidelines and only 30 passengers are allowed in each bus, which has a maximum capacity of 50. “Three buses have started operation on Gurugram to Jaipur route, while one bus each goes to Alwar and Lakhanpur daily,” said Dhaka.Transport officials said that the commuters travelling to Katra were allowed only till Lakhanpur in Jammu and Kashmir due to restrictions on the entry of buses from outside the state. Visitors to Katra have to take a connecting bus from Lakhanpur.Officials said that the bus service to Chandigarh is already operational and 10 buses are operating on this route every day. However, air-conditioned buses on this route are still not operational, as per directions of the headquarters.Dhaka also said that the corporation is ready to start bus services to Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, among other states, as and when the state government allows it. Bus services was suspended during the second Covid-19 wave, after a lockdown was imposed across the state on May 3.Rajbir Singh, a traffic inspector at the Gurugram bus depot, said that buses operating from the depot will not stop anywhere along the route. The buses will stop only at the destination and passengers would not be allowed to embark or disembark en route. The department will also screen passengers for Covid-19 symptoms, ensure masks are worn and safe distancing is maintained inside the buses, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/interstate-bus-services-resumed-on-select-routes-101624385324742.html
22-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19 positivity rate in Gurugram at lowest this month since start of pandemic||The transmission of coronavirus infection continues to decline in the district, with the test positivity rate, the proportion of positives out of the sample tested, reaching its lowest since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. The positivity rate in June, so far, is at 0.7%, after cases peaked in April and May as the second wave hit Gurugram hard. On Tuesday, 14 new infections were confirmed, while 27 recovered from the illness. Currently, 187 cases are active in the district. Health officials attributed the decline in the cases to lockdown alone, but experts said that multiple factors could be behind the decline in cases. “The decline in cases started in the last week of May that led to a slight plunge in the positivity rate. From 21.2% in April, it declined to 19.17% in May and further to 0.7% in June. It was the impact of the lockdown, which continues to show its effect,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer for Covid-19. On June 19, the district reported five new cases, the lowest number of cases in a day over the past year. Till Monday, 647 cases were confirmed in June, with 90,078 tests administered. The case positivity rate peaked to 23.9% last June despite recording only 4,573 new cases as the number of tests done was comparatively lower, 19,072, than those done in subsequent months. The number of tests increased by almost four times in July 2020, with significant increase in subsequent months.According to the health department data, in January, 1,416 cases were confirmed out of 80, 330 samples tested during the month. The positivity rate was 1.7%. In February, it declined to 1% as only 786 cases were confirmed from 78, 554 samples. The surge started in March with a sudden escalation in new cases. As many as 4,020 cases were confirmed from 114, 572 tests in March and the positivity rate increased to 3.5%. The second Covid-19 wave reached its peak in April, with almost a 93% increase in the new cases. Over 59, 921 cases were reported, the highest case count in a month since the outbreak of the pandemic. Over 282,364 tests were administered for mass surveillance in large outbreak areas and the positivity rate reached 21.2%.Across the state, Gurugram reported the maximum number of cases in a day, with the number peaking on April 29, with 5,042 new cases reported. The surge in Covid-19 cases continued in May with 57,012 new infections being confirmed from 297,299 tests. “From 5,000 to only five cases in almost a month has been possible due to lockdown. The downfall is likely to continue but it is difficult to make a prediction. Going by the trend of the last two Covid-19 waves, it is likely that a third wave can strike after one-and-a-half to two months. But as vaccination has been ongoing and testing numbers are high, the upcoming trend in Covid-19 infection cannot be confirmed,” said Prakash. Senior epidemiologist Dr Rajesh Kumar, the former head of community medicine department and school of public health, PGIMER-Chandigarh, said, “There are two factors for the ongoing decline. First, every epidemic has a cycle where cases begin to decline on their own. Second, when cases increase, there is a behavioural change in the people along with the restrictions imposed by the government. These two factors work in unison, therefore, it will be incorrect to say that only lockdown led to the sharp decline.” Explaining that predictions for the next wave will depend upon the variations in the SARS-CoV-2 virus, Kumar, said, “Variants of the coronavirus will define the next wave as the virus has been mutating. It will be responsible for the further transmission of infection in the future, which cannot be predicted currently. It is crucial that people are vaccinated at the earliest to control the next surge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19-positivity-rate-in-gurugram-at-lowest-this-month-since-start-of-pandemic-101624385323579.html
22-06-2021||Gurugram||Task force to recover pending charges from developers||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) has formed a task force comprising senior officials, to recover pending external development charges (EDC) to the tune of ₹8,000 crore from developers across the state.The task force will look into revocation of bank guarantees, identification of unsold inventories of developers, and also devise measures to take over the property and sell it, as per current laws. Despite extending the deadline for payment several times, according to the DTCP officials, the developers did not pay the dues. Due to this, many external developmental works in and around the licensed colonies have been put on hold, they said.As per the directions issued by the DTCP director, Makrand Pandurang, the task force — formed in the second week of June — will comprise Haryana chief town planner, IT and Monitoring chief town planner, chief accounts officer (headquarters), senior town planners and district town planners concerned.“Above ₹8,000 crore interest is pending on account of the EDC, that the developers from across Haryana got to pay. No doubt, there is a slowdown, but the department had extended the deadline several times, and also gave rebates against interest payment to the developers. Earlier, we had cancelled licences of some of the developers, but that also did not work out. This task force will look into different aspects, and find out a solution to recover the dues,” said Pandurang.“We can also take 10% money the colonisers deposited into the Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority (HRERA). The state government gave a nod on this,” he said.As per the details shared by the DTCP, around ₹4,000 crore EDC charges to be paid by the developers in Gurugram is also pending, apart from the interest. The issue of EDC collection assumes significance, as in a recent meeting, the Haryana government had asserted that EDC collected from the district should be given to the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) to carry out developmental works.According to the DTCP officials in Gurugram, licences of many developers had been cancelled in the past two years for the non-payment of EDC, but due to the creation of third-party rights, they face a lot of issues in closing these projects. “This task force can take a holistic view, and since senior officials from Chandigarh are involved, decisions could be taken quickly,” a DTCP official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/task-force-to-recover-pending-charges-from-developers-101624385324103.html
22-06-2021||Gurugram||State govt starts probing irregularities in MCG||The Haryana government has initiated an audit of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) after it received several complaints of widespread corruption and negligence in the workings of the civic body, officials familiar with the developments said on Tuesday.A team sent by the principal accountant general of Haryana, Vishal Bansal, visited the city for the purpose and directed MCG’s engineering wing to submit details of tendering processes, the number of projects, type of projects, original projected cost, final cost and the status of all projects executed by the civic body since 2016.“All support is being lent by the MCG to the state audit team. Directions have been issued to the respective departments for expediting the same,” a senior MCG official, requesting anonymity, said.Besides the engineering wing, the state audit team also sought all records of the MCG’s account branch for the past five years.Over the past two years, the state’s home minister and urban local bodies (ULB) minister, Anil Vij, said on multiple occasions that a special audit of the MCG will be carried out as he had received several complaints about the civic body’s functioning.Most recently, Vij reiterated that an audit would be done during a councillors’ meeting in February. Despite calls and texts, he could not be reached for comment.A second senior MCG official, requesting anonymity, said, “Files from both, the accounts branch and the engineering wing, are in the process of being submitted to the state audit team for perusal. The files are being sent as per the fiscal year. The entire process will take around two to three months to complete as all records will be scrutinised for spotting errors and other discrepancies. Subsequently, the department or individual concerned would be asked to explain the irregularities. If his or her answer is found to be unsatisfactory, a departmental inquiry will be initiated.”Over the last 18 months, various discrepancies in the functioning of the MCG were brought to public attention.In November last year, an executive engineer of the MCG was suspended for allegedly paying the entire project cost of ₹47.50 lakh to a contractor for fixing potholes and re-carpeting roads in Ward 34, even though work had not started on-ground. As per the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, a contractor can only be paid the final amount after a project has been completed or the running costs for it.In September last year, a contractor was found to have been paid ₹50 lakh, for a ₹2 crore project, even though only 10% of the work of laying pavement tiles in Ward 25 was completed.In February 2020, a local politician alerted the MCG that a contractor was paid ₹1.67 crore, the total project cost for constructing a two-kilometre road in Ward 1, even though construction was yet to commence.In December 2019, a local councillor alerted the MCG that a contractor was paid ₹35 lakh for constructing a 1.7-kilometre pathway between Khushbook Chowk and Bristol Chowk along Gurgaon-Faridabad Road, despite work being completed on only 600 metres, and the cost for the same amounting to around ₹11 lakh. The contractor was subsequently blacklisted by the MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/state-govt-starts-probing-irregularities-in-mcg-101624385322409.html
22-06-2021||Other||Restoration of Shahnajaf finally Imambada begins||LUCKNOW: The restoration of Shahnajaf Imambada in the city has finally started. Officials of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the construction agency, said the restoration and strengthening work would be completed within three months. The Imambada’s restoration is an outcome of the efforts of a city-based heritage activist to save the monument. “The majestic Imambada was lying in a of neglect. Despite being a protected and a well-known structure, the Imambada had fallen victim to the apathy of the officials concerned. Then I approached the ASI, the Imambada’s custodian Hussainabad and Allied Trust (HAT) and district administration, demanding immediate intervention,” said Mohammed Haider, a heritage activist and a lawyer. His letters and correspondence managed to attract the attention of the authorities, including the ASI, which eventually started the restoration work. ASI officials engaged in the restoration work said that the walls of the Nawabi era structure perhaps got badly damaged following prolonged water seepage. This led to de-plastering, which further affected the artistic designs on the walls. They said they would first check the water seepage and then start restoration. Kinshuk Srivastava, additional city magistrate (ACM) II, who called a meeting with ASI officials to discuss the state of the heritage structure, said as per the ASI officials it would take three months to complete the maintenance and repair of the heritage structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/restoration-of-shahnajaf-finally-imambada-begins-101624385320688.html
22-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad achieves more than 25,000 vaccinations for second day, second highest in UP||Ghaziabad: As many as 26,797 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Ghaziabad, the second highest number of jabs administered on Tuesday among all 75 districts in the state. Health officials attributed the achievement to the six near-to-home vaccination centres in the district which have come up under the cluster vaccination project. According to the Co-WIN portal figures at 8.30pm on Tuesday, the highest number of Covid vaccinations on the day was achieved by Gorakhpur (28,155), followed by Ghaziabad (26,797) and Gautam Budh Nagar (24,360) districts. On Monday, the Ghaziabad district had recorded its single-day highest vaccination of 28,001 beneficiaries while the cluster vaccination centres contributed with 10,053 doses, the officials said. At the cluster vaccination centres, the beneficiaries can opt for on-spot registration and get the jabs.“The vaccination on Tuesday was lesser than what we achieved on Monday, but we could have surpassed it. There were some centres, for instance at Sadik Nagar, where vaccine stock got exhausted. So, some minor issues hampered vaccination, but we managed to inoculate more than 25,000 people for the second consecutive day,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. The centres under the cluster vaccination drive, which started on Monday, are operational at Maharajpur (945 doses), Sadik Nagar (2,459), Vasundhara (1,143), Adarsh Nagar (1,515), Kailash Mansarovar Bhawan in Indirapuram (4,693) and Bhojpur (1,986) in Modinagar. Together, they administered 12,733 doses on Tuesday. According to the Co-WIN figures, the district till Tuesday administered 887,468 doses while Uttar Pradesh has administered 271,650,48 doses. Under the cluster vaccination, UP on June 21 administered 729,197 doses while it administered 763,097 on Tuesday. According to the officials, the cluster vaccination drive involving near-to-home vaccination centres will try to administer one million doses of Covid-19 vaccine to beneficiaries from July 1. The target has been assigned by the chief minister. As per the Co-WIN portal, Lucknow leads the vaccination tally with about 1.27 million doses administered till Tuesday, followed by GB Nagar with about 1.04 million doses and Ghaziabad on third spot with 887,468 doses. “The near-to-home scheme will provide encouraging results in coming days as vaccination centres will be near to residential localities and approachable to local population. However, more awareness about vaccination should be spread. The officials should also ensure that proper stock of vaccine be procured at the centres,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-achieves-more-than-25-000-vaccinations-for-second-day-second-highest-in-up-101624385259979.html
22-06-2021||Other||Thin attendance of former legislators at UPCC meeting||Lucknow: A poor organisational infrastructure and a clear divide between the Congress’ old timers and the new team stare the Congress in the face as the party gears up for 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. About 20 to 25 former legislators, out of more than 150 invited, turned up at the meeting that Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu convened at the UPCC headquarters here to seek their suggestions for making the party organisation ready for the polls. A picture that Lallu posted on social media also showed about 20 people in the audience and four to five on the dais when Lallu delivered his address there. “This picture must have been taken at the beginning. We understand 40 to 45 former legislators attended the meeting. We did not invite many, only a select few of former legislators,” said a former MLA while defending the poor turnout at the UPCC headquarters. Others who attended the meeting said this was a reflection on the poor infrastructure that the party had at the grassroots level ahead of polls. “We don’t see the Congress at grassroots level anywhere in the state. We have no organisational infrastructure in many constituencies. As the BJP may face strong anti-incumbency in the 2022 polls, the people have begun talking about the Samajwadi Party as an alternative. The Congress does not figure because of poor organisational infrastructure and should find the reasons for this,” said a senior leader. Others who turned up at the meeting said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra should be more active in the state and begin her tours now. There were also demands for projecting Priyanka as the chief minister’s face of the Congress in the forthcoming polls. A suggestion to consider options for alliance was made but many leaders opposed this, saying the Congress would suffer badly if a decision for any alliance was taken. A demand to inform the party’s would be candidates well in time was also made as the party’s list of candidates was often declared at the last minute. When contacted, some of the former MLAs said they were busy in their assembly constituencies and so they could not make it to the meeting at the UPCC headquarters on Tuesday. “Lallu appears to have failed in finding acceptability among all the sections of party men. Many former MLAs have stayed away from most of the meetings Lallu has convened so far. UPCC needs a leader who can lead the organisation in the polls,” said another Congress leader. Will the Congress go for a change in leadership ahead of polls? “The Congress leadership has to take a call on the issue. Lallu is seen leading the agitations. But he leads only a handful of party men. A question mark hangs on his fate in view of poor organizational infrastructure,” said another leader. About taking all the sections of the party along, a UPCC functionary said efforts had been made to bring back old timers, including those who left or were expelled for some reason or the other. “If our leaders have any complaints with us, we are ready to speak to them,” said a party functionary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thin-attendance-of-former-legislators-at-upcc-meeting-101624385139994.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Work on Golden Temple replica at south Delhi park stopped after Sikh leaders object to it||A day after members of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), led by committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, dismantled a replica of the Golden Temple that was coming up at the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC)’s Bharat Darshan Park in Punjabi Bagh, mayor Mukesh Suryan on Tuesday said the project has been “put on hold for now”. Sirsa said the sentiments of his community were hurt as replicas of the holy site (Golden Temple) are not allowed in the Sikh faith.On Monday, he tweeted pictures of the replica followed by a video that captured the dome of the structure being lifted using a crane. “We have succeeded in getting the replica of Sri Darbar Sahib dismantled from Punjabi Bagh park. This replica was against Sikh maryada (customs) because Darbar Sahib is not a tourist place which can be replicated,” he wrote. Suryan, however, said consultations will be held with members of the Sikh community to allay their concerns, and added that the goal of the replica was to “familiarise people with the country’s culture”.“The work on the replica has been put on hold for now. We will discuss the matter with prominent leaders of the Sikh community and proceed accordingly. We do not seek to hurt the sentiments of any community,” he said. The mayor said since the park’s theme was Bharat Darshan, prominent elements of other religions, too, are being set up at the park. “Besides symbols of the Sikh faith, we have symbols from other religions as well. No one else has raised any objections,” Suryan said. Spread over 8.5 acres, the Bharat Darshan Park is being developed with replicas of popular monuments from across the country, including the Mysore Palace, Hyderabad’s Charminar and the Khajuraho temples of Madhya Pradesh. The replicas are being built from scrap material, SDMC officials said. Sirsa, meanwhile, said that matter was closed. “The replica has been demolished and removed from the site. I’m shocked and surprised by comments from municipal officials that the project is on hold. Elected authorities of the community have raised objections to the replica and officials are still insisting that they will talk to the community,” said Sirsa. “It will be disrespectful to have a replica of any place of worship there (in the park). People would click selfies, step on them... the sanctity of the place would not be maintained in such circumstances. People attach importance to places of worship. Our faith does not allow recreation or replicas,” he said. Kailash Sankla, councillor from Punjabi Bagh, said the issue was being politicised ahead of the upcoming Gurdwara governing body elections. “DGCMC elections are round the corner and this has been made into a political issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/work-on-golden-temple-replica-at-south-delhi-park-stopped-after-sikh-leaders-object-to-it-101624385081242.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt, MCDs to join hands for smooth transition of students to Class 6||The Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) and the Municipal Corporations of Delhi (MCDs) on Tuesday joined hands to track each student who transitioned from corporation schools to government ones in Class 6 this year. The move comes after government schools faced several challenges in tracking such students last year as their admissions were done virtually due to the closure of schools in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Every year, around 170,000 students move from municipal schools that offer education only up to Class 5 to government schools in Class 6. Owing to the pandemic, the induction of such students is happening online this year as well, on the basis of names sent by municipal schools. As per the official data, only 76% of the students who transferred from municipal schools last year could be traced.On June 8, Hindustan Times reported that the Delhi government was planning to collaborate with the three civic bodies to track and trace Class 6 students who were transferred to DoE-run schools.Education minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday chaired a meeting with the municipal commissioners of North, South, and East Delhi corporations on the matter. During the meeting, Sisodia asked the three corporations to provide the correct contact details of transferred students. “Last year, at the beginning of the session, only about 30-35% of students’ phone numbers were correct. So, a large number of students could not get the worksheets or participate in the semi-online classes. Government school teachers made special efforts to ascertain the whereabouts of these children and, eventually, 76% of students enrolled in Class 6 could be reached,” the government said in a statement.“We should ensure that students transitioning from MCD to DoE schools get the same emotional and learning support that students of other classes enjoy. Joint efforts between MCD and DoE school teachers will help tremendously in getting the correct contact details of students,” Sisodia said.Initially, government schools will try to contact students and in case their phone numbers are found to be incorrect, the municipal teachers will try to find out the correct details with the help of their other students. “Apart from contact details, the MCD teachers may also share details about each student’s special circumstances, if any, including but not limited to the death of a parent/parents, emotional support requirements, medical history etc, so that the DoE schools are better prepared to support these students,” the government statement said. Both the DoE and MCD run schools will also conduct a combined parent teacher meeting (PTM) for Class 6 this July. MCD officials said they have also been asked to provide details of students who have not been attending online classes or visiting schools to collect worksheets. “Due to the no-detention policy (no student can be declared failed up to class 8), we have to transfer all Class 5 students to Class 6. There are many students who are not in touch with their feeder schools and we have to provide details of such students to the DoE schools.Together, we will make efforts to trace them,” said a senior official of the east civic body’s education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-mcds-to-join-hands-for-smooth-transition-of-students-to-class-6-101624385080018.html
22-06-2021||Other||DMs told to crack down on illegal sand mining and storage||Lucknow: To check illegal mining and storage of sand during the monsoon, the Uttar Pradesh geology and mining department has directed the district magistrates to carry out geo-tagging of the spots where sand has been stored and to install CCTV cameras for vigil on the activities of contractors. With just a week left in the closure of sand mining, contractors had expedited work in major rivers across the state and large quantity of sand had been dumped at various sites in Bundelkhand and east UP, said a mining department officer. In a letter to the district magistrates, secretary, geology and mining, Roshan Jacob said the permission to store sand at the dump sites was given to ensure that adequate sand was available to the people as well as construction agencies during monsoon. There was no shortage of sand and ‘maurang’ during rainy season and they were available at reasonable rates. Sand mining would remain prohibited from July 1 to September 30, she said. The sand and ‘maurang’ would be stored at the spots approved by the district administration. The name of the contractors and the rate of the mineral would be displayed on a board along with geo-tagging of the spot. This would be connected with Mine Mitra portal so that the officers in the directorate office in Lucknow could monitor the activities at the sand stores. The DMs would maintain vigil on the supply of sand at various spots in the district, Jacob said. A mining department officer said in the raids conducted in various districts, illegal sand mining with machines was detected at various spots. FIRs had been registered against the contractors while confiscating the machines and trucks. In Banda illegal sand mining was detected in river Ken while in Hamirpur illegal mining was seen in river Betwa. At some places it was found that sand mining was goning on in the river bed, endangering aquatic life.. The geology and mining department has set the target of ₹4,000 crore revenue in the year 2020-21. It collected ₹3120 crore after the state government permitted sand mining during corona Curfew and partial lockdown, the officer said. The mining department has lodged 536 FIRs in 2020-21 on the charge of violation of mining rules as well as storage of sand. The role of the district mining officers had been detected in illegal mining and departmentsl inquiry had been ordered against half a dozen officers, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dms-told-to-crack-down-on-illegal-sand-mining-and-storage-101624385020692.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Amravati MP Navneet Kaur Rana gets reprieve from SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed an order of the Bombay High Court that ordered authorities to cancel and confiscate the caste certificate issued to Amravati member of Parliament Navneet Kaur Rana.Rana, who was elected to the Lok Sabha as an Independent in 2019 from the reserved constituency of Amravati, had claimed to belong to “Mochi” scheduled caste. The high court earlier this month ruled that the certificate was “fraudulently obtained.The top court’s order comes as a huge relief to the sitting MP who was on the verge of losing all benefits obtained on the strength of her caste certificate, including her election to the Lok Sabha.Senior lawyer Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Navneet Kaur Rana, told the court that the high court failed to consider vital documents produced in support of her caste identity based on pre-independence records. A vacation bench of justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari issued notice on her plea and stayed the operation of the High Court order of June 8 till the next date of hearing on July 27. Senior lawyer Kapil Sibal, who represented Shiv Sena leader and former MP Anandrao Adsul who had complained about Rana’s caste certificate, opposed the grant of stay.But Sibal was told by the bench that the high court appeared to have erred.“The high court records that the manner by which the caste scrutiny committee decided on the caste certificate of the petitioner (Rana) was not correct. It expressed dissatisfaction. Ideally, the high court should have sent the matter back for re-scrutiny by the Committee. Instead, the high Court goes into a fact-finding process which was not correct.”Adsul and the Maharashtra government, which was not represented at Tuesday’s hearing, have been told to file their response by the next date of hearing.The high court’s June 8 order said the lawmaker got the caste certificate validated from the caste scrutiny committee by producing fabricated and fraudulent documents, and reversed the November 2017 order of the Mumbai suburban district caste scrutiny committee which had found it in order.The high court also cancelled the caste certificate issued in August 2013 by the then deputy collector of Mumbai recognizing Rana as scheduled caste and imposed a ₹2 lakh fine.The high court had also pulled up the caste scrutiny committee for doing its job “sloppily” and noted its failure to execute statutory obligations required under the Caste Certificate Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amravati-mp-navneet-kaur-rana-gets-reprieve-from-sc-101624384480607.html
22-06-2021||Dehradun||War of words after Uttarakhand allows AYUSH doctors to prescribe allopathic medicines during emergencies||War of words sparked between allopathic doctors and AYUSH medical practitioners after the state decided to allow Ayurveda doctors to prescribe allopathic medicines during emergencies, HT has learnt. Uttarakhand AYUSH minister Harak Singh Rawat on Monday announced that the state government has decided to allow Ayurveda doctors to prescribe allopathic medicines in the state during emergencies. Rawat made this announcement while talking to the media after attending the function organised on the occasion of the International Yoga Day in Dehradun. Dr DD Choudhary, senior member of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Uttarakhand said this is an unprecedented development. “Can allopathic doctors be allowed to practice Ayurvedic medicine? No. Then how can they be allowed to prescribe allopathic medicines? This is ridiculous,” he said Dr Choudhary said that if the government issues an order in this regard, then the IMA will convene a meeting and discuss the future course of action in the matter. Dr Ajay Khanna, secretary Indian Medical Association (IMA) Uttarakhand chapter said perhaps the AYUSH minister is not aware that he cannot do such a thing. “It is like asking a pilot to operate a train as well. Who will be responsible if something happens to a patient who is given allopathic medicines? There is a Supreme Court order which already prohibits allowing of such mixopathy”, he said. Dr Khanna said if the state government issues order in this regard, under which norms or legal process can they take such a decision? Dr Hardev Rawat, general secretary, Association of Ayurveda and Unani doctors in Uttarakhand, said if states like Himachal Pradesh have done the same, why can’t Uttarakhand also follow suit? “Allopathic doctors have economic interests in serving in urban areas. Most of their hospitals and clinics are in urban areas. Now, if this decision can help people in rural areas, why are they opposing it? We want to thank the AYUSH minister for taking this decision,” he said. Dr JN Nautiyal, senior Ayurveda doctor in the state said the proposed decision by the state government will bring relief to the 80% of people living in rural and remote areas of the state. “In such areas, you won’t find many allopathic doctors as they are mostly concentrated in urban areas. But Ayurveda doctors are already serving in the remote and rural areas of the state and can now help people in case of an emergency,” he said. Dr Nautiyal said the IMA has a habit of opposing any issue when it comes to Ayurveda doctors. “They will not go and serve in rural or remote areas and will not allow us also to provide some relief to the people in distress or during emergencies,” he said. Dr IS Grewal, secretary, state chapter of National Integrated Medical Association, said many states in India have already allowed this practice. “The Supreme Court has also left this upon state governments decide on this. When allopathic doctors are not available in rural areas, why is there an opposition to Ayurveda doctors saving people’s lives? The Apex court has allowed this and Ayurveda doctors have to go for a one-year bridge course for this. I think there should be no opposition to this decision as it will benefit people in remote areas,” he said. Uttarakhand AYUSH minister Harak Singh Rawat said opposition by the IMA in this matter is not right as the decision has been taken to ensure that people in rural and remote areas, where there are no allopathic doctors, get healthcare in case of emergencies. “If the government in Himachal Pradesh can allow this, why can’t we do the same here? We have around 800 Ayurveda doctors in the state and around 2,700 sanctioned posts for allopathic doctors. So had to take a such a decision to ensure people get proper treatment during emergencies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/war-of-words-after-uttarakhand-allows-ayush-doctors-to-prescribe-allopathic-medicines-during-emergencies-101624383880494.html
22-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka excise department logs 10% boost in revenue during lockdown||The Karnataka excise department has reported 10% more revenue during the period of coronavirus-induced lockdown than under normal circumstances, state excise minister K Gopalaiah said.During the launch of Covid-19 vaccination drive in Bengaluru, Gopalaiah talked about the rise in revenue by ₹500 crore by quoting statistics. “During the period between April 1 and June 15 when lockdown was introduced, the total revenue earned by the excise department was ₹4,500 crore. This is 10% higher than the usual business quarter, as in a typical quarter, the state’s excise revenue hovers around ₹4,000 crores," the minister said.This hike in revenue is attributed to the increased sale of liquor. Though the bars were closed during the entire period of lockdown, the liquor stores were allowed to operate for four hours. This relaxation allowed the consumers to buy liquor and enabled its steady sale. Member of the Karnataka Federation of Wine Merchants, Ganesh Shetty said, the sale of IMFL stocks and foreign-made liquor was particularly faster and in bulk. IMFL is a shortened form for 'Indian- made foreign liquor'. On Fridays and Saturdays the liquor sale almost doubled in select outlets."With the lockdown coming to an end in many districts, we look forward to the return of normalcy to our business too. But nevertheless we will continue to operate and abide by the Standard Operations Protocols", Mr. Shetty added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-excise-department-logs-10-boost-in-revenue-during-lockdown-101624383408865.html
22-06-2021||Gurugram||Haryana records 20 Covid-19 fatalities, 146 fresh cases||Haryana on Tuesday reported 20 Covid-19 related deaths taking the cumulative toll to 9,295 and 146 fresh infections pushed the total case count to 7,67,726.According to the health department's daily bulletin, the latest deaths include two each from Jind, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Panipat and Hisar districts.Meanwhile, among the districts, Jind reported 26 fresh cases while 19 cases were from Palwal.The total active cases in the state were 2,200. The total recoveries so far were 7,56,231 while the recovery rate was 98.50 per cent.The cumulative positivity rate was 7.85 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-haryana-records-20-fatalities-146-fresh-cases-101624381864290.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi's air quality likely to deteriorate marginally from Wednesday||Delhi's air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally but remain in moderate to poor category on June 23-24, informed the Ministry of Earth Sciences on Tuesday.According to the National Weather Forecasting Centre of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the air quality over Delhi-NCT is likely to remain in the satisfactory to a moderate category on June 22, while it is likely to deteriorate marginally but remains in the moderate category on June 23 and June 24.PM10 will be the predominant pollutant owing to strong surface winds favourable for raising dust concentration locally and transport of dust from arid regions.The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from the Northwest/Southwest directions of Delhi with wind speed 10-15 kmph and partly cloudy sky on June 22. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from the Northwest directions of Delhi with wind speed 12-20 kmph and partly cloudy sky on June 23.The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from the West-Northwest directions of Delhi with wind speed 24-28 kmph, partly cloudy sky and strong surface winds (speed 20-30 kmph) during the day on June 24.The predicted maximum mixing depth is likely to be approximately 3800 m on June 22, 4400 m on June 23 and 4300 m on June 24 over Delhi. The maximum ventilation index is likely to be approximately 27000 m2/s on June 22, 2021, 29500 m2/s on June 23, 2021, and 39000 m2/s on June 24, 2021. The ventilation index lower than 6000 m2/s with an average wind speed less than 10 kmph is unfavourable or dispersion of pollutants.As per System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), Delhi reported an air quality index of 73 thereby being in the 'satisfactory' category. As per the government agencies, an AQI with the range of 0-50 is regarded as 'good', 51-100 is 'satisfactory', 101-200 is 'moderate', 201-300 is 'poor', 301-400 is 'very poor' and 401-500 is deemed as 'severe'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-likely-to-deteriorate-marginally-from-wednesday-101624378471640.html
22-06-2021||Patna||Patna High Court acquits man sentenced to death for murdering wife||The Patna High Court has acquitted a man, who was given the death penalty by a court in Bihar's Gopalganj district for murdering his wife for dowry in 2007, for lack of evidence.A division bench comprising Justices Ashwani Kumar Singh and Arvind Srivastava set aside the capital punishment order of the trial court, holding that there is no direct evidence against the petitioner.His conviction was "purely based on circumstantial evidence" and "merely on the moral ground as the wife of the appellant Nasruddin had died in her matrimonial home", the high court said in its order on MondayThe bench directed that the petitioner be released if he is not required in any other case.The Gopalganj additional sessions judge on March 29, 2019, held Nasruddin Mian, a resident of Haradiyan village, guilty of killing his wife, Sanjeeda Khatoon (23), for dowry.He challenged the verdict in the high court saying he was falsely implicated in the case. Nasruddin and Sanjeeda got married in 2003, and they have two children. The woman died on March 17, 2007, and her father lodged a police complaint four days later alleging that she was poisoned to death because of non-fulfilment of her husband's demand for a motorcycle."The medical evidence and the forensic evidence do not prove beyond reasonable doubt that it was a case of homicidal death," the bench said in its order.The high court observed that the judgment of the additional sessions judge is an example of "how not to write a judgment"."It has repeatedly been emphasized by the Supreme Court that the Courts and Judges must make a dispassionate assessment of evidence and that the Courts and Judges should not be swayed by the horror of crime and the character of the person."The judgment should be made by a Judge uninfluenced by his own imagined norms of the functioning of the society," the bench said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-high-court-acquits-man-sentenced-to-death-for-murdering-wife-101624381392727.html
22-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt declares Mucormycosis an epidemic||The Jharkhand cabinet on Tuesday approved a proposal to declare highly infectious Mucormycosis, known as Black Fungus in common parlance, an epidemic in the state. The infection, that has a high mortality rate, has witnessed a spike in several states and has also been on the rise in Jharkhand. As per the health department statistics, 26 people have fallen to the infection in Jharkhand this year. “The Cabinet has approved the proposal to declare Mucormycosis an epidemic. The approved proposal has rules and regulations to contain the disease. Besides other regulations, now all private and government hospitals will have to inform the competent authority about emergence of the infection,” Vandana Dadel, state Cabinet secretary told media persons after the Cabinet meeting. As per the health department, the state till now has registered at least 82 confirmed and 54 suspected cases of Mucormycosis. “Till now 26 persons have died due to the disease. One person died on Monday in Hazaribagh. However, 52 persons have also been discharged from different hospitals in the state,” said Siddharth Tripathi, nodal officer of health department’s IEC (Information, Education and Communication) wing. Of the total 136 confirmed and suspected cases in the state, the maximum 30 cases have been reported from capital city Ranchi, which has also recorded eight deaths, the most in the state, due to the infection, officials said.Meanwhile, the state Cabinet also approved a proposal to extend services of doctors, who were scheduled to retire in the intervening period this year, up to March 2022. “Those who were scheduled to retire between May and September 2021 have been given extension up to March 2022. Those who were set to retire between September 2021 and March 2022 have been given extension of six months from the scheduled date of their retirement,” said Dadel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-govt-declares-mucormycosis-an-epidemic-101624380880797.html
22-06-2021||Ranchi||Delta variant predominant in five districts of J’khand: Report||Genome sequencing of samples of Covid-19 patients collected during the second wave from across five major districts of Jharkhand has shown prevalence of variants of concern (VoC) among 90% samples, with the Delta variant being the most predominant.Officials in the state health department said 364 samples collected in April and May this year from Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, and Palamu were sent for genome sequencing to Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar, out of which 328 reported prevalence of VoC.“Out of the 364 samples, the Delta variant was the most predominant in 204 samples (accounting for 56% of the total samples analysed). Other dominating VoC were Kappa variant in 63 samples, and Alpha variant in 29 samples. The rest had other variants. Samples from other districts have also been sent to the Bhubaneswar lab, report of which is awaited,” said Siddharth Tripathi, nodal officer of the health department’s IEC (information, education, and communication) wing.The second wave of Covid-19 pandemic hit the state this year in the last week of March and peaked towards April end. The April 29- May 5 week proved to be the deadliest for the state in terms of loss of lives, with 951 Covid-19 deaths, besides the highest weekly test positivity rate of 16.25%.However, the maximum 44,133 cases were recorded in the preceding week beginning April 22.The number of Covid-19 cases, fatalities and active cases have dipped considerably in the state now. As per the latest health department data, the state recorded 122 fresh cases on June 21 and it has 1,489 active cases, while one persons died of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/delta-variant-predominant-in-five-districts-of-j-khand-report-101624380880044.html
22-06-2021||Patna||Former Munger additional SP in soup for not filing charge sheet in 2018 smuggling case||Munger range deputy inspector general (DIG) of police, before his transfer on June 19, recommended departmental proceedings against the then additional superintendent of police (SP) for his alleged failure in filing a charge sheet against two persons allegedly involved in smuggling of 22 AK-47 rifles from the Central Ordnance Depot (COD) in Jabalpur in September 2018.According to the then DIG Shafiqul Haque, additional SP Harishankar Rai, currently posted in Jehanabad, had failed to file a charge sheet in four separate cases lodged with Muffasil police station against arms smugglers in the stipulated period of 90 days.One of the accused Mohammad Parvez Chand alias Bholu, district president of the youth RJD, was arrested from Mirzapur village of Munger on April 19, 2019. He allegedly smuggled SLR rifles during the years 1992-1995. From the year 2000, he started smuggling AK 47. According to police sources, Parvez used to hide the smuggled rifles at his home to keep them out of police reach. He used to charge a hefty amount from smugglers in return. His name came to the limelight when police arrested one Mohammad Imran with three AK 47 guns in Jamalpur. Police said that the accused were booked under Sections of IPC, Arms Act and Section 39 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).Shafiqul said that due to the non-submission of the charge sheet, two of the accused got relief under Section 167 (2) of the Criminal Procedure Code and were released on bail from the court. “The accused were entitled to claim bail as the police had failed to file the charge sheet within the stipulated period,” said senior advocate Shashikant of Patna session court.Munger police busted the racket and registered a case against 32 named accused and some unknown persons under the leadership of then SP Babu Ram. Police had recovered 22 AK-47 assault rifles and more than 500 spare parts stolen from the COD. The NIA in October 2018 took over the case from the Bihar Police on the Union Home Ministry’s orders and has arrested 15 accused in the case so far. Earlier, Munger DIG recommended departmental proceedings against the then Sheikhpura SP Daya Shankar and SDPO Amit Sharan for their alleged involvement in protecting the accused officers who fraudulently transferred over ₹50 lakh, meant for payment as increments to other policemen across the district between January 2015 and October 2018, into their accounts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/former-munger-additional-sp-in-soup-for-not-filing-charge-sheet-in-2018-smuggling-case-101624380819901.html
22-06-2021||Patna||Bihar traders oppose odd-even for shops, minister says system to stay for now||Deputy chief minister Renu Devi, who heads the disaster management department, on Tuesday shot down a request from traders and businessmen to allow establishments to open on all working days of the week instead of the current odd-even day rule, saying the system was in place for “safety of people”. Traders say the system is causing confusion and leading to losses. In a letter written on Tuesday and addressed to Renu Devi, deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad and Patna Sahib MP Ravi Shankar Prasad, the traders said other states allowed all business establishments to open on a regular basis as they eased lockdown imposed amid the second wave due to Covid-19 pandemic and suggested allowing all shops to open five days in a week while keeping them closed on weekends. Kamal Nopani, chairman of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), Bihar, said, “The odd- even system has created confusion among buyers. People tend to forget closing and opening days of shops due to which business is low and slow.” “Things will change if all shops will be allowed to open every day.This is being done in many other states,” he said.On Monday, the state government, while announcing further relaxations from Wednesday, directed all traders and businessmen to stick to the existing odd-even opening system till July 6. The lockdown was imposed in the state on May 5 following a sudden surge in cases and has been extended multiple times since then. Responding to the traders’ request, Devi said the odd-even system was in place for “safety of people’s lives”. “If everything is allowed to open on a regular basis, there will be huge rush, which is risky. Social distancing has to be followed, as many experts have predicted the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic,” Devi said, adding that requests and suggestions of traders and businessmen will be considered if Covid-19 situation in the state remains under control for next 15 days. “Unlock-3.0 has just been announced and made effective till July 6. But, we are considering opening colleges and universities in July. Opening of the shops will be reconsidered after reopening academic institutions,” she said. On the other hand, CAIT president Ashok Verma said the odd-even system was also resulting in loss for the government. “Even the government is losing revenue. In fact, the loss of business on a single day is huge and recovery is not as easy,” he said, adding that they have asked traders and businessmen to strictly follow Covid-19 norms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-traders-oppose-odd-even-for-shops-minister-says-system-to-stay-for-now-101624380759862.html
22-06-2021||Patna||Bihar CM urges bankers to lend more, assures security||Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday expressed displeasure over the low credit deposit (CD) ratio in the state and urged bankers to disburse more loans to agriculture and MSME sectors in the current fiscal (2021-22).Kumar, who was addressing the state level bankers’ committee ( SLBC) meeting attended by representatives from commercial and private banks through virtual mode, said the state’s CD ratio at 46.40% in 2020-21 was much lower than the national average of 76.5%. “It is imperative the ratio is improved to meet the annual credit plan of ₹1,61,500 crore. Money deposited in banks in the state is going to developed states,” he said. In 2019-20, the CD ratio stood at 43.03%, an improvement for previous years when it was below 40% in the state. The low CD ratio has remained a sore point between the state government and bankers for several decades. While successive governments have been putting pressure on the bankers to lend more, the latter cite high rate of non-performing assets ( NPAs) or bad loans as the reason behind the reluctance of banks to give more loans. Sources said the total NPAs till March 2021 stood at ₹20,444 crore. In 2019-20, it was ₹16,000 crore. At the meeting, the CM told bankers to achieve the target of disbursing s ₹51,500 crore in agriculture sector and also lend more to MSMEs and medical sector ( setting up oxygen plants) and help investors keen on setting up ethanol plants as per the new policy. Kumar also asked banks to open at least one branch at gram panchayat level so that rural population gets better banking facilities. He also reminded the bankers that their plan of opening one branch for a population of 5,000 had not been achieved so far.The CM also urged them to lend support to over 10 lakh self- help groups in the state under Jeevika programme, a World Bank-aided rural livelihood project.The SLBC meeting was also attended by deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, industry minister Shahnawaj Hussain, agriculture minister Amarendra Pratap Singh and senior officials. Law and order The CM assured the bankers that the state government was committed to providing all possible help for security of bank premises. The assurance came after a mention of rising incidents of bank loot over the past few months.“The government has taken prompt action in investigating cases of bank loot and made breakthrough in several cases. In the recent Hajipur case, police have made big recovery of the looted amount and several persons have been arrested,” Kumar told the bankers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cm-urges-bankers-to-lend-more-assures-security-101624380700589.html
22-06-2021||Other||Nitish in Delhi for eye surgery, says no role in LJP split||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday arrived in Delhi for an eye surgery, which, his aides said, will be performed at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on Thursday. Kumar dismissed speculation that he was in the national capital for talks on the possible expansion of the union cabinet. “This is a personal visit. I have come here for eye treatment. There is no plan (of meeting PM Modi during the visit). It will depend on PM Modi how and when he does it (Cabinet expansion). We have no information regarding this,” Kumar told news agency ANI as he landed in Delhi by a special plane.According to an eminent doctor, who has been treating Kumar, he would be admitted to AIIMS where the surgery is likely to be performed on Thursday. Sources close to CM said, “He will stay in Delhi for at least three days. The surgery could have happened earlier, but it got delayed due to Covid-19 pandemic.” Kumar last visited Delhi in February this year when he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and backed new farm laws. Before boarding the aircraft in Patna earlier on Tuesday, the Bihar CM said there was no JD (U) role in LJP’s split. “We have no role in it. It is their internal matter. He (Chirag Paswan) speaks against me for publicity. We have nothing to do with it,” Kumar said, while replying to Chirag Paswan’s allegation about his party’s role in LJP’s split.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nitish-in-delhi-for-eye-surgery-says-no-role-in-ljp-split-101624380699834.html
22-06-2021||Pune||Minor among four apprehended for robbery||A minor boy was among four people apprehended for robbing a couple in their house in Aundh road area of Pune in the small hours of Sunday. Along with the minor, the three other arrested were identified as Anuj Pravin Gaikwad (19), Tejas alias Balma Gaikwad, and Ravindra Babaji Bavdhane (20), all residents of Veer Bhagatsingh Vasti in Padyalvasti area along Aundh road. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Shokawat Bhosale (29), a resident of the same area where the accused live. The incident happened around 12:30am on Sunday when the complainant was in the house with his wife. He saw the four accused kicking and damaging the headlight of his motorbike parked near his house. The complainant and his wife ran out of the house and started chasing the accused. As the couple was chasing behind the accused, the minor boy entered the house which was left unguarded and tore open the woman’s purse. The teenager fled with ₹10,000 cash which was in the bag, according to the complaint. A case under Sections 380 (robbery), 427, 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered in Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minor-among-four-apprehended-for-robbery-101624377939743.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Hole in the wall: Man steals over ₹55 lakh from Delhi bank||A man was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly burgling over ₹55 lakh in East Delhi’s Farsh Bazar area. Hariram, a 34-year-old resident of Vishwas Nagar, broke into a bank from an adjoining under-construction building. Hariram was earlier entrusted with the task of fixing a hole in the wall inside their premises by bank authorities, police officials told news agency PTI. The hole in the wall was also dug by Hariram to commit the burglary.Police officials also arrested another person Kalicharan (39) who received some amount of the stolen money. The police recovered ₹5,448,730 from a house in the same area where Hariram was working as a guard and ₹49,200 was recovered from Kalicharan. Hariram owed Kalicharan ₹49,200 in gambling debts.Police received the information regarding a burglary in a bank in Vishwas Nagar on Monday following which they reached the premises to inspect the area. They inspected the spot and found two holes - the wall of the server room of the bank from the adjacent under-construction building and the other in the wall of a strong room in the basement. At least ₹5,503,330 was stolen from the vault, police said.The police also formed various teams for collecting information from frequent visitors, guards, contractual staff and any other person who might have entered the locker room over the last six months. The cops checked 50 CCTV cameras and found one camera which was installed near an ATM next to another under-construction building was facing upward. Upon closer inspection it was found that the ATM was tampered with but the CCTV camera captured the man’s palm and some portions of his face for a few microseconds. The police said that the camera was tampered with from the first floor of the building.They rounded up three prime suspects who were present in the building when the direction of the CCTV was already pointed towards the entry point in the under-construction building. The detailed analysis later revealed that the person was Hariram. Hariram lived nearby and was known by the building’s caretakers who had the CCTV footage.“Hariram was apprehended. During interrogation, he tried to mislead police by saying that a person gave him ₹1,000 to divert the direction of the camera, but later confessed to his crime,” R Sathiyasundaram, the deputy commissioner of police of Shahdara said.Hariram was called for some renovation work at the strong room six months earlier. Following the renovation, Hariram conducted a detailed recce of the place and gathered all information about cash and possible entry and exit routes, the DCP said.“Hariram planned for the money heist for the last three months, but could not take it up due to the lockdown. Hariram got access to the under-construction building by removing the previous lock and replaced it with another similar one,” Sathiyasundaram further explained. Hariram entered the under-construction building and dug small holes there and also in the strong room. He also told the police that he wanted to use the stolen money for gambling.Police found a grinder, broken grinder plate, hammer, chisel and helmet from Hariram’s possession. Hariram who is a trained construction worker has worked in several construction sites over the past few years. He was living with his wife and two children in the Capital. Kalicharan owns a small business but was involved in illegal gambling activities, police said.(with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hole-in-the-wall-man-steals-over-rs-55-lakh-from-delhi-bank-101624377451629.html
22-06-2021||Pune||All parties question PMC on incomplete pre-monsoon work||Despite spending money, the nala cleaning which is part of the pre-monsoon works has not taken place effectively, according to elected members in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Elected members across all the parties raised the question over the pre-monsoon cleaning and asked details about the amount spent on it. The administration kept mum on the issue in the meeting on Tuesday, however mayor Muralidhar Mohol instructed to offer a written explanation to the general body in the coming days. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Ganesh Bidkar asked the question that administration must give detailed responses like the number of nalas in the city, its length and the money spent on it. Every year the same issue is being discussed. The nala cleaning is part of technical work and the administration must sort out a permanent solution for it. Opposition parties on Tuesday held an agitation in the PMC general body meeting. Despite the start of the monsoon season, the PMC not finished cleaning nalas yet, the opposition alleged. NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “The mayor visited Ambil odha last week and announced that 90 per cent nala and drainage cleaning work has been completed, then why are their own party members raising questions over nala cleaning?” NCP’s Ashwini Kadam said, “Despite asking questions, the administration not giving answers on why the work of bridge at Aryaneshwar stopped? Even the encroachments in nalas are not removed.” BJP’s Manjusha Nagpure said, “Last two years city is facing heavy rainfall. By considering this experience, it was expected that the administration would do proper work this year.” BJP’s Pravin Chorbole said, “The contractors are cleaning the nalas but keeping all the mud on the banks of it. After few days, same mud is falling in the nala, then why is the PMC spending money on it if that debris and mud will again go in the nalas?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/all-parties-question-pmc-on-incomplete-pre-monsoon-work-101624377879730.html
22-06-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru tops among cities, Karnataka second among states in new Covid-19 vaccination drive||With the commencement of the new phase of Covid-19 vaccination on Monday, Karnataka got 10.36 lakh people vaccinated on a single day. Out of this, Bengaluru alone got 2.14 lakh vaccinations, leading among the districts in India, followed by Indore of Madhya Pradesh with 2.11 lakh jabs.Karnataka follows Madhya Pradesh which topped the chart with the highest number of vaccinations administered on a single day with over 16 lakh doses administered on Monday.According to the officials of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, Bengaluru achieved 2.5 times its vaccination target set for the day.Karnataka is followed by UP with 6.57 lakh doses and Gujarat with 5.2 lakh doses. Karnataka had organised 8,262 vaccination centres, wherein 9.8 lakh people were given the first dose while 90,000 people got their second dose, reported local media Udayavani.Belgaum and Chitradurga districts recorded high numbers, too, with 92,387 and 68,131 jabs respectively, as tweeted by state health minister Sudhakar Kumar.Kumar said, “As many as seven lakh people in the age group of 18-44, followed by 2.5 lakh in the age group of 44-60 years and 1.1 lakh in 60 years and above got vaccinated."The total doses administered in the state stands at 1.96 crore. Kumar was quoted as saying, “The vaccine hesitancy was not an impediment in Karnataka and the hesitancy levels were gradually waning."India set a world record for receiving the highest number of jabs in a single day with 86,16,373 lakh people being inoculated on Monday. India’s cumulative vaccination coverage now stands at 28.36 crore since January.The Covid-19 vaccination ‘Maha Abhiyan’ on Monday was carried out under the ‘Free Vaccination for all’ campaign announced on 7th June by the Prime Minister. The campaign provides free of cost vaccination to all the adults in government run vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-tops-among-cities-karnataka-second-among-states-in-new-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101624377395125.html
22-06-2021||Pune||Man in custody for selling duplicate drugs from fake company||A man was remanded to two days in police custody by a local court on Tuesday while two others are on the run from the Pune police for alleged cheating by selling illegally made drugs and forging into existence, a pharmaceutical production company in Himachal Pradesh, according to the police. The arrested man was identified as Prabhakar Namdev Patil (55), a resident of Kalyaninagar, Pune and a partner in a company called Umed Pharma Sales located in Sadashiv peth. “A man was arrested in Mumbai for selling duplicate medicines and from there he started telling names of people to whom he has sold these drugs to. The Sadashiv peth company was one of them. The Mumbai police has the other arrested person identified as Sudeep Mukherjee,” said police sub inspector Sanjay Nikumbh of Vishrambaug police station who is investigating the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a Food and drugs authority (FDA) officer named Vivek Khedkar (40) a resident of Bibwewadi area of Pune. “The original seller was selling general antibiotics in the name of this company that they said was set up in Solan HP,” said PSI Nikumbh. The company for which the papers were forged, and was found to not be in exitance, was identified as Maxrelief Healthcare Village in Anji village of Solan district of HP. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 464, 468, 471, 473, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of Drugs and Cosmetic Products Act, 1940 was registered at Vishrambaug police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-in-custody-for-selling-duplicate-drugs-from-fake-company-101624377699782.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases soar to 8,470, new deaths at 188||Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded 8,473 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), over 2,000 more than Monday, according to the state health bulletin. With this, the overall number of Covid-19 cases in the state went up to 5,987,521. As many as 2,16,861 tests were conducted in the state in the last 24 hours, the bulletin added.The number of people who died due to the infection also shot up to 188, taking the state's total death toll to 1,18,795.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs many as 57,42,258 have recovered from the disease so far, with 9,043 of them being discharged on Tuesday, the bulletin said.In the Mumbai, the state's capital city, 568 fresh cases were recorded, which pushed the total number of infection to 7,21,099. Ten people lost their lives and the death count stood at 15,315.On Monday, the state had recorded a fall in the number of cases and deaths due to the viral infection. As many as 6,270 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded, while the number of people succumbing to the disease over the previous 24 hours on the day stood at 94.Also Read: Number of flights to and from Mumbai increases as Covid-19 cases dipMeanwhile, Maharashtra on Tuesday administered a record 5.52 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, breaking its previous record of inoculating 5.34 lakh people on April 26, a senior official said, according to news agency PTI. The state, till 8pm on Tuesday, had given 5,52,909 doses, and the actual figure could increase further, according to additional chief secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas.With this, the total number of doses administered in Maharashtra stands at 2.85 crore, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-daily-covid-19-cases-soar-to-8-470-new-deaths-at-188-101624377120285.html
22-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,104 new Covid cases, 9 deaths in 24 hours||Pune: Pune district reported 1,104 new Covid-19 cases and nine deaths in 24 hours. The figure took the progressive count to 1.045 million of which 1.012 million have recovered, 16,525 deaths and 16,955 are active cases currently in hospitals undergoing treatment or in home isolation. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 689 new Covid cases which took the progressive count to 305,221 and with six more deaths the death toll stood at 5,607. Pune city reported 232 new virus cases which took the progressive count to 491,872 and reported three deaths on the day and the toll went up to 8,065 while PCMC reported 183 new Covid cases and the progressive count went up to 248,801. With no more death the toll stood at 2,658. The state reported that 9,043 patients were discharged on Tuesday and totally 5,742,258 Covid patients have been discharged after full recovery until Tuesday. The recovery rate in the state is 95.9%. Also, 8,470 new cases and 188 Covid deaths have been reported in the state on Tuesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.98%. Of 39,886,554 laboratory samples, 5,987,521 have been tested positive (15.01%) for Covid until Tuesday. Currently, 658,863 people are in home quarantine and 4,196 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-104-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-in-24-hours-101624377639776.html
22-06-2021||Pune||BJP accepts mismanagement in road-digging work across city||Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) accepted that as a ruling party in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) they are on the backfoot on issues of road digging for 24x7 water pipeline and cable laying that is underway across the city without proper planning. The elected members across all parties on Tuesday raised the issue of rampant road digging and not having proper reinstatement of roads after finishing the digging work. PMC leader of house Ganesh Bidkar from the BJP said, “It is true that the road digging work is going on without any planning. The Maha Metro is carrying out the work in the city and it is mainly on prominent roads but there is no chaos due to metro work. They are carrying out work with proper planning and creating awareness about it. Before work, they are doing proper barricading of sites. “ Bidkar accepted, ‘If the Metro is carrying the road digging without disturbing citizens’ routine, why has the PMC administration failed to create awareness and do the work with proper planning?” NCP leader Vishal Tambe said, “Few years before, just because of potholes, Congress lost the power in PMC. Now all the major roads in the city are in worse condition. It is alarming for BJP as the elections are just a few months away.” Tambe added that the situation is similar across roads in the city, half of the road is tar and the digging part is matched by laying concrete. The opposition parties also raised the question of allowing cable laying work for private cable operators in monsoon. NCP’s Subhash Jagtap blamed that for the first time in the history of the PMC, the ruling party had given digging permission for private cable operators to dig in the rainy season.” Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “In the 24x7 water project, Rs261 crore had been earmarked for re-instatement of roads after digging. If there is budgetary provision for doing road works scientifically and mandatory on contractor, whether administration is ensuring that the reinstate is being carrying out properly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-accepts-mismanagement-in-road-digging-work-across-city-101624377579725.html
22-06-2021||Pune||Man ordering oxygen concentrator online duped of ₹4 lakh||A businessman from Pimpri-Chinchwad was duped of ₹4 lakh by an email sender who promised to sell him oxygen concentrators. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Nitin Bhausaheb Chavan (56), a businessman from Pimple Gurav area of Pune. Chavan received emails from zztradersworld@gmail.com and the sender identified himself as Rajat Ravani, according to the complainant. The businessman received an email from the accused on May 7 after which an email conversation began between the two. The sender promised to sell him oxygen concentrators at a wholesale rate. “He owns a business of motor pump servicing and sale of pipes used to draw water from these pumps. The entire conversation happened on email. He had placed an order for 12 oxygen concentrators,” said Police sub inspector Kavita Rupnar. The complainant has not mentioned the reason for ordering 12 concentrators. Through multiple transactions, the complainant paid ₹4,07,998 to the email sender through online bank transfer. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Shikrapur police station in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-ordering-oxygen-concentrator-online-duped-of-rs-4-lakh-101624377519786.html
22-06-2021||Pune||Pune realtor Amit Lunkad in judicial custody for duping investors||Pune-based realtor Amit Lunkad, proprietor of Lunkad Realty Firms, was arrested by Pune city police crime branch late on Monday night and sent to Yerawada central jail on judicial custody remand on Tuesday on charges of duping investors.His police custody was denied, but so was his bail application as multiple witnesses have come forward against his investment scheme, according to the police. Lunkad was arrested from his house in Pune and produced in court on Tuesday. The decisions were made by additional sessions judge Sunil Vedpathak on Tuesday. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Sanjay Vilas Honrao (48) a resident of Dattanagar area of Ambegaon Budrukh area of Pune. However, at least 6 other witnesses have recorded their statements in the case. Therefore, the law for protection of investors’ interest was also invoked against Lunkad. “We have recorded statements from six witnesses and one complainant. We only had the complainant when the case was registered but with new witnesses, we moved the court to add Sections 3 and 4 of Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors Act,” said an officer close to the investigation. The complainant told the police that in July 2019 he had met with Lunkad at his office in Kalyaninagar area of Pune. During the meeting Lunkad allegedly promised 15 per cent return per month on his investment, according to the complainant. Believing Lunkad, the complainant invested ₹21,26,875 over the next two years. The complainant has alleged that he received neither the returns nor the principal amount that was invested after he asked for the money back, according to the complainant. Police sub inspector Vijay Zanjad of anti-dacoity cell-2 of Pune police crime branch is investigating the case. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of MPID was registered at Yerawada police station against the realtor. The police have urged other victims of Lunkad’s investment scheme to come forward and register their complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-realtor-amit-lunkad-in-judicial-custody-for-duping-investors-101624377459722.html
22-06-2021||Pune||PMC leases 33,000 sq feet of urban space to private company||The decision to lease out prime PMC owned space admeasuring 33,000 square feet area in ICC towers and truck terminus in Dhankawadi to private players has run into rough weather with the opposition demanding a rollback in the decision. The rental from ICC tower commercial space alone with fetch ₹5.55 crore to the PMC exchequer. However, the general body passed the proposals despite contradictory remarks made from the opposition benches. The administration has maintained that privatization cum lease was a necessary step to augment the dwindling revenues of the PMC. The meeting to finalise leasing out the terminus to a private party for 30 years and the two floors space in the ICC towers to a private company for fifteen years went late into night on Monday when the opposition members accused the ruling BJP for selling off PMC in the market by way of leasing and privatization. The general body discussed about the terminus leasing proposal located in Survey no 19/4 A for setting up a CNG pump for thirty years on rental basis. The opposition benches demanded that the proposal did not have exact area being leased out to the private player and alleged that the administration and ruling party elected representatives were hiding facts from the public. The total area is six acres 18 gunthas but the docket did not specific the exact area when it was tabled in the meeting. The proposal was however passed in the general body despite the opposition. The property management department presented before the general body that a company has been given the property located in ICC towers for fifteen years as against an annual payment of ₹5.55 crores. The City Improvement Committee (CIC) had even given a go ahead to the proposal and it received the assent during the meeting. Deputy commissioner (land and estate management) Rajendra Muthe said, “The tender for ICC towers lease was issue thrice and it has finalized to give the said PMC property to a private company for an annual rental of ₹5.55 crores as the general body has approved the same.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-leases-33-000-sq-feet-of-urban-space-to-private-company-101624377399797.html
22-06-2021||Pune||Four cases of attempted murder in 48 hours||The city has seen four cases of attempted murder where victims were assaulted with sharp weapons with the intention of killing in under 48 hours. The incidents took place in Indiranagar, Bopodi and Phursungi. All the cases have taken place due disputes between rival factions operating in the respective areas. Cases have been lodged at Hadapsar, Swargate and Khadki police stations regarding the physical assault with intention to murder. The Swargate police have lodged a cross complaint against two groups after they violently clashed with each other in Indiranagar area of the suburb. Saurabh Kasabe ( 24), a resident of Indiranagar had lodged a complaint accusing Ashpaque Munna Shaikh ( 36), Sultan Kareem Shaikh (23)for allegedly attacking two of his friends. Based on the complaint, the Swargate police booked them under attempt to murder section of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). According to the police, both of them are criminals on record and have been arrested. In the second case, Ashpaque Munna Shaikh (36), a resident of Indiranagar lodged a complaint alleging that Bhimrao Narsappa Manpade (20) and Sunil Kshirsagar had attacked his son with iron rods and sticks. According to the police in both the cases, the clashes took place over ogling each other angrily. In the third case, Shubham Swami ( 23), a resident of Bopodi has lodged a complaint with Khadki police stating that Akash Uttam Gaikwad ( 29) and his associate for attacking with a sword and stone while he was going home on his two-wheeler. The police have arrested Gaikwad and charged him for attempt to murder under IPC 307 and relevant sections of arms act. In the fourth incident Omkar Londhe (18), a resident of Manjari has lodged a complaint with Hadapsar police against eighteen persons who attacked him with sharp weapons over previous enmity. The accused have been booked under relevant IPC sections and arms act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/four-cases-of-attempted-murder-in-48-hours-101624377339707.html
22-06-2021||Kolkata||‘UT status demanded for Bengal districts by MPs, not endorsed by party’: BJP||The Bengal unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday said it neither endorses nor supports the demand for separate statehood or Union territory status for certain districts as raised by two of its Lok Sabha members.“The demands do not adhere to our party’s official stand. We see Bengal as one state,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said at a press conference on Tuesday afternoon amid strong reaction in political circles against the demands raised by John Barla, the MP from Alipurduar in north Bengal and Saumitra Khan, who represents the Bishnupur constituency in south Bengal’s Bankura district.Barla, a tribal leader, joined the BJP in 2014 while Khan, who was the Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP from Bishnupur since 2014, switched over to the saffron camp before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and retained the seat.“These people joined the BJP in recent years. They have to toe the party line. It is a fact that large parts of north and south Bengal have been neglected for decades and local people have grievances against the state government. The leaders must have raised the demands out of frustration and anger because our workers are facing atrocity ever since the assembly polls ended but they cannot make such statements in public,” said Ghosh. He did not name Khan and Barla.Last week, Barla said he will urge the Centre to either form a state or Union territory by clubbing the districts in north Bengal. On Monday, Khan voiced the same demand for certain parts of West Burdwan, Bankura, Purulia, West and East Midnapore and a part of Hooghly district. They were supported by a handful of local leaders and legislators from these regions while the BJP maintained its distance.TMC workers have lodged complaints at several police stations in Bengal against Barla and Khan, accusing them of attempting to create disturbance.“We will not allow anyone to split Bengal,” chief minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee said last week and citizens vented their anger against the BJP on social media.Incidentally, the BJP performed well in the regions for which the two MPs demanded separate status.In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, as well as the recent state elections, the BJP outperformed the TMC in the north Bengal region. In 2019, the saffron camp bagged seven of the eight Lok Sabha seats in the eight districts starting from Malda to Darjeeling. In the state polls, two prominent TMC ministers lost in north Bengal while BJP candidates won 30 of the region’s 54 assembly segments where identity politics played a key role.Although the BJP was trounced by the TMC in these polls in most parts of south Bengal, which accounts for 240 assembly and 34 Lok Sabha seats, the saffron camp managed to make inroads in Bankura, Purulia, West Burdwan, Nadia and parts of Hooghly and East and West Midnapore districts.“I refuse to believe that the two MPs raised the demand without any support from their party. The BJP must be having a bigger plan,” Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said.In north Bengal, Barla’s demand has drawn strong criticism from tribal and Gorkha groups. Leaders of the Gorkha Jana Mukti Morcha in the Darjeeling hill region and the Greater Cooch Behar People’s Association (GCPA) in the plains have accused the BJP of trying to create unrest before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.The BJP suffered a setback in north Bengal on Monday when Ganga Prasad Sharma, president of the unit in Alipurduar district, where the party bagged all five assembly seats in the recent assembly polls, joined the TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/ut-status-demanded-for-bengal-districts-raised-by-mps-not-endorsed-by-party-bjp-101624375540495.html
22-06-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh creates record, 1.64 mn people vaccinated in a day||Madhya Pradesh government created a record of administering Covid-19 vaccines to 1.64 million people in a day on Monday after a sudden drop of vaccinations in the past three days, experts said, claiming that data shows the state stockpiled vaccines to create the record.On Sunday, only 4,098 people received the Covid vaccine jab, just 2% of the weekly average of vaccination in the state since the first week of May. The weekly average of vaccination in MP is 1.5 lakhs or more since May 2 when vaccination for 18 plus started. For the first time since May, vaccinations touched a new low on Sunday, according to the data of the state health department. Vaccination on Saturday and Sunday were below the daily average. The state government officials said offers, which had been declared to invite more people for vaccination on Monday, and Sunday lockdown, were the reasons behind the low number of vaccinations on Sunday. Member of Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, SR Azad, said, “There was a slow pace of vaccination in MP. After PM Modi’s announcement of a mass vaccination programme and providing vaccines free of cost, the state government swung into action and started publicizing the campaign in a new way. The focus shifted from daily vaccination to one-day record. Stockpiling is obvious because they have limited stock for vaccination. To grab attention and praises, the state government focused on vaccination on International Yoga day only.” “All the districts administration, officers of different departments, politicians and social workers came out to motivate people and offer them something in return whether it is a free recharge or lucky draw. It is good but they should maintain this till vaccination of all. Like previous campaign, this shouldn’t be a mere ritual of one day,” he added. Another activist, Rachna Dhingra said, “It is good that the state government make vaccination process a competition among cities and villages. But will they be able to sustain this? The chances are very low because for the ‘big-day’ they called National Health Missions (NHM) nurses and staff members, posted at different government hospitals, which is not possible daily. Similarly, how will they ensure the availability of the vaccines? If they maintain this, they can achieve the target of 100% population by December 31.” Requesting anonymity, an officer of the state health department said, “It is wrong to say that the state government was doing stockpiling of vaccines but yes, the government was focusing more on Maha abhiyan. It was not the state government but the central government which wanted to create a record and that’s why we received vaccines in abundance before the big day and will soon get about 50 lakh vaccines. Earlier, we had to hold the vaccination campaign with maintaining the stock as we were not receiving vaccines in large quantities like we are getting now.” Medical education department minister Vishwas Sarang said, “It is true that fewer people were turning up for vaccination whether due to fear about the side effects of the vaccine.” “More people turned up for vaccination on Monday as we celebrated the day to end the fear for vaccination from the mind of people. The chief minister, BJP leaders, ministers, local administration, famous personalities and businessmen became part of this campaign to motivate people. Many collectors and private partners offered many things to invite people. Now, it will go on smoothly. Those who were misguided about the vaccination will start trusting us and vaccination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-creates-record-1-64-mn-people-vaccinated-in-a-day-101624370260521.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||‘Crowds beyond shops not in our control’: Delhi traders’ bodies on overcrowding||Delhi’s traders bodies on Tuesday pointed out that responsibility of social distancing and enforcing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) preventative measures at markets lies with the administration not with the shopkeepers. The traders’ bodies of Delhi’s markets said it is not possible for them to control crowds outside their shops and the onus lies with the administration.The traders’ bodies reaction comes in response to the Delhi high court taking cognizance of the violation of Covid-19 protocols across Delhi’s markets. The court also said that such breaches will only hasten the probable third wave of Covid-19. The court directed the Centre, the Delhi government and administrators to take strict measures in enforcing the measures. It had also asked them to meet with markets and vendor associations in this regard.Following the gradual reopening of the national capital, Delhites were seen thronging markets, malls and restaurants, which were closed following the rise in deaths due to Covid-19 in the city. Markets can now open fully between 10am to 8pm.Brijesh Goyal, chairman of the chamber of trade and industry, said that as far as crowds inside shops are concerned that comes under the ambit of the shopkeeper but crowds outside the shop in the common areas of the markets lie with the administration. He said traders can only ensure compliance inside their shops, godowns or offices.“It is the administration and the police who have to ensure that the protocols are followed in streets and other public spaces,” Goyal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI urging the authorities to hold meetings with market associations to find ways of crowd control. He said the issue is limited to a few markets out of the 950 major markets of Delhi.“Our only aim is to have some customers every day. We make sure that not more than three customers are inside a shop at a time and five if it is a big shop. If we have to manage the crowd outside as well, who will manage the shop?” Ashok Randhawa, president of the Sarojini Nagar Mini Market Traders' Association asked. Randhawa said that it will impact the business of shopkeepers if they ask shoppers in groups to step outside. He said this job is better suited for police or civil defence volunteers.Sanjay Bhargava, president of the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, pointed out that presence of police and civil defence volunteers would make visitors more likely to be more mindful of their conduct. He also said that ‘drastic precautions’ should be taken till the wedding season begins. He said that markets can also follow an odd-even system so that the crowds can be controlled till August 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/crowds-beyond-shops-not-in-our-control-delhi-traders-bodies-on-overcrowding-101624369348287.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 tally rise by 134; toll reaches 24,933||Delhi recorded 134 coronavirus cases on Tuesday with a positivity rate of 0.20 percent, while eight more people succumbed to the disease, according to data shared by the city's health department here.According to the bulletin, 263 cases of previous weeks were added on the ICMR portal by Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and associated Safdarjung Hospital on Monday.Delhi had reported 89 Covid-19 cases on Monday with a positivity rate of 0.16 percent, both lowest this year so far, while 11 fatalities were recorded.The eight new fatalities have pushed the death toll in the city to 24,933.Delhi has recorded 14,32,778 coronavirus cases since the pandemic started. Of this, over 14.05 lakh patients have recovered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-tally-rise-by-134-toll-reaches-24933-101624369421750.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||Standing by artistes for a better tomorrow||Pandemic has hit several industries fairly hard and many have been rendered jobless. One such sector that has suffered unrecoverable losses and left many without work is the industry of performing arts. Artistes, largely dependent on live shows, from the field of theatre, singing, dance; music and other folk arts are bearing the brunt due to the ongoing pandemic. Pained with their suffering, some artistes, associations and individuals have come forward to support them. Sufi-Kathak founder Manjari Chaturvedi, with support of a few, is helping distressed 180 artistes’ families — largely from Uttar Pradesh — in tune of ₹3000-5000 every month. “When lockdown started and we were busy baking cakes and posting recipes, I got a call from a qawaal who shared that they were literally starving. I transferred some amount to him that followed more requests. Thinking on how to help them, I sent messages to my contacts on phone list and social media with an option of either send directly or through us,” says the kathak danseuse. Initially, she supported 17 artistes and since then has been helping families from different part of country which has now reached to 180 families. “Big thanks to the people who are supporting the cause. Like a doctor I know is funded 70 musicians! Organisations, foundations, fund-raisers, charitable institutions we are trying all means. Maximum people are from rural belt, but we also have SNA awardees and even a music teacher from Mumbai,” says Manjari. She feels that governments must take initiatives with the kind of funds they have for art and culture. Helping handsBureaucrat couple Dr Anita Bhatnagar and Ashu Jain on personal level supported around 200 artistes. “We supported them with ration packets and medicines. Artistes have huge self-respect and don’t come forward asking help so through our contacts we help them in a small way.” City-based theatre body Kalakaar Association supported 36 artistes with ration kits while cash to some. “Mostly established artistes and Lucknowites have contributed and we trying best help performing artistes who are left workless in the pandemic,” says association president Sangam Bahuguna. Folk singer Malini Awasthi shared an instance about an artiste. “For a programme I called a qawaal but I was told he is now in Aligarh making locks on daily wages. In absence of shows their situation has become bad to worse! Last year, with help of appeal from established artistes, we collected ₹38 lakhs and supported some 1,450 artistes. This year we have already transferred some amount to 30 artistes from the collection while on personal level have provided ration,” she said. The singer informs that before the second wave government has organised programmes like Awadh Mahotsava and in Varanasi where artistes performed. “I have come to know that a series of online and later offline events will be held where artistes will get opportunity to perform and earn,” she said. Perform & earnUttar Pradesh Tourism, Cultural Department and UP Sangeet Natak Academy is going to organize a two-day Ramayana Conclave in 10 cities where artistes will be given a platform to perform, informed a senior government official.Manjari adds that uncertainty has made artistes suffer from depression. “Soon we are going to start an artiste sustainable programme and through these shows they will be able to perform and earn. Along with money, mental support is also what they need at this hour,” says the Sufi Kathak Foundation founder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/standing-by-artistes-for-a-better-tomorrow-101624368339967.html
22-06-2021||Other||Odisha police seize rifle, ammunition from Maoist hideout in Kandhamal||A joint team of the anti-Maoist police team of the Special Operations Group (SOG) and the District Voluntary Force (DVF) on Monday claimed to have recovered a .303 rifle, INSAS magazine and at least 7 detonators while conducting combing operations in Kandhamal district. This marked one more success in the fight against Maoists in Odisha.Inspector general of police (anti-Maoist operations) Amitabh Thakur said on Monday that the police team was combing Kumbhaharu village under Gochhapada police station of Kandhamal when the Maoists started heavy firing. The Maoists however took the benefit of dense forests and difficult terrain to escape from the spot. The seizures included a .303 rifle, a hand grenade, a 12 bore country-made gun and INSAS rifle among other ammunition.Thakur said the seizure comes a week after police seized a huge cache of arms and ammunition from a forest near Kulabeda village in Malkangiri district following an exchange of fire with Maoists. An INSAS, 19 rounds of 5.56x39 mm ammunition, 15 rounds of 7.62x45 mm ammunition, one AK-47 magazine and 2 INSAS magazines were recovered from the spot.There have been at least four seizures of Maoist arms by Odisha police this year. In January, a detonator, two hand grenades, two packets of explosives, three magazine pouches were recovered from the forest near Lengerimunda village under Chakapad Police station of Kandhamal district following an encounter. The same month, several bomb-making devices, explosives, wires and other incriminating articles were recovered by police and BSF jawans from Matikhal forest under Gorasetu region of Malkangiri district.In February, a huge cache of arms and ammunition, including 6 single barrel muzzle loading guns, 205 pipes for SBML guns, 50 gelatin sticks, 2 claymore mines, 3 tiffin bombs and 3 kilograms of iron splinters were seized from the Atmakunda forest in Narayanpatna area of Koraput district during a search operation.The same month, a team of Border Security Force (BSF) jawans recovered 60 Gelatin sticks, 50 electric detonators, 5 bundles of flexible wires, 30 small iron pellets and 2.5 kilograms of urea in Pindamali-Bhitarpara forest area in Swabhiman Anchal area of Malkangiri.Police officials said repeated seizures were a good sign as it leads to reducing the firepower of the rebels. “This year, two Maoists have been killed in an encounter with police. This month, Rabindra, a member of Bolangir-Bargarh-Mahasamund (BBM) divisional committee of Maoists, with ₹5 lakh reward money on him, was killed during an encounter at Jhanj Reserve Forest in Bargarh district. Had Maoists from Chhatisgarh not been coming to Odisha, we would not have any Maoist-related incidents,” said a senior police official.In Odisha, there are 230 Maoists active, of which around 20 are homegrown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-police-seize-rifle-ammunition-from-maoist-hideout-in-kandhamal-101624367261615.html
22-06-2021||Pune||Pune Metro project: PMC, state’s share of cost increases||PUNE With the central government having reduced its share of financial contribution to Pune’s metro, from 20 per cent to 10 per cent, Maha-Metro has now requested the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the state government, to cover the outstanding amount.The shortfall in finance is specific to the funds needed for the extension of the Metro route between Swargate and Katraj.For the first phase of the Metro which covers two lines, Vanaz to Ramwadi and PCMC to Swargate, the funding pattern was Central and state government’s to contribute 20 per cent each, PMC would give 10 per cent, and the balance 50 per cent would be taken as a loan from a bank.Now, the proposal submitted to the PMC states that both PMC and the state government need to bear 15 per cent of the cost, each, with the Central government bearing 10 per cent and the balance 60 per cent will be a loan.Maha-Metro’s public relation’s officer Hemant Sonawane said that the proposal was submitted to the PMC on Monday.Another Maha-Metro official speaking on condition of anonymity, said, “Because this is an extension of phase one of the project, which was already cleared, the Central government has approved 10 per cent. It is a a common formula used by Centre. If there is an extension to what has already been decided it contributes only 10 percent. If the PMC had submitted this extension as part of the second phase, clubbing all the extension routes together, there were chances the Centre would have stuck to its 20 per cent contribution. But, that kind of proposal needs a lot of permissions and it is a time consuming process.”Congress party leader Gopal Tiwari criticised the Central government’s decision to approve only 10 per cent for the Pune metro. Tiwari said, “I am going to raise this issue with the national leadership. The central government is running from its responsibility and forcing the municipal corporation to take on an additional burden as well as borrow extra.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-metro-project-pmc-state-s-share-of-cost-increases-101624366361401.html
22-06-2021||Other||HC adjourns all cases listed in July to Sept, Oct||ChandigarhThe Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday decided to adjourn all cases listed in July to September and October. It, however, announced that all benches will resume work from June 28, the first time since the pandemic broke in March 2020. The decision to adjourn the cases has been taken in view of government advisories and Covid scenario in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. The high court had suspended physical hearing of cases last year but re-introduced it in February. The decision had to be taken back in view of second wave striking across the country.An official said all benches will hold court from June 28 through video conferencing. The high court has also done away with the mentioning system of listing of fresh cases of all categories. In the case of adjourned cases, if there is urgency, any of the party can approach court for advancing of the hearing, the official added. The high court also decided that bail matters, protection matters, paroles and premature release cases filed this year won’t be adjourned and would be taken on the dates already fixed. The cases in which advancement was allowed after May 1, will also not be adjourned, the official said, adding that interim orders passed in any of the adjourned matters will stand extended. Entry into high court will still remain barred for lawyers, clerks and parties etc.Last week, the Supreme Court had expressed its dismay over functioning of the court. It had expressed shock over non-listing of bail matters observing that the accused has a right to hearing of his application for bail and denial of same is an infringement of right and liberty assured to him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-adjourns-all-cases-listed-in-july-to-sept-oct-101624365579276.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Awaiting the good news that hardly breaks soon!||The pining of the star-crossed Ranjha for his beloved Heer mightn’t have been as intense as that of a writer wistfully yearning to see her write-up getting published. Wielding a pen, I often wonder what else could dread the writers’ fraternity more than receiving a soft-toned rejection by the august editorial team; exhorting them to further hone their writing skills. It takes years of reading and inking reams of sheets in practice to frame a well-rounded, all-inclusive, and relevant piece worth passing muster for publication. No sooner had an acceptance mail hit my inbox, weighed down with a truckload of rejected mails, than a vehement maelstrom of ecstasy would begin whirling dreamily all around. The news would transform me into a broken record parroting out the content of the received mail verbatim to the entire family for its veracity. My sane conscience, silently at times, would exhort me to contain my self-indulgent childlike animation the moment somebody asked me the date of its publication. Over time, one realises that awaiting the publication of a piece turns out to be irascibly itching at the subliminal level even more so than awaiting the editor’s final word. Breaking of the dawn injects an overdose of edginess into my yoga sessions as my closed eyes and unreceptive ears apparently sapped all their energy into paying heed to the anticipated sound of the newspaper that could any time flop onto my balcony, brushing the edges of the iron grilles. Disrupting the rhythm of my deep breathing, I rush out at full steam to pick up the newspaper before the rest of the family. My impatient mind reflexively urges my fidgety fingers into skimming through the pages fast, overlooking the hottest headlines of the day to jump straight to the Spice of Life column only to end up folding the paper slowly with a crestfallen visage having failed to muster a moral goodwill to read the write-up of a fellow author. Thanks to the long queue of writers of all ages and professions, the wait grows longer. Days stretch to weeks and untowardly morph into months, wilting the enthusiasm. Then out of the blue dawns a balmy day when fortune smiles upon you. Reading your name in the author’s adored space pumps pleasure and contentment into the heart, reflecting on a lofty thought that the hard work coated in a thick layer of patience has finally come out with flying colours. With small, slow, painstaking strokes of a scissor, you merrily snip out the article. What makes your day even more special, lending an indelible and unforgettable aspect to the experience, are all those heart-warming feedbacks that land in the inbox and comment section on social media platforms, refilling the pen with the much-needed tonic of rejuvenation and impetus to get the momentum going. That over-the-moon feeling hangs in the air for long until the world around begins enquiring about your next write-up. To that question comes a formal retort: “By the Almighty’s grace, the next write-up has been shortlisted.” Then comes the question over its publication date. Though the reply is a stoic “very soon”, the heart that everlastingly beats under its own breath within the earshot of the mind’s ears says, “Good news, like always, is in an uncertain period of awaiting.” 0423radhika@gmail.com The writer is a government teacher at Gagret in Himachal Pradesh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/awaiting-the-good-news-that-hardly-breaks-soon-101624364979887.html
22-06-2021||Dehradun||38-year-old man killed by leopard in Uttarakhand’s Pauri||A 38-year-old man was mauled to death by a leopard in a village of Uttarakhand’s Pauri district on Tuesday. He had gone out in the morning when a leopard pounced on him and dragged him towards the forest area, forest officials said. Mukesh Sharma, divisional forest officer (DFO), Pauri said, “Thirty-eight-year-old Dinesh Chandra was attacked by a leopard in the morning near his house. His family members and local villagers started looking for him. His mauled body was later found from the nearby bushes in the forest area”, he said. Sharma said the leopard dragged the man towards the forest area and ate his body parts. He said ex-gratia relief will be handed over to the deceased’s family members after completing the required formalities. He said they are also setting up a cage to the village where the incident took place to catch the leopard. This is not the first such incident in the state in the last year or so. In March, a leopard killed a 60-year-old in Pithoragarh district. In February, a 46-year-old woman was mauled to death by a leopard in Kapri village Pithoragarh district. A 45-year-old woman was killed by a tiger on February 11 in Ramnagar of Nainital. Earlier, a 60-year-old woman was mauled to death by a leopard in Khatima of US Nagar on February 6. On January 20, a 50-year-woman was killed by a leopard in Almora district. On December 1, 2020, a 65-year-old man was killed by a leopard in Chamoli district. In the first week of November last year, a 21-year-old woman was killed in a leopard attack in Champawat district. Three women, including a teen, lost their lives in a week in October last year in Okhalkanda block of Nainital. On October 15, an 11-year-old girl was killed by a leopard in Jaspur area in US Nagar district when she was playing with her siblings outside her house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/38yearold-man-killed-by-leopard-in-uttarakhand-s-pauri-101624362759904.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||SIT quizzes Parkash Badal for more than 2 hours in Kotkapura police firing case||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) on Tuesday questioned former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal for nearly two-and-a-half hours in his official MLA flat in Chandigarh in connection to the probe related to 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident, people familiar with the developments told news agency PTI.The Akali Dal supremo was summoned in Mohali earlier on Wednesday but he sought a change of date citing ill health. “Badal is keen to fulfil his legal and constitutional duties as a law-abiding citizen of the country,” Harcharan Bains, principal adviser to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal said pointing out that the former Punjab chief minister was still unwell.High drama as Badal objects to questioning by non-SIT memberVijay Singla, the state’s prosecutor who accompanied the SIT was also at the meeting, but his presence irked Badal who objected saying that he was not part of the probe team. SAD leaders Prem Singh Chadumajra, Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Dr Daljeet Cheema also said that Singla was sent to keep tabs on the SIT questioning. Singla asked the former CM regarding his role in the 2015 firing case but following Badal’s objection he did not ask any more questions, according to a report by HT.Parkash Singh Badal was the chief minister of Punjab in 2015 when the incidents of desecration of religious texts and subsequent police firing on people protesting over the issue occured in Faridkot. The Punjab government in May 2021 set up a new SIT on the directions of the Punjab and Haryana high court. The SIT led by additional director of police LK Yadav quashed the report submitted by the first SIT led by inspector general Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in April.The new SIT is probing two FIRs which were registered on October 14 in 2015 and August 7 in 2018 with relation to the Kotkapura firing incident. The SIT has already questioned former DGP Sumedh Saini along with other police officers. The previous SIT also questioned the former chief minister who called the probe ‘politically motivated’ and said that the probe was initiated to defame him. A separate probe in the 2015 Behbal Kalan firing case is also underway. Police fired at demonstrators who were protesting the desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-quizzes-parkash-badal-for-more-than-2-hours-in-kotkapura-police-firing-case-101624359021977.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mawya Sudan becomes IAF’s 1st woman fighter pilot from J&K||From drawing sketches of flying machines on the walls of her room to getting wings in the Indian Air Force (IAF), 24-year-old Mawya Sudan has become the first woman from Jammu and Kashmir to become a fighter pilot. Mawya’s family originally belongs to Lamberi village on the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district. Her father, Vinod Kumar Sharma, is an engineer in the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board. The family is settled in Jammu. Her uncle, Raj Sudan, recalled Mawya’s journey. “She did her schooling from Carmel Convent School and later joined JK Public School in Kunjwani. She then earned a government scholarship to study outside J&K. She went on to pursue her graduation at MCM DAV College in Chandigarh,” he said. “Since her childhood she was attracted towards flying machines and used to draw their sketches on the walls in her room. She was into sports also,” he added. He described Mawya a self-motivated person, who used to watch helicopters hovering in the sky on the LoC in her native village. After her graduation, Mawya took the Air Force Common Admission Test (AFCAT). While waiting for her results, she joined Panjab University for postgraduation in defence studies. “Barely two months into the course, she qualified the AFCAT. We are very proud of her achievement,” Raj said. Mawya has an elder sister, Tanya, who is an alumna of Indian Institute of Management, Kozhikode. She was inducted as a fighter pilot during the combined graduation parade ceremony in Hyderabad last Saturday. She is the 12th woman fighter pilot in the IAF. J&K lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha has congratulated Mawya on her achievement. “Congratulations to Mawya Sudan, daughter of J&K, who has been commissioned as a flying officer in the Indian Air Force. It is a matter of immense pride & joy to see you scripting history. With this achievement, you have lent wings to the dreams of millions of our daughters,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mawya-sudan-becomes-iaf-s-1st-woman-fighter-pilot-from-jk-101624358499861.html
22-06-2021||Bangalore||'DK Shivakumar’s word is final’: Cong leader amid murmurs of feud over CM face||Former Karnataka deputy chief minister G Parameshwara on Monday said that there is no factionalism in the state unit of Congress and the decisions taken by party president DK Shivakumar are the collective and final decisions of the party. His statement was in response to the Koppal MLA Raghavendra Hitnal’s demand to project former chief minister Siddaramaiah as the Congress’ chief ministerial candidate in the upcoming polls.“Whatever DK Shivakumar says is the party’s opinion. State party president is supreme here. The president could be DK Shivakumar, Dinesh Gundu Rao or me, whatever business it is, the president is supreme. Whatever he says comes with the Congress high command’s permission,” Parameshwara was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.People familiar with the developments told news agency ANI that murmurs of discord regarding the chief ministerial candidate for the 2023 elections surfaced soon after DK Shivakumar took oath as the Karnataka Congress president as cadres and MLAs are divided between Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah. The person cited above said that the high command told partymen to focus on the Karnataka legislative assembly elections rather than focusing on projecting a chief ministerial candidate.“Be it Zameer Ahmed or anyone else in the party, they must follow the instructions of DK Shivakumar as he is the state party president. The party high command will clear any issues raised by anyone. There is no factionalism in the Congress,” he further added.Parameshwar said that the party should focus on winning the polls and returning to power while highlighting that Siddaramaiah said the opinions shared by the MLAs are their own. Earlier Congress leader Zameer Ahmad demanded Siddaramaiah to be projected as the chief ministerial candidate in the upcoming polls.Hitnal earlier said citizens of the state want to see Siddaramaiah back at the helm. He said Zameer Ahmad’s statement was backed by the people of the state. “People of the state want Siddaramaiah as their CM which is why Zameer Ahmad made the statement. It is the opinion of the people of Karnataka,” Hitnal said. He also said that Siddaramaiah would have tackled the Covid-19 situation better than incumbent chief minister BS Yediyurappa.“It is not simply my opinion. It is the opinion of the auto driver, the poor, daily wage worker and shopkeepers. As far as people’s opinion is concerned, there is 100 to 200% guarantee that Siddaramaiah will become the next chief minister for sure,” he further added.Karnataka Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit which last week held a series of meetings with senior leaders and cabinet ministers to discuss the internal feuds in the state unit said that DK Shivakumar is surrounded by backstabbers. Karnataka minister KS Eshwarappa said that the fight between the cadres has the potential to hurt Congress. “The fight for the chief minister’s post within the Congress with (either faction) dreaming of either Siddaramaiah or DK Shivakumar in the CM's chair can create more problems for Congress in future for sure. DK Shivakumar must not forget that backstabbers are behind him,” Eshwarappa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/dk-shivakumar-s-word-is-final-cong-leader-amid-murmurs-of-feud-over-cm-face-101624357965084.html
22-06-2021||Jaipur||People to now get Covid vaccine at MNREGA sites in Rajasthan||In Rajasthan, people can now be vaccinated against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) at MNREGA sites at the panchayat, village and ward level, and at offices in urban areas. To speed up vaccination in the state, the health department has issued new guidelines for rural and urban areas, ensuring “maximum Covid-19 vaccination and minimum wastage”.Secretary, Health, Akhil Arora said that guidelines have been issued for the selection of session sites at district-level for smooth and time-bound vaccination, based on the availability vaccine, deployment of volunteers for security arrangement and availability of medical staff.Also Read | Fake Covid shots given at unauthorised vaccination camps in Mumbai: PoliceHe said vaccination camps will be organised panchayat-wise in rural areas based on the availability of vaccines in the district. Village-wise vaccination camps will be organised in those gram panchayats where villages are far from panchayat headquarters. Arora said the maximum population in rural areas comprises MNREGA workers, and so vaccination sessions or camps will be organised in most areas for MNREGA workers and their families at the MNREGA workplaces In urban areas, most people work at businesses, industries, private or government jobs, etc. Vaccination camps will be set up with the help of the business/industrial organisations and office management on priority basis for the employees and their families, Arora added. The health department will provide vaccines and necessary staff at these session sites. Twenty-five per cent vaccine doses will be kept in reserve for emergency situations at the vaccination camps, Arora said. The guidelines state that elderly people, women and people with disabilities will be given priority for vaccination at the sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/people-to-now-get-covid-vaccine-at-mnrega-sites-in-rajasthan-101624357899725.html
22-06-2021||Other||Outrage in Kerala over two alleged dowry-related deaths||The deaths of two women in Kerala related to alleged dowry harassment in two days have provoked outrage and prompted calls for changes in the law to prevent such incidents. A 24-year-old woman was found dead in Kollam on Monday. Another woman allegedly died after she set herself afire on Tuesday in Thiruvananthapuram. In both cases, husbands of the women have been arrested. The 24-year-old woman’s parents said she was continuously harassed over the car gifted to her at her wedding. She purportedly sent to her parents’ photos of her injury marks and scars allegedly inflicted by her husband. The parents alleged she was being harassed with demands for a luxury car and was told that the one gifted to her was worth just ₹10 lakh. They added they also gifted their daughter over 100 sovereigns of gold and one-acre land.“He (son-in-law) did not like the car I gifted and always used to argue with my daughter over this. When he came here last time, he sought ₹10 lakh which I refused. His torture aggravated after this,” said the Kollam woman’s father.Also Read | 5 killed in Kerala, police investigate victims’ pastThe parents of the Thiruvananthapuram woman, too, alleged she was being harassed for dowry. Her father said his daughter did not die by suicide but was set afire while she was sleeping. She too got married last year.Police said they were waiting for post-mortem reports in both cases and their in-laws will also be interrogated.State police chief Loknath Behra has constituted a special investigation team under inspector general Harshita Attaluri to probe the cases.Activist Shimna Azeez said both cases are really painful. “Attitude towards women remains unchanged. Educated and empowered, they should have served their relations and led a life with them rather than embracing death like this,” she wrote on Facebook.Kerala Women’s Commission member Shahida Kamal said both incidents are really heart-rending. “It is sad despite a good education and economic background many (demand)...dowry. We need stricter provisions to curb this,” she said.State Congress chief K Sudhakaran said: “The two incidents are really shocking. We have to ensure such ugly incidents will not recur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/outrage-in-kerala-over-two-alleged-dowry-related-deaths-101624354899739.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana DGP seeks premature repatriation to Intelligence Bureau||Haryana director general of police Manoj Yadava on Tuesday sought premature repatriation to the Intelligence Bureau (IB), citing career consideration and family requirements. The state government will now have to send a proposal to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for selecting Yadava’s replacement. In a communication to additional chief secretary, home, the DGP said that he would like to return to the IB as additional director and should be relieved for rejoining the bureau. Of course, the repatriation request will need the approval of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Also read: Vij seeks new DGP, stokes controversy“For the past 28 months, I have discharged my duties to the best of my ability as DGP in the service of citizens of Haryana. Now the IB beckons and I wish to go back to GoI due to career & family requirements. I have made a request to the Haryana govt to permit me to go back,” Yadava tweeted. A hardcore IB officer, Yadava is of the 1988 IPS batch and had joined as the state police chief in February 2019 for two years. Yadava, who remained posted as additional director in the Intelligence Bureau for several years was among the three IPS officers recommended by a committee of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for appointment as the state police chief. The officer had returned to his parent cadre after a 15-year tenure with the IB. The state government in January 2021 extended his tenure till further orders since he has more than four years to retire. Vij vs Khattar over police chiefWhile state home minister Anil Vij stoked a controversy by asking the additional chief secretary, home, to send a panel of officers to the UPSC to be considered as replacement for the incumbent director general of police, the chief minister firmly backed Yadava’s extended tenure. Putting an end to the row over the tenure of the state police chief, Khattar had said there was no plan to replace him. “We are not removing him as DGP. After completion of two years, which is a minimum stipulation prescribed by the Supreme Court, the DGP has already been given an extension to continue till further orders. This means that Yadava can continue as head of police force till his retirement or when we decide to replace him. There is no decision to replace him. On the other hand, he (Yadava) may like to go for a central assignment as he has been empanelled for holding a DG rank post at the Centre. That’s for him to decide,” Khattar had said. Options before Haryana government Meanwhile, the state government has a couple of choices once Yadava’s repatriation is approved. “The state government can ask Yadava to continue as DGP till his successor is selected or they can appoint a caretaker DGP after taking the concurrence of the Supreme Court,” said an official. Officers in the reckoning The state government will send a proposal to the UPSC containing the names of the officers who are eligible for empanelment. As of now, 1988-batch officer PK Agrawal, 1989-batch officers Mohammad Akil and RC Mishra, and 1990-batch officers Shatrujeet Kapoor and Desh Raj Singh would make it to the list of IPS officers proposed for empanelment as DGP. The UPSC will select three names and send it back to the state government for selecting the next DGP. The UPSC while shortlisting three officers will take into consideration the length of service, the service record and range of experience for heading the police force while recommending the panel. The criterion was set by the Supreme Court. The apex court in its July 3, 2018 order had said that its directions regarding the appointment of DGP should be considered by the UPSC to mean “that persons are to be empanelled, as far as practicable, from among the people within the zone of consideration who have got clear two years of service. Merit and seniority should be given due weightage”. The apex court in March 2019 clarified that recommendation for appointment to the post of director general of police by the UPSC and preparation of panel should be purely on the basis of merit from officers who have a minimum residual tenure of six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-dgp-seeks-premature-repatriation-to-intelligence-bureau-101624353639525.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra resumes free vaccination for 18-30 age group||The free vaccination drive for the 18-30 age group began in Maharashtra on Tuesday days after it was started for the people aged between 30 and 45 age on June 19. It could not be extended to people above 18 earlier due to a shortage of doses.Officials said 1,49,481 people were vaccinated till Tuesday afternoon in the state and that 34,664 got their doses in Mumbai.Many social organisations have joined the drive and set up vaccination centres to boost the drive.The state has a stock of around 1.5 million doses.Also Read | Fake Covid shots given at unauthorised vaccination camps in Mumbai: Police“Till Monday, only those who are 30 years and above were allowed to get inoculated in Maharashtra, but to give a boost to the vaccination drive we have approved vaccination for all adults,” said Rajesh Tope, Maharashtra health minister, on Monday. “I want to urge the youths from Maharashtra to go to the nearest centre and get vaccinated as they are allowed to take it.”Till now 2,82,38,192 people have been vaccinated in Maharashtra.The state government started its vaccination drive for beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group on May 1 after it was allowed by the Centre. It was suspended because of the non-availability of vaccine doses on May 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-resumes-free-vaccination-for-18-30-age-group-101624349979375.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||‘UP govt not only hiding Covid death figures, but also...,’: Akhilesh Yadav||Akhilesh Yadav of the Samajwadi Party on Tuesday targeted the Uttar Pradesh government over a report which claimed that the death toll due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state’s 24 districts is much higher than what official data shows. Akhilesh Yadav said the Bharatiya Janata Party- (BJP) led government is not only hiding the death figures but also its face.“According to information accessed through the Right to Information (RTI), it has come to light that the death toll in 24 districts of Uttar Pradesh in the nine months of the pandemic till March 31, 2021, is up to 43 times higher than the government figures,” Yadav’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read.Yadav, who is the former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, has been criticising the current state government over its handling of the pandemic, alleging costly treatment of Covid-19, shortage of life-saving medicines and negligence in treating Mucormycosis. On June 20, Yadav said the government will not be able to vaccinate all by Diwali due to the current pace of the inoculation drive.Also Read| 18 districts in UP log zero fresh Covid casesThe report, published by Article 14, said the 24 districts where deaths have been misreported include Agra, Ghaziabad, Bareilly, Meerut, Gautam Buddh Nagar among others. The findings are based on a comparison of the official death toll in these districts during this nine-month period with the excess fatalities recorded in the state’s Civil Registration System (CRS). The mortality data was accessed through an RTI application.सूचना के अधिकार के तहत मिली जानकारी से ये भंडाफोड़ हुआ है कि 31 मार्च, 2021 तक के कोरोनाकाल में 9 महीनों में उप्र के 24 ज़िलों में मृत्यु का आँकड़ा सरकार द्वारा दिये गये आँकड़ों से 43 गुना तक अधिक है। भाजपा सरकार मृत्यु के आँकड़े नहीं दरअसल अपना मुँह छिपा रही है।#NoMoreBJPThe total deaths recorded in these 24 districts, as per the RTI reply obtained by Article 14 was at 375,000. However, the CSR showed only 178,000 deaths during this period.Also Read| UP Covid toll may be more than official number: ReportThe Uttar Pradesh government has, on its part, dismissed the findings of the report and said that all Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 deaths in the state are being registered in a transparent manner. “The non- Covid, as well as Covid deaths, are being registered in all the 75 districts, the local authorities as well as birth and death registration cell has been directed to register all the births and deaths in the respective districts,” cabinet minister Siddharth Nath Singh told Hindustan Times on Monday, adding correct data about births and deaths is crucial for welfare and development schemes.According to the health department’s bulletin, Uttar Pradesh has recorded 22,224 Covid-19 deaths, 1,704,476 cases and 1,678,089 recoveries till now. On Monday, 213 new cases, 46 deaths and 478 recoveries were reported. The active cases in the state have come down to 4,163, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upgovt-not-only-hiding-covid-death-figures-but-also-akhilesh-yadav-101624348361436.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination scam: Bombay HC directs state, BMC to probe, track scamsters||Taking serious note of the vaccination scams in Mumbai, the Bombay high court on Tuesday directed the Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to put together a policy to ensure that citizens are not scammed, and implement the same immediately.The bench expressed its anguish at the fact that some persons played with lives of people to make money and directed the state to ensure that the scamsters are punished strictly. The court directed the state to track vaccines being released. The court also asked the state to respond on the policy and measures it plans to put in place and action taken against the scamsters by Thursday. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a petition filed by an activist, was informed that there were multiple instances of societies and educational institutions being scammed by persons claiming to be attached to some private hospital and holding fraudulent vaccination camps in societies. The scam came to light after the beneficiaries could not get their certificates verified. Also Read | Fake Covid shots given at unauthorised vaccination camps in Mumbai: PoliceA group of five persons was booked and arrested by Kandivali police station last week after a society lodged a complaint of the fraudulent vaccination drive as they were not able to get their vaccination certificate verified. After the case was registered, another complaint was lodged at Versova police station by a media house claiming a similar scam. An educational institution at Borivali also registered a similar complaint thereafter. Expressing shock and concern, the bench also directed the BMC to ensure that the medical officer of each ward was keeping track of vaccination drives being conducted privately in their respective wards. Observing that the fraud was reported only in the western suburbs, the bench asked the state to track and trace the main perpetrators and the brains behind it. Meanwhile, the state Covid task force submitted draft guidelines for a door-to-door vaccination drive. The task force, however, sought a week to finalise the same as it was awaiting approval from the concerned state authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-scam-bombay-hc-directs-state-bmc-to-probe-track-scamsters-101624347639217.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Man with 'Peter Pan Syndrome' gets bail in case of sexually assaulting minor||A local court in Mumbai has granted bail to a 23-year-old man, with "Peter Pan Syndrome", in connection with a case of kidnapping and sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl. Special Judge SC Jadhav on Monday granted bail to the accused on a bond of ₹25,000 and several other conditions, according to news agency PTI.The man's lawyer Sunil Pandey said that his client is suffering from the "Peter Pan Syndrome" or when grown men and women avoid the personal and professional responsibilities of adulthood. "The victim's family knew about their relationship. But, her family didn't like their relationship due to the boy's illness and poor background and also had a grudge against his family members," Pandey told the court, according to PTI.Pandey said the girl knew what she was doing and got into the relationship with his client voluntarily. However, special public prosecutor Veena Shelar opposed the plea and denied all the allegations made by the applicant. The prosecution contended that there is prima-facie sufficient material on record to show the involvement of the applicant in the commission of the offence.The prosecutor said that there is no material on record about the illness of the accused applicant and that if the accused is released on bail, he may tamper with the evidence in the case.However, the court granted bail to the accused after hearing the submissions, saying his detention will serve no purpose as the probe into the matter is completed and nothing has to be recovered from him.The court noted that the victim's statement "prima facie shows she herself left her parents' house and joined the company the accused". It also observed that the facts of the case indicate the girl had sufficient knowledge and capacity to know the full import of what she was doing and voluntarily joined the applicant.According to Health Line, an American website and provider of health information, some adults find emotional and financial responsibilities challenging well into adulthood. "Peter Pan Syndrome,” the current name for this pattern of behavior, was first used by Dr Dan Kiley in his 1983 book, “Peter Pan Syndrome: Men Who Have Never Grown Up.” "Peter Pan Syndrome" isn’t a recognised mental health condition by the World Health Organization and is not listed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders. However, experts agree this pattern of behavior can have an impact on someone’s relationships and quality of life, Health Line saysThe Peter Pan Syndrome is named after Peter Pan, the character in the play by Scottish novelist and playwright JM Barrie. The free-spirited and mischievous boy, who can fly and never grows up, spends his time on the island of Neverland.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-with-peter-pan-syndrome-gets-bail-in-case-of-sexually-assaulting-minor-101624346585695.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||'Unruly passenger' creates ruckus at Delhi Airport after boarding denied over RT-PCR report, arrested||A Mumbai-bound Vistara Air passenger created a ruckus at the Delhi airport (T3) when he was not allowed to board the flight as he did not have the mandatory RT-PCR report which every Maharashtra-bound traveller is required to submit."On June 22, a Vistara passenger had started a protest against the airline's staff after he was not being boarded for not having the mandatory RT-PCR report. The passenger was seen standing on the checking baggage belt at the airport and tried to stop the boarding system," Airport officials told ANI.They said the passenger misbehaved with the airport and airline staff and turned violent. The airline immediately called Aviation Security (CISF) at the airport to control him."When the passenger got out of control after repeated consultations by the staff, finally CISF was called to control the incident. Later an official complaint was filed with the Delhi Police for further action against the passenger," The airline told ANI.The unruly passenger was handed over to Delhi Police by CISF. Delhi police has registered several cases against the passenger."Our staff also checked the CCTV footage which supported the version of the complainant. From the contents of the complaint, CCTV footage, enquiry conducted so far and discussed with senior officer, accused Suraj Pandey committed offence U/s 92/93/97 DP act and again will not commit any cognizable offence. Hence accused was arrested U/s 92/93/97 DP act vide DD No 57A dated 21.06.2021and his medical examination also got conducted," Rajeev Ranjan, DCP IGI Airport said.The accused is a businessman. The Offence being bailable, he was released on bail and will be produced before a court in Kalandra for the judicial verdict.Vistara has also made a full refund to the passenger as per rules, the airline said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/unruly-passenger-creates-ruckus-at-delhi-airport-after-boarding-denied-over-rt-pcr-report-arrested-101624346415224.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Reinventing old-world glamour||Vibrant, freewheeling, bohemian – patchwork lehengas are back in fashion! Also known as pieced work lehengas, the origin of patchwork lehengas can be traced back in history, especially in the Indian subcontinent. The rangdaar karigari, patchwork with a burst of colours, the chatta-pattithe or the eclectic mix match of different fabrics and borders has been a major heritage influence for years. Brides are once again acing patchwork lehengas with grace this wedding season. “The patchwork lehengas are as much a breath of fresh air and at the same time a nostalgic ode to the yesteryear’s fashion. With Indian bridal market saturated with tonal ensembles, these patchwork lehengas bring in the much needed flamboyance and definitely make the bride stand out,” says fashion designer Sanya Dhir of Diva’ni. Brides are on the lookout for newer, never seen before options with weddings becoming more personal. There is definitely a trend of looking back and celebrating our roots and dressing up in full bloom heritage glory. And this trend is here to stay. Patchwork lehengas do compliment this trend. Fashion designer Nidhi J Jain, says, “Patchwork and gota patti lehenga are apt for the quirky bride. Worn with traditional nose rings and matha patti, they revive old world glam.” Patch work has been a part of Indian tradition since ages. It can be a fearless dose of colours, so don’t set boundaries with patchwork. Fashion designer Karishma Deepa Sondhi, says, “Embroideries such as chikankari, phulkari, and Gujarat’s mirror work look stunning on the patches. Gota, kundan and zardozi patches also look eye-catching. Cholis of different colours and silhouettes can be teamed with patchwork lehengas.” Patchwork lehengas tend to have a unique individual character, sometimes with no two outfits being exactly the same. “These kinds of lehengas are more like beautiful collages and pieces of art. We adore brides who go for such creations. Over the years we have had capsule collections in which the ensembles have been made using various vintage fabrics as well as left over cuttings (katran). As a practice we save all cuttings from the production floor to be used as patches in future outfits. This is our way to reduce the impact on the environment and create recycled sustainable fashion,” says fashion designer Rimple Narula. If you wonder what jewellery suits patchwork lehengas best, here are a few suggestions. “Patchwork lehengas are maximalist designs, so the jewellery should match up to the look. Very minimalist jewellery might end up being lost with the overall look, whereas statement necklaces, earrings, mathapattis, pasas can definitely add to it. Opt for jadau, navratnas and heritage pieces to celebrate the grandeur that the patchwork lehengas bring along with them.” Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/reinventing-old-world-glamour-101624345900649.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Delightful delicious dips for the wholesome meal||There is something deeply satisfying and refreshing about seasonal foods. Nothing matches the aroma, flavours and colours of freshly picked seasonal produce. The wait to taste them is worth it in the end. If you love to gorge on cherries, watermelon, muskmelon, plum, litchi, java plum, khubani and other fruits, seasonal dips are for you. Prepared with seasonal fruits, veggies and herbs, they pair beautifully with a variety of snacks. “The perfect season for any dip to be savoured is when the fruit and veggie are in perfect ripeness. In the right season, the herbs and aromatics are also available at the same time,” says chef Suvir Saran. Seasonal dips are all about the excitement for a limited period ingredient. They bring refreshing and new flavours for the palate. Some of the dips that are worth a try are jamun piri piri, cherry orange sauce, litchi sambal, watermelon curry paste, khubani sage gel, smoked plum dip and much more. “Jamun chutney is prepared with the puree of fresh jamun blended with seasonings. This purple beauty is a great accompaniment to your meal. Watermelon rind chutney (tarbooj ke chilke ki chutney) is also very refreshing. Recently, I made watermelon flesh puree and served it with falafel and fritters,” says chef Reetu Uday Kugaji. Wondering how to go about the pairings? Watermelon rind dip can be served with hot momos, dosas and idlis. Alu Bukharay Ki Chutney can be drizzled on dahi bhalla, papri chaat or served with hot samosas. One can consume jamun ki chutney with methi ke pakore, pyaaz ke pakore or any kind of fritters. “Mango pineapple salsa prepared with mango, pineapple, fresh red chili, jalapeño, mint, and lemon pairs well with burgers, tacos, chips and sandwiches,” says culinary expert Sameer Uttam Singh. Dips can be preserved if made in the right way. “Dips are super versatile. They can be air dried and can be preserved as spices. And they do wonders when added to beverages. Dips should be stored at the right temperature (1-4 degree) for better shelf life,” says chef Nishant Choubey. And dips can be health, too. Being seasonal, they contain vital nutrients and minerals. Jamun is a miracle fruit for diabetic people. Plum is a great antioxidant, good for the bones and gives relief from constipation. “Depending on how much salt or sweetener has been used in the preparation, dips and chutneys can be the super heroes of the culinary world. They pack many good nutrients alongside good calories that are rich in fiber,” says Saran. So get creative, mix and match, grind to perfection and delight your guests with some delicious seasonal dips that’ll make snacking a lot more fun. Recipe Watermelon Dip Preparation Time: 5 min Serves: 4 Ingredients: Watermelon puree- 12 tbsp Red wine vinegar- 1 tbsp Extra Virgin Olive Oil- 3 tbsp Honey – 1 tbsp Lightly toasted and freshly ground black pepper corn- a pinch Sea Salt- to taste Method: Blend / whisk all the ingredients until well-combined. You may increase or decrease the seasoning as per your preference. Store in an airtight glass bottle/mason jar and refrigerate. Ensure that you shake the bottle thoroughly to mix the dip well. Author tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delightful-delicious-dips-for-the-wholesome-meal-101624345780108.html
22-06-2021||Other||10 held for beating tribals for stealing fish in Chhattisgarh||Seven tribals, including a boy, were allegedly thrashed with sticks in Chhattisgarh’s Balrampur district after they were accused of stealing fish from a pond, police said on Tuesday. The video of the incident went viral on Monday and prompted police to act and arrest 10 people.“The case was registered on Monday on the compliant of ones of the tribal victims. The victims are from Pando tribal community and were accused of stealing fish from a pond in the village on June 15. They were beaten by Satyam Yadav, the husband of the village Sarpanch, and others by sticks,” said Dhruvesh Jaiswal, a local police officer.Also Read | In Chhattisgarh, health workers cross multiple hurdles to vaccinate peopleThe accused also forced the tribals to pay ₹35,000 each. Jaiswal said the accused threatened the victims with dire consequences if they approached the police.“...the accused have been booked under the Indian Penal Code and the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-held-for-beating-tribals-for-stealing-fish-in-chhattisgarh-101624344699364.html
22-06-2021||Other||Rail police obtain CCTV footage from Secunderabad to probe Darbhanga stn blast||Railway police have obtained the CCTV footage from parcel office at Secunderabad station in Telangana in connection with the ongoing investigation into low intensity blast in a parcel at Darbhanga junction in Bihar on June 17. A probe team led by GRP Darbhanga officer-in-charge Harun Rashid was in Secunderabad to identify the person who booked the parcel that exploded later.Also Read | Bihar offices can function at 100% capacity, night curfews shorter: Nitish KumarRailway SP (Muzaffarpur) Ashok Kumar Singh said, “We are yet to get the forensics report to learn about the contents of the bottle which triggered the blast.” He also said he had no information about a probe being handled by ATS team at Secunderabad.Meanwhile, the probe team are trying to trace the suspicious package to its sender. The registered parcel was sent from Secunderabad on June 15 and reached Darbhanga on June 17. The blast took place at 3.25pm on the same day but no one was injured in the low intensity explosion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rail-police-obtain-cctv-footage-from-secunderabad-to-probe-darbhanga-stn-blast-101624343379123.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Two arrested for bank heist in Delhi’s Vishwas Nagar||Two men have been arrested for allegedly cutting through a wall and floor of the Union Bank of India’s branch in east Delhi’s Vishwas Nagar and stealing ₹55 lakh after breaking open the iron vault on Sunday. The break-in was discovered on Monday and the suspects were arrested late in the night, the police said.Interestingly, one of them, Hari Ram, is a mason who lives in a lane close to the bank, and was called in by the bank officials to patch up the holes after the forensic teams had lifted evidence from the crime scene. He was hired for some repair work in the bank six months ago as well. Two years ago, he had worked as a mason and the caretaker of an adjacent under construction building from where the two allegedly drilled their way into the bank, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram. Also Read | Fire breaks out in Delhi’s Connaught Place building; no casualty reported“Ram was well aware of the designs of the two structures and how to enter the bank. He included his friend Kali Charan in the heist they had been planning for the past three months,” said the DCP, adding that the two were caught with the help of CCTV cameras and human intelligence network. Police said most of the stolen cash has been recovered and they are interrogating the arrested men to ascertain if more people were involved in the heist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-arrested-for-bank-heist-in-delhi-s-vishwas-nagar-101624342839027.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Train services back on Kalka-Shimla heritage track||With Covid-19 curbs lifted to a large extent in Himachal Pradesh, Northern Railway has resumed train services on the Kalka-Shimla heritage track to cash in on the summer tourist rush. Shimla station superintendent Joginder Singh said that four trains, including the Shivalik Deluxe Express and the Kalka-Shimla Express, resumed running on the British-era narrow gauge track on Monday. Also read: Himachal’s positivity rate drops to 1.3%Nearly 250 passengers availed the services on Day 1, barring the vistadom coach with a glass roof that found no takers. Services were suspended in April The train services on the Kalka-Shimla route were suspended for the second time in April 2021 after the second wave of Covid-19 prompted Himachal Pradesh and neighbouring Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Chandigarh to impose a lockdown. “We are expecting to see a rise in the number of passengers in the coming days as the Himachal Pradesh government has lifted the requirement of the RT-PCR test report to enter the state,” Joginder Singh said. “If needed, the railway will introduce more trains to facilitate tourists,” he said. Unesco heritage site since 2008 The 96.6-km narrow gauge track was built by the British in 1903. It is seen as an engineering marvel in India with 103 tunnels (102 existing) and more than 800 bridges built in just three years. It was declared a Unesco World Heritage Site on July 10, 2008. The train services on the route were first suspended in March last year after the Covid-19 outbreak only to be restored in October 2020. The journey on the Kalka-Shimla toy train is said to be one of the most scenic railway rides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/train-services-back-on-kalka-shimla-heritage-track-101624342419503.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Fake Covid shots given at unauthorised vaccination camps in Mumbai: Police||Fake Covid-19 vaccines were administered to 390 members of a housing society, 150 employees of a company, students at a college, and several others at the unauthorised vaccination camps in Mumbai, police said.“We really cannot say what it really was in absence of forensic laboratory reports. But we are certain that those were not Covid vaccines,” said a police officer privy to the investigation.The officer said the main accused, Mahendra Singh, has destroyed his mobile phone and other evidence about what was administered in the name of vaccines. “We have just found the broken screen of Singh’s mobile. We are now looking for other evidence like the vaccination vials and bottles which were reported to be opened during one of the camps.” He added none of the 390 members of the society reported any side effects after getting the purported Covid shots.Also Read | Slow start to next phase, but uptick likely: Delhi officials“The civic body (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) has denied providing any vaccination to the arrested accused. We believe that if the bottles had the actual vaccine, it was procured by Manish Tripathi, who is the sixth accused and is still absconding.”Singh allegedly approached the managing body representing three buildings at a residential complex in Kandivli (West) and offered to set up a vaccination camp.On May 30, the 390 were administered the vaccines without getting registered on the centralised Co-win portal as per the rules. After seven to eight days, the residents started getting messages about their vaccination certificates. To their surprise, the certificates showed they were vaccinated at two private hospitals and the corporation-run NESCO Jumbo Centre (Goregaon) which does not hold vaccination camps for societies.The society members got suspicious about the camp after they got certificates from different hospitals rather than the one the vaccines were supposedly procured from and reported the matter to the police.Police have so far arrested five people including Singh and they are believed to have confessed to having organised such camps in nine other societies.They registered a third First Information Report on Monday in connection with the vaccination scam. On the basis of a complaint lodged by the firm, police have booked six people. Police said 206 employees of the firm and their family members were administered alleged fake vaccines by the six by charging them ₹2,84,696. The six have been booked for cheating and endangering lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fake-covid-shots-given-at-unauthorised-vaccination-camps-in-mumbai-police-101624341458891.html
22-06-2021||Other||Court allows UP woman to stay with her husband in Odisha||A court in Bhubaneswar has allowed a woman from Uttar Pradesh to stay with her husband in Odisha even as her father filed a case against him for abducting his “minor” daughter.The woman left her home in Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh and came to Bhubaneswar on June 16 to marry an engineer from Odisha. The two met while the engineer worked in a private company in Uttar Pradesh.Also Read | Narada case: Supreme Court to hear Mamata’s petition against CBI todayRadhakant Sahu, a local police officer, said the woman’s father filed the case saying his daughter was a minor even as her documents proved otherwise.“Her Aadhaar card and Class X certificate showed she is an adult and we refused to allow an Uttar Pradesh police team to take the couple (to Gorakhpur). We approached the court of the chief judicial magistrate of Khurda, which annulled the case after recording the woman’s statement. The court allowed the woman to stay at her in-laws’ house,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/court-allows-up-woman-to-stay-with-her-husband-in-odisha-101624340499018.html
22-06-2021||Kolkata||Narada case: SC judge recuses himself from hearing Bengal CM’s petition||Justice Aniruddha Bose, a Supreme Court judge, recused himself on Tuesday from hearing petitions of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and state law minister Moloy Ghatak challenging the Calcutta high court order to deny them from filing an affidavit in connection with the 2016 Narada sting case.Banerjee has accused the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) of making “false allegations” about her sitting in protest outside CBI’s Kolkata office after the arrest of two Trinamool Congress (TMC) ministers and another prominent MLA on May 17 in connection with the case. The high court had refused to accept her affidavit on record while hearing the CBI’s plea for transferring the case from the trial court to itself.The petitions from Banerjee and Ghatak were listed before a vacation bench comprising justices Aniruddha Bose and Hemant Gupta.Justice Gupta has now requested chief justice of India (CJI) N V Ramana to see if another bench can take up the matter for hearing today.The CBI has accused Banerjee and TMC leaders of carrying out protests after arrests of the MLAs to pressure the trial court and influence the bail hearing. Banerjee did not deny that she had visited the CBI office on May 17, but said she was there not as a CM but “as a citizen and as a person acquainted with some of accused persons and family of the accused persons”.She had moved the apex court on Monday to "counter the allegations" made by the CBI.“There is no evidence of the petitioner holding a dharna or gherao or siege outside the CBI office and are thus false allegations. The petitioner at no point made a forcible entry at the office of the CBI, rather, she cleared a three-tier system of central paramilitary security, as applicable to all persons entering the CBI office premises...when she was present at the CBI office, she abided by all directions issued by officers of the CBI,” the Bengal chief minis’s petition stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/narada-case-sc-judge-recuses-himself-to-hear-bengal-cm-s-plea-against-hc-101624339218897.html
22-06-2021||Pune||Pune man held for email saying bomb planted in state secretariat||The Mumbai Police have arrested a man from Pune for allegedly sending an e-mail to officials on Monday claiming to have planted a bomb at the state secretariate. Shailesh Shinde is believed to have sent the email in frustration over the loss of his son’s academic year.The Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad searched the secretariate but found nothing suspicious after the email was sent.Also Read | ED seizes ₹40.34-crore assets of Pune bizman Avinash BhosaleShinde, who is in his 40s, was handed over to the Mumbai Police that brought him to the city overnight. People aware of the matter said during interrogation, he told police he was frustrated over not getting school admission for his son in Pune due to which his son lost an academic year. He unsuccessfully sought the education department’s help.A case has been registered against Shinde for creating the bomb scare.On May 30, a caller threatened to blow off the secretariat building. The caller was later identified as Nagpur resident Sagar Mandhare, who was angry over the state’s failure in compensating him for the land acquired from him for a public project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-man-held-for-email-saying-bomb-planted-in-state-secretariat-101624340138968.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||One charred body found in burnt Peeragarhi shoe godown in Delhi||A charred body was recovered in the early hours of Tuesday from the shoe godown in Udyog Vihar near Peeragarhi in Delhi, where a major fire had broken out on Monday morning. At least 10 people were trapped inside the godown when the fire broke out around 8am. Six of them came out on their own while four were missing till late Monday night. The search operation continued throughout the night. “We have recovered one body from the second floor of the burnt godown. Our search operation is still on to find out if more bodies are inside the godown,” said Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg.Also Read | Slow start to next phase, but uptick likely: OfficialsMore than 100 fire fighters and 35 fire tenders had worked for nearly eight hours to douse the flames. “It was a major category fire and a tough operation for our men because inflammable materials, such as shoes and packing material, were stored in huge quantity in the godown,” Garg had said on Monday.When they began the operation, the firefighters did not know that 10 workers slept in the godown, thus delaying their rescue. “Initially, nobody told us about the people inside. We would have begun the rescue operation had we been told about the missing persons in the beginning. By the time we were informed, the fire had engulfed the entire godown. We did not rescue anyone from the building till evening,” the DFS chief had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-charred-body-found-in-burnt-peeragarhi-shoe-godown-in-delhi-101624339899454.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out in Delhi’s Connaught Place building; no casualty reported||A fire broke out in a tour and travel office in central Delhi’s Connaught Place on Tuesday morning. No casualty was reported, since the shop was closed and nobody was inside, fire department officials said.An officer of the department said that the control room received a call at 6.45am regarding a fire at a shop in Connaught Place’s K-block in the outer circle. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot, and the firefighters doused the flames within half an hour, the officer said.Also Read | Delhi: Shoe godown gutted in Peeragarhi, four workers missing“Four vehicles of the Delhi Fire Service reached the spot and brought the fire under control. The cause of the fire is not yet known, but according to the fire brigade, a large quantity of sanitiser was stored at the medical shop nearby, due to which the fire could have flared up,” said a fire department official.“At present, the fire is under control; no casualty has been reported,” he added.A video of the fire at the shop is circulating on social media. In the 18-second video, the shop is seen ablaze and at least two explosions take place inside it. Prima facie, it appears that the fire started due to a short circuit. The fire department is yet to confirm the cause.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-in-delhi-s-connaught-place-building-no-casualty-reported-101624339720541.html
22-06-2021||Other||Odisha BJP protests over PM’s missing photo on vaccination posters||The Odisha unit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) staged protests in front of several vaccination centres across the state over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photographs missing from the posters. They also questioned why chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s pictures were put up instead, when it was the Centre providing the vaccines.BJP workers in Balasore, Rayagada, Koraput, Angul and Keonjhar districts tore up posters at various vaccination centres. In Balasore town, they forcibly cut the ribbon and inaugurated the vaccination drive at Gandhi Smruti Bhawan. They also argued with government officials at the centre and put up a stand-alone photograph of the PM at the site.Union minister and BJP leader Pratap Sarangi said, “When the Centre has been carrying out the world’s largest free vaccination drive, the state government is trying to politicise the programme by placing the chief minister’s photo at the vaccination centres. The state is trying to hijack welfare schemes sponsored by the Centre.” A local BJP leader in Rayagada alleged that the CM’s photo was also printed on the vaccination slips provided to the beneficiaries for the second dose. Ruling BJD MLA Debi Prasad Mishra asked whether the state has no role in organising the vaccination programme even if the Centre is sending the doses. “They want to create a controversy out of nothing for political mileage. Covid vaccine should not be dubbed as Modi vaccine, Nitish vaccine, Stalin vaccine, or Naveen vaccine,” he said.Meanwhile, on Monday, the state had set a target of vaccinating around 300,000 people, its highest single day target so far since January 16 when the inoculation drive started. On Monday, Odisha’s cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage crossed the 10-million mark. Out of these, more than 8.2 million people have received the first dose while more than 1.8 million people have got both the doses.Health department officials said Odisha has been able to save 290,000 doses of vaccines by maintaining a negative wastage of -3% so far. Negative wastage is when no vaccine vials are damaged, rather, the extra doses in each vial are utilised.“Due to efficient and effective management of Covid-19 vaccination, Odisha has maintained a negative wastage of 3%, which is one of the best in the country. Due to the negative wastage, we have been able to save 290,000 doses till date,” said Covid vaccination nodal officer Dr Bijay Panigrahi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-bjp-protests-over-pm-s-missing-photo-on-vaccination-posters-101624338639193.html
22-06-2021||Other||Delta variant most predominant in second wave in Jharkhand’s 5 districts||Genome sequencing of samples of Covid-19 patients from across five major districts of Jharkhand has shown the prevalence of variants of concern (VoC) among 90% samples, with the Delta variant being most predominant.Health department officials said 364 samples collected in the months of April and May from Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Hazaribagh, and Palamu over the past two months were sent for genome sequencing to Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar, out of which 328 reported the prevalence of VoC. “Out of the 364 samples, the Delta variant was most dominant in 204 samples (which makes 56% of the samples analysed). Other dominating VoC were Kappa variant in 63 samples, and Alpha variant in 29 samples. The rest had other variants. Samples from other districts have also been sent to the Bhubaneswar lab, report of which is awaited,” said Siddharth Tripathi, nodal officer of the health department’s IEC (information, education, and communication) wing. Also Read | Delta plus variant of Covid spreading in India, 3 states report casesThe second wave started rising sharply around the last week of March and peaked in the last week of April in the state. The April 29-May 5 week proved to be the deadliest in terms of loss of lives in the second wave, with 951 fatalities that week which also recorded the highest weekly test positivity rate of 16.25%. However, the highest fresh cases were recorded a week before that, in the week beginning April 22, which recorded 44,133 fresh cases. The number of cases, fatality and active cases have dipped considerably in the state now. As per the latest health department data, the state recorded 122 fresh cases on June 21 and it has 1,489 active cases. Only one Covid death was recorded in the state on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delta-variant-most-predominant-in-second-wave-in-jharkhand-s-five-districts-101624336958938.html
22-06-2021||Patna||Abhijit Banerjee delivers 1st Shaibal Gupta memorial lecture||Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on Monday said that sometimes change is purely due to inertia and sometimes due to persistence, emphasising that formal rules matter in bringing about change. He was delivering the first Shaibal Gupta Memorial Lecture on the topic “under the thumb of history”, organised by the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) and the Centre for Economic Survey and Public Finance (CEPPF) A Ford Foundation International Professor of Economics at the Massachussets Institute of Technology, Banerjee discussed the two leading views of history and political institutions – one, that institutions are mainly products of historical logic and, second, that accidents, leaders, and decisions have a significant impact. “Shaibal Gupta felt proud of talking about the long history of Bihar. I am also close to Shaibal’s interest. History and culture do have an impact and studies have also shown it. It is the institutional framework that persists such as the persistence of extractive institutions set-up during the colonial period and the impacts of zamindari systems even decades after its abolishment,” he added. Also Watch | Why India needs natural gas for a clean energy future. Vikram Mehta explainsMaintaining that transition does not just happen and there is no need to get easily pessimistic, Banerjee referred to women’s participation in the panchayati raj institutions and the 73rd amendment bill, which was to ensure 33% quota for women in the legislative assemblies and Lok Sabha. “You change the rule and the performance changes. Mandated representation of women in PRIs has affected political decisions, short-medium term outcomes and impact. If you look back, a lot has been done, though a lot more needs to done,” he said, adding that beyond policies, even small accidents or natural calamities have long-term impacts. He concluded by saying that in the end, the choice facing the field of political economy is very simple. “It can embrace grand theories that will offer us the satisfaction of strong and simple answers. We need to be eclectic in choosing indicators in what the political constraints may be and make the best economic analysis and use the best data possible to improve the efficiency of government programs for the welfare of the people,” he added. Chief secretary Tripurari Sharan invited Banerjee to Bihar for his inputs and cited an example of rabi procurement that how at times the policy designs get thwarted at the ground level by vested interests. Others who spoke on the occasion included Dr Harish Khare, chairperson, ADRI, finance department principal secretary Dr S Siddharth, who is also the CEPPF director and ADRI member secretary Professor PP Ghosh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/abhijit-banerjee-delivers-1st-shaibal-gupta-memorial-lecture-101624332759056.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray takes stock of health infra||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the preparedness of health department, instructing the authorities to beef up health infrastructure to tackle the impending third wave. The state recorded 6,270 new Covid-19 cases and 94 deaths on Monday. Mumbai recorded 518 cases and seven deaths.Thackeray asked the authorities to chalk out a long-term plan to beef up the health infrastructure as well as ensure adequate liquid oxygen supply. “Due to the Covid-19, we had raised several temporary health units. I have asked the authorities to plan which needs to be made permanent and which health services to be given priority,” said Thackeray.Also Read | Maharashtra to resume vaccination drive for 18+ from Tuesday “The health department should have a time-bound programme to increase various health facilities. We should also have a separate budget for increasing primary health facilities and their repairs and focus on getting the right health professionals,” he added.The CM also asked officials to ensure production of 3,000 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen so that patients are not inconvenienced in the third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-takes-stock-of-health-infra-101624330898488.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: IMD predicts a partly cloudy sky||Delhi is likely to witness partly cloudy sky on Tuesday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The air quality will remain in the satisfactory category in the national capital on Tuesday. The minimum temperature on Tuesday is likely to be 29 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 38 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Monday was 25 degrees Celsius, and the maximum temperature was 37 degrees Celsius. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the satisfactory category on Tuesday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 95.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".Also Read | Pre-monsoon showers in Gurugram delayedOn Monday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring center, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the satisfactory category. Surface winds are moderate and from northeasterly direction. A shift in wind direction is to southwesterly is likely by tomorrow [Wednesday]. Increase in dust long-range transport is expected. AQI is likely deteriorate and stay in the satisfactory to moderate category for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-imd-predicts-a-partly-cloudy-sky-101624330238519.html
22-06-2021||Kolkata||Calcutta high court to hear Suvendu Adhikari's plea in Tarpaulin theft case||The Calcutta High Court will on Tuesday hear Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Suvendu Adhikari's plea in connection with alleged misappropriation of cyclone relief materials.An FIR was lodged with the Contai police station in East Midnapore on June 5 against Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in West Bengal assembly, and his brother Soumendu for stealing relief material from the Kanthi Municipality office.According to the police, the case has been filed on the complaint of Ratnadip Manna, a member of the Kanthi Municipal Administrative Board."On 29 May at 12:30 pm as per direction of Suvendu Adhikari and his brother and former Municipal Chief Soumendu Adhikari of Kanthi Municipality, Government tripal, whose estimated value is lakhs of rupees, was taken away from municipality office godown by forcefully and illegally opening locks," read the complaint submitted by Manna at Kanthi Police Station, according to news agency ANI.The complaint also mentioned that the BJP leaders used the help of armed central forces for the alleged theft.Meanwhile, Adhikari claimed that the FIR lodged against him and his brother was part of an "old practice" of state chief minister Mamata Banerjee."No one needs to worry about the FIR lodged against me. I will not say anything in this regard as this is an old practice by West Bengal Chief Minister," Adhikari had told ANI.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/calcutta-high-court-to-hear-suvendu-adhikari-s-plea-in-tarpaulin-theft-case-101624325649720.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||Over 400 more oxygen plants to be active in Uttar Pradesh by July 31||Uttar Pradesh chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari has directed officials to ensure that more than 400 oxygen plants in the state, which are yet to be made functional, are active by July 31.Tiwari issued directions after chairing a virtual meeting on Monday with divisional commissioners and district magistrates over the status of oxygen plants which were sanctioned during the deadly second Covid-19 wave during which Uttar Pradesh, along with the rest of the country, witnessed major shortage of liquid medical oxygen.Also Read | UP Covid toll may be more than official number: ReportTiwari asked officials of districts, where more powerful generators are required to increase the load of transformers or to be used as a backup, to send their requests along with an estimated number of generators needed. He asked district magistrates to arrange for the manpower needed to operate and maintain the oxygen plants.A total of 533 oxygen plants were sanctioned during the second Covid-19 wave, which was at its peak in April and May. However, of these, only 102 plants have been set up and made functional till now.The scarcity of medical oxygen during the second wave is reflected in a "mock drill" conducted by a hospital in Agra on April 26, which saw the hospital allegedly stopping its oxygen supply for five minutes, resulting in deaths of five patients. However, it was later given a clean chit by a probe committee.Also Read | Clean chit to Agra hospital :Probe on, says admn; parties gear up for protestOn Monday, Uttar Pradesh recorded 213 new Covid-19 cases, 478 fresh recoveries and 46 more deaths due to the viral disease, according to a bulletin issued by the state health department. Its cumulative infection tally has thus increased to 1,704,476 including 1,678,089 recoveries, 22,224 deaths and an active caseload which declined further to 4163.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-400-more-oxygen-plants-to-be-active-in-uttar-pradesh-by-july-31-101624323125188.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi High Court bench holds virtual hearings till 11:30 pm, sets a precedent||Setting a precedent, a vacation bench of single-judge Jasmeet Singh on Monday held a virtual hearing till midnight.Early in the morning, Justice Jasmeet Singh had assembled for a hearing in a division bench with Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani at 10.30 am and heard around 19 cases listed before the bench. Thereafter, at 3 pm, Justice Jasmeet Singh again assembled the Court as a single-judge bench and started hearing matters listed before it.Around 40 cases were listed before the single-judge bench, The High Court Judge kept burning the midnight oil and heard matters for continuous 13 hours.As a division bench, he heard a matter relating to the WhatsApp petition challenging the Competition Commission of India's (CCI's) June 4 notice, some habeas corpus among others. The bench took various miscellaneous petitions including bail among others.During the hearing of the last matter, senior advocate Dayan Krishnan urged Justice Jasmeet Singh if he could ask a question on a lighter note, and inquired about Singh's favorite sports during his childhood. Senior advocate Dayan Krishnan asked Justice Jasmeet Singh, was it a marathon race. The Judge and lawyers smiled at the question said that it was this spirit of the lawyers that helped hold the matter till midnight.The summer vacation in the Delhi High Court began on June 5 and will continue to remain closed till July 3. The vacation bench of the Delhi High Court is holding a hearing three days a week -- Monday, Wednesday and Friday.Earlier also various benches of Delhi High Court held hearing till late evening and some benches adjourned the hearing for another day after it could not take up various matters on that day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-bench-holds-virtual-hearing-till-11-30-pm-sets-a-precedent-101624321627464.html
22-06-2021||Kolkata||Will join probe if not arrested: Ex-TMC leader||Former Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Vinay Mishra, an accused in cases related to illegal coal mining and cross-border cattle smuggling, filed an application in the Calcutta high court on Monday, saying that he will visit India to face interrogation only if the agencies promised not to arrest him.The CBI suspects Mishra is living in Vanuatu, a small island country in the Polynesia.In a plea, filed by his lawyers, Mishra also sought the court’s permission to appear via video conferencing.The CBI has issued a red corner notice against Mishra. His lawyers, however, said Mishra renounced his citizenship last year through an application at Indian consulate in Dubai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/will-join-probe-if-not-arrested-ex-tmc-leader-101624316746116.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Toddler son keeps waiting by the door for her return||Three-year-old Atharva is used to not seeing his mother during the day, but things become hard in the evening as the toddler waits for the doorbell to ring, and his mother Archana Shinde, who worked as a police constable in the local arms division of the Mumbai police, to walk in.The 26-year-old died of Covid-19 related complications on April 1.Shinde’s husband, Hemant, who is posted in a Maoist-affected district of Chhattisgarh as a jawan with the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), said that evenings get progressively worse as Atharva realises that his mother has not returned. By dinnertime, he is inconsolable.“Atharva is very young and does not understand that his mother is not coming back anymore. He still feels that she will return in the evening, and he waits by the door expecting her to ring the bell. At dinnertime, he goes looking for Archana around the house and cries when he does not find her,” said 28-year-old Hemant who will return to Bijapur once his leave gets over in June-end.“All this happened so suddenly. I feel bad for my son. No one can replace the love and affection that Archana gave our child. Not even I,” he said.Shinde, Hemant and Atharva lived in a single bedroom home with Hemant’s parents and older brother’s family in Kamothe, Navi Mumbai, a suburb to the north of Mumbai. It was a matter of great pride that between the two of them one served the country, the other the city. Even during the lockdown and in the midst of the raging pandemic, the couple continued to work.During the day, as Shinde travelled 35 km to the Armed Police Headquarters in Naigaon, Atharva was looked after by his grandparents.Mid-February, Shinde’s health suddenly deteriorated.She was admitted to a hospital in Navi Mumbai for a heart ailment. Hemant took leave and returned to Mumbai, but Shinde’s recovery was slow. She returned home almost a month later, but soon started showing symptoms of Covid-19 infection.“Soon after she returned home Archana tested positive for the virus. But things were so bad during the second wave of Covid-19 that the same hospital that she was discharged from did not have a bed for her. We rushed her to the MGM hospital in Kamothe [in Navi Mumbai], but after six days she breathed her last,” Hemant said.Shinde was the 100th police personnel from Mumbai force to succumb to the virus. A total of 120 personnel from the city police have died of Covid-19 so far.In all, Shinde spent close to 45 days under some form of medical care.The emergency depleted all of the young couple’s savings that was set aside for buying a home; now Hemant has a debt of around ₹13 lakh, borrowed from friends and relatives, to pay off. “My older brother is a cab driver and looks after our family. I don’t know how I will be able to repay these loans. We don’t even have any ancestral money. My father is a farmer and had a very small patch of land for farming.”All his hopes are pinned on government aid after former home minister Anil Deshmukh announced last year that the kin of police personnel who contracted the virus and died would be compensated.“In nearly 10 years of service, I have been involved in close encounters in Jammu and Kashmir and in Bijapur. But the dark future ahead for me and my son truly scares me,” Hemant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/toddler-son-keeps-waiting-by-the-door-for-her-return-101624314599914.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: An uncommon man||He’s one of our city’s most uncommon men. This afternoon, he is sitting on the pavement, giving the final touches to what seems to be a self-made chabuk, or whip.A dhaba owner describes him as a goat herder. This isn’t completely surprising because the neighbourhood, Hazrat Nizamuddin basti, is full of these animals. “He takes people’s goats to the (nearby) Panj Peeran graveyard, where they feed on wild grass and bushes.”There is no easy way to confirm this with the man himself. He can’t hear or speak, the locals say, and neither is he known to communicate by writing. But every Basti shopkeeper this reporter talked to asserts that this man is the most extraordinary figure in this 14th century urban village.Curiously, nobody seems to know his name. He is often seen on a lane teeming with beggars, though he always sits alone, and never asks for alms from passersby. He carries a red comb in his shirt pocket. The eatery owners give him meals and chai for free. At night, he sleeps on the street.A grocer conjectures that the man’s name might be tattooed on his arm. On being queried through a series of gestures, the man smiles and shakes his head, tapping his chin on to his right shoulder, implying that the tattoo—if it ever existed—was on his missing limb.Later investigations paint him as an artist—particularly skilled with tiles. Some of his works are immortalised in the area’s public spaces. The pedestrian roundabout outside the shrine of Hazrat Inayat Khan’s dargah is decorated with his tile arrangements. So are a few benches in a park, as well as the spaces in a municipality-run clinic and an anganwadi.At long last, during the course of these enquiries, an official with Aga Khan Trust for Culture, which has carried out many urban renewal projects in the basti, identifies the man as Ompal—“We got to work with him for a few years. He did some beautiful tile works for us. He prefers to work alone, and doesn’t like being supervised. He’s very moody but polite.”You may celebrate the artist by viewing his aforementioned works, or by meeting him in the basti. If he is not with the goats in the graveyard, he’ll be somewhere near poet Ghalib’s tomb. And usually standing out from the crowd, in his hat (though not on the day this photo was taken).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-an-uncommon-man-101624313646410.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Slow start to next phase, but uptick likely: Officials||As the country switched to a new phase of vaccinations, with the Centre procuring and distributing shots for those aged between 18 and 45, several government-run centres in the Capital began walk-ins for the bracket on a trial basis on Monday.So far, only those aged above 45 were allowed to walk in and get a shot at any government vaccination centre after 3pm.“Half the vaccination slots for 18 to 45-year-olds at all government centres are to be reserved for walk-ins. Although we have started it at some centres, we are yet to get clear guidelines from the [Delhi] government. Once that arrives, we will start walk-ins across all centres,” said a senior district official who asked not to be named.Meanwhile, some vaccination centres in the city that only inoculated the older age group on Monday opened up their slots for all adults in the city.Among them was the central government-run Ram Manohar Lohia hospital. “The vaccination drive for the 18-45 group began today [Monday], but we are not allowing walk-ins for this age group yet. Vaccines that were already available at the hospital are being used,” said Smriti Tiwari, a spokesperson of the hospital.Also read | Fewest new Covid-19 cases in Delhi since April 30, 2020The central All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), however, continued to vaccinate only the elder age groups, as senior officials said the facility was awaiting doses.“It should start in a couple of days as soon as we receive supply,” said the senior official.Senior district officials also said they expect a sharp uptick in vaccination numbers in the city. “Doses will continue to be administered in two separate lots — for those under the age of 45 and those above —till state government supplies last. Once those run out, all vaccines available to the state will be available for all age groups,” said an east district official.The new vaccine drive by the Centre saw over 8.5 million people across the country receiving jabs on Monday.Currently, Delhi administers over 84,000 shots a day, nearly 67% of which is given to those aged below 45, shows Delhi government data.Meanwhile, several civil defence volunteers across different vaccination centres in Delhi including those in Trilokpuri, New Friends Colony, Tilak Nagar, Ashok Nagar, and Mayur Vihar also said they expected more jabs to be administered to young adults in the coming days.Narender Taank, nodal vaccination officer, Sarvodya Bal Vidyalay No.2 Tilak Nagar, said, “There is a lot of enthusiasm among younger people. While we have received some official directions regarding vaccinations in the 18+ category only today [Monday], people have been visiting the centre for the past week,” said Taank.A few Delhi government schools also started walk-in vaccinations for the younger age group on Monday.Gopal Singh, 47, a resident of New Ashok Nagar, had been struggling to get registered to get his 20-year-old daughter vaccinated. On Monday, the businessman visited the Government Boys Senior Secondary School in New Ashok Nagar for help.“I had to get my wife, daughter, and nephew vaccinated. Upon visiting the centre, the volunteers helped with the registration and we got our doses. The process was very smooth,” he said.Meanwhile, in a video briefing on Monday, Atishi, the Aam Aadmi Party’s Kalkaji MLA, said, “When the Centre promised that the free vaccination drive for all above the age of 18 would begin, we expected to receive a lot of vaccines on June 21. But, we have not received a single extra dose. What kind of vaccination programme is this?”(With inputs from Kainat Sarfaraz and Sadia Akhtar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/slow-start-to-next-phase-but-uptick-likely-officials-101624312478094.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Winding queues become common outside metro stations across Delhi||Long queues outside Metro stations, especially during peak hours, have become a common sight ever since the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) resumed operations on June 7. The passenger load has almost doubled in the past fortnight, Metro officials said.While further relaxation in lockdown norms has come as a relief to people, it has only aggravated the problem for Metro users as queues are just getting longer.On Monday evening, commuters at Rajiv Chowk, Janpath, Barakhamba, Janakpuri West and other metro stations had to wait for nearly 30 minutes outside the stations.SB Jha, who works at a private firm, uploaded a video of the long queue at Janakpuri Metro station on Monday evening. “Public is troubled at Janakpuri West metro station…why not increase service of metro on this route (sic),” tweeted Jha along with the video.A senior DMRC official said, “We are operating on 50% of the seating capacity and no standing passengers are allowed. We have increased the frequency of trains. Trains are now available at 2 to 5 minutes intervals during peak hours. In case the waiting time is more than 20 minutes, we are informing people about it through social media.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/winding-queues-become-common-outside-metro-stations-across-delhi-101624312292668.html
22-06-2021||Kolkata||Centre begins action against ex-chief secy||The Centre has initiated disciplinary proceedings against former West Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, now an adviser to chief minister Mamata Banerjee, that could cost him his pensionary benefits if the charges against him are proven, people familiar with the matter said.The fresh show-cause notice – he has been given 30 days to respond – was issued on June 16, nearly a fortnight after the Union home ministry threatened to initiate action against him for missing Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting in the aftermath of cyclone Yaas.In a memo issued to Bandyopadhyay, the Centre said that it proposed to hold major penalty proceedings against him under Rule 8 of All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) 1969 and Rule 6 of All India Services (Death-cum-Retirement benefits) Rules, 1958. According to the rules, the Centre, which has initiated major penalty proceedings against the 1984 batch IAS officer, can withhold “pension or gratuity, or both, either in full or in part, whether permanently or for a specified period”.The controversy erupted after the chief minister and Bandyopadhyay skipped a meeting held by the PM on May 28 to review the post-cyclonic situation. The same day, the Centre ordered Bandyopadhyay to report to North Block by May 31 for his next assignment. The CM requested the PM to withdraw the order but when the Centre reiterated its transfer order, Bandyopadhyay opted for retirement rather than avail the three-month extension granted to him. He was appointed the CM’s chief advisor on a three-year term.TMC leader Saugata Roy said, “The letter shows how inhuman the Modi government is. Alapan lost his brother and mother recently...The Centre cannot take any action against him under service conduct rules...He can always move the court...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/centre-begins-action-against-ex-chief-secy-101624309838323.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD (Sanyukt) doesn’t rule out possibility of tie-up with AAP||Shiromani Akali Dal (Sanyukt) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa on Monday did not rule out the possibility of an alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ahead of the 2022 Punjab assembly elections. “We will think about it (tie-up) when the right time comes. We can’t say anything now. One things is sure that we will never ally with the Congress, BJP or the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD),” said Dhindsa after paying obeisance at the Golden Temple along with party patron Ranjit Singh Brahmpura and other leaders. They left the Golden Temple minutes before AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the shrine. There were speculations about the two parties entering an alliance in the holy city on Monday. Earlier, they paid obeisance at the sanctum sanctorum and did an ardas (prayer) for the party at the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs. They also paid tributes to the farmers who lost their lives while protesting against three agriculture laws. “We were here to offer prayers for the farmers protesting against the Centre’s black laws, our party and the Sikh Panth,” said Dhindsa. The party, he said, was ready to contest the assembly polls from all 117 seats. “We are also ready to fight the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections, but the Centre and the state government seem to be complicit in letting the polls take place.”Lashing out at chief minister Amarinder Singh, Dhindsa said, “He took a pledge by holding Gutka Sahib in his hands to send those behind the sacrilege and the subsequent police firing incidents behind the bars. Nothing happened in four-and-a-half years.”He said their party’s main agenda was to implement the historic promises made by the Akali Dal as per the Anandpur Sahib resolution, including securing more powers for the states, giving Chandigarh and all Punjabi speaking areas to Punjab.SAD (Sanyukt) spokesperson Karnail Singh Peer Mohammad said, “Our alliance with AAP will definitely strengthen both the parties. Even people of Punjab want both the parties to fight the assembly polls jointly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-sanyukt-doesn-t-rule-out-possibility-of-tie-up-with-aap-101624305937489.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Power demand up in Punjab, Haryana as paddy sowing picks pace||Sowing of paddy in Punjab and neighbouring Haryana has pushed the demand for power in the two states. The maximum demand in Punjab on Monday was recorded at 12,406 (megawatt) MW in the afternoon hours while it was 9,750 MW in Haryana. In Punjab, two units of the Rupnagar thermal plant and three units of the Lehra Mohabatt plant are generating power. Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials said the third unit of the Lehra Mohabatt plant could not be operated during the night as engineers agitating for their demands refused to do extra hours. The unit was started on Monday morning. In Rupnagar, shortage of staff is creating a hurdle in operating the additional units. The state has maximum gross generation of 5,150 MW. The government-run thermal units are generating over 1,000 MW and the private plants are generating over 2,800 MW. Besides this, solar units are supplying about 500 MW power during daytime while hydro generation is around 800 MW. In the middle of this, the state drew a maximum scheduled power of over 7150 MW from the northern grid.The private-owned both units of the Rajpura thermal plant, two units of the Talwandi Sabo plant, and one unit of the GVK Goindwal plant are generating power. Another unit of GVK was started in the afternoon. In Haryana, the power demand crossed 9,700 MW, an increase of more than 900 MW from Sunday’s maximum demand of 8,839 MW. On Monday, both thermal units at Yamunanagar and 2 units of the Panipat thermal plants were generating power. One unit of the 1,200 MW Khedar thermal plant is facing shutdown due to a major turbine problem and the other unit is shut on account of no demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-demand-up-in-punjab-haryana-as-paddy-sowing-picks-pace-101624305880988.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||J&K’s daily virus tally lowest in 83 days||Jammu and Kashmir recorded lowest daily cases of Covid in 83 days after 362 fresh infections on Monday while 10 people also lost their lives to the disease.Last time the UT had witnessed below-400 infections was in the last week of March.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 1,224 with active positive cases dropping to 7,759 from the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13. The total number of people who have recovered crossed three-lakh mark on Monday to reach 3,00,135, prompting the recovery rate to climb to 96.14%. There were 261 cases and seven deaths in the Valley. The Jammu division saw 101 infections and three fatalities.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,12,156 and the death toll has hit 4,262. Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.21 lakh cases and 1,944 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,124 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 820 deaths.The second Covid wave peaked in May in the UT with the highest daily cases of 5,443 on May 07 and the highest daily deaths of 73 on May 17.The month of May was most devastating for Jammu and Kashmir recording the highest 1,14,382 Covid-19 cases and 1,625 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jks-daily-virus-tally-lowest-in-83-days-101624305879844.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder in Delhi to talk to bosses as rift widens in Punjab Congress||As the rift in the ruling Congress in Punjab worsens after former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s latest outburst against chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, the party high command has stepped up its consultation efforts with the state leaders to put an end to the infighting.While Amarinder reached Delhi for a meeting with the three-member central committee set up to resolve the rift on Tuesday morning, former Congress president and Lok Sabha member Rahul Gandhi also started meetings with party MPs, ministers and MLAs from the state. Amarinder has been called by the panel comprising Rajya Sabha member Mallikarjun Kharge, former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal and general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat for further discussion to work out an acceptable formula. The revamp of the party’s organizational set-up will also figure in their talks. “The Congress president has sought additional information after the report was submitted,” one of the committee members said. This will be the panel’s second interaction with the two-time chief minister this month. The meeting was fixed before Sidhu, who was targeting him on social media, spoke out after remaining quiet for about two weeks. The CM may meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi but there is no confirmation so far. Rahul, who had spoken to several legislators for direct feedback earlier this month, has called more than a dozen ministers, MPs and MLAs for one-to-one meetings. They include cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, Charanjit Singh Channi, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Razia Sultana, BB Ashu, MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla and MLAs Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Inderbir Singh Bolaria, Pargat Singh, Raj Kumar Verka and Kuljit Singh Nagra. Most of them have been critical of the chief minister in recent weeks. Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Amritsar West MLA Raj Kumar Verka and two others reached the national capital and met Rahul. The remaining leaders, including Randhawa, Bajwa, Sarkaria, Dhillon and Gilzian, will meet him on Tuesday. Rahul is likely to have a one-to-one meeting with Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar thereafter. The squabble between Amarinder and Sidhu has left the party leaders worried about its impact on the party’s prospects next year’s state polls. After their meeting with Rahul, both Aujla and Verka said that Sidhu should not have spoken to media about party matters. “The tone and language of his remarks do not behove a senior leader like him. This affects the morale of party workers,” Aujla said. Rawat said no one should give statements or talk through the media on these issues when the high command is already seized of the matter. The dissenters have also started distancing themselves from the former minister. “This fight is not about individuals or positions anyone, but about key issues such as justice in sacrilege cases, action against drug cartels and cable and sand mafia and scrapping of power purchase agreements. This is our priority. We are not concerned with Capt versus Sidhu or what he (former minister) gets or does not get,” said two cabinet ministers who are slated to meet Rahul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amarinder-in-delhi-to-talk-to-bosses-as-rift-widens-in-punjab-congress-101624305878494.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Six crests of ‘Himalayan monal’ recovered in Chamba, four held||The Dalhousie police in Chamba have recovered six plumes suspected to be that of threatened bird Himalayan monal and arrested four persons, including a woman. Dalhousie DSP Vishal Verma said a police team led by Constable Vipan Kumar had set up a naka at Lahru near Chowari town as a routine exercise on Sunday. “They stopped a car coming from Chamba side for checking. The occupants in the car were jittery after seeing the police which raised the suspicions of them being involved in some illegal act,” he added. Upon checking, the police found six plumes and some feathers in their possession.The accused have been identified as Hans Raj, Anil Kumar and Han Raj from Salooni area of the district while the woman Sajo Devi belongs to Kullu. He said the accused have been booked under the provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act and being quizzed to trace the source where they procured the plumes.Meanwhile, divisional forest officer Kamal Bharti said the plumes have been sent to forensic lab to ascertain to which bird they belong.The monal, which belongs to the pheasant family, is poached for its colourful plumes. It is the national bird of Nepal, where it is known as the ‘danphe’, and the state bird of Uttarakhand. It was also the state bird of Himachal Pradesh until 2007. Its colourful crest is used to decorate caps.Though hunting the monal (lophophorus impejanus) was banned in Himachal in 1982, there has been little check on its poaching and its plumes are smuggled in the market.Wearing a cap with a monal crest is a tradition in upper reaches of Himachal. Such caps are also gifted on auspicious occasions, especially marriages.The state forest department imposed a complete ban on wearing such caps this year.Offence would be punishable with seven year imprisonment or ₹10,000 fine or both.Though the bird is one of the least concerned species in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s list of endangered species, the monal is under threat in this part of the Himalayas due to large-scale poaching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-crests-of-himalayan-monal-recovered-in-chamba-four-held-101624305278549.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s positivity rate drops to 1.3%||The weekly positivity rate in Himachal has come down to 1.3% over the past one week, as per the health department data.A total of 1,38,865 samples were tested in the state from June 14 to June 20 of which only 1,860 were detected positive.Positivity rate is the samples tested positive per 100 tests. In the week before the last week, 1, 42,357 tests were conducted out of 3,154 were reported positive.The positivity rate had hit the grim high of 28.9% in the week from May 10 to May 16. It was at a low of 0.67% in February and started rising in March when the second wave hit the state.During the last week, all 12 districts reported less than 500 cases. Kangra, the worst-hit district in the second wave, logged highest 434 cases and was followed by 276 in Mandi and 222 in Chamba.However, the positivity rate in Chamba was highest 2.5% among all the districts. Kinnaur recorded a positivity rate of 2.4% and Lahaul-Spiti 1.9%. Lahaul-Spiti recorded lowest 21 cases.The Case Fatality Ratio (CFR) , however, in the state remain static at 2.7%A total of 51 deaths occurred due to Covid-19 last week as compared to 94 in the week before.In terms of absolute number of fatalities Kangra topped the chart with 19 deaths. Eight people died in Hamirpur and seven in Mandi.Virbhadra Singh recoversFormer chief minister Virbhadra Singh, 86, has again recovered from Covid infection—two days ahead of his 87th birthday. He was shifted to the Covid ward at IGMC after catching the infection for the second time in two months on June 11.“With the blessings of Goddess Bhimakali and prayers Shri Virbhadra Singh has been shifted to special ward from Covid ward after recovering, With your prayers he will be healthy soon,” Virbhadra’s son and MLA Vikramaditya Singh wrote on his Facebook page. He, however, urged Virbhadra’s followers avoid visiting IGMC as no one is allowed to meet him.State sees 193 more casesHimachal recorded 193 fresh Covid-19 infections on Monday taking the state’s tally to 2,00,603 while the death toll mounted to 3,432 after six more people succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 36 were reported in Chamba, 31 in Kangra, 28 in Mandi, 22 in Shimla, 19 in Bilaspur, 18 in Kullu, 14 in Una, eight each in Hamirpur and Sirmaur, five in Solan and two each in Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti.Two fatalities were reported in Shimla and one each in Mandi, Hamirpur, Solan and Kangra.Recoveries have reach 1,94,739 after 490 people recuperated while the active cases have come down to 2,408.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-positivity-rate-drops-to-13-101624305277615.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Capt vs Sidhu: Poster war erupts in Patiala amid Cong infighting||The ongoing squabbling in the Punjab Congress has turned into a poster war in Patiala and other Punjab cities, with supporters of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and party MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu trying to outdo each other by projecting their leaders as taller than the other. Patiala, the hometown of both Amarinder and Sidhu, is dotted with posters and hoardings projecting the CM as the “tallest Congress leader” in Punjab, while the supporters of the MLA projected him as “next generation leader”. The posters hailing the CM titled as ‘Punjab da ik hi Captain’ with hashtag ‘Captain for 2022’. They project Amarinder as the Congress’ face for the 2022 assembly polls. Similar posters are put up in Ludhiana, Amritsar and other major cities saying, ‘There is only one Captain” or “Our slogan Captain again’.On the other hand, the supporters of the cricketer-turned-politician projected Sidhu as Amarinder’s replacement in the Punjab Congress. ‘Saara Punjab Sidhu de naal (entire Punjab stands with Sidhu) read posters put up across the Patiala assembly segment, which is represented by the CM. They further read “Kisan di awaaz. Punjab mangda hai Guru di beadbi da hisab (Sidhu is the voice of farmers and Punjab demands answers for the sacrilege incidents). Some posters read “Punjab Da Captain Sidhu, 2022 da hovega Sidhu sirtaaj and Fateh kar ke banawange sarkar”. Such posters have been put up in the Amritsar (East) constituency where banners of “Sidhu Missing’ had surfaced earlier. Sidhu, who represents the Amritsar (East) segment in the state assembly, is camping at his ancestral home in Patiala since January. Due to Sidhu’s repeated outbursts against him, the CM has accused the former local bodies minister of hobnobbing with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and challenged him to contest from the Patiala assembly seat. Even Amarinder’s wife and MP Preneet Kaur had advised the Sidhu couple to concentrate on the welfare of people of their constituency in Amritsar in Covid-19 time.“The posters put up by Sidhu’s supporters indicate that he has decided to take the CM head on. Otherwise, no leader would dare to challenge Amarinder by putting up posters in Patiala,” said a local Congress leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-vs-sidhu-poster-war-erupts-in-patiala-amid-cong-infighting-101624305158962.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||On second Uttar Pradesh visit in 20 days, top BJP man meets RSS leaders||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, who is on his second visit to Uttar Pradesh in 20 days, spent considerable time meeting Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS) leaders at the Sangh office in Lucknow’s Nirala Nagar on Monday.The development came amid the buzz that the meeting was on collecting feedback from the Sangh about addressing “internal strife” in the ruling party, barely nine months before the assembly elections. The party’s national vice president and UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, state general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal (all core committee members) accompanied Santhosh during this crucial closed-door meeting.Later, Santosh also visited chief minister Yogi Adityanath for another round of confabulations that stretched till late in the evening. The BJP, party leaders said on condition of anonymity, is now planning a series of high-profile joining of leaders from other parties. For instance, former Congress leader Jitin Prasada recently joined the party in Delhi. He has since arrived in UP amid the buzz that he would be given an important assignment, ostensibly to keep the nearly 10 per cent Brahmin voters in UP happy.Four nominations for the state’s legislative council are opening up in July. Jitin Prasada could be among the party’s pick though a final decision on whether to make him an MLC or capitalise on his appeal in the Shahjahanpur-Lakhimpur Kheri belt by making him contest the 2022 UP assembly polls from there hasn’t been made yet. After falling behind the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the first leg of the three-tier rural polls, the party now also wants to make an impression in the zila panchayat chairpersons’ elections scheduled on July 3. The BJP is expecting a straight contest from the SP. The BJP frontline leadership, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief JP Nadda, are expected to begin touring the state from July onwards and these high-profile visits too were subject of discussion, party leaders said. Before going into the meeting with Adityanath, BL Santhosh again tweeted in the chief minister’s praise, basing it on a tweet by the party’s UP unit that said due to Yogi’s leadership, Samsung moved its display manufacturing unit from China to Noida. “Congratulations CM @myogiadityanath and (industry minister) @satishmahanaup,” Santhosh tweeted. This was his third tweet in praise of Adityanath over the last 20 days, indicating that the party would back him to lead the party in the assembly polls. Before arriving here, BL Santhosh, a senior RSS leader currently essaying a crucial role in the BJP, had been part of a meeting featuring top party leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in New Delhi. Days before Santhosh’s second visit, both the government and the party began addressing some long-pending issues, an exercise understood to have been undertaken on the key BJP leader’s nudge. The government, after seeking details of vacancies in state corporations and boards, has only just accommodated Dalit and backward cadres after revamping the State SC/ST Commission as well as the State Commission for Backward Classes. The process is expected to continue with more cadres likely to be placated in the election year, BJP leaders said.The party’s state unit also made long-pending announcements, naming leaders to head party’s various wings, revamping its IT, social media and media panels, appointing two state-level functionaries. The moves included the much talked about appointment of former IAS officer-turned-BJP MLC AK Sharma, who has worked with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, as vice-president of the UP BJP.Sharma belongs to Mau in the Purvanchal belt of east UP.Before Sharma’s appointment, state BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh was summoned to Delhi for a quick consultation with party chief JP Nadda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/on-second-up-visit-in-20-days-top-bjp-man-meets-rss-leaders-101624305097549.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||AAP’s CM face in Punjab will be a Sikh: Kejriwal||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said their chief ministerial candidate for the assembly elections in Punjab to be held early next year will be from the Sikh community and a resident of the state.On the sidelines of the induction of former inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh at Circuit House in Amritsar, Kejriwal said, “Punjab is fed up of its current political leadership and is looking for a new brand of politics. Discussions are underway within the party to choose the CM candidate. Punjab is the only state which gets a Sikh CM. I feel that this is a right of the Sikhs which should be upheld.”On Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu raising a banner of revolt against the Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh, the AAP leader said, “Sidhu sahib is a senior Congress leader. I respect him very much. We should not indulge in loose talk about such a leader.”About the speculations of his meeting with Sidhu, Kejriwal said, “When something happens, you will be informed first of all.”‘Ex-IG struggled to get justice for people’Accompanied by AAP Punjab president Bhagwant Mann, state affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh, co-incharge Raghav Chadha, leader of opposition in Punjab assembly Harpal Singh Cheema and all party MLAs from the state, the Delhi CM welcomed Kunwar Vijay Pratap into the party.“He was a dedicated police officer who struggled to get justice for the people of Punjab in the Bargari sacrilege case. The entire Punjab is watching how the masterminds of sacrilege and the police firing incidents are roaming freely. When he was unable to do anything within the system, he resigned. It is not easy task,” said Kejriwal.Once voted to power in the state, the AAP government will put the Bargari sacrilege culprits behind the bars and justice will be given to the people.“People of Punjab are tired of the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and now want change. They had given chance to all the parties, but nothing changed as they were only after power and indulged in corruption,” he said.Kunwar Vijay said, “If Guru Granth Sahib could not get justice in Punjab, then we can imagine condition of the common man. Only a political revolution can bring change in the society.”Mann said, “People hoped after Kunwar Vijay’s appointment as SIT head, the sacrilege culprits would definitely be punished. But that didn’t happen as the ruling party is working to save the guilty.”Later, Kejriwal along with the party leaders paid obeisance at the Golden Temple and Durgiana Temple in the city. Earlier, he was shown black flags by SAD workers when he was on the way from the Sri Guru Ram Das Jee International Airport to Circuit House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aaps-cm-face-in-punjab-will-be-a-sikh-kejriwal-101624305041402.html
22-06-2021||Other||Guest faculty in Ludhiana colleges for more benefits||While addressing the state-level meeting of the Guest Faculty Assistant Professors’ Association, Punjab here on Sunday, Ravinder Mansa, president of the association, said the guest faculty assistant professors working in the government colleges should get same benefits as are given to part-time assistant professors.He further said that though all professors working in government colleges have the same qualifications and responsibilities, the guest faculty are being exploited financially. He added that the future of the 962 guest faculty assistant professors, who have been working on paltry salaries for years, seems to be bleak.While demanding a better future for these teachers under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ programme of the government, he shared that many of these professors have already crossed the eligibility age for new government job recruitment and some of them are even nearing their retirement age. Earlier, the full salary of these professors used to be paid out of the Parent-Teacher Association fund collected from the students. A few years back, the government started paying 50% of the amount in the form of grant-in-aid. He further added that the PTA fund in most government colleges is already exhausted due to which the guest faculty staff have not got their salaries for months.Jaswinder Singh, general secretary, Ludhiana, along with other representatives, urged the chief minister and finance minister to pay their salaries from the government treasury.They said that paying the whole salary from the treasury won’t put any major economic burden on the budget. By doing this, not only will the guest faculty professors and their families will be able to make ends meet, but the students will also be relieved from the burden of contributing to the PTA fund. The association also demanded that their jobs be saved on priority during the new recruitment drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guest-faculty-in-ludhiana-colleges-for-more-benefits-101624304916981.html
22-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana bizmen to hold protests outside 9 sub-division offices of PSPCL||The members of the Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, who are demanding the rollback of heavy penalties imposed by the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), conducted a meeting on Monday and decided that they will hold weekly protests at nine sub-division offices of PSPCL in the district from June 28.The fines have been imposed on several businessmen in the past year for using more than sanctioned load in their factories.Protests will be held outside every subdivision of PSPCL every Monday. They will also burn the effigies of the PSPCL chief during the protests.Last week, the traders had protested outside the PSPCL office at Ferozepur Road for four continuous days demanding the authorities to waive off the penalties and withdraw the cases of unauthorized electricity use filed against many of them but as the authorities failed to push back the penalties, the traders decided to protest outside the subdivision offices.Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association president Jaswinder Singh Thukral said, “The power corporation has been harassing us and must withdraw the cases and fines. The PSPCL chief must hold a meeting with us to resolve our issues otherwise we will continue our protest. In the past year, businessmen have already faced huge losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic and now these heavy penalties will force many of them to shut down their units.”The protests will be held at the Janta Nagar sub-division on June 28, at Estate sub-division on July 5, Focal Point sub-division on July 12, Model Town sub-division on July 19, CMC sub-division on July 26, City West sub-division on August 2, Aggar Nagar sub-division on August 9, Sundar Nagar subdivision on August 16 and City Centre sub-division on August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-bizmen-to-hold-protests-outside-9-sub-division-offices-of-pspcl-101624304618120.html
22-06-2021||Other||Passenger sans ticket says he bribed TTE to board train in Ludhiana||The practice of letting passengers board trains without tickets after accepting bribe from them is going unabated at Ludhiana Railway Station. The matter came to fore when a passenger was found travelling in the Shaheed Express without a ticket. When he was caught by the ticket checking staff near Ambala and a fine was slapped on him, the passenger said that he had already paid a bribe to a to a staffer at the Ludhiana Railway station, who told him that he wouldn’t be checked.The head of ticket checking staff has initiated an investigation and issued a warning to the staffers. In a voice recording sent to ticket checking staffers on WhatsApp, chief ticket inspector (CTI) Ripudaman said they are scanning footage from CCTV cameras installed on the railway platform and will trace the accused soon.Amid the Covid outbreak, only passengers with confirmed tickets are allowed to board trains and those without one are not allowed on the platform.The passenger who was travelling without ticket, said that a travelling ticket examiner (TTE) had helped him sneak on the platform and taken a bribe from him to make him board the Shaheed Express train at 3.45pm. He added that the TTE has also given him a mobile phone number asking him to call in case of any problem. However, the number was not reachable when he tried calling him after being caught.When contacted, Ripudaman said that a probe is on and they will trace the accused soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/passenger-sans-ticket-says-he-bribed-tte-to-board-train-in-ludhiana-101624304557566.html
22-06-2021||Other||Ban ‘Grahan’ web series on 1984 riots, demands SGPC||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Bibi Jagir Kaur on Monday demanded an immediate ban on Grahan, a web series based on the incidents of 1984 anti-Sikh riots, which is scheduled to be released on Disney+Hotstar platform on June 24.Speaking to the media at a press conference here, she said, “A Sikh character has been portrayed in an objectionable manner in web series ‘Grahan’ based on the 1984 Sikh genocide that took place across the country during then Congress government. In the web series, charge of the genocide is being levelled against a Sikh character which is highly condemnable and fabricated.”Kaur said the legal notice sent by ’84 riots witness Bibi Nirpreet Kaur to Ajay G Rai, producer of the web series, and Sunil Ryan, head and president of Disney+Hotstar, is also supported by the SGPC.She said, “Through this web series, work is being done to sprinkle salt on the wounds of Sikhs and hurt their sentiments. Such films also affect communal harmony in society. Therefore, the government should enact strict information technology (IT) rules to curb such sensitive and objectionable trends.”She demanded inclusion of Sikh representatives in the censor board so that controversial scenes related to their faith could be removed in any film.Kaur warned Grahan producer and Disney+Hotstar head of legal action if any objectionable material is released.She strongly condemned the construction of a replica model of Golden Temple in a park near Punjabi Bagh in Delhi.‘Twitter must stop hate-filled posts against Sikhs’ The SGPC president said that about two months ago on April 7, 2021, the SGPC had written a letter to Twitter chief executive officer Jack Dorsey about the hate-filled tweets against Sikhs in India and abroad. But the SGPC has neither received any response from Twitter nor any action.“The threats to repeat the 1984 riots on social media platforms are common which spoil the atmosphere and create resentment in the minds of Sikhs. But no action was ever taken against those who spread hatred against the Sikhs. Such hate propaganda has increased by many folds after the farm agitation was launched against three agriculture legislations passed last year and many Sikh organisations including the SGPC supported the same”, she said.“We all know about this certain lobby and how it works in an organised and vicious way. There has never been any legal action against those indulging in hate-filled propaganda against Sikhs and the utterly communal and anti-Sikh elements multiplied their efforts after the farm agitation,” said Kaur.She added, “Now, under the new IT rules, Twitter has lost its legal shield in India. We can lodge a police complaint against the platform for allowing hate-filled messages against Sikhs. But we do not want to single out Twitter as other social media platforms are also not doing anything to remove the hate content against Sikhs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ban-grahan-web-series-on-1984-riots-demands-sgpc-101624304443620.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab starts slow on Day 1 of free vax drive, administers 93,224 jabs||Punjab got off to a slow start on the first day of its free Covid vaccination drive for the 18-plus age group as compared to its counterparts. It administered jabs to 93,224 beneficiaries.As many as 14,956 shots were given in Ludhiana district, followed by 12,969 in Jalandhar and 10,260 in Hoshiarpur. Mansa (535), Fazilka (986) and Sri Muktsar Sahib (1,171) were among the districts where the drive got a poor response despite ample availability.The data procured from CoWIN website revealed that neighbouring Haryana administered over 4.7 lakh jabs on the day whereas Himachal inoculated 98,000 people and Uttrakhand over one lakh.According to senior government officials involved in the drive, the state has enough stock of vaccines (3 lakh at present), but there was low response on the first day because they are carrying out targeted vaccination of a few categories in the initial days.Punjab would get 7 lakh more jabs in the coming days from the allotted quota of 14 lakh as per the plans sent by the Centre to the states.Principal health secretary Hussan Lal said the lukewarm response could be because at present the strategy of the department is to first give jabs to traders, shopkeepers, hotel industry staff, teachers, and other such categories that could be immediately affected by the unlocking process.“The pace of vaccination is expected to rise in the next couple of days,” he said.Till now, Punjab has crossed its one-lakh-jabs-a-day target only once on May 26 when 1,00,654 vaccines were administered.The state has vaccinated 55,17,168 people out of which 8,66,907 have received two doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-starts-slow-on-day-1-of-free-vax-drive-administers-93-224-jabs-101624304442660.html
22-06-2021||Other||Bargari sacrilege: Bail plea of two dera followers rejected||The court of judicial magistrate Ajaypal Singh here on Monday dismissed the bail plea of two accused Dera Sacha Sauda followers, Nishan Singh and Pardeep Kumar, in the 2015 Bargari sacrilege case.On October 12, 2015, the torn pages of a bir (copy of Guru Granth Sahib), which was stolen from the Burj Jawahar Singh Wala gurdwara, were found scattered near the shrine at Bargari.The SIT led by inspector general of police (IGP), border range, Surinder Pal Singh Parmar, on May 16 arrested Sukhjinder Singh, alias Sunny; Nishan Singh; Ranjit Singh, alias Bhola; and Pardeep Kumar; all resident of Kotkapura; Shakti Singh of Daggu Romana village and Baljit Singh of Sikhanwala village.Last month, all six followers of Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda, who were arrested for Bargari sacrilege, filed a joint application in a court seeking bail. But the bail application was withdrawn after the court of chief judicial magistrate had sought a report from the jail superintendent regarding the number of cases pending against the accused. Later, Pardeep and Nishan moved bail applications separately. As Sukhjinder, Shakti, Baljit, and Ranjit are already named as accused in three other sacrilege-related cases, they have not moved fresh bail applications.Vinod Monga, counsel for the dera followers, argued that the SIT has failed to produce any evidence against Nishan and Pardeep so far. “They should be released on bail as they are innocent,” he added. However, the court dismissed the bail applications of both the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bargari-sacrilege-bail-plea-of-two-dera-followers-rejected-101624304440884.html
22-06-2021||Other||1 dead, 17 injured as bus overturns on Yamuna expressway in Mathura||AGRA At least one passenger died and 17 were injured when a Delhi-bound double-decker bus overturned on the Yamuna Expressway in Mathura around 12 noon on Monday. The axle of the bus was found broken as it reached milestone 117 in the district. The bus coming from Darbhanga (Bihar) was ferrying labourers to Delhi and the National Capital Region (NCR). “It was a Delhi-bound private sleeper coach, which was coming from Darbhanga in Bihar and had about 90 passengers. The bus apparently overturned after its axle broke, leaving many injured,” said Sirish Chand, SP (rural), Mathura. Villagers from nearby areas gathered at the accident site after the passengers, who were trapped in the overturned bus, shouted for help. On being informed, police from Mahawan, Jamunapar and Raya police stations rushed to the spot and rescued the passengers. “One of the injured, Chand, from a village in Darbhanga died. Seventeen passengers injured in the incident are undergoing treatment at a hospital. The driver of the bus fled from the spot,” informed the SP (Rural).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-dead-17-injured-as-bus-overturns-on-yamuna-expressway-in-mathura-101624304439850.html
22-06-2021||Other||Protest over re-opening of Jallianwala Bagh||The family members of Jallianwala Bagh massacre victims here on Monday held a protest demanding the reopening of the historic garden.The Bagh, which was closed for restoration work around two years ago, remained out of bounds for visitors, including the family members of those who fell to the bullets of British soldiers commanded by General Reginald Dyer on April 13, 1919.Jallianwala Bagh Shaheed Parivar Samiti president Mahesh Behal, whose grandfather Hari Ram was killed in the massacre, said, “It’s been nearly two years since the site was closed on the pretext of renovation. Thousands of people visit Amritsar, especially to Golden Temple, every day, but they are not allowed to visit the Jallianwala Bagh. When people visit the historic site, it gives peace to the souls of those who were brutally killed.”Another member of the Samiti, Tek Chand, said, “We will intensify our protest if the garden is not reopened in the coming days.”Reportedly, most of the renovation work of the site has been completed and awaits inauguration. Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust member and Rajya Sabha MP Shwait Malik said, “The monument is all set to be inaugurated. I have already talked to the deputy commissioner in this regard. But the Covid-19 guidelines do not permit opening of the monument.”He said, “As soon as we get the permission, the Bagh will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protest-over-re-opening-of-jallianwala-bagh-101624304438623.html
22-06-2021||Other||Police firing victims’ kin sad over ex-IG’s move to politics||The family members of Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjeet Singh, who were killed in the police firing at Behbal Kalan here on October 14, 2015, have expressed disappointment over former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh’s move to politics.Kunwar, who was a member of the initial SIT that probed the police firing cases, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday.Sukhraj Singh, son of Bhagwan Krishan, said that justice has not been delivered to them while leaders have continuously played politics over sacrilege and police firing cases. “But we are more disappointed to see that Kunwar, the person we believed in so strongly, also decided to take the political route. He could have supported AAP for any other reason but by joining the party on the issues of sacrilege and police firing he is also doing politics like others. We have nothing to do with any politician, we just want justice. I am feeling deceived and broken today,” he rued.“The chargesheets filed in Kotkapura firing case by the SIT led by the former IG were quashed by the high court with specific comments on his political motives, which he has proven right by joining AAP,” he said.Gurjeet’s father Sadhu Singh said, “I have never expected justice from politicians for my son. Former IG has joined AAP. I am pained that everyone is playing politics on this. Now only God will do justice.”On April 9, the HC bench of justice Rajbir Sehrawat had quashed the Kunwar-led SIT’s chargesheets filed in Kotkapura firing case questioning the impartiality of the former IG. The court also directed the state government to reconstitute a new SIT without him. Upset over the HC verdict, Kunwar opted for voluntary retirement which was accepted on April 15.“Seeing this conduct of Kunwar, one may say that he is indulging in political theatrics to fulfil his own purpose of creating greener political pastures for himself post-retirement so as to enter the political field as several officers have done after demitting office,” the court had stated in the order.The newly constituted SIT led by ADGP LK Yadav is investigating the Kotkapura firing case now and the probe team will question former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal on Tuesday at his MLA flat in Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-firing-victims-kin-sad-over-ex-ig-s-move-to-politics-101624304437557.html
22-06-2021||Other||306 aspirants take recruitment test for master cadre in math in Ludhiana||As many as 306 out of a total of 333 applicants appeared in the master cadre recruitment test for mathematics teachers at two examination centres on Monday. A total of 27 applicants skipped the exam, that was held at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Panjab Agricultural University, and Government Senior Secondary School, Mundian Kalan. The candidates appeared in the two-and-a-half-hour-long exam from 9.30 am to noon. Following the Covid-19 norms, 24 candidates were accommodated in every room and all applicants wore masks. Sanitizers were installed outside examination rooms. At Government Model Senior Secondary School, PAU, 83 candidates appeared in the exam and 10 remained absent. At Government Senior Secondary School, Mundian Kalan, 233 candidates took the exam while 17 skipped it. The candidates found the paper lengthy. Sunita Kumari, an applicant, said, “I took a lot of time with calculations and was not able to complete the paper in time. Few questions took more time than usual due to which I left a two-mark question.” The state government will be enlisting 2,527 teachers to fill vacancies in border area schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/306-aspirants-take-recruitment-test-for-master-cadre-in-math-find-exam-lengthy-101624304378550.html
22-06-2021||Other||NGOs join hands to demand ban on cutting of trees in Punjab||Members of NGOs and civil societies from Punjab have joined hands to launch a public movement, “Rukh Maroo, Manukh Maroo” (If trees die, mankind will die too), demanding a ban on cutting of trees in non-forest areas of the state.Following an online meeting on Saturday, members of the organisations from cities like Ludhiana, Faridkot, Moga and Patiala, have started sending e-mails to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on cmo@punjab.gov.in.Faridkot-based NGO Naroa Punjab Manch and advocate HC Arora of Punjab and Haryana high court are leading the campaign.Members of Naroa Punjab Manch (Faridkot), Bhai Ghanayia Cancer Roko Sewa Society, Dukh Bhanjan Sewa Society and Council of Engineers said that the green cover in Punjab is among the lowest in the country at 3.5%, which is even below Rajasthan which has 5%. The national target is 33%.Citing a recent case where over 1,000 trees were chopped off on the Faridkot sugar mill premises, Jaskirat Singh from Naroa Punjab Manch said that people have realised the value of oxygen amid the pandemic. But, despite that, a large number of trees are being chopped off in different parts of the state either in the name of development or just to sell timber.“There is no bigger crime than chopping off trees as we are putting our lives at stake. There are laws to stop it in forest areas, but no proper set of rules have been floated to save greenery in non-forest areas,” Singh said.Gurpreet Singh Chandbaja, convener of Naroa Punjab Manch and founder of Bhai Ghanayia Cancer Roko Sewa Society, said that many doctors, lawyers, engineers, businessmen etc are supporting this movement.“We are also trying to rope in environmentalists like Balbir Singh Seechewal and Baba Sewa Singh from Khadoor Sahib, so that this can become a mass public movement. We will also approach political parties, heads of religious organisations etc and try to involve as many residents as possible. Petitions have also been filed with the National Green Tribunal (NGT). We want a complete ban on felling of trees in the state,” said Chandbaja.He added that social activists like Harpreet Soin of Ludhiana Cares Ladies Society, Jaswant Singh Zafar of Buddha Darya Task Force, Ranjodh Singh of Ramgarhia Educational Council and Dr Amandeep Singh Bains of RBS Roots have extended support to the campaign and sent emails to the CM already.‘Encourage gas chambers for cremations’The NGO members have also urged the CM to encourage the use of gas chambers or electric crematoriums for cremations.President of Ramgarhia Educational Council and Dukh Bhanjan Sewa Society, Ranjodh Singh said, “Around 1.8 lakh people are cremated in the state every year and 72,000 tonnes of wood is used for it. The government must encourage the use of gas chambers or electric crematoriums.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngosjoin-hands-to-demand-ban-on-cutting-of-trees-in-punjab-101624304317625.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Yoga gets stamp of approval from Ludhiana’s postal department||With coronavirus pandemic putting a crimp in people’s fitness regimes, the postal department on Monday encouraged people to take up yoga to stay in shape while confined to their homes through a unique cancellation stamp. The inked stamp, which shows a yoga pose, was used on around 10,000 articles, including ordinary mail, registered post and speed post, at the postal department’s head office on Ferozepur Road to commemorate the International Day of Yoga. For the last week, the Ludhiana postal department has been using a rubber stamp promoting yoga, which reads ‘Be with yoga, be at home’ on all articles booked for delivery. They had also been playing a video of different yoga postures and their benefits at the office to encourage customers to adopt the ancient Indian practice, which has made its mark globally, on an LED device installed at the entrance of the office. A hoarding advertising the same was also installed. Ludhiana city division superintendent of post offices Kulwant Singh said, “Around 400 employees of the Ludhiana city division participated in virtual yoga sessions. All Covid protocols were followed.”The move was a hit among customers. A customer, Prabjot Singh, said, “While at the post office to dispatch a speed post, I was hooked to a video on yoga as I waited for my turn in the queue. The clerk handling the counter also informed me that the envelope will be stamped with a pictorial cancellation stamp encouraging people to practice yoga at home. It is an impressive initiative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/yoga-gets-stamp-of-approval-from-ludhiana-s-postal-department-101624304259146.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||Party will contest UP polls under Yogi’s leadership, says new state BJP vice-president AK Sharma||In yet another endorsement of the Uttar Pradesh chief minister, the party’s new state BJP vice-president AK Sharma has said the party will go into next year’s state assembly polls with Yogi Adityanath at the helm of affairs. In his letter to UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, he has also said that the popularity of Prime Minister Narendra Modi continues to be as high as in 2013-2014, when the BJP had unseated the decade old Congress-led UPA government at the Centre after sweeping UP.“In my view, people of UP love Modiji just as much as they did in 2013-14 and this great leader’s name and patronage is enough to win elections,” Sharma said in the missive. The letter is significant as some of Yogi Adityanath’s ministers have been sending out conflicting signals. The state’s labour minister Swami Prasad Maurya, for instance, had visited the UP BJP office on Monday. Later, while admitting that the party would go into the 2022 UP polls under Adityanath’s leadership, he added that after elections the party high command would decide on who would be party’s face in the state.The BJP leaders quickly explained that the minister was merely reiterating a standard protocol of parties choosing their leader after elections in a meeting of newly elected lawmakers who often act on the wishes of the party’s high command.Sharma’s letter was aimed at quelling any further doubts on the subject, party leaders said. “In the 2022 UP polls to be held under your and chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s stewardship, the BJP would win even more seats than before,” Sharma said in his missive, the timing of which is now being seen as yet another attempt to put speculation to rest about friction over leadership issues. The letter was sent on Sunday on the eve of BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh’s arrival but shared by the new UP BJP functionary on Monday, soon after a crucial meeting between BJP and RSS leaders and shortly before Santhosh and other leaders of the core committee entered into a meeting with Adityanath. A former IAS officer-turned-BJP MLC, Sharma’s role in UP has been a subject of intense speculation. Although the buzz about him being made a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government appeared to have subsided after his sudden appointment as one of the 17 vice presidents of UP BJP, the spotlight continued to be on him. Through most of Monday, media cameras were busy searching for Sharma at the state BJP office and though the former bureaucrat wasn’t seen, his letter made news. Recalling his roots in the backward Mau’s Kanjha Khurd village and early studies in Mau, Ballia and Prayagraj and his association with PM Modi from 2001 to 2021, he said he had watched Modi’s glorious rise on the global stage from up close and said PM’s popularity remained undiminished. He also said he would do whatever was in his hands to help the party.“He was recently in Delhi meeting Nishad Party chief Sanjay Nishad who has since firmed up his alliance with the BJP. He also met a Brahmin body in Delhi,” a party leader said.Sharma has adopted a community health centre in Ranipur and a primary health centre in Suggichauri, both in his home district of Mau. The step was in keeping with the party’s direction to all ministers, lawmakers and party functionaries to adopt health centres in the state. He has also undertaken the work of revamping the bus station at Mau which is in a dilapidated state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/party-will-contest-up-assembly-polls-under-yogi-s-leadership-says-newly-appointed-state-bjp-vice-president-ak-sharma-101624304199678.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh starts walk-in vaccination for all||The Chandigarh health department will start walk-in vaccination facility for all the eligible beneficiaries across all hospitals and dispensaries in the city from Tuesday. Till now, beneficiaries had to book a slot through the Centre’s Co-WIN app. They can continue to do so.“The most effective way to save ourselves from the expected third wave is to vaccinate the community as fast as possible. In order to vaccinate maximum people, the Chandigarh administration has decided to start Covid vaccination of 18 years and above citizens as a walk-in process,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, UT health services.Dr Kang said not every section of society is aware about how to book the slots online and the walk-in facility will help in reaching out to them. “We are trying to vaccinate over 8,000 people daily. Besides walk-in, people can book the online slot as well,” she said.If citizens are not registered on the Co-WIN portal, the staff at vaccination centres will help them in the process. Those with no identity document or phone number will be covered at the civil hospital in Manimajra, Gurdwara Sahib in Kishangarh and the health and wellness centres in Dhanas and Bapu Dham Colony.The administration will also send 15 mobile teams to different locations and people can simply walk in to get vaccinated.So far, the health department has administered 4,59,946 vaccine doses, including to 1,39,299 in 18-44 age group. In the 45+ category, 1,95,083 beneficiaries have got the first dose and 47,950 have also been jabbed for the second time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-to-start-walk-in-vaccination-for-all-101624304198658.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||High drama as elderly Nihang protesting farm laws removed from Chandigarh’s Matka Chowk||Six hours after being removed from Matka Chowk, a Nihang, Labh Singh, was released following a protest outside the Sector 17 police station here on Monday.Labh Singh, 70, of Landran, who is frail and can hardly speak, is referred to as “Babaji” and “Bapu ji” by his supporters. Since March 6, he has been protesting, sitting at the divider facing Matka chowk in support of farmers protesting against the three farm laws.On Monday, he was brought to the police station at 11am and what followed were 4-hour long deliberations and a protest outside the station. To mobilise people to gather outside the police station, social media was used.It is not the first time that the police have removed the elderly protester from the site. Every time it happens, he returns. Police had earlier impounded his kirpans citing security reasons.Staying in Chandigarh for last 20 yearsLabh Singh says that for the last 40 years, he has been farming and has 18 acres of land in Nabha. “I am sitting here for a cause and will not move till the farm laws are taken back,” said the NIhang, who sits at the site from 6am to 9pm and then sleeps there.Singh said that he had three sons and a daughter, who were all married. He said that he had been staying under the bridge in Sector 17 for the last 20 years and even used to hold langar on various occasions: “I had come to Chandigarh to raise a voice against various issues faced by the residents.”Protest can go on without tent: Police“We will not allow them to put up a tent near Matka chowk. After a tent came up, more people had started sitting here, after which we removed it,” said Ram Rattan, station house officer.Now, Labh Singh along with an attendant are allowed to sit in protest. All the supporters have to adhere to safety protocols and wear masks at all times. Not all protesters sitting outside the Sector 17 police station were wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/high-drama-as-elderly-nihang-protesting-farm-laws-removed-from-chandigarh-s-matka-chowk-101624304137732.html
22-06-2021||Other||18 districts in UP log zero fresh Covid cases||LUCKNOW As many as 18 districts in UP reported zero fresh Covid cases on Monday while 15 logged only one fresh case. During the day, the chief minister inspected one of the vaccination centres at Lucknow’s Civil Hospital and spoke to the beneficiaries. He gave a vaccination card to one of the beneficiaries and asked him to keep it safe. “The recovery rate in UP is 98.5%. There are 4,163 active cases under treatment in the state at present,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, information, in a press conference on Monday. “In 52 districts, fresh cases were reported in single digit. But as cases are being detected in other states and countries, Covid protocol must be followed by all,” he said. “The recovery rate in Lucknow is 98.79%. In all, 306 patients are still under treatment (active cases) for Covid,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. In Lucknow, 17 fresh cases were reported while 20 patients recovered during the day. Till now, 2,38,272 Covid cases have been reported in the state capital. Aadhaar office running campsTo augment the vaccination drive, the Aadhaar office in Lucknow is running camps to help beneficiaries (using Aadhaar) get registered for vaccination. Similar camps are being organized at SGPGI, KGMU and Ekana stadium in Lucknow and at Green Park and medical college in kanpur. More camps are being planned in other cities of UP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/18-districts-in-up-log-zero-fresh-covid-cases-101624304076902.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||At 19, Ludhiana posts lowest daily Covid infections in 6 months||With the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic approaching its nadir, the district clocked 19 fresh cases, the lowest daily tally in six months on Monday.The daily Covid count had last dipped below 20 on January 18, when 14 cases had been detected.A 60-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment at Mohan Dai hospital, was the only person to succumb to the virus in the district. So far, 86,657 patients have tested positive in Ludhiana, of which 83,984 patients have recovered and 2,077 have been claimed by the virus. At present, there are 596 active patients in the district, of which 10 are on a ventilator.The fresh cases include 12 patients with influenza-like symptoms, four patients from outpatient departments and a healthcare worker.No mucormycosis (black fungus) cases were reported. As many as 136 cases of black fungus have been diagnosed in the district so far, of which 44 cases are active, while 19 people have lost their lives.Provide 100 teams to realise daily target of 33K jabs: DC to IMA Two days after the district achieved the feat of being the first in the state to inoculate 1 million people, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Monday asked the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to provide 100 teams to meet the target of 33,000 daily inoculations so that another million people could be vaccinated within the month.Presiding over a meeting, which had civil surgeon Dr Kiran Gill Ahluwalia, and IMA Ludhiana head Dr Dheeraj Aggarwal in attendence, the DC asked health officials to ramp up the vaccination drive to stem the third wave of the deadly coronavirus pandemic. “The accelerated vaccination drive will help build herd immunity and break the transmission chain,” he said. He asked the IMA to share details of the teams with the health department at the earliest so that new inoculation camps could be set up across the district.Health workers felicitated for vaccinating all 18+ residents in Bhikhi villageSharma on Monday felicitated a health team for vaccinating all people above the age of 18 in Bhikhi village under the Payal sub-division. Accompanied by additional deputy commissioner Amarjeet Singh Bains and sub-divisional magistrates Baljinder Singh Dhillon and Mankanwal Singh Chahal, the deputy commissioner handed over the cheque of ₹1,100 each to auxiliary nurse midwife Kiran Rani, and Asha workers Gagandeep Kaur and Mandeep Kaur.Congratulating them and their community health officer Jaswinder Kaur for exemplary service to society, the DC said the health workers were the unsung heroes in the battle against the deadly virus and said the district administration will continue to felicitate hard-working health warriors for ensuring speedy coverage of beneficiaries in the inoculation drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/at-19-ludhiana-posts-lowest-daily-covid-infections-in-6-months-101624304017446.html
22-06-2021||Other||‘Backlog effect’: Covid death toll rises in three UP districts||LUCKNOW As many as 35 deaths were added to Lucknow’s Covid fatality count in the past four days, of which 24 were from backlog data. As part of a reconciliatation exercise, deaths that took place at hospitals (mostly private) earlier but could not be added to the toll are now being uploaded to the tally of various districts in UP, said officials.Sample this: No fresh death took place in Lucknow on Monday, but the backlog deaths kept the figure at 12. So far, Lucknow has reported 2,569 deaths since the outbreak of the pandemic. A similar exercise is being undertaken in Agra and Prayagraj. The backlog entries will take another week as death audit is in progress, said a senior health department official. “Several deaths that took place at different hospitals are now being added after the death audit. The process will take a few days,” said Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar, chief medical officer, Lucknow. Majority of the backlog deaths are those that happened soon after the patient was admitted and before any test or proper examination of symptoms could be done. These fatalities, if found to be due to Covid in the death audit, are being added to the state data, said officials. As per the data released by the district medical and health officials in Prayagraj, there were no Covid related deaths in the district between June 14 and 20, 2021. However, as per the state-level data released from Lucknow, 15 deaths were entered in the database for Prayagraj during this week, including a maximum 11 deaths on June 20, one death each on June 19 and 17, besides another two deaths on June 14, said officials. Dr AK Tiwari, Covid nodal officer in Prayagraj, said he had no idea regarding the deaths shown in the state-level data chart released from Lucknow during the past week, but confirmed that no deaths took place in Prayagraj between June 14 and 20. “It is possible that these are deaths of people belonging to Prayagraj who died in other districts earlier and details of which had not been entered into the database by those districts as part of reconciliation process. However, I do not have any exact information regarding this,” he added. In Agra, the death toll due to Covid now stands at 451. In the beginning of June, there was sharp increase in the toll as the backlog of death figures, primarily in April, was added. “We have already updated the list with backlog deaths as and when information came in the first half of June. We are at the end of the process as only random cases remain to be listed now. Only four to five deaths have taken place in the last fortnight,” stated Dr RC Pandey, chief medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/backlog-effect-covid-death-toll-rises-in-three-up-districts-101624303837058.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Promotion roster: Panjab University constitutes sub-panel to deal with objections||The special panel of Panjab University (PU), which was constituted to recommend the roster for positions of non-teaching staff of the varsity, has constituted a sub-committee to study the objections raised by the employees against the draft promotion roster.The three member sub-committee was constituted during an online meeting of the panel held on Monday. PU had earlier this month circulated the draft roster for promotion among non-teaching staff for the posts of deputy registrar, assistant registrar, superintendent, senior assistant, personal assistant and stenographer. A member of the panel said, “The objections were not sent to the committee members by the concerned branch so the sub-committee will deal with them.”“Now the sub-committee meeting will be held physically to study and resolve the objections raised by the employees,” the member said. After dealing with the objections, the sub-committee will forward the matter to the panel. PU had asked the employees to raise the objection, if any, against the draft promotion roster till June 18.According to the circular issued by the varsity earlier this month, the draft roster for promotions among other cadres, including laboratory, technical staff and others, is under preparation and will soon be uploaded.General category employees continue to protestMeanwhile, the members of Panjab University General Category (Welfare) Association continued their protest on campus against the preparation of the promotion roster. They have maintained that this being a policy matter for which already a panel has been constituted, the same should be taken up by the syndicate.Pressing for their demand, the employees also held a protest outside the office of vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Monday.Chand Kumar Sharma, president of the Panjab University General Category (Welfare) Association, said, “We will continue our protest until we do not get any assurance from the university. We will go on mass casual leave also if needed.”CAS: 127 PU teachers to get promotions As many as 127 teachers of Panjab University will get promotions under the career advancement scheme. PU on Monday said that vice-chancellor Raj Kumar has approved these promotions. The letters will be issued soon. The teachers are awaiting promotion letters for months after their interview/screening was conducted earlier this year amid continuous demands by the faculty association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/promotion-roster-panjab-university-constitutes-sub-panel-to-deal-with-objections-101624303778454.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Former Panjab University senators demand release of poll schedule||With the second Covid wave ebbing, former senators of Panjab University (PU) have demanded that the schedule for the senate polls is announced.The seven ex-senators, who had earlier approached high court seeking that the polls are conducted, have now written to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar and the registrar requesting them to notify the election schedule.The letter states, “Amid the decline in Covid cases, even state governments have relaxed lockdown restrictions and allowed gymnasiums, shops, restaurants etc to reopen. The UT administration has also permitted higher educational institutions to open from June 19. Hence, there is no reason to delay the election process and the schedule must be released at the earliest.”PU had deferred the senate polls, which was scheduled to start from April 26, due to surge in Covid cases. The varsity had announced the schedule after the HC had pulled up V-C Raj Kumar for the delay.Ex-senator Navdeep Goyal said, “Covid cases have now dipped considerably. We have enough space where meetings of faculties can be held while adhering to Covid norms. As the senate polls is a long process, the university should announce the schedule immediately. ”The ex-senators said that if there is third Covid wave after six to eight weeks as apprehended by experts, it may not be possible to complete the election process before that, if the schedule is not announced immediately.Meanwhile, registrar Vikram Nayyar said, “After considering all relevant aspects, the varsity will take appropriate decisions.”The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of PU, in which 47 members are elected from various constituencies. The four-year term of the last senate had ended on October 31, 2020. While the elections were scheduled to start in August last year, it was postponed twice by V-C Raj Kumar amid the pandemic. The varsity is presently functioning without a governing body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-panjab-university-senators-demand-release-of-poll-schedule-101624303777467.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||GLADA team faces environmentalists’ ire in Matterwara||A team of the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA), which had gone to remove encroachments from land acquired for setting up an industrial park in Mattewara, had to face villagers and environmentalists’ ire on Monday. When the GLADA officials asked labourers to run tractors on crops growing on the acquired land, a large number of villagers gathered so much so that police had to be deputed on the spot. The team went ahead and destroyed paddy, bajra, maize and other crops. They also seized tubewells and other machinery installed on the field.  Activists claimed that the area lies in floodplains of Sutlej River and the National Green Tribunal had directed the chief secretary to take remedial actions necessary for protection of the floodplains in coordination with the River Rejuvenation Committee.Lachman Singh, former Koomkalan sarpanch claimed that GLADA had taken possession of the land without issuing any notice. The activists have said they will move high court to prevent an industrial park from being set up. GLADA chairperson PS Gill said that the development authority shad already taken possession of around 960 acres of land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/glada-team-faces-environmentalists-ire-in-matterwara-101624303679634.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER to conduct sero survey of children from this week||The UT administration has sanctioned funds for the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) to conduct serological survey of children between the age of 2 and 18 years. This will help determine the extent of antibodies developed in them due to past or recent Covid infection.PGIMER director Dr Jagat Ram said, “The sero survey is expected to start this week and will have a sample size of more than 2,000 children. It is expected to conclude a month. This will help us estimate the percentage of children who already have Covid antibodies, which is an indirect marker of previous infection. These findings will be useful in framing policy regarding vaccination for children, if launched in near future.” He added that this will help make necessary arrangements as medical experts believe that children may be at greater risk of infection during the third wave.The sero survey will be conducted by a team from virology and school of public health under the supervision of GD Puri, dean (academics), PGIMER. Samples will be collected from three different areas of the city, including 10 slums, 10 sectors and 10 villages.The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH-32) will soon conduct sero surveys for population above the age of 18 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-to-conduct-sero-survey-of-children-from-this-week-101624303678447.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali to start door-to-door vax drive for elderly, differently abled||The Mohali administration will commence home-vaccination for the old, infirm and disabled persons, making it the first district in the country to start need-based door-to-door vaccination drives.Sub-division-wise ambulances with teams are being deployed for taking vaccination to the doorsteps, informed deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.To avail the facility, residents can register by filling out a google form: https://bit.ly/2UsfMd7. It is mandatory that at a given point of time there is a group of at least 30 people in the area, or 10 senior citizens, women and/or differently abled, who are to be inoculated, said Dayalan. This precondition has been set to avoid vaccine wastage since per vial, 10 doses of vaccine are available and once opened, it cannot be preserved for later use, said the DC.The administration will respond within 48 hours.Though our top priority are the elderly and the disabled, if a residents welfare association (RWA) seeks home-vaccination but does not have sufficient number of senior citizens, it will be provided the service on the condition that at least one third of the total number of people to be vaccinated are elderly or disabled, and the rest can be anyone over 18 years of age.Door-to-door vaccination facility is also being extended to organisations, associations, NGOs, RWAs or volunteers willing to facilitate vaccination if they want to vaccinate over 50 persons at a given point of time in a given place, even if they are not aged or infirm.5,32,846 inoculated in district so farOn the first day of the launch of free Covid vaccine (Covishield and Covaxin) for people aged 18 and above on Monday, as many as 2,183 people were vaccinated on Monday. So far, 5,32,846 persons of all age groups have been vaccinated in the district.With this, a total of 42,741 persons (aged 18 plus) including construction workers and their families have been vaccinated in the Mohali district. Of these 72 persons have taken the second jab.So far, 13,292 health care workers have taken the first dose, while 6,717 persons were administered the second dose. Similarly, 2,14,606 front line workers have been given the first dose, while 14,975 persons have got the second jab. In the 45+ age group, 1,05,282 persons have got the first jab, while 13,771 persons have got the second dose. In the age group of 60 and above, 68,987 persons have got the first dose, while 26,569 persons got the second jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-to-start-door-to-door-vax-drive-for-elderly-differently-abled-101624303666459.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana minister skips meeting in Ambala amid farmers’ protest||Haryana education and tourism minister Kanwar Pal, who was scheduled to chair a meeting of the public grievances cell at Panchayat Bhawan in Ambala on Monday, had to skip the event amid protest by farmers opposing the agriculture laws.Pal was not available for comments, but deputy commissioner Vikram Singh said that the minister couldn’t attend “due to unavoidable reasons”. This was the first meeting of the committee since chief minister Manahor Lal Khattar’s second term started in November 2019.Rakesh Bains, spokesperson of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni), said, “We won’t allow politicians of the ruling party to conduct public programmes in the state.”Heavy security arrangements were in place as farmers’ union had already announced the protest and had started gathering around 200 metres away from the venue in the morning.The protest was largely peaceful, other than when an ambulance bound for Kalka Chowk coming from Agresen Chowk got stuck due to the barricades at Bal Bhawan. As police tried to maintain peace, some of the protesters broke the barricades and also received minor injuries.Chaos was seen on roads leading to the Bhawan as barbed wires were placed on the barricades. Buses, especially those bound for bus stand or Hisar Road, were forced to stop at Polytechnic Chowk and passengers had to walk for kilometres in the scorching heat.Meanwhile, the DC chaired the committee meeting at police rest house, where he received 12 complaints. “All the complaints were marked to the concerned officials for further action,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-minister-skips-meeting-in-ambala-amid-farmers-protest-101624303665421.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Tricity keeps its date with International Day of Yoga||The local administrations, educational institutes, NGOs and civil society organised various events to mark the International Day of Yoga in the tricity on Monday.An online immunity and well-being programme for government employees was organised by the Mohali district administration in collaboration with the Art of Living.The programme started at 7am and over 5,000 employees of various departments participated. Around 100 instructors guided them on yoga, pranayam and meditation in groups of 50 to 60 employees per group.Aashika Jain, additional deputy commissioner (general) said that the government employees have played a stellar role in the fight against coronavirus and caring for their health and well-being is a must. Haryana Vidhan Sabha speaker and Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta addressed the district event at Red Bishop in Sector 1, Panchkula. He said yoga is not a new discipline, but an age-old practice which helps keep our body healthy and disease-free. The event was also observed simultaneously at 49 other places in the district. Gupta said that 50 participants have been allowed to participate at each of the venues. Union minister Rattan Lal Kataria, who was also present, said that yoga has played a vital role during the pandemic and helped lakhs of people recover. Yoga collegeThe Government College of Yoga Education and Health in collaboration with the directorate of Ayush under the aegis of UT administration held a series of activities over the month. Due to the prevailing pandemic, the programme on Monday was organised virtually. Principal Sapna Nanda emphasised on the importance of practising yoga amid the pandemic. SBIState Bank of India celebrated the day virtually at its local head office in Sector 17. Anukool Bhatnagar, chief general manager of SBI, Chandigarh circle, spoke about building immunity amid the pandemic. Asha Mishra, vice-president of SBI ladies club, Chandigarh, along with other members practised yoga in a separate session.CCPCR The Chandigarh Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (CCPCR) conducted an online session for kids living in child care institutions. It was conducted by yoga instructor Anuradha Chawla.ITBP A programme was organised by the Transport Batallion of Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Behlana. As many as 13 officers, 48 subordinate officers and 120 other employees participated. It was inaugurated by inspector general of Western Command ITBP, SS Mishra. He spoke about the stress-busting capabilities of yoga and how it builds immunity. NZCC The North Zone Culture Centre organised a session titled “yoga, an Indian heritage”, at Kalagram in Manimajra. It started at 7am and was conducted by Rajiv Uppal, instructor at Government College of Yoga Education and Health, Sector 23. It was followed by a brief sarangi recitation by Vinod Pawar, accompanied by flautist Vijay Chauhan and Rajneesh Dhiman on the tabla.Ambala Railway DivisionDivisional railway manager (DRM) Gurinder Mohan Singh and his wife Harvinder Kaur, president of Northern Railway Women’s Welfare Organisation, conducted an online session for staffers of the Ambala Railway Division from their home. “As the nation battles Covid, everyone must include yoga in their daily routine, as it strengthens immunity,” Singh said. PGIMERA social media campaign, “yoga hi! BP bye!”, conducted by PGIMER’s department of community medicine and school of public health concluded on Monday. The campaign was launched by the institute’s director Dr Jagat Ram on June 14. Shalini Chauhan bagged the first prize in yoga video contest and yoga asana photo contest. In slogan writing, Jyoti stood first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-keeps-its-date-with-international-day-of-yoga-101624303598496.html
22-06-2021||Other||Lucknow’s malls, restaurants re-open to limited crowds||LUCKNOW Malls and restaurants in Lucknow reopened with 50% occupancy on Monday after a closure of almost two months that was initiated in April in wake of the second wave of Covid. With the state government announcing relaxations in the Covid Curfew guidelines, night curfew will now be effective from 9pm to 7am.Though only a few people turned up at malls, they welcomed the move, saying “it’s like heading back to normal.” “We are here just to get the feel of being alive and make small purchases. It’s been nearly two months since we last visited a mall,” said Nitin Gupta, a college-goer. Swati Bajpai, another visitor to a mall in Gomti Nagar, said: “One cannot imagine life without malls. I am glad that these establishments have re-opened. I request people to follow strict Covid protocols in order to minimise the risk of getting infected.” “As we are re-opening after a long time, we are busy re-stocking things and making arrangements. On the first day, we witnessed lower footfall. But, we expect it to increase in days to come,” said an official with the mall. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash also inspected the mall to ensure that Covid protocols were being followed. “It was found that Covid protocols were followed. The Covid help desk was in place, the place was sanitised and social distancing was being followed,” said the DM. He also directed the mall management not to give entry to people without mask and to maintain the details of the visitors. In the lockdown last year, malls remained closed for around 75 days following Covid-19 outbreak. Similarly, restaurants too resumed services at 50% capacity. “It’s a big relief to us as we suffered huge losses in the last two months,” said a restaurateur. The day also brought relief to the traders as the district administration allowed relaxations in night curfew. Initially, the Covid Curfew was from 7pm to 6am whereas now the shops are allowed to open till 9pm. “It is a big relief to us. People generally have a tendency to shop during the evening hours. There was very little business earlier due to the Covid curfew starting at 7pm. Now, as there is a two-hour relaxation in the night curfew, people have a longer time to shop,” said Suresh Chablani, convener of Akhil Bharatiya Udyog Vyapar Mandal, Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknows-malls-restaurants-re-open-to-limited-crowds-101624303538677.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||2 cases of women missing with kids send Ludhiana cops into tizzy||Four women have gone missing with their kids in the last 35 days, sending cops into a tizzy. While two cases have been cracked, the unresolved cases are being probed on priority as it is suspected that they may have fallen prey to human trafficking. Initially, the cops thought the women had left with their children because of family issues, but the human trafficking wing of the police was roped in after they could not be traced. The open cases include that of a 30-year-old woman who had gone missing with her two daughters and son on May 12. The victim, Zeenat, 30, of Shreen Enclave, Jassiyan, had gone to drop her children aged 13, 11 and 9 to a tuition centre but none of them returned. A case had been registered at the Haibowal police station on the complaint of her husband, who suspected that his family had been kidnapped, after searching for them for three days.Station house officer Neeraj Chaudhary said it was learnt that the there was some problem in the family. However, the woman had not gone to any of her relatives’ place and nobody could account for her whereabouts. The second case involves a 32-year-old woman Pooja and her seven-year-old son Manish, who had gone missing on June 8 from Machhiwara Road, Kohara. Police suspect that the woman had eloped with one of her tenants. ASI Dilbagh Singh said, “Though the woman had left home willingly, but we are trying to trace her to make sure she and her child haven fallen afoul to a human trafficking gang.” 27 missing persons cases in 38 days In a worrisome trend, 27 missing persons cases have been registered in the last 38 days. Around 3,000 people have gone missing in the district in the last 10 years.  A police official, who did not wish to be named, said, “While every missing person case is sensitive, in cases involving women and children there remains a possibility that they could have fallen in the clutches of a human-trafficking gang. These gangs force vulnerable women and kids into the flesh trade or make them work in houses and factories as bonded labour. Thus, the police takes these cases very seriously.” Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “We have launched a mobile phone application ‘Gumshuda’ to trace missing children and persons. We have initiated a ‘reunion drive’ in the city to find the missing children.” Cases cracked In one of the cases, where a 27-year-old woman and her seven-year-old daughter had disappeared on May 28, the duo were found at the woman’s first husband’s house. She had solemnised her second marriage without legally divorcing her first husband and wanted to reunite with him. In another case, a 32-year-old woman who had gone missing with her seven-year-old son on May 1 retuned on her own accord. She said she had left home, following some family issues. The FIR had been cancelled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-cases-of-women-missing-with-kids-send-ludhiana-cops-into-tizzy-101624303357396.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||All Shatabdi trains resume between Chandigarh and Delhi||Suspended since the first week of May, all three Shatabdi Express trains between Chandigarh and Delhi resumed operations on Monday in view of the decline in Covid-19 pandemic.While the morning Kalka-New Delhi Shatabdi Express via Chandigarh chugged off with 816 passengers, the evening one had only 127 passengers on board. The train has 1,140 seats. Meanwhile, in the afternoon Chandigarh-New Delhi Shatabdi Express, only 172 of the 750 seats were occupied.“Being a Monday, there were more passengers in the morning as usual. As the service has just resumed, the afternoon and evening trains will also see high occupancy in the coming days,” said JP Singh, Chandigarh railway station superintendent. The trains had been suspended due to low occupancy during the second wave of Covid-19. Now, the trains are allowed to move with full occupancy, though wearing of masks is mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-shatabdi-trains-resume-between-chandigarh-and-delhi-101624303298091.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||AISA claims FYUP ‘anti-student’, demands immediate rollback||All India Students Association (AISA) opposed Lucknow University’s implementation of the exclusionary New Education Policy alleging that it is anti-student. Lucknow University has planned to implement the four-year undergraduate programme (FYUP) for all the undergraduate courses.“The New Education Policy-2020 has been rejected by the student community as it has proved to be anti-student and anti-academic, said Shivendra Tripathi, LU unit convenor, All India Students Association (AISA).“The infrastructure of Lucknow University is already in shambles. A news report of July 2020 states that six out of 43 departments in the century-old university are operating with a single or no faculty. One-third of the total teaching posts out of 517 are vacant,” claims AISA activist.“At present, at varsity, the teacher-student ratio is 1:39/1:60 at UG and PG level against the 1:20 laid down by the University Grants Commission (UGC). Contrary to this, the university has no proper plan to deal with the current crisis of infrastructure and the introduction of FYUP will worsen the already existing crisis,” he said.The vice-chancellor’s interview of boasting the FYUP as the idea to open the minds of the students by exposing them to a wide range of subjects through classroom teaching, projects and practical, vocational training, co-curricular activities and internship seem impractical, illusionary and just as one more ‘Jumla’ to the aspiring student community, they said.The four-year undergraduate programme is not student-oriented but anti-student as it adds a financial burden on students coming from economically weaker sections of society. Multiple entry/exit in higher education essentially means that only students with good financial condition will be able to complete their FYUP whereas the poorer students will have to settle for a diploma, AISA activist claimed.“The much-touted multiple entry/exit programme celebrated as a paradigm shift by NEP is nothing but a promotion of graded inequality. Multiple entries and exit point will create confusion and discrimination,” he said.“It will create further social division and discrimination in society. Thus the proposed four-year undergraduate programme systematically and legitimately forces students from marginalized communities to exit the system, allowing the most privileged students to continue to have a perfect monopoly over all its resources. The current FYUP of the NEP is a disaster, and as we have seen in the past, the students and teacher community of Delhi University have resisted and rejected FYUP and compelled the DU administration to revoke the flawed FYUP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aisa-claims-fyup-anti-student-demands-immediate-rollback-101624303296936.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||Amid buzz over two Apna Dals’ patch-up, Krishna Patel says no one spoke to her about it||There is a buzz about the possibility of the Apna Dal (Sonelal) reuniting with Apna Dal before the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, people familiar with the matter said.While Mirzapur MP Anupriya Patel heads the Apna Dal (S), her mother Krishna Patel is president of the Apna Dal.Former Union minister Anupriya has demanded an MLC seat for Krishna Patel and she is said to have conveyed her message to the BJP leadership, a senior leader of Apna Dal (S) said.Apna Dal (S) is an ally of the ruling BJP at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh.Asked about the speculated reunification bid, Apna Dal president Krishna Patel said, “No one spoke to me in this regard. This is baseless.” When asked what her stand will be if Apna Dal (S) appeals her to come together, she refused to comment on it but then added, “Time is big, not the person.” On the other hand, a senior leader of Apna Dal (S) said, “If Krishna Patel comes to the Apna Dal (S) fold and is made MLC, it will send a positive message that the entire party and the family are united. The move will leave no chance for the rival parties to create confusion among the public that there is a rift in the family.”The move will benefit all the NDA (National Democratic Alliance) candidates during the assembly elections, the leader said, adding that if Apna Dal (S) and Apna Dal united, they would be in a very strong position on 125 assembly seats in UP. These include 40 seats in eastern UP districts and Varanasi is among them.Apna Dal (S) national spokesperson Rajesh Patel said, “Krishna Patelji is the wife of our mentor and party founder Dr Sonelal Patelji and the mother of our national president Anupriya Patelji. Our entire party respects her a lot. Therefore, if Mataji decides to come with our leader, then the whole party will welcome her step in a grand manner.”On the other hand, Apna Dal state unit president Rajvan Singh Patel said, “Apna Dal led by party president Krishna Patel is strong, while there is only a perception that Anupriya’s party is strong.”“Anupriya didn’t speak to our party president in this regard,” he claimed.The core constituency of the Apna Dal (S) comprises the Kurmi or Patel voters who account for over 9% of electors in UP. The community plays a decisive role in 126 assembly constituencies, according to an Apna Dal leader.The Kurmi community accounts for over 15% of the votes in over 50 assembly constituencies, the leader added.Anupriya Patel was expelled from the Apna Dal in 2015. She formed the Apna Dal (S) in 2017. She was elected MP from Mirzapur in 2019 as Apna Dal (S) candidate. In 2014, she was elected from the same seat on the Apna Dal ticket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amid-buzz-over-two-apna-dals-patch-up-krishna-patel-says-no-one-spoke-to-her-about-it-101624303237432.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Highly transmittable Delta strain found in 61% PGIMER samples||The highly transmittable mutant of coronavirus, Delta strain, was found highly active during the second wave of the pandemic in Chandigarh, as it was detected in 61% of the samples sent by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for genome sequencing.To study the change in the circulating strain and to check the prevalence of mutant strains in Chandigarh residents during the second wave, the PGIMER had sent 25 stored samples of Covid-19 patients for genome sequencing to the central government’s epidemiology unit — National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), New Delhi. Genome sequencing attempts to draw out the complete genetics of the viruses.The samples were of patients who were tested positive from May 5 to 24 — a period that saw the second wave peaking in Chandigarh with 12,758 cases and 191 deaths. The 25 samples were selected randomly and included those of a few critical patients, two children, and five patients who had already died. As many as 23 were of Chandigarh residents.The genome sequencing results received on Sunday revealed that 61% of them were positive for the Delta strain and 30% for the UK or Alpha strain. However, the UK strain was found in samples of 80% of the deceased patients (four out of five). Meanwhile, no case of the Delta plus variant has been reported in Chandigarh so far.“In two samples, sequencing could not be performed due to low content of genomic material. The Delta strain, which is highly transmittable, was the main circulating strain in Chandigarh residents,” said professor Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.The B.1.617.2, known as Delta variant, is the sub-lineage of a double mutant of coronavirus (B.1.617), which was first detected in India earlier this year. WHO has categorised it as a variant of concern and said that it can significantly increase the transmissibility of viruses. The Delta plus variant is its mutated version.The UK or Alpha variant (also known as B.1.1.7) was first detected in Britain, and has spread to more than 50 countries with more than 2 lakh cases identified. It is believed to be 70% more transmittable and dangerous than Covid-19.Earlier in May, 39% of the 23 samples sent by the PGIMER were found positive for the UK strain while double mutant (B.1.617) was confirmed in 22% samples. The institute will send 50 more samples for genome sequencing this week. “These will include samples of severely ill patients and also of those who have died due to the infection,” said virologist Mini P Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19highly-transmittable-delta-strain-found-in-61-pgimer-samples-101624303177740.html
22-06-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Now, ₹9.87 crore multi-level parking facility to come up near district court||Thousands of commuters using the road opposite to the district court and surrounding areas would soon get rid of the perennial problem of traffic jams and slow pace of traffic. Following the state government sanctioning an amount of ₹9.87 crore, a multi-level parking facility is all set to get constructed at the district courts now, inform officials.Uttar Pradesh Project Corporation Limited (UPPCL) has been assigned the task of executing this project. This parking will be constructed on the land where the earlier office of the district judge was located, they added.“Now that the government has entrusted UPPCL with the task of constructing this parking facility and even the land has been finalised, we would soon start the construction work,” said project manager UPPCL, RK Singh.The design is being finalized, he added.The government had sanctioned the first instalment of over ₹1.97 crore in February 2021. Out of this, an amount of over ₹78.12 lakh was also released while the remaining around ₹1.19 crore was released on June 17.Following the release of the amount, now the work for this much-needed facility would speed up. Once the parking is built, the commuters going from Mumfordganj towards Vikas Bhawan and Civil Lines will not have to face unnecessary traffic jams. Moreover, the pressure of traffic at Stanley road would also ease out. Presently, Mumfordganj and New Katra residents are forced to use Stanley road because the road in front of the district collectorate witnesses traffic jam, officials shared.The facility will be coming at a place which faces the problem of regular traffic jam and if the vehicle somehow manages to move, it is always at an extremely slow pace owing to the haphazardly parked vehicles, officials said.The situation stays the same on all the working days of the district court, as this area houses several important administrative offices of the district administration.Besides the district court, the area has the office of the district magistrate, officials of the district administration, Vikas Bhawan, the SSP office, chambers of the lawyers of the district court, etc. Be it lawyers or their clients or, for that matter, people coming for their work at any of the offices of the district administration, the road caters to thousands of commuters daily.In the given scenario, the demand for a dedicated multilevel parking facility was raised by several organisations from time to time.Accepting the demand, a project for a three-level parking facility has been sanctioned by the state government. The upcoming parking would have a basement and two floors above it. The government has approved a budget of ₹9.87 crore for the construction of this multi-level parking, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-now-rs-9-87-crore-multi-level-parking-facility-to-come-up-near-district-court-101624303061970.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Monsoon subdued, rain unlikely in Chandigarh this week||Even as monsoon arrived in Chandigarh on June 13, there has been only one spell of rain since then, with 15.4mm recorded on June 16, and the city has remained dry for the past five days. According to the India meteorological department (IMD), the monsoon system has become subdued in the region and is expected to stay this way for another week at least. Overall, the rain has been above normal this month, with 116.8mm recorded till June 21 as compared to the 73.6mm normal (average of the past 30 years from June 1-21). Even monsoon is 59% surplus in the city so far (the season comprises June, July, August and September, according to the IMD). However, with no rain expected in the coming days, this surplus is set to drop as the normal date of monsoon onset (June 26) is approaching fast.“The significant weather conditions and low pressure areas that had sped up the system have dissipated now,” said IMD scientist Shivinder Singh. “Westerly winds are blowing right now, which have subdued the monsoon system in this region. Easterly winds are required to blow for the monsoon system to get active again, which seems unlikely in the coming days.”According to the IMD models, the forecast wind patterns are not favourable for the advancement of monsoon into the rest of Punjab and Haryana as of now. Some rain can be expected close to the normal period for monsoon declaration towards June end, said Singh.Meanwhile, the temperature and humidity are expected to stay high during the week. “Maximum temperature is likely to cross 40°C and no relief can be expected from the high humidity,” said Singh. “Due to these conditions, localised drizzles can be expected, but their intensity will not be like the monsoon showers.”On Monday, the city’s maximum temperature went up from Sunday’s 35.6°C to 36°C, a notch below normal. Minimum temperature went up from 25.6°C to 26.4°C, a degree above normal. In the next three days, the mercury is expected to oscillate between 26°C and 38°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/monsoon-subdued-rain-unlikely-in-chandigarh-this-week-101624303059724.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula records no new Covid case after over one year||For the first time since May last year, no new Covid-19 case was reported in Panchkula district on Monday, though one patient succumbed to the virus. However, the district health authorities have added two positive cases to the overall tally, as two patients who tested positive on Sunday were traced on Monday. The two men, aged 74 and 14, are residents of Sector 11, Panchkula, and had moved to their farm in Ambala after getting sampled and returned on Monday. “It is for the first time that no positive case has been reported from the lab since May last year. Though there is a decline in cases, residents should not lower their guard and get vaccinated, as this is the only way forward,” said Jasjit Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula. While the district’s infection tally has risen to 30,528, death toll reached 371 after a 68-year-old man from Haryoli became the latest victim of Covid-19. As many as 30,066 patients have been cured and discharged, leaving 91 active cases in the district. Mohali logs 11 cases, lowest in second wave In a major relief, Mohali district — which has been the worst hit across the tricity — on Monday reported only 11 fresh Covid-19 cases, which is the lowest in the second wave. It took the total count to 68,048. However, after reporting no fatality for two consecutive days, the district logged two deaths, which took its toll to 1,039. Of the fresh cases, three each surfaced in Mohali city, Kharar and Dhakoli and one each in Banur and Boothgarh. Meanwhile, 69 patients were discharged from hospital, taking the number of those recovered to 66,599 and bringing down the district’s active caseload to 410. No death in Chandigarh for second dayFor the second consecutive day, Chandigarh reported no death due to Covid-19 while new cases declined to a new low in over four months as only 14 people tested positive on Monday.The daily positivity rate dipped to 1.19%, as the health department conducted 1,173 tests in 24 hours.The UT has reported 61,444 cases so far, of which only 311 remain active. While 60,327 patients have recovered, 806 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-records-no-new-covid-case-after-over-one-year-101624302937449.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||9-year-old girl murdered by mother, stepfather in Ludhiana||A nine-year-old girl was allegedly strangulated to death by her mother and stepfather at a cattle-feed factory in Humbran on Sunday. The couple has been arrested. The accused, Pinki and Narinderpal Singh, strangulated the girl, Bharti, and then took her to a private hospital when she lost consciousness. The girl was declared brought dead. Police said Narinderpal, who was Pinki’s second husband, wanted to get rid of the girl and used to beat her often. The girl’s mother would also thrash her. Assistant commissioner of police (ACP, west) Gurpreet Singh said, “At the hospital, the couple told the police that they had found the girl unconscious when they had woken up in the morning, after which they rushed her to the hospital.” The hospital authorities informed the police, who initiated an investigation. The girl’s body was sent to civil hospital for postmortem, the ACP said. The board of doctors revealed that the girl had been strangulated to death.“Subsequently, the police rounded up the parents and questioned them. The accused confessed to their crime. A murder case been lodged against them and they have been arrested ,”the ACP said. The couple lived in the cattle-feed factory in Humbran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/9yearold-girl-murdered-by-mother-stepfather-in-ludhiana-101624302877425.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-Cong MLA’s son battling for life after car crash in Chandigarh||The son of a former Punjab MLA is battling for his life while two cops and two other men are also injured after a Skoda car and a Toyota Fortuner crashed into each other at the Press light point in Chandigarh. Rahul Singh Sidhu, a Congress leader and son of former Muktsar MLA Bhai Harnirpal Singh Kuku, was travelling in the Skoda along with his friends Diljot Singh, 30, of Faridkot, Deepinder Singh Brar, 27, and Harjinder Singh, 30, of Moga. Both Harjinder and Deepinder are posted with the Punjab Armed Police, while Diljot has food business in Sector 9, Chandigarh. All of them got injured.Rahul suffered head injuries and is on ventilator at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER). He has also tested positive for Covid-19, said police.Fatehgarh resident Kanwar Pratap Singh,19, who was driving the Fortuner SUV, also sustained injuries. He has been booked for speeding and jumping the red light, leading to the accident.Speeding SUV driver jumped red lightIn his complaint, Harjinder said that at about 11:15pm, he along with his three friends was going to Sector 8. He was driving the Skoda car while Rahul was sitting on the front passenger seat and Deepinder and Diljot were on the rear seat. They were coming from the ISBT roundabout side and as they reached the Sector 8/9/17/18 light point (known as Press light point), a Fortuner SUV coming from the Matka Chowk side hit their vehicle, he said. Police said the SUV being driven by Kanwar was speeding and jumped the red light. It hit the Skoda on the front passenger side, right in the middle. The impact was such the car was badly damaged.When police reached the spot, they found the mangled Skoda on the Madhya Marg while the damaged Fortuner was found on the slip road about 50 metres away and its rear tyre had burst. All the injured were rushed to Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, from where Rahul was referred to the PGIMER with severe head injuries. Both vehicles have been impounded and kept at the police station in Sector 3. A case under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Kanwar. He was arrested and later released on bail. Punjab CM prays for speedy recoveryRahul’s father Bhai Harnirpal Singh Kuku is a former Congress MLA from Muktsar and had contesting the Punjab assembly elections unsuccessfully from Kotkapura in 2017.Even Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh expressed concern over the accident. He shared on Twitter: “Concerned about our former MLA Bhai Harnirpal Singh Kuku’s son and party leader Bhai Rahul Inder Singh Sidhu who met with an accident last night. Have directed to ensure best of treatment for him at PGIMER where he is admitted. Praying for his speedy recovery.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/excong-mla-s-son-battling-for-life-after-car-crash-in-chandigarh-101624302758961.html
22-06-2021||Other||Soon, drones could be used to transport vaccines to challenging places||Unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), commonly known as a drone, could soon be used to transport Covid-19 vaccines to challenging remote places in quickest possible time.The Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur (IIT-K) and the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), which were asked to explore the feasibility of the option, have reportedly given a go ahead to the plan after a detailed study, said people privy to the developments.As next step, the ICMR will now enter into an agreement with the drone operating companies, the tendering process for which has already begun, they said.The idea was first mooted by the ICMR.However, when it went to the ministry for civil aviation for approval, it was told to first conduct a feasibility study in association with the IIT-K.“Making the vaccines available to people living in such inhospitable parts is a challenge and the ministry wanted the ICMR and the IIT-K to conduct a joint study on how far sending the vaccine through drones was safe?” said two sources in the IIT-K.Aerospace engineering department’s Prof AK Ghosh and his team studied the plan and did many experiments before concluding that the plan could actually work.In the field trials, Prof Ghosh and his team analysed the impact of take-off, airborne and landing tie vibration on the vaccine.They also studied that since the drones were battery operated, will the increase or decrease in temperature affect the vaccine.On the basis of these findings, the team has set certain parameters, which if followed could make transportation of vaccines to remote places possible.The drone to be used in vaccine transportation essentially should have a minimum flying range of 35 km and should be able to carry a load of four kilos.Also, the drone should be able to fly 100 meters above and take off vertically with that much of load. The drones own weight should be in accordance with the standards set by directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA).“The study on drones transporting the vaccines, conducted in association with the ICMR, has been done. The ICMR has been informed about the parameters finalised for this. Transportation of vaccines could begin if these parameters are followed,” said an IIT-K spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/soon-drones-could-be-used-to-transport-vaccines-to-challenging-places-101624302757845.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||Yogi takes a re-look into BJP 2017 manifesto promises, wants to keep them all||Months before he completes his first term as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath wants expeditious implementation of the promises made in the BJP’s manifesto for 2017 UP assembly elections.Yogi reviewed the progress of implementation of the promises made in the Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra-2017 at a high-level meeting here on Monday.As major opposition parties continue to mount attacks on the BJP government ahead of 2022 UP assembly elections, saying most of the poll promises remain only on paper, Yogi plans to come out with details about the progress made in this regard.“Yes, chief minister reviewed the promises made in the Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra-2017. We will come out with details soon. About 99 percent of the promises made in Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra-2017 have been already fulfilled,” said an official spokesman.The BJP’s Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra-2017 incorporated vision for the new government and had about 150 promises. A copy of the Sankalp Patra poll manifesto was circulated to senior officers heading different departments and an exercise to identify different promises to different departments was made soon after installation of Yogi led BJP government in Uttar Pradesh.“About 150 promises made in the Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra were concerned with the government departments. Most of the promises assigned for implementation to different departments have been fulfilled. Some departments have, however, not updated their information on government portal. The departments have been now asked to update the information on the portal to enable constant monitoring as chief minister wants 100 percent implementation,” said a senior officer.Farm loan waiver was one of the major promises made in the Lok Kalyan Sankalp Patra-2017.An announcement on the issue was made at the first meeting of state cabinet that chief minister presided over here on April 4, 2017.The state government announced waiver of crop loan of up to ₹1 lakh of the state’s small and marginal farmers. About 92.5 percent of state’s farmers fall in small and marginal category, it claimed.Other major promises made therein included setting up of anti-land mafia task force in every district, payment of dues to sugarcane growers in 14 days, 24x7 power supply to every household, development of UP as a ‘food processing state’, setting up of food processing park in state’s six regions, administrative reforms to check corruption, judicial reforms, setting up of 10 international level universities, free Wi-Fi in all colleges and universities etc.Major opposition parties, however, have consistently blamed the BJP government for not keeping the poll promises. “The BJP government has wasted 4.5 years of the state. It has not fulfilled the promises made in 2017 assembly elections. Most of the promises have remained on paper. As the elections 2022 assembly elections are coming close, the BJP government is making attempts to mislead the people on the issue. If the government claims of fulfilling the promises made to the people it should come out with the details and truth will come out automatically,” said Samajwadi Party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary.The BJP has strongly countered the opposition’s accusations. “A lot has been done in every sphere in Uttar Pradesh. There has been an improvement on the fronts of power supply and infrastructure development etc. The opposition should see that the number of women in the police stations has gone up. The opposition should know the truth instead of criticizing the government,” said Vijay Pathak, vice president, BJP Uttar Pradesh.“We can’t say anything about implementation of poll promises until the government comes out with details on the issue. Any claims and counter claims may be a matter of perception. UP’s economic growth rate, however, has come down in the past four years,” said AK Singh, former director, Giri Institute of Development Studies, Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-takes-a-re-look-into-bjp-2017-manifesto-promises-wants-to-keep-them-all-101624302521811.html
22-06-2021||Other||Education Centre at Thane razed; tribal students to face hassles||Following the demolition of its Child Education Reform Centre at Takarda Pada in Ovala, the Maharashtra Child Development Workers Welfare (MCDWW) has demanded the suspension of the concerned officials. It claimed that the tribal students who studied in the ashram school will be deprived of education due to this action.The centre teaches around 40 children. The centre said that the corporation demolished a portion of the school in the midst of monsoon without giving it an alternate location. Due to this, water seeps into the ground floor structure and this would make it difficult for the students to attend school.Priyesh Sable, director, MCDWW, said, “We have been running this school for more than two decades. With the increase in the number of students at the ashram school, we decided to include another floor. We approached the TMC with a request letter and, on its assurance, initiated construction work for the additional floor. However, due to the lockdown, our paperwork was not completed. When we asked TMC, the officials told us to continue with the construction during the weekends. We did the same but the officials turned up at the school amidst heavy rains last week and pulled down the under-construction portion.”The ashram school was for tribal children and those from backward classes. Some preferred staying within the premises itself as their houses were far away. “Due to the recent lockdown imposed and the heavy rains, the students had gone to their respective homes. If they come back, we do not have a proper space for them to sit and impart education,” added Sable.The ashram school was for students between three years and eight years, and had computer systems and provisions to stay as well.“As a part of the protocol to demolish illegal structures or encroachments, this demolition act was taken by the ward officials. No officer can give oral assurance to any resident prior to the completion of the paperwork and other requirements. We shall look into the matter. However, the concerned structure was demolished as it had not got permissions,” said a senior TMC officer on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/education-centre-at-thane-razed-tribal-students-to-face-hassles-101624302516888.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||6 held for robbing ₹81,000 from petrol pump in Ludhiana||Nine days after a petrol pump in Dugri was robbed of ₹81,000, six gang members were arrested for the crime under the Dhuri Railway overbridge on Sunday. Those arrested are Gurdeep Singh of Shimlapuri, Kulwinder Kumar of Jalandhar, Hardeep Singh of Hoshiarpur, Vijay Kumar of Una (Himachal Pradesh), Satnam Singh of Jalandhar and Himanshu Heer of Basti Jodhewal. Two unlicenced pistols, ammunition, sharp-edged weapons, vehicles used to commit the robbery and ₹36,000 were seized from them. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, rural) Sachin Gupta said, “The gang has carried out a series of robberies and snatchings across Punjab. Kulwinder had purchased the two pistols for ₹11,000 and ₹9,000 from Uttar Pradesh. They were planning another robbery under the overbridge when they were arrested.” Before committing the robbery, Gurdeep had carried out a reconnaissance of the petrol pump and relayed the information to Kulwinder, who came to Ludhiana with Hardeep and Vijay on their scooters. They had assembled at Gurdeep’s house and hatched the plan. A day before the robbery, Gurdeep had taken all his accomplices to the filling station, Gupta said. On June 11, the bike-borne accused turned up at the filling station posing as customers and overpowered the staff.The accused had met in Hoshiarpur Jail where they were serving time for different crimes. After getting bail, they carried out a spree of robberies and snatchings, the JCP said. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the accused have confessed to carrying out 10 snatchings and robberies in the last year.All of them are history-sheeters and have multiple cases already registered against them. Kulwinder has seven criminal cases lodged against him, including snatching and theft; Himanshu is wanted for two counts of forgery and theft; Vijay is facing trial in two cases of rape and drug peddling; Satnam has three cases lodged against him, including drug peddling and attempt to murder; while Hardeep is already wanted for drug peddling and assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/6-held-for-robbing-81-000-from-petrol-pump-in-ludhiana-101624302458184.html
22-06-2021||Other||2 more revellers drown in Thane’s Yeoor lake||Two more people drowned at Nilapani lake, located in the Yeoor range of Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Thane, on Monday, taking the total number of deaths at the same spot to four in two days. The local police have now written to the forest department, seeking measures to stop people from entering the lake. According to the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) officials, the two youth who drowned on Monday have been identified as Tejas Chorge and Dhruv Kule, both aged 17. Officials said that the duo had been to the lake along with their friends Himanshu Wagh, Soham Karandikar, Deep Mhatre, Aryan Kalgutkar and Atharva Avate in the morning. The group entered the lake for a swim, and at 10.05am, Chorge and Kule were caught by the current and drowned. Their friends immediately raised an alarm, after which authorities from Vartak Nagar police station as well as TMC, regional disaster management cell (RDMC), Thane disaster response force and the Wagle Estate unit of Thane Fire Brigade rushed to the spot and undertook a search and rescue operation in the lake. “Chorge’s body was found in the lake around 12.45pm, while at 6.30pm, Kule’s was recovered,” a civic official said. The police have registered an accidental death report. On Sunday, two persons – Prasad Pavaskar, 16, and Juber Sayyed 20 – had drowned in the lake. The police said despite repeated efforts, picnickers continue to enter the lake – which is forbidden. “The picnickers enter the dense forest area – which makes it difficult for the authorities to track them – and then enter the lake. So providing timely help becomes difficult as the spot is far off and not easily reachable. On Monday, we wrote to the forest department, asking them to put up signboards warning visitors against entering the forest and the lake,” inspector Santosh Ghatekar, Vartak Nagar police station said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-more-revellers-drown-in-thane-s-yeoor-lake-101624302336887.html
22-06-2021||Other||5 killed in Kerala, police investigate victims’ past||A major road accident in north Kerala’s Kozhikode in the early hours of Monday, in which five persons got killed on the spot, is mired in a cloud of suspicion, a senior police officer said, adding some of the dead have criminal past. He said the deceased was part of a gold escort gang from Palakkad, and they reportedly came to Kozhikode international airport to receive smuggled gold from Dubai in the early hours of Monday. But the customs authorities seized 2.50 kg of gold, concealed in a coffee-making machine and arrested the carrier Mohammad Shafeek. The police officer said another team members from Kannur, who were experts in looting the smuggled gold, chased the Palakkad team under the impression that they were carrying the gold. Both these gangs were unaware that the carrier got arrested, and a chase ensued. One of the vehicles involved in the chase met with an accident, and all occupants killed on the spot. Police said gold was supposed to be delivered to one Charal Faizal, another history-sheeter involved in many smuggling cases. “We have identified one of the vehicles involved in the race and detained six persons. We are looking for another vehicle. Statements of the detained are incoherent, and customs also sought details,” said the senior officer. Among four international airports in the state, Kozhikode is the hub for gold smuggling activities. On Sunday, customs authorities had seized gold worth ₹3.5 crores and Monday, gold worth ₹2.50 crore impounded. Among south Indian states, Kerala topped in gold smuggling -- 600 kgs seized last year. “High demand perks up smuggling activities. It is a highly lucrative business. One kg of smuggled gold saves at least ₹5 to 7 lakh in duties. Usually, 10 per cent is given to carriers and ground handlers get another 10 per cent. Rest is profit,” a jewellery owner, who did not want to identify, said, adding, in Kerala, at least 40 per cent of the current gold in the market is smuggled. After busting a major gang last year, in which many kingpins were deported from Gulf countries. There is no let-up in gold smuggling, lamented customs officials. After the seizure of 30 kg, gold from one of the consignments came to the UAE consulate in the state capital last year. Customs and the directorate of revenue intelligence arrested more than 30 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-killed-in-kerala-police-investigate-victims-past-101624302277814.html
22-06-2021||Other||Maharashtra govt scared of probe into Vaze’s reinstatement, transfers of police: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has contended that the issues pertaining to the reinstatement of assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze and the report of former state intelligence commissioner Rashmi Shukla, which are included in its first information report (FIR) are relevant and in line with the directions of the April 5 Bombay high court (HC) order. CBI was arguing against the petition filed by the Maharashtra government for the removal of two unnumbered paragraphs from the FIR filed by the central agency on April 21 against ex-home minister Anil Deshmukh in corruption allegations. CBI also said that the state was scared of the investigation initiated by the Central agency over Vaze’s reinstatement and the issue of undue political influence during appointments and transfer of police officers raised by Shukla and hence filed the petition. “This is an issue of corruption and on this issue, observation of this court would be relevant to find out the purpose and intent of HC order and what were the submissions,” argued additional solicitor general Anil Singh on behalf of CBI. He further added CBI referred to the paragraphs of the HC order which stated that the issues of corruption, as pointed out by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, against Deshmukh were serious and the allegations needed to be investigated thoroughly. CBI submitted that the HC order, while ordering the preliminary inquiry, also implied investigation into Vaze’s appointment and Deshmukh’s influence in getting him reinstated, and hence, the two issues were included in the FIR. CBI concluded its arguments on Monday stating that in the light of the above submissions, the state was in contempt of the Supreme Court (SC) and HC order by refusing CBI access to the documents pertaining to Vaze’s reinstatement and the allegations made by Shukla. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the petition filed by the state, was informed by its counsel, senior advocate Rafiq Dada, that the constitutional court which ordered the preliminary probe on April 5 had not looked into the issue of Vaze’s reinstatement or the issue of transfer or postings, though it was raised in the other public interest litigation (PIL) that were filed along with of Singh’s. The court had observed in its order that the issue of transfer or postings was to be dealt by another forum, and hence, the state was justified in seeking removal of parts of the FIR filed by CBI. Dada reiterated that the April 5 order was only pertaining to advocate Jaishri Patil’s complaint to Malabar Hill police, but as the CBI was seeking beyond what was mandated by the court, the state had no option but to approach HC. However, Singh submitted that there was a need to understand the purpose and intent of the HC order. The issues relating to why Vaze was reinstated after 15 years, why he was given special posting and why he was in contact with the home minister needed investigation. He added that CBI sought to investigate the issues because while dealing with the issue of corruption the two could not be segregated as they were part of the order. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who took over the arguments for CBI, submitted that the petition by the state was intended to dilute the mandate issued by a coordinate bench in PIL which was also upheld by SC. Mehta submitted that the state did not want the CBI to investigate two questions: how Sachin Vaze was reinstated after 15 years and if there was undue influence over posting of officers. He stressed that as Vaze’s name was all over the petitions filed by Singh and Patil, the HC order had to be read in that context, and Vaze’s reinstatement had to be investigated. Mehta added that the state had filed a special leave petition in the Apex court against the April 5 order of HC, but it was turned down, and hence, the state was now seeking removal of the two paragraphs from the FIR only. In light of this, Mehta submitted that the state was in contempt of SC and HC’s directions and concluded arguments for CBI. Dada sought to dispute the concluding remarks of CBI which was allowed by the bench. The state will respond on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-govt-scared-of-probe-into-vaze-s-reinstatement-transfers-of-police-cbi-101624302276994.html
22-06-2021||Other||ED seizes ₹40.34-crore assets of Pune bizman Avinash Bhosale||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has seized assets worth ₹40.34 crore belonging to Pune businessman Avinash Bhosale and his family members for the alleged violations of provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema), 1999.Bhosale’s daughter Swapnali Kadam is the wife of state Congress minister Vishwajeet Kadam. She and Bhosale’s son Amit had been questioned by ED officials earlier in the same case. ED officials on Monday said that the seized assets are equivalent to the foreign securities/properties held by the Bhosales in contravention of Fema. The seized assets are in the form of equity shares and preference shares held in a firm which owns three five-star hotels in Pune, Nagpur and Goa. Further, equity shares held in ABIL (Avinash Bhosale Infrastructure Private Limited) and ₹1.15 crore in various bank accounts held by the family have also been seized. The Central anti-money laundering agency’s investigation against the Bhosales began in September 2017 after ED had received reliable inputs that the family have acquired an immovable property in Dubai in contravention of Fema. ED’s further probe revealed that the Bhosales acquired foreign securities of a Dubai company, which held the property (around ₹40.34 crore). To acquire the property, the Bhosales remitted the funds through the liberalised remittance scheme in their bank accounts held outside India. The funds were remitted in different categories: to purchase equity shares in the Dubai-based firm, family maintenances, savings received from an NRI for family maintenance etc. However, the remitted funds were utilised to purchase the immovable property and the shares of the company were allotted against the remitted funds. “It was declared that the company is engaged in real estate business activity. However, investigation revealed that it did not have any business activity and did not generate any income whatsoever,” ED stated.Bhosale is also facing a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in connection to a Pune land. In this case, ED officials had conducted raids at Bhosale’s offices and residence in Pune as well as few other places, in February.Bhosale was previously fined ₹1.83 crore by ED for alleged Fema contravention in the year 2015. The builder was fined on three counts: for opening a bank account abroad without the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) permission, maintaining the bank account even after returning to India and using its international credit card abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ed-seizes-40-34-crore-assets-of-pune-bizman-avinash-bhosale-101624302158114.html
22-06-2021||Other||Action initiated in irregularities in allotment of plots of oustees quota of HSVP||The chief administrator of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) has initiated action in the alleged irregularities in allotment of seven plots in the oustees quota in sector 13-17 of Panipat city.The inquiry report filed by the legal advisor to HSVP chief administrator has found violation of oustees policy of HSVP and action has been recommended against 26 people including the then administrator of HSVP Rohtak, the then estate officer Panipat, and allottees and transferees.As per the report, it was found that the allotment of these plots were made in 2019-2020 on the basis of two plots of the same category allotted in 2007, causing loss to the HSVP as the present prices of the plot are much higher than what it was in 2007.These plots were allotted as per the speaking orders of the chief administrator for allotment of two plots in 2007. It was found that the then administrator HSVP Rohtak and estate officer HSVP Panipat have exceeded their jurisdiction in making allotment and undue advantage was given to the so-called oustees.“The estate officers seem to be hand-in-glove with the oustees as they transferred the plots in spite of having knowledge that the orders of the then chief administrator of HSVP and the then administrator Rohtak are illegal,” read the report.Now it has been recommended that speaking orders in all the cases be set aside and FIR should be lodged against the then administrator Rohtak and the then estate officer Panipat for committing various acts of omission and commission along with allottees and transferees.“The Panipat estate officer was directed to take physical possession of the plots immediately and forfeit the amount deposited by the applicants without any interest,” recommended the report.Ajit Balaji Joshi, chief administrator HSVP, confirmed that action has been initiated as per the recommendations. As per officials of the HSVP, this allotment has caused a loss of around ₹7 crore to the HSVP as the plots were allotted on 12 years old rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/action-initiated-in-irregularities-in-allotment-of-plots-of-oustees-quota-of-hsvp-101624302157528.html
22-06-2021||Other||Gangster wanted in 31 criminal cases held in Kurukshetra||The Kurukshetra police have arrested a wanted gangster who was carrying a reward of ₹25,000.Kurukshetra superintendent of police (SP) Himanshu Garg said that gangster Amardeep Shekhawat alias Deepa, of Hisar, was wanted in 31 criminal cases of attempt to murder, loot, robbery, kidnapping and extortion - including 17 registered in Jind, six in Kurukshetra, four in Hisar and two each in Panipat and Fatehabad districts.He said that the crime investigation agency of the Kurukshetra police had got information that the accused was coming towards Kurukshetra from Jhansa Road and the police team stopped him at a checkpost near Kurukshetra but he fled. Later, police managed to arrest him. The SP said police also recovered an illegal pistol from his possession.He was produced in court and sent to two-day police remand. He said that his arrest will help police investigate the pending cases registered against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gangster-wanted-in-31-criminal-cases-held-in-kurukshetra-101624302096850.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||As Covid curve flattens, Haryana goes for mega vax drive||Falling steeply, the coronavirus cases in Haryana hit yet another low last week ((June 14-20) with the state recording 1,557 cases.The virus curve, for a sixth successive week, has been on a flattening path after 11 weeks of a devastating second wave which saw weekly infections peaking at a lakh.The state had registered 3,570 infections the week before (June 7-13). The virus spread was at its peak in the beginning of May with a lakh case in the first week.However, the numbers have since gone down with 78,350 cases in second week of May, 43,601 in the third week, 17,361 in the fourth week and 6,902 cases in June beginning.The number of active cases as on Monday was 2,337 and 1,295 patients were kept in home-isolation. While the state’s daily positivity rate has come down below 1%, the cumulative positivity rate for 15 districts continued to be in the critical category of more than 6%. Nuh is the only district with a desirable positivity rate of 1.79%.Fatalities due to the virus have also seen a gradual decline with 254 deaths being reported last week. The number of deaths had seen a big increase in early May when over a thousand fatalities were reported in the first week.With 990 deaths so far, Hisar has the highest number of cumulative fatalities followed by Gurugram (884), Faridabad (716), Bhiwani (567), Karnal (533), Panipat (525), Ambala (504) and Jind (502).During a mega vaccination drive on Monday, the health authorities inoculated 6.27 lakh people.State health minister Anil Vij said that more than lakh people were vaccinated in Gurugram alone. Additional chief secretary (ACS, health) Rajeev Arora said this was a new high in terms of Covid vaccination.“As of June 21, about 76.59 lakh people were vaccinated (both first and second dose),” Arora said.The ACS said that they are shortly expecting delivery of fresh vaccine consignments from the central government to keep up the inoculation momentum. Till June 20, the state government had 9.18 lakh vaccine doses, including 7.62 lakh of Covidshield.As per vaccine data sourced by the health department from the electronic vaccine intelligence network (e-Vin), more than 18 lakh people in the 18-45 age group and more than 36 lakh in the 45-60 and above age group have been vaccinated with the first dose till June 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-covid-curve-flattens-haryana-goes-for-mega-vax-drive-101624302039959.html
22-06-2021||Other||Antilia explosives scare, Hiran murder:NIA gets custody of ex-Mumbai cop, 2 others again||The special court on Monday extended till June 25 the NIA (National Investigation Agency) custody of Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav, who were arrested by the federal agency on June 11 in connection with an explosives-laden car parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai home Antilia and the subsequent murder of the vehicle owner, Mansukh Hiran.The court also remanded another accused, former Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane, in NIA custody till June 25. Mane was arrested by NIA on April 23, and on May 13, he was remanded in judicial custody. He has been lodged in Taloja prison since then.Four days after arresting Shelar and Jadhav, NIA had moved an application seeking Mane’s custody again for questioning him with the duo. Special judge Prashant Sitre on Monday allowed the plea. The judge extended Shelar and Jadhav’s NIA custody also on the same grounds.On February 25, a Mahindra Scorpio was found abandoned near Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening note addressed to the Ambanis. A case was registered at Gamdevi police station following the recovery of the SUV.Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation but removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who had reported the SUV stolen on February 17.On March 5, Hiran was found dead in a creek near Mumbra, with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth. His face was covered with a scarf. A separate case was registered with Mumbra police in connection with the murder of the auto spare parts dealer.NIA subsequently took over both the cases. Apart from Mane, Shelar and Jadhav, the federal agency has arrested ex-police officer Sachin Vaze; his former colleague at the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Police crime branch, Riyazuddin Kazi; former encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma, former constable Vinayak Shinde – a life convict in a fake encounter killing – cricket bookie Naresh Gor; Satish Mothukari, and Manish Soni.It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the SUV from Hiran in November and returned it in early February. NIA has claimed that it was Vaze who had planted the explosives-laden vehicle near Ambani’s residence, and the other police officers arrested in the case were allegedly involved in the larger conspiracy. NIA further alleged that the cops got Hiran killed after he refused to take the blame for planting the SUV and get arrested in the case. The others arrested in the case killed Hiran and dumped his body in the creek, alleged NIA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-explosives-scare-hiran-murder-nia-gets-custody-of-ex-mumbai-cop-2-others-again-101624302036903.html
22-06-2021||Other||1,000 yoga instructors to be inducted in Haryana: Vij||While chairing a district-level event on International Yoga Day at Subhash Park in Ambala Cantt, Haryana home and health minister Anil Vij said that to promote yoga, 1,000 yoga instructors will be inducted in state.“We will provide these instructors at every place where residents will gather to perform yoga. The draft has been approved and recruitment is expected to conclude this month. Other than this, we will set up yoga centres at 6,500 villages in state,” the minister said.“At the venue, 50 people, including DC Vikram Singh, SSP Hamid Akhtar, SDM (City) Sachin Gupta and other officials, took part in the event following the Covid19 protocol. The celebration was observed at 1,100 places in 22 districts of Haryana and 50 places in district where 50 participants were allowed,” Vij added.The minister, who is also a local MLA, had to face protest by some locals who are demanding entry for all at the park (worth ₹25.8 crore) that was inaugurated by Vij in April.Due to security reasons and theft incidents soon after the park was opened, its committee started issuing passes for those entering the premises after it was reopened as Covid cases dropped.City MLA Aseem Goel performed yoga at Rajiv Gandhi Stadium in Sector 10, Ambala. He said that ‘pranayam’ has helped many Covid patients to recover early.Meanwhile, hundreds of people, officials and local MPs and MLAs participated in Yoga camps organised at the district headquarters on International Yoga Day on Monday.As per the Covid protocol, only 50 people were allowed to participate in the Yoga camps. Kurukshetra deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar said in Kurukshetra, 2,500 people performed Yoga at 50 Yoga camps.The arrangements were made for live telecast of the programmes of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Special vaccination driver was also launched on the occasion. Karnal chief medical officer Yogesh Sharma said around 40,000 people were given the jab at 150 vaccination centres in district.Kurukshetra health department officials said that 22,445 people were given the jab at 123 vaccination centres set up in district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1000-yoga-instructors-to-be-inducted-in-haryana-vij-101624301978286.html
22-06-2021||Other||HC nod to second post-mortem of gangster Bhullar at PGIMER||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday roped in the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) for the second autopsy of slain gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar, killed in an encounter in Kolkata on June 9. The first post-mortem was conducted in Kolkata. On Friday, the Supreme Court had remanded back a plea from his father, Bhupinder Singh, a retired police inspector, for conducting the second autopsy of Bhullar. The father had sought that Bhullar’s autopsy be conducted again, to the know the exact details and nature of the injuries caused to him. The high court had dismissed the plea, against which he had moved the apex court. The father claims that Bhullar was killed in a fake encounter. According to him, this was substantiated from the injuries that were noticed on his son’s body. During the hearing on Monday, the bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan asked the petitioner’s counsel whether the injuries visible on the body find mention in the post-mortem report conduced in Kolkata. The lawyer, however, said that the report was not with him and the father was informed by the doctors that the cause of death was fire-arm injury. The Punjab government, on the other hand, said that the state police was not involved in any alleged encounter and all the action was of the West Bengal authorities. The court noted that the previous post-mortem report was not on record and that there was no substantial ground to order a second autopsy; it was also observed that the West Bengal police have not been made party to the plea. The court stated that it was ignoring the technicalities in view of the fact that body had been lying at the petitioner’s place for nine days and directed the PGIMER to constitute a board and conduct a second post-mortem expeditiously. As the PGIMER counsel said that it would be carried on Tuesday morning, the court disposed of the matter and directed that the post-mortem report be given to Punjab police as well as the petitioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-nod-to-second-post-mortem-of-gangster-bhullar-at-pgimer-101624301738870.html
22-06-2021||Bangalore||Despite warning from Congress, leaders indulge in war of words over CM face||Bengaluru Despite warnings from the high command on not to give statements or projections on Congress’s next chief ministerial candidate, at least two Congress legislators--Zameer Ahmed Khan and Raghavendra Hitnal--on Monday said that the entire state wants Siddaramaiah to become the next chief minister, widening the growing cracks within the party.Amid the growing crisis, DK Shivakumar, the president of the state unit, on Monday met Randeep Singh Surjewala, the general secretary in-charge of Karnataka in Delhi. Soon after, Surjewala issued a statement warning any legislator from projecting the chief ministerial candidate in the state. “I have noted with concern that certain individuals in the Congress party have recently become prone to issuing statements about leadership in the state or leadership postCongress Government formation. I take this opportunity to forewarn them to avoid such comments completely. Central Congress leadership & MLA’s will decide the issue at an appropriate time,” Surjewala said in a statement on MondayThe widening rift between Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah has added to the challenges of the of the principal opposition in Karnataka who have continue to fight among themselves and are yet to capitalise on the growing dissent within the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government headed by BS Yediyurappa. Repeated statements by the likes of Khan have irked Shivakumar, who also is also an aspirant for the top job in the state. “The chief minister’s post is not empty nor is there an election for it,” Shivakumar said on Monday. He reiterated his earlier statement that there would be no “personality worship but only party worship”, taking a dig at Siddaramaiah and his followers like Khan. With likes of Khan rallying behind Siddaramaiah, Shivakumar too found support in senior Congress leader and former state party president G Parameshwara. “I want to tell our leaders that first we have to bring our party to power,” Parameshwara said on Monday. He added that when it comes to the party, Shivakumar as president is supreme. Legislators and other leaders in the Congress have tried to identify with either camp, giving rise to more infighting within the party.“I have said that it was my opinion and the people of the state want Siddaramaiah to be CM,” Khan said on Monday. “Why Should DK Shivakumar have a problem when it is the state’s people who want this,” he added. Khan, who has identified with Siddaramaiah’s camp, further said that the people of the state did not want Shivakumar. Siddaramaiah, who continues to consolidate his position within the Congress, on Monday said that he never made such a statement to this effect. “I never said I will become chief minister. It is their personal opinion, made out of admiration,” Siddaramaiah said, defending the likes of Khan. Denying any factionalism within the Congress, he added that this was their personal opinion and not that of the party. The BJP took a dig at the Congress party president and the recent developments surrounding the chief minsiterial candidate issue.In a Twitter post in Kannada, the state unit of the BJP said, “Talking about internal issues of the BJP, @DkShivakumar is silent on the leadership struggle within his own party. @Siddaramaiah is pushing that he is the next CM through his followers but a weak president is unable to do anything,”The BJP added that the statements that there will be only party worship and not personality worship shows that it does not have the courage and unable to take action against Khan who has been proposing Siddaramaiah’s name. The growing friction within the Congress is rapidly denting its chances to capitalise on the discord within the BJP government and its legislators, many of whom have openly asked to replace 78-year-old Yediyurappa. Despite warning from BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka, Arun Singh, several BJP legislators continue to strategize against Yediyurappa, people aware of the developments said. The BJP has tried to quell the dissent but a cloud of uncertainty looms over Yediyurappa and his remaining two year tenure as the chief minister. Yediyurappa has remained firm that he will continue in his post for the remainder of the two years, but the resistance to this possibility has been growing within the party legislators who have levelled serious charges of corruption and dynasty politics against the chief minister and his family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/despite-warning-from-congress-leaders-indulge-in-war-of-words-over-cm-face-101624301737511.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Following Maharashtra CM’s appeal, Maratha outfits put agitation on hold||In response to the appeal by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last week, Maratha outfits have put their ongoing silent protest on hold for four weeks. The decision was taken, expressing satisfaction over the steps taken by the state government in relation to the six major demands put forth by the Maratha outfits.After beginning the fresh phase of the silent protest on Thursday in Kolhapur, the state government invited Maratha outfits led by Rajya Sabha MP Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati for discussion over their demands on Friday. A group of ministers led by CM Thackeray admitted to comply with their demands in a time-bound manner and appealed to call off the protest till then. The Maratha outfits and their conveners held a deliberation over the course of action on Monday at Nashik and decided to put the protest on hold.“The government has been complying with our demands and has asked for 21 days. The steps taken by the government are satisfactory, and their compliance is on the right path. After deliberation among the outfits under Maratha Kranti Morcha, we have decided to give the government time four weeks. The agitation has not been called off and will never end, but has been put on hold. We will continue without meetings in various parts of the state,” said Sambhajiraje.Maratha outfits had started state-wide meetings and protests under the leadership of the MP after the Supreme Court on May 5 quashed 12% and 13% quota given to Marathas in education and jobs under the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018. The outfits had announced to hold agitations in all 36 districts demanding restoration of the reservation. The demands included review petition in the SC against its order, revival of SARTHI institute formed to ensure educational and social well-being of the Maratha youth, hostel for the community youth in every district, financial allocation of ₹1000 crore Annasaheb Patil Backward Financial Development Corporation which finances Maratha youth for entrepreneurial ventures among others.“The state is filing a review petition on Thursday. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar held a meeting on Saturday for revival of SARTHI and assured sizable allocation. The appointment of 2185 eligible candidates is expected to be completed over next couple of weeks. Similarly, compliance on other demands is on track. Keeping this in mind, we have decided to put the protest on hold, so even we will get time to coordinate with the government. Some of our convenors were not ready to stop the protest, but they were convinced by others,” said Virendra Pawar, one of the conveners of Maratha Kranti Morcha.Before the meeting, the outfits held a protest at Maratha Vidyaprasarak Mandal premises in Nashik. Local MLAs, MPs and ministers, former ministers attended it. Food and civil supplies minister and OBC leader Chhagan Bhujbal said they are not against reservation to Marathas. “Both Marathas and OBCs are in crisis after the recent court orders. The protests by OBCs are not against Maratha community, but a few people are trying create such picture, which is unfortunate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/following-maharashtra-cm-s-appeal-maratha-outfits-put-agitation-on-hold-101624301736847.html
22-06-2021||Bangalore||With high Covid-19 positivity rate, curbs remain in Mysuru||Even as restrictions in most districts in Karnataka including Bengaluru were further relaxed from Monday, Mysuru, which has a Test Positivity Rate (TPR) higher than 10%, however, continues to be under lockdown.On Monday, Mysuru reported 546 new Covid-19 cases taking the active infections in the district to 6,892. The district also reported 22 Covid related deaths, which is the second highest in the state. The district has reported 2,035 deaths so far.According to the city administration, the numbers in the districts have come down over the last month, but not as fast as the rest of the state. Experts and health officials give multiple reasons to explain the peculiar situation in the district.A senior health department official said that the government has pulled up the district administration from the problems in testing and containment in the district. From testing around 6,000 people every day during April, the number of average tests conducted came down to 4,000 tests in May. “Throughout the state testing was ramped up, while in Mysuru it was lacking. This has been taken up with the concerned officials and now the testing has increased,” the official said.Talking about the tracing and tracking in the state, a newly appointed official in the district, who didn’t want to be named said that the tracing strategy in Mysuru needs to be revamped. “We are tracing less than 4 primary contacts as of last week. The healthcare workers are facing problems because people are not sharing details with them, but we are not ramping up the process. We want to increase tracing to up to 8-10 contacts and ensuring containment zones are created,” he added.As several violations were reported among those patients isolating themselves at home, the district admiration is mulling over shifting patients to Covid care centres.While the government has pulled Mysuru administration for its failure in the testing, tracing and containment, district administration claims the presence of a new mutant could be the reason for the higher caseload in the state.In its attempt to understand the situation in samples collected from Covid-19 patients has been sent for genome sequencing in Nimhans in Bengaluru. While the authorities expect that this will throw some light into whether any particular variant is resulting in the higher caseload in the state.According to a senior district health department official, there is a strong suspicion that the Delta variant is behind the spread in the state. The number of cases where the family members are getting infected soon after a person from the family testing positive is looked at as a sign of the possibility of the variant causing the problems.“We can’t be certain about this. Only after the results from the labs are available, we can say which variant is causing the problem. At the same, the medical professionals in Mysuru have been pointing at symptoms like an increase in Covid cases among non-diabetic patients, which could be a cause for concern,” the official added.While Mysuru is struggling to keep its number under control, on Monday, the Karnataka government relaxed the norms in six more districts. As per the order, in these districts, hotels and restaurants are allowed to open with 50% capacity and shops to stay open till 5 pm, among other relaxations.“After considering the weekly moving average positivity rate of districts as of June 26 and also taking into account consistent declining trend of the case positivity rate in certain districts, hereby includes places Udupi, Bengaluru Rural, Shivamogga, Ballari, Chitradurga and Vijayapura districts under Category I districts. Consequently, all additional activities permitted for Category I districts until 5 am 05-07-2021 will be applicable for the aforementioned districts also,” read a government order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/with-high-positivity-rate-curbs-remain-in-mysuru-101624301676872.html
22-06-2021||Bangalore||K’taka administers record 1mn Covid doses in one day||Bengaluru Sharing details of the nation-wide vaccination Maha Abhiyan, the Karnataka government said that it had administered 1052272 doses till 7:30 pm on Monday.Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said that the state’s vaccination coverage on Monday was only behind Madhya Pradesh that had administered around 1.54 million has Gujarat administered 5,012,173 while Uttar Pradesh registered 6,74,546 doses, according to data provided by the Press Information Bureau.“We had set a target of 5,00,000 to 8,00,000 for this drive but we have far exceeded the target,” Sudhakar said in a statement on Monday.Karnataka’s increased vaccination added to India’s tally to 80,95,314. “Today’s record-breaking vaccination numbers are gladdening. The vaccine remains our strongest weapon to fight COVID-19. Congratulations to those who got vaccinated and kudos to all the front-line warriors working hard to ensure so many citizens got the vaccine. Well done India!,” Narendra Modi, the prime minister of India said in a post on Twitter. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa also took on to Twitter to laud the feat. “India clocked a record of over 8 million inoculations and Karnataka’s Lasika Maha Abhiyana accomplished over 1million jabs today. Big applause to all our frontline workers who ensured this success. Let us work together to make India and Karnataka free from Covid-19,” he wrote.The nation-wide vaccination drive comes on the same day when the BS Yediyurappa government eased Covid-19 pandemic-induced restrictions across most districts, including Bengaluru, after almost six weeks of lockdown-like curbs in the state.Sudhakar added that Bengaluru Urban district administered 41,999 doses while Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike administered 1,72,713 doses till 9.30 pm on Monday which was the highest in the country.The combined total of Bengaluru Urban and BBMP rose to 2,14,709 doses of vaccines administered, which the state government said was the “highest in the country”.According to the Karnataka health department there were 696,648 doses administered to people aged between 18-44 on Monday till 7.30 pm, of which the second dose accounted for 4,933.Belagavi district recorded 73,923 doses while the mineral-rich district of Ballari registered 54,532 doses. Tumakuru and Mandya were fourth and fifth with 49,586 and 49,002 doses respectively.The minister said that Bengaluru was above Indore, which had registered 201, 339 doses. A total of 52,88,684 doses have been administered in the district till June 21 in Bengaluru, Sudhakar added.The accelerated drive takes Karnataka’s total to 1,95,37,428 doses till 6 pm on June 21. “We will cross 20 million in a day or two at the most. As of today, 40% of the state’s adult population has been vaccinated,” Sudhakar said.He added that the state will be able to vaccinate the entire adult population well before the target of December 31, 2021.“We have a stock of about 1.5 million doses of Covishield and 6,00,000-7,00,000 doses of Covaxin in the state. More than 10.8 million doses have been administered so far in 13,000 vaccination centres across the state. Even if we achieve 70-80 doses per centre we will meet our target,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-administers-record-1mn-covid-doses-in-one-day-101624301616858.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Can old Maharashtra allies Shiv Sena, BJP unite again?||Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s public bashing of ally Congress, two weeks after the one-on-one meeting between him and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and a sensational letter by Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik demanding reunion with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) have led to speculation over the old allies coming together again. Senior leaders from both the parties have said it is unlikely to happen anytime soon and the statements and developments could be part of political game-plan by Sena to keep its allies in check.Thackeray met Modi in Delhi in a one-on-one meeting two weeks ago keeping deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and public works minister Ashok Chavan waiting outside. It sparked off speculations over the two old allies coming together in state politics. Thackeray’s speech delivered on the foundation day of his party on Saturday, fuelled these speculations as he openly snubbed Congress, Sena’s junior partner in ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi coalition led by him. He gave an earful to the Congress for its announcement to go solo in forthcoming elections. A day later, his party MLA Sarnaik’s letter, in which he urged his party chief to forge the alliance with BJP once again to avoid action against party leaders and their families, surfaced on social media. The legislator is facing an inquiry by the Enforcement Directorate. This escalated the talks over the re-union of the parties that were in alliance over three decades before snapping ties in 2019.“There are theories being floated by the BJP that the Sena will agree to the re-union to avoid action by the central agencies against its leaders. But our party will not succumb to the pressure as such threats are not new to us. In fact, our party leadership is using the situation to keep the two ruling parties under check, especially after they started talking about going solo and sharing of CM’s post. The party leadership wants to send out a clear message to the allies to not take the Sena for granted,” said a Sena leader. The leader said there was nothing wrong in Thackeray meeting Modi, if NCP chief Sharad Pawar could meet Amit Shah in Ahmedabad secretly. “The way things stand today, both Thackeray and Pawar are on good terms, which is important for the stability of this government. However, what will happen after some time can’t be said now. The fact is that the BJP leadership would love to see the Sena back in the NDA,” said the leader. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday said the alliance in Maharashtra is an ideal one in the entire country and the three ruling parties are together. “The government will complete its term even if the people who lost power tried to topple it. They will not succeed in creating a rift between us. Whatever Pratap Sarnaik has said was his own stand, but party chief Uddhav Thackeray’s decision (to form the government with the Congress and NCP) was taken after deliberating with other leaders,” he said.Raut said no discussion was held on the alliance in the forthcoming elections. He said though every party has right to expand their base, it is the responsibility of all three parties to ensure the government completes its term. Raut said the three ruling parties are committed to rule according to the common doctrine of common minimum program chalked out during formation of the government.Sena MP and former union minister Arvind Sawant said that though the two parties and its leaders share good relations, they do not treat the opposition as enemies, and it does not mean Sena-BJP will come together. Political analyst Hemant Desai said, “Sena workers and even leaders are grossly upset with the BJP over the treatment their party has received over last few years. They do not approve of the attempts by the BJP to destabilise MVA government. In such a situation, it would be embarrassing if the Sena joined hands with BJP,” he said.The BJP leaders were divided over their reaction to the leaked letter written by Sarnaik. A few leaders like Somaiya and Nitesh Rane said that the MLA wrote the letter after he realised about his potential arrest. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil has reacted very cautiously. “Not only Sarnaik, there are many other MLAs and MPs from Shiv Sena who want the two parties should come together. However, the final decision about the alliance is taken by our party leaders Amit Shah and JP Nadda. Even if any such offer comes across by any party, our leaders will take a call on it. It is not possible for me to comment on any such alliance in the near future,” he said.Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said the state government was intact and it will complete its term under the leadership of Thackeray. “Even Thackeraysaheb has clarified that there would be no alliance with the BJP. We will continue to be part of the MVA for five years as we had joined the alliance with the sole intention of keeping the BJP out of the power. After all attempts to topple the government failed, the BJP is now using central agencies to destabilise the government. It is unfortunate that the BJP which benefitted for widening its base because of Sena and its founder Bal Thackeray three decades ago, is after his son and CM Uddhav Thackeray. Sarnaik’s letter clearly points at the harassment he, his family and other Shiv Sena MLAs have been facing by the central agencies. It has not remained secret anymore that the ruling parties have been using these agencies for political reasons,” he said.It was Patole’s remarks that the Congress will go solo in future elections that prompted Thackeray to react angrily. Patole said that if Shiv Sena and NCP are talking of joining hands for the forthcoming elections, he complimented them and urges them to come together at the earliest. “Every party has right to expand its base, so has it to these two parties and Congress as well. If the NCP is finding fault with our desire to going solo, it must remember that it has quit Prithviraj Chavan government a few months ahead its term in 2014,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/can-old-maharashtra-allies-shiv-sena-bjp-unite-again-101624301557475.html
22-06-2021||Bangalore||Chaos, confusion hit B’luru after curbs eased||Bengaluru: The capital city was buzzing with activity on Monday after the government announced new relaxations in lockdown rules, which allows all shops to remain open till 5 pm and public transport to ply. Bengaluru, which was under lockdown for more than 50 days, found some trouble adjusting, especially with public transport. At Bengaluru’s Kemepgowda bus terminal (Majestic bus stand) chaos prevailed as enough buses were not available. With number of buses reduced and government’s diktat allowing only 50% seating in buses, people had to wait for long to get a bus. This eventually resulted in the social distancing norms being violated. By 10 am, passengers were seen rushing towards buses and crowding around the door in a bid to enter. Even though policemen were deployed at the bus terminal they were not able to control the crowd, beyond a point. “I have been waiting for more than an hour to get a bus. I have not been able to visit my doctor due to the lockdown. I thought I will do it today (Monday). There are no lines here and people are running towards the buses that are coming. If the government is reopening bus services why have they started only a handful of them? It doesn’t help anyone,” Raghavendra Shettar, a resident of Malleswaram said. BMTC in a statement said it operated 3,154 buses on Monday. The official said since the corporation is only allowing those who have received the first dose of the vaccine, the number of services has been reduced. “In the morning, there was some rush at Majestic bus stand because many trains had arrived at city railways station. By afternoon, the situation was under control. But we will be adding more buses,” said a BTMC spokesperson. Meanwhile, as many as 17,988 riders used the Namma Metro in the first four hours from 7 am to 11 am on Monday. Though many stations had no passengers for the first few trips, however, the numbers picked up gradually. Officials said that it may take more than a week to see the numbers reach the 1,00,000 mark. BMRCL in a statement said it has allowed the purchase of tickets using cash transactions, which was earlier barred to avoid physical contact. Also on Monday, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited Managing Director Rakesh Singh and senior officials also travelled by metro to collect feedback from the passengers. Many restaurants and hotel in the city too re-opened on Monday after the government allowed to them operate at 50% capacity, but many complained of lack of customers. Similarly, several hoteliers said they are struggling to keep the operations running as several staff left Bengaluru during the lockdown. “During the lockdown, only the kitchen was running. So, many cleaners and suppliers had left for their hometowns. They are expected to return only next month,” said Akhil Shetty, who owns two hotels in Malleshwaram. Hotels, clubs and restaurants without air conditioning have opened for service but without liquor supply until 5 pm with 50 % seating, while gyms began functioning at half capacity and parks opened from 5 am to 6 pm for walking and jogging. Those facilities that continue to remain shut are swimming pools, places of worship, political events, educational institutions, shopping malls, pubs and amusement parks. Despite the relaxations, some restrictions, such as curfew will be in place between 7 pm and 5 am on weekdays while during weekends curfew will be enforced from 7 pm on Friday to 5 am on Monday throughout the state. Mysuru, where the positivity rate is high, will remain under a strict lockdown until July 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/chaos-confusion-hit-b-luru-after-curbs-eased-101624301556910.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants protection from arrest to Rana Ayyub for four weeks||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday granted transit anticipatory bail for four weeks to journalist Rana Ayyub who has been booked by Loni police in Ghaziabad of Uttar Pradesh for circulating a video which allegedly aimed at creating communal disharmony, through her Twitter handle. She had allegedly forwarded the video without verifying veracity of the video. Ayyub’s counsel, while seeking transit bail, informed the bench that the journalist had deleted the video after the first information report (FIR) was registered and also stated that she had received treatment for a spinal problem on June 11, hence she should be granted temporary protection to enable her to approach appropriate court to seek reliefs against the FIR. The court while granting the relief directed her release on furnishing a PR bond of ₹25,000 with sureties in the event of arrest. The single bench of justice Prakash Naik was informed by senior advocate Mihir Desai that his client was a Mumbai resident and had been awarded for her integrity by the President of India. He further submitted that the FIR was filed based on her sharing a video which had been posted by someone else. Desai said Ayyub had just shared the video and that she deleted the video after it was clarified that the allegations made about the incident in the video were not correct, though some media reports kept reporting that the incident was a communal one. Additional public prosecutor for the state said as the application was not based on merits of the case, it was not opposing the application. After hearing the submissions, the court accepted Ayyub’s request and granted her protection from arrest for four weeks to enable her to approach the appropriate court. The court, however, warned Desai that it would not entertain any application seeking protection beyond the said four weeks and that Ayyub should take recourse to legal remedies available to her within the given time and disposed of the application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-protection-from-arrest-to-rana-ayyub-for-four-weeks-101624301437416.html
22-06-2021||Other||Mumbai traffic cops recover ₹17 lakh pending fines||The latest approach of the Mumbai traffic police to send their personnel to the doorstep of violators for the recovery of pending e-challan dues seems to be working, as the force has managed to collect fines worth ₹17 lakh in a week. Police officers said that on June 19, Borivli and Mankhurd police stations recovered sums of about ₹5 lakh, marking the highest per day collection. “We have started the drive by sending police personnel door to door for the past one week,” said additional commissioner of police (traffic) Pravin Padwal. He said there was a backlog of 2.9 million unpaid fines imposed as e-challans for various traffic violations, totalling to ₹315 crore, for which the traffic police had set up a separate call centre to recover the dues from motorists. According to traffic police, teams of constables have been asked to visit the addresses of violators who have not paid e-challans of more than ₹5,000. Kishore Shinde, police inspector in-charge of Mankhurd traffic chowkie, said that despite being understaffed, they have deployed three constables for verification of addresses of traffic violators and visiting the houses of these violators wearing body camera. “We sort out addresses and issue a notice to pay up the fine amount. There are several addresses where the vehicle owners have moved out or have meddled with the number plates to mislead the traffic officers and cameras,” said Shinde. In a week, Mankhurd traffic officers have visited at least 38 houses and delivered the notices. “We have collected fines over ₹2 lakh and intend to collect more as many violators have asked us to allow them to pay the fine in installments,” added Shinde. Officers urge violators to pay the fines as they would later be liable for prosecution and may have to pay a higher amount as the traffic charges interest on the unpaid dues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-traffic-cops-recover-17-lakh-pending-fines-101624301436847.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to resume vaccination drive for 18+ from Tuesday||Even as the Covid-19 vaccination drive opened for all above 18 years across the country from Monday, it will resume from Tuesday in Maharashtra . The state health minister Rajesh Tope said they are approving vaccinations for all adults in order to speed up the drive in the state. He also urged the state’s youth to get vaccinated at the earliest.From June 19, the state government extended the free vaccination drive by covering the 30-45 age group. It had decided not to start the drive for the 18-30 age group, owing to the shortage of vaccine doses.“Today [Monday], the state health department has taken an important decision. Till Monday, only those who are 30 years and above were allowed to get inoculated in Maharashtra, but to give a boost to the vaccination drive we have approved vaccination for all adults,” the health minister said.“I want to urge the youths of Maharashtra to go to the nearest centre and get vaccinated as they are allowed to take it,” he added.Currently, the state has a stock of around 1,500,000 doses.Earlier, officials said that they have decided to resume the vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group in two phases to overcome the shortage issues.“We decided to resume the vaccination drive for the 18-45 age group, but in two phases. In the first phase, we have started inoculating beneficiaries who are 30 years and above, and later, we will start covering all those above 18 years in the second phase. It will begin only after the state government will start getting sufficient stock of doses from the Centre,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.On Sunday, Tope told HT that inadequate stock of doses is likely to create a mess if all above 18 years are allowed to get vaccinated in the state, considering which they had put it on hold. “We have decided not to start the drive for all above 18 years as we are not getting adequate stock to cover all adults. It is likely to create a mess if we go ahead without having sufficient stock. Hence, the state will continue to cover all the beneficiaries that are of 30 years and above. The decision for 18 years and above will be taken later.” Tope had said.Meanwhile, on Monday, the state covered 378,945 vaccine beneficiaries. The last time it had crossed 300,000 beneficiaries was on June 5.The state government had started its drive for beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group on May 1 after it was allowed by the Centre. However, it was suspended on May 12, owing to the unavailability of vaccine doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-resume-vaccination-drive-for-18-from-tuesday-101624301256887.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body regularises opening of vaccination slots on CoWIN||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has now regularised the opening of vaccination slots on CoWIN application. The slots will be opened at 6pm daily. Vaccination for citizens aged above 45 years will be done only on Tuesdays and Saturdays. The rest of the days will be focussed on those aged between 30 and 45 to ensure that the working population gets a fair chance to get vaccinated.“As part of the new regulations on CoWIN, registration is mandatory for vaccination. Walk-in vaccination will be allowed for 50% beneficiaries if they have online registration. We have now started vaccination for those between 30 and 45 years on all days except Tuesdays and Saturdays. This is to ensure that vaccination is completed for as many people as possible before the probable third wave hits the city,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy commissioner, TMC.TMC has managed to complete vaccination for around 250,000 residents aged above 45. Around 410,000 beneficiaries have received both doses so far.“From among the five lakh (approx.) residents in the city aged above 45 years, 44.11% above 60 years are remaining to be vaccinated. Similarly, 58.24% of the beneficiaries in the 45 years to 60 years age group remain to be jabbed,” said Dr Khushboo Tawri, medical officer, TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-regularises-opening-of-vaccination-slots-on-cowin-101624301137478.html
22-06-2021||Other||Prayagraj civic body steps up vigil at Phaphamau ghat, cremates 11 more bodies||: The Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to intensify the monitoring process of bodies buried close to water near Phaphamau ghat and cremate the same before they get swept off by the river water causing pollution. The threat to these bodies getting exposed has increased since rains have forced various barrages in Uttarakhand and UP to release water causing a rise in the level of the Ganga. A total of 11 bodies were cremated by the PMC on Monday. With this, 41 bodies have been cremated by the team led by zonal officer of PMC, Neeraj Kumar Singh since June 4. The level of water of river Ganga at Phaphmau ghat was 76.67 meters on Sunday (4pm) which rose by 3 cm on Monday and the level of water was recorded at 76.70 meters. Likewise, 3,75,423 cusecs of water was released from Haridwar barrage on June 19 and 1,93,263 cusecs on June 20. Similarly, 10,722 cusecs of water was released from Kanpur barrage on June 19 and 15.156 cusecs on June 20. Neeraj Kumar Singh said, “Monitoring has been increased on the ghat after the information about the rise in the water level of Ganga and the release of lakhs of cusecs of water from various reservoirs”. Hundreds of bodies are buried on the sandy banks of the Ganga between the two sides of the river (city and Phaphamau side). Local boatmen inform that there are many poor families of the rural areas of Prayagraj and neighbouring districts who, because of weaker economic condition, prefer to bury the bodies. Earlier, this was done on the Phaphamau side of the river but when the district administration started to cremate the bodies of corona positive patients at the Phaphamau ghat, the villagers started burying the bodies at city side of the river—a practice which has now come to a halt in recent weeks following the district administration posting a team near the ghat and increasing its vigil. “The Phaphamau side is far from the active current of the river and the soil is less sandy because of which the body gets decomposed in shorter time. Moreover, as the bodies don’t get exposed by the current of the river, there is far less chances of dogs and jackals getting hold of the corpse”, said Gadhru, a local boatman. He added that the strong currents were continuously eroding the Ganga banks and hundreds of bodies buried on the banks were facing the threat of getting exposed and if not attended, they would either be washed away in Ganga or animals would get hold of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-civic-body-steps-up-vigil-at-phaphamau-ghat-cremates-11-more-bodies-101624301136784.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body extends level 3 restrictions in city till June 27||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will continue with its present status of level-3 restrictions in the city till June 27, according to an official order issued on Monday. The Covid-19 positivity rate in Mumbai is 3.79% and oxygen bed occupancy is 23.56%, which qualifies the city for level-1 restrictions which entails large-scale easing of restrictions. As per the Maharashtra government’s Break The Chain order defining levels of restrictions, level-1 restrictions are possible if positivity rate is less than 5% and the oxygen bed occupancy is less than 25%; level-3 restrictions are applicable if positivity rate is between 5% and 10%, and/or oxygen bed occupancy is over 40%. The order issued by BMC on Monday stated, “Considering Mumbai’s population density, also considering a large number of people travel in crowded local trains, and due to predictions regarding the third wave made by Maharashtra Covid task force, BMC has decided to keep in force its level-3 status.” This decision has come into force from Monday and will remain in force till June 27. Local governments have the authority to opt for the status of a higher level of restrictions based on caseload, bed availability and overall situation within the jurisdiction. BMC received the state disaster management department’s nod for extending its level-3 status on June 18.Under level-3 restrictions essential shops and establishments can remain open till 4pm on all days; non-essential shops and establishments can remain open till 4pm on weekdays; restaurants are allowed to operate dine-in facilities with 50% capacity till 4pm on weekdays, and can allow take away and home deliveries after; use of local trains is restricted to medical and essential services; gyms, salons and spas can operate at 50% capacity till 4pm.As of June 20, 9,024 of the total 10,930 oxygen beds in Mumbai are vacant, 1,216 of 2,633 ICU beds are vacant, and 542 out of 1,450 ventilator beds are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-extends-level-3-restrictions-in-city-till-june-27-101624301076782.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||In a first, Maharashtra’s fourth sero survey to include kids above 6 years||Maharashtra health department started the fourth serological survey in six districts — Beed, Parbhani, Nanded, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar, and Sangli — to gauge the prevalence of Covid-19 in the general population, from Monday. With an increase in the number of Covid cases among children in the second wave, children above the age of six years will be included in the survey for the first time.Serological survey examines how many people in a population have been infected with Covid-19 and recovered from it. It is undertaken to gauge the prevalence of the virus in a particular area. The blood serum of a group of individuals is tested using an antibody test, also known as a serology test. Public health officials said a total of 3,000 participants will be included in the survey including 1,680 adults, 720 aged between six and 18, and 600 healthcare workers (HCW).“We will take 400 samples from each district. Of this, 100 will be from HCWs and 120 samples will be from children between the age group of six and 18 years. The result is expected in a month,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. He further said that samples of children will be collected in two age groups — six-nine years and 10-18 years. A total of 40 samples will be taken from each district from six-nine age group and 80 samples will be collected from the second age group. “Through the results of the sero survey, we would be able to understand the prevalence of the virus among the general population including children and HCWs. With the mutation of Sars-CoV-2, it is imperative to understand to what extent it has been transmitted among the crowd,” said Dr Archana Patil, Maharashtra director of health service. “Also, such surveys show the seropositivity levels within a population which helps in predicting the pandemic’s future trends,” she added.In the national first sero survey, young adults above 18 years had participated. While in the second and third rounds, samples were collected from children in the age bracket of 10 years and above. But considering the spike in Covid-19 cases among children below 10 years in the second wave, the age limit for sample collection has been reduced to six years. “It is a good decision to conduct the sero survey among children as young as six years. It would give us a better perspective of the actual scene of infection prevalence among young children,” said Dr Bakul Parekh, former president of Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and part of the paediatric Covid task force.“The sero survey will be very useful in making educated decisions about reopening of schools. A seroprevalence similar to adults would help allay fears of the third wave largely affecting children, and would help model transmission dynamics when it comes to children. It would definitely help inform policy and is a welcome move,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, pulmonologist from Hinduja Hospital.Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is also planning to conduct a separate sero survey among children between the age group of 0 and 18 years. Data from the civic body shows that in April, 4,351 children aged between 0 and 9 years contracted Covid-19 in Mumbai. The number plunged to 3,139 in May as the overall cases reported a decline. Similarly, in April, 12,277 Covid patients were from the 10-19 age group which decreased to 3,139 the next month. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean, BYL Nair Hospital, said, “We have witnessed a huge rise in Covid-19 cases among children in the second wave. Though mortality rate has remained under control, we need to know the actual figure of transmission among children as many may have remained asymptomatic.”The fourth sero survey will be coordinated by Indian Council of Medical Research -National AIDS Research Institute (ICMR-NARI), Pune with Dr Sampada Bangar and Dr Seema Sahay as nodal and co-nodal officers. This sero survey is a part of the nation-wide community-based 4th sero survey for Covid-19 initiated by the Central government. A total of 28,000 samples will be collected across 70 districts in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-a-first-maharashtra-s-fourth-sero-survey-to-include-kids-above-6-years-101624301016815.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Man practices as doctor without medical degree, arrested||Kharghar police on Sunday arrested a man who was working as a doctor in a hospital at Kharghar without any medical degree. The accused, Rohit Gupteswar Yadav, 27, was arrested after a joint raid by the medical officer of the Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Kharghar police. Yadav was previously arrested by Shivaji Nagar police two years ago and was currently out on bail, said Kharghar police. “A city advocate had filed a complaint regarding the accused who was practicing without a degree on June 17. Accordingly on June 19, we informed PMC and the raid was conducted on June 19 as the accused on duty to monitor patients at night,” a police officer said. Dr Bhaktaraj Bhoite, medical officer, PMC, and his team sent a decoy to the hospital pretending to be a patient. After Yadav examined him and prescribed medicines, the team inquired about his degree and arrested him under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act. It was found that the accused was working with the hospital since two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-practices-as-doctor-without-medical-degree-arrested-101624300956775.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||CM Uddhav Thackeray takes stock of Covid health infra||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray took a review meeting of the health department, instructing the authorities to beef up health infrastructure to tackle the impending third wave. The state recorded 6,270 new Covid-19 cases and 94 deaths on Monday. Mumbai recorded 518 cases and seven deaths.Thackeray asked the authorities to chalk out a long-term plan to beef up the health infrastructure as well as ensure adequate liquid oxygen supply. “Due to the Covid-19, we had raised several temporary health units. I have asked the authorities to plan which needs to be made permanent and which health services to be given priority,” said Thackeray. “The health department should have a time-bound programme to increase various health facilities. We should also have a separate budget for increasing primary health facilities and their repairs and focus on getting the right health professionals,” he added.The CM also asked officials to ensure production of 3,000 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen so that patients are not inconvenienced in the third wave.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, attributed high rate of deaths in rural areas to lack of medical facilities. “Covid-19 provides an excellent opportunity for the government to beef up medical infrastructure across the state. We have excellent facilities in metros like Mumbai and Pune, but rural areas suffer from pathetic healthcare facilities. Many of the Covid-19 deaths could have been avoided if we had good local medical care facilities, as these people had to travel to urban areas and precious time is wasted,” said Shaikh.On Monday, 154,835 tests were conducted and 13,758 patients recovered. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 124,398. Death toll has now reached 118,313.There are currently 124,398 active patients across the state, of which Mumbai tops with 18,529 patients followed by Pune with 16,827 active patients.In terms of fatalities, Pune leads with 16,297 deaths followed by Mumbai with 15,305 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cm-uddhav-thackeray-takes-stock-of-covid-health-infra-101624300896733.html
22-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports no new Covid-19 deaths, cases tally reaches 344,543||Jharkhand has not reported any single-day Covid-19 fatality, while 138 fresh cases raised the tally to 3,44,543, a health department bulletin said on Monday.The state now has 1,596 active cases and 3,37,848 patients have recovered from the disease, it said. The death toll stands at 5,099.The recovery rate has improved to 98.05 per cent, better than the national average of 96.30 per cent.No fresh cases were reported in four of Jharkhand's 24 districts - Godda, Latehar, Pakur and Saraikela, the bulletin said.Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner Kuldeep Choudhary said there is no active case in Pakur district, after a patient was discharged from hospital.However, test reports for 4,297 samples were pending, he added.Altogether, 93,84,507 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Jharkhand, including 42,443 since Sunday, the bulletin said. In a bid to combat the second wave of the pandemic, the state government has extended lockdown-like restrictions till June 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-no-new-covid-19-deaths-cases-tally-reaches-344543-101624300320039.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||No Mumbai local for general public till pandemic over, says Vijay Wadettiwar||State minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Monday said the general public will not be allowed to travel in Mumbai suburban trains till the Covid-19 pandemic is over. “Mumbai locals will not be started (for general public) till Covid-19 is over,” said Wadettiwar. Reacting to the minister’s statement, passenger associations have warned of protests. “If such a scenario comes then there will be protests by passengers all over Mumbai. Local trains should be immediately resumed for the general public,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad. He said they do not believe in Wadettiwar’s statement and said only chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will take the decision. Railway authorities refused to comment on the statement and added decisions communicated by the state government will be followed. “We get an official letter from the state government whenever there is any addition or change for operation of local trains. The official notification of the state government will be implemented,” said a senior railway official who did not wanted to be named.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, called it an impractical decision. “Covid-19 will remain for at least two more years and you cannot keep the commuters away for so long,” said Shaikh.Mumbai suburban railway network is the largest public transport system in Mumbai that used to ferry over 7 million commuters daily before local train services were stopped for general public. Presently, more than 2 million passengers travel by local trains every day. Currently, only people working in essential services, passengers travelling for medical purposes are allowed to commute by local trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-mumbai-local-for-general-public-till-pandemic-over-says-vijay-wadettiwar-101624300837959.html
22-06-2021||Mumbai||Despite state nod, BMC to not start vaccination for all aged above 18 on Tuesday||While the state government has allowed vaccination for all citizens aged above 18 from Tuesday, citizens in Mumbai will have to wait as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said it will not restart the vaccination for the 18+ age group yet in civic-run centres. BMC officials said they are planning to restart vaccination for all aged above 18 from Wednesday or Thursday.On Monday, 108,148 vaccine doses were administered at 380 vaccination centres across the city, making it the highest doses administered in a day, according to BMC data. So far, 4,570,915 citizens have been vaccinated in the city.On Tuesday, vaccination will be conducted for only those above the age of 30 at civic- and state-run vaccination centres. However, private hospitals are permitted to vaccinate anyone above the age of 18 years. BMC had on Friday announced that it would start vaccination of the 30 to 44 age group from Saturday, following which it designated 10 centres for the same. However, now the number of centres will be increased further to ensure there is no crowding at the centres.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We want to ensure there is no crowding at vaccination centres, and hence we are not restarting from Tuesday itself. We will chalk out proper plan to ensure there is no crowding and restart vaccination for all above 18 from Wednesday or Thursday.”Kakani added, “Vaccination for all above 18 will be done on basis of 50:50 ratio, wherein 50% will be done via online booking and 50% will be done on walk-in basis.” BMC had suspended vaccination for the 18-44 age group on May 12 owing to shortage of vaccine. However, the Central government has announced that it would supply 75% of the vaccine requirement. The supply of vaccine has been better in June as compared to May, said BMC officials. As of today, the BMC has stock of around 200,000 vaccines, which will last for around 5-6 days, said civic officials.Further, the civic body has also decided to vaccinate on priority “potential superspreaders” or those who are in touch with multiple people daily, in order to control the spread of Covid-19 amid the threat of a third wave.This category includes autorickshaw and taxi drivers, hawkers, delivery executives, restaurant staff, daily wage workers among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/despite-state-nod-bmc-to-not-start-vaccination-for-all-aged-above-18-on-tuesday-101624300776841.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||Mahoba first UP district with zero active Covid-19 cases, says Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday announced that Mahoba had become the first among the 75 Uttar Pradesh districts with zero active Covid cases (in the second wave of the pandemic).He said if the district did not report any new case during the week, it would be rewarded. The chief minister also announced that religious places would open during the weekend closure in the state but would not allow more than five persons inside at a time.“The achievement of Mahoba is motivational for all the other districts in the state. Mahoba did not report any active Covid cases today. All the active cases that were there have recovered. The credit for this goes to the public representatives in the district, health workers, frontline workers, monitoring committees, local administration, and the residents of the district. The state government will reward the district if it does not report any new case during the week,” the chief minister said at a high-level Covid-19 review meeting.He asked the district authorities to continue aggressive testing, adding that they should not lower their guard.Eighteen districts did not report any new infection cases on Sunday while 52 districts reported fresh cases in single digit, he added.“In the past 24 hours, 213 fresh cases of Covid-19 were reported from across the state. During the same period, a total of 478 patients recovered. The Covid recovery rate is now 98.5% in the state while the positivity rate is a mere 0.1%. Currently, the state has a total of 4,163 active cases of which 2,542 are in home isolation. So far (since March last year) a total of 16.78 lakh people recovered from Covid,” he said.With Covid cases declining steadily in UP but rising fast in some other states, there was a need to be alert all the time, he said.“So, step up vigil at the railway stations, bus stations, airports and test all those who enter the state from these points,” he said to the officials concerned.He also said it was necessary to keep the industrial units running, give free movement to workers and labourers. The police should be sensitive in dealing with people and must not allow crowds to gather anywhere, he added.He said that under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the “mahabhiyan” (mega campaign) of vaccination began on Monday as the central government would supply vaccines free of cost to inoculate the 18+ age group also.“The state now has 7661 vaccination centres and we need to further increase vaccination centres across the state. Make people aware of the merits of getting vaccinated so that the maximum number of people could be inoculated as soon as possible. So far, the state has administered 2.56 crore vaccine doses and the state aims to give 10 lakh jabs each day from July 1,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mahoba-first-up-district-with-zero-active-covid-19-cases-says-yogi-101624299937231.html
22-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt gets details ready as PM may review Ayodhya development projects||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to review development projects of Ayodhya on June 25, the state government is getting ready with all the details to be presented before the Prime Minister. The Yogi Adityanath government has hired an international consultant, LEA Associates South Asia Private Limited, India, for preparing a blueprint and a vision document for the overall development of Ayodhya. It has handed over a list of 27 projects that will be implemented as part of the development plan.Larsen and Toubro and Kukreja Architects are assisting the international consultant, said Deepak Kumar, chairman of the UP Housing and Development Board, Uttar Pradesh government. “Out of the 27 projects, detailed project reports of 10 projects will be prepared soon,” said Kumar. In a bid to connect Ayodhya with the rest of the country, the Modi government has already approved ₹100-crore modernisation plan of the Ayodhya railway station. Construction activity is going on at rapid pace to complete this project.In addition, Ayodhya will have an international airport.After the Centre sanctioned ₹250 crore for construction of the Ayodhya airport, the Uttar Pradesh government has approved ₹321 crore to purchase additional land for the Ayodhya airport. The state government has approved ₹1001.77 crore to purchase 555.66 acres of additional land for the construction of the airport, said the state government in a statement. Also, a budgetary provision of ₹101 crore has been proposed for the development work at the airport in the state’s budget for 2021-22.The Union government on October 4, 2018, had selected the Ayodhya airstrip for the Ayodhya-Hindon air route under the Regional Connectivity Scheme. Earlier, on November 6, 2018, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced the development of the airstrip at Ayodhya for large aircraft such as A 320 and Boeing 737 and the construction of a suitable runway and terminal building.The state government is also planning to set up Ayodhya Teertha Development Board to regulate all development activities in Ayodhya, said a senior official of the state government. It is also planning a new township to decongest Ayodhya.According to government officials, the new township will come up on 500 acres of land at Shahnawazpur on the Lucknow-Gorakhpur highway. The Uttar Pradesh Awas Vikas Parishad (UP Housing Board), a state government body, will implement the project. “The new Ayodhya will come up on 500 acres of land. In phase one, development work will be carried out on 180 acres,” an official said. The CM is also likely to apprise PM Modi about this proposed new township. Besides, a provision of ₹300 crore has been made for the construction of an approach road to the Ram Janmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya.Also, a provision of ₹100 crore has been made for the development and beautification of tourism facilities in Ayodhya.A member of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust is also likely to be present at this virtual meeting. PM Modi had presided over the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple in Ayodhya on August 5 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-gets-details-ready-as-pm-may-review-ayodhya-projects-101624298739081.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||University of London institutes scholarship in name of legal expert BS Chimni||To celebrate the achievements of international legal expert and former Jawaharlal Nehru University professor BS Chimni, the University of London has announced a scholarship in his name for the MA in Refugee Protection and Forced Migration Studies.“The BS Chimni Scholarship will be awarded in October 2021. This scholarship seeks to support an outstanding student who might not otherwise be able to gain access to the MA in Refugee Protection course,” the university said on its website. Aspirants have been asked to submit applications for the scholarship by August 17 and the recipient will be announced in April.The eligible candidates should have an offer of a place on the MA in Refugee Protection and Forced Migration Studies by distance learning and hold an undergraduate degree in law or other relevant subjects. “The BS Chimni Scholarship can be applied against your registration fees and course module fee. It will not cover resubmission fee, study materials, or IT equipment,” the university said.Chimni has been the former vice-chancellor of West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences between 2004 and 2007 and the member of governing council at the Indian Council of Social Science Research (ICSSR). The legal expert has also served as a member of the academic advisory committee of the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.He’s currently teaching as a professor at the Jindal Global Law School.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/university-of-london-institutes-scholarship-in-name-of-legal-expert-bschimni-101624298138738.html
22-06-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Pedal power to wheel Pune towards health and sustainability||The next municipal elections are coming up in early 2022. I look forward to the manifestos and different visions for our city that the main protagonists will come up with. We hope they will respond to the public’s urgent needs to heal from the Covid-19 impacts, and improve the city’s natural environment. From the public’s point of view, surely, traffic and transport deserve to be an election issue. As the city opens up, the same old congestion, air pollution and lack of road safety are returning, but we must do better. We would do well to generate some report cards and expectations related to walking, cycling, shared transport and the public bus service, to feed into the election manifestos. Let’s focus on the cycle first, which is the most elegant, clean, sustainable mobility mode, usable by most people. It is also highly appropriate in Covid-19 times to keep us healthy and to maintain safe distance. The Cycle Plan In December 2017, Pune became the first city in India to have a city-wide Comprehensive Bicycle Master Plan, passed by the General Body. Full marks for the plan. But, what marks should be given for implementation? It would be an achievement to be proud of at a global scale, provided Pune does comprehensive implementation! NMT Cell The first provision of the Cycle Plan is that the city government should have adequate and dedicated staff to implement the plan. Initially, a Bicycle Department was created. After some months, the Road Department was awarded the responsibility of implementing the Cycle Plan through a Non-motorised Transport Cell. This is appropriate since cycling infrastructure has to be part of road design. The expectation from the Road Department is that it will be a proactive lead agency to implement the cycle plan. It must coordinate with other departments and agencies like Traffic Police, PMPML and MahaMetro to ensure cycles are given space and connectivity with other mobility modes. For this, the Road Department must have adequate resources, including staff qualified in non-motorised transport planning and design. Cycle infrastructure The most critical provision in the Cycle Plan is the creation of a safe, connected, comfortable and attractive cycle-track network of over 800 km. However, over the last three-and-a-half years, only about 25km of cycle tracks have been made. Over 800 cycle parking locations were also identified. The PMC and Traffic Police did well to put up signage for cycle parking. However, both cycle tracks and cycle parking need to be protected for cyclists’ use. Monitoring and enforcement Participatory monitoring and assessment of the cycle tracks is a provision in the Cycle Plan. Since the city government did not organise any participatory assessment, local NGO Save Pune Traffic Movement (SPTM) went ahead and conducted a survey. SPTM’s study shows that in the early mornings, most cyclists prefer to use the road. Later in the day, as traffic increases, more cyclists use the cycle tracks at JM road, FC road, Ganeshkhind road and parts of Karve road. One reason cyclists ride on the carriageway is the huge number of bollards placed on the cycle tracks to prevent motorised vehicles. The cure seems worse than the disease here! Cyclists prefer that bollards be placed only at critical locations. Neither the municipal corporation nor the traffic police have implemented the Cycle Plan provision for cycle wardens and CCTVs to monitor cycle tracks and challan the offending motorcyclists. Bicycle share Public Bicycle Share system (PBS) is a term for a service that provides cycles to commuters without them having to own and maintain cycles. Often people mistake the Bicycle Share Scheme with the Cycle Plan.The Cycle Plan made a policy provision for multiple options of how the PBS may be run – as a government-owned system, a partially-supported or privately-run system with government regulation. In all cases, the city government has to create an inviting and facilitating environment for PBS to operate. In Pune, four private companies set up PBS services in 2017-18 with several thousand public bicycles. For a few months, it was a joy to see the yellow, green, orange and blue coloured public bicycles in many parts of the city. Unfortunately, they vanished with equal speed. The PBS was run by private companies and no taxpayers funds were used in 2017-18. The PMC needs to revive the public bicycle share system in Pune, with a different model.Ranjit Gadgil, from Parisar says, “The dockless system introduced by private companies gave Pune the experience of PBS. The downside is that they could and did pull out when the financials didn’t work out for them due to complex global financing. PBS has worked where cities themselves invested money and planning effort, such as Paris, London, New York etc. We can learn from the free pilot we got - what worked, what didn’t”.Pune could be a cycling city again. Will our elected representatives give us a city-wide bicycle tracks network, cycle parking, public bicycle share and the required administrative, regulatory and public engagement mechanisms in place? The election promise I would most like to see is, “We will make Pune a cycling-friendly city where cycling is safe, comfortable, convenient, attractive and enjoyable”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-pedal-power-to-wheel-the-city-towards-health-and-sustainability-101624298137983.html
22-06-2021||Pune||PMC inoculates Swach employees, relatives under vaccines-on-wheels initiative||On International Yoga Day, on Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) vaccinated Swach employees and their relatives under its vaccines-on-wheels initiative. The Swach employees are self-employed waste collectors who provide start-to-end waste management services. The PMC vaccinated them under the 30-45-year age group category.Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer said, “Yes we have vaccinated our staff and also their relatives under the 30-45-year age group. They are on contract, but are frontline workers actively involved with the waste management and are often exposed to infection.”For Tuesday the PMC has planned to reserve 50% of the vaccines allocated at 15 of its centres for those aged 30-45 years, who have booked a slot online; while 50% of the vaccines will be reserved for those aged between 30-45 years want to opt for walk-in vaccination. The online slot booking will be open from 8 am||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-vaccinates-swach-employees-heir-relatives-under-vaccines-on-wheels-initiative-101624298078328.html
22-06-2021||Pune||Six ultra-runners from Pune on “Run Wari” from Alandi to Pandharpur||PUNE There will be no warkaris walking with the palkhi on the annual pilgrimage to Pandharpur this year. However, six ultra-runners will attempt a “spiritual run”, calling it the “Run Wari”, covering a distance of 240km in 42 hours, from Alandi to Pandharpur.The brainchild of Bhushan Tarak and Swaminathan Srinivasan, this is their way of paying obeisance to the tens of thousands of warkaris who walk the distance each year on Ashadi Ekadashi.“The Run Wari is an attempt to do a spiritual journey from Alandi to Pandharpur. It has been a burning desire for Swaminathan and I for the last four years to do this. We will be joined by ultra-runners Janardhan Kattul,Chandrakant Patil, Ajit Gore,Sathosh Kokare and Rajendra Shelke,” said Bhushan Tarak. The runners will begin this Thursday, June 24.“There is no ban on running but they cannot give it a shape of a function or an event,” said Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police, Pune, adding that the runners should follow all Covid norms. The six runners have been practicing for the last three years, building endurance on runs of 100km and 160 kms in various ultra-events like the Tata Ultra and Pune Ultra.“We have always regretted not being able to participate in the traditional palkhi wari due to other constraints and thus this is our way of expressing our devotion,” added Tarak, “This human effort is also a unique blend of bhakti (warkari devotion) and shakti (physical running), which epitomises the true spirit, essence and pride of Maharashtra.”The runners state that this is not a commercial event or an act to gain any official record, but more a personal effort. “It is an individual effort to collectively represent the bhakti and devotion of all warkaris and pray to the Almighty to get us through this Corona. The run is self-sponsored and not under the banner of any official organisation,” said Tarak.The runners will leave Alandi at 6pm and proceed via Saswad, Jejuri, Lonand, Phaltan, Malshiras to reach Pandharpur on June 26 at around 11 am. They will return to Pune on June 27 by vehicle.“The runners will ensure all Covid-related precautions are taken care of with due adherence to social distancing norms laid out by local authorities. We will undergo Rapid Antigen tests (RAT) before the start and will run with their masks on, said Swaminathan Srinivasan.“The idea is to keep moving by praying without much break. We will be assisted for hydration and moral support by two private cars with a crew of Prashant Bhosale, Digambar Jhanbare, Nandu Musale, Tanaji Devekar and Datta Khot Patil,” Srinivasan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/6-ultra-runners-from-pune-on-run-wari-from-alandi-to-pandharpur-101624298078936.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Centre has not given any free vaccines for 18-45 group so far: Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said the Delhi government has so far not received any free vaccine for the 18-45 age group from the central government. He also accused the Union government of spending public money on advertising its renewed pan-India vaccination drive, instead of using the money to procure more vaccine doses.“Now they are claiming to inoculate all citizens for free from June 21st onwards. Upon inquiring about this free vaccination drive, it was confirmed that not a single dose of free vaccine has been distributed in Delhi so far (for the 18-45 group). Only 15 lakh doses of vaccines have been earmarked for Delhi for the month of July, which is not enough to vaccinate all of Delhi. If we receive doses at this pace, then instead of three months, it will take approximately 15-16 more months to vaccinate everyone in Delhi,” said Sisodia, addressing a digital press conference on Monday.According to Delhi government records, while the Central government has provided at least 5 million vaccine doses to the Capital for free since January, these were earmarked for those aged 45 years and above. For the 18-45 category, the Delhi government procured on its own at least 1.43 million doses since April this year.Also read | Sisodia inspects pace of construction at 4 new Delhi govt schoolsThe Delhi government has estimated that it needs 23 million doses more to inoculate all adult residents of the city. So far, Delhi has vaccinated 6,521,959, of which 4,942,267 received the first dose and 1,579,692 got both the doses.Sisodia also criticised the Centre for spending public money on advertisements and said the vaccination drive being run by the Centre may be the largest in the world, but it is going to be the “longest” and the “most mismanaged” programmes across the globe.“Several newspapers across the nation today (Monday) published long one-pager advertisements on the central government’s largest vaccination drive. State governments such as Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka also published similar advertisements in newspapers thanking the central government’s vaccination drive. The Centre needs to understand that our people need vaccines, not long advertisements. Instead of spending this much money on advertisements, if the Centre had spent it on procuring vaccines from abroad, our Covid-19 crisis could have been managed better,” Sisodia said.The new vaccine drive by the Centre saw 7.5 milion people across the country receiving jabs on Monday.The deputy chief minister alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government also put pressure on Delhi government officers to advertise the vaccine drive. “It (the Centre) has been putting pressure on our officials to publish these advertisements. The central government-led vaccination drive may be the world’s largest drive, but it is definitely India’s longest vaccination drive. It is also the most mismanaged, derailed and messed up drive. The Centre has completely botched the whole vaccination drive in the nation,” he said.Sisodia said Delhi needs about 29.4 million doses, of which 9.2 million are required for those in 18-45 age group and 5.7 million for people in 45+ age category. “When chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that Delhi needed 2.94 crore vaccines to inoculate citizens within three months, why did we receive only 5.7 million vaccines in total so far? All the central government has done is sell vaccines to other countries for its image management. After that, it told all the state governments to float global tenders and purchase vaccines from abroad, while also fixing the vaccine quota for every state. After we criticised the move, the Centre finally changed the policy, and now it is not even giving sufficient doses to states,” he said.Sisodia further pointed out that vaccination is key to returning to normal. “Vaccination is the only way to defeat the Covid-19 crisis in India. Many countries across the world prioritised vaccinating their citizens first, and with pride announced that citizens can roam about mask-free, because most of them are vaccinated. Whether it was purchasing vaccines from other nations or investing funds in vaccine manufacturing, several nations proved that vaccinating their citizens on a priority basis is significant to defeating the virus. I appeal to the Central government to provide 23 million vaccines for Delhi and I assure the Central government officials that if we receive adequate number of doses, we will release advertisements thanking Modi ji in all newspapers,” Sisodia said.Meanwhile, Delhi BJP said the Centre has already announced the schedule of vaccine distribution according to which the entire country will get enough vaccines to administer both doses by mid December 2020.“There is no mess up in the vaccination programme... It will be better if the Delhi government, instead of creating further confusion, adheres to the Centre’s given time table. Sisodia should know that USA has to vaccinate less then 30 crore people, while India has to vaccinate 130 crore citizens. Both USA and India have vaccinated some 28 crore people, so that means Indian plan is going well,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/centre-has-not-given-any-free-vaccines-for-18-45-group-so-far-sisodia-101624298019915.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Row over UGC directive to put up banners thanking PM for vaccines||As the Centre took over the sourcing and supplying Covid-19 vaccines from Monday, the University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked all universities and colleges across the country to put up posters thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the free jabs, drawing criticism from a section of teachers who termed it as “politicisation” of the vaccination drive.In an email sent to universities and colleges on Sunday, the commission said, “The Government of India is starting free vaccination for 18 years and above age group from tomorrow, i.e. 21st June 2021. In this regard Universities and Colleges are requested to kindly display these hoardings/banners in their institutions. The approved design (creatives) of hoardings/banners in Hindi and English, as provided by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, are attached for your ready reference.”The approved design for banners, shared by the UGC in the email, carried the message “Thank you PM Modi” both in English and Hindi. Several colleges in the Delhi University (DU) on Monday confirmed receiving the email from the commission.Despite several attempts, UGC secretary Rajnish Jain did not answer calls. He also did not respond to text messages.On June 7, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced that the Centre would be in charge of sourcing and supplying vaccines. It would, he added, buy 75% of locally available vaccines, with the remainder being reserved for private hospitals. And it would bear the cost of the entire 75%, he added.A principal of a north campus DU college, who asked not to be named, said, “We have received these sample posters to create vaccine awareness among the youth. The UGC had also sent an email to ensure educational institutions complied with the order.”DU put up the banners outside the South Campus on Monday and tweeted photos on its official handle. DU Registrar Vikas Gupta, however, said they had voluntarily decided to put up the posters to create awareness among students and denied receiving any email from the UGC.“The banners were put up to create awareness among the students. There were no directions from the UGC regarding this,” Gupta said.Jamia Millia Islamia registrar Nazim Husain Al-Jafri confirmed receiving directions from the UGC. “We will get the posters and banners printed by tomorrow and install them at different places on the university campus,” he said.A section of teachers said it was a purely “political move”. Rajesh Jha, an associate professor at DU and former member of the university’s executive council, said, “At a time when the educational institutions have been struggling managing their finances, there is no money to renew our journals and get our laboratory equipment, the UGC is asking colleges to put up posters. What is the need for it? Universities and colleges are not meant for propagating the political agenda of the government.”Abha Dev Habib, member of the DU teachers’ association (DUTA), said, “For the past 6-7 years educational institutions have been used for propagating government agendas. This is nothing but another such propaganda. There has been no announcement of gratuities for those who lost their lives to Covid, or scholarships for students considering the hardships they have faced amid the pandemic. But the government is trying to whitewash all the suffering people have witnessed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-over-ugc-directive-to-put-up-banners-thanking-pm-for-vaccines-101624298019350.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Weekly markets seek further relaxations in curbs, say current rules ‘impossible’||Weekly market associations have sought further relaxations in curbs as part of Unlock measures, contending that it was “impossible” to operate under the present restrictions, which allow only one authorised weekly market per day, per zone to operate. The associations said that meant only 5% of markets could open and even those few found it difficult to run out of schools owing to space constraints.There are around 2,7000 weekly markets across the city, said the association heads, and, currently, not a single one of them is functional.As per the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) orders issued on June 13, only one weekly market (with a limit of 50% of vendors who were allowed during pre-Covid times) per day, per zone was allowed under all three municipal corporations, subject to Covid-19 protocols. “The weekly markets can be allowed to function at suitable nearby grounds, school grounds, where SOP/ guidelines of DDMA can be strictly implemented,” states the guidelines.Ramesh Kumar, head of the South Delhi Weekly Market Association, said it was impossible for markets to operate with the current riders. “Only 5% of markets can operate due to the cap on the number of markets. However, even those 5% cannot function as the government wants us to operate out of government school premises and not our usual areas. None of the markets is in business because of this,” said Kumar.He said government schools weren’t big enough to accommodate markets and implementation of physical distancing would become a challenge. “We request the government to relax these riders and allow us to operate from our regular spots. The government can impose necessary guidelines and we will have no objection,” said Kumar.Sunil Kumar, head of Delhi Pradesh Weekly Market Association, said none of the weekly markets has reopened. “The government wants us to put up our stalls in parks and schools. No one will allow us to set up our markets in parks and schools are not big enough to accommodate markets. No market has been able to reopen due to these curbs,” said Sunil Kumar.He said shopkeepers and vendors are in distress due to the curbs and sought that the government allow them to operate from their usual sites. “We have our designated places and customers will also come to these sites. The government needs to understand that people will not visit schools in distant places. We will not be able to put up our stalls in such places,” said Sunil Kumar.Anil Bakshi, general secretary, Delhi Pradesh Weekly Market Welfare Association, said he has written to government representatives, including the chief minister, seeking a meeting to resolve the stalemate but to no avail. “Lakhs of families are in dire straits due to these restrictions. Nearly 4-5 lakh people are dependent on these 2,700 markets and they are struggling to survive,” said Bakshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekly-markets-seek-further-relaxations-in-curbs-say-current-rules-impossible-101624298018726.html
22-06-2021||Pune||MSRTC to provide buses free of cost for this year’s palkhi||After the state government cancelled the annual pilgrimage (wari) to Pandharpur this year, because of the Covid-19 situation - 10 palkhis (processions) of 10 saints from across Maharashtra, will travel to Pandharpur by Maharashtra Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses.This service will provided free by the MSRTC, the transport body announced on Monday.The palkhis are slated to take off on Ashadhi Ekadashi, on July 19.Last year, to prevent the lakhs of warkaris (pilgrims) who walk to Pandharpur from being exposed to Covid-19, the state had cancelled the on-foot pilgrimage. The palkhis were transported by bus, however, MSRTC charged the state for the buses, which in turn trickled down to temple trustees. This year, the MSRTC buses will be provided for free.“All our 10 ST buses from different parts of the state will travel to Pandharpur on July 19. Accordingly, temple trustees will be provided an ST bus by the local MSRTC division. We have instructed our local divisional controller officers to meet with the temple committee officials and make the necessary arrangements,” said Shekhar Channe, MSRTC vice- chairman and managing director.“For the safety of the warkaris travelling by bus, all the 10 buses will be sanitised. They will go till Wakhari village, which is outside Pandharpur. From their onwards, warkaris will walk. Face masks and sanitisers will be given to the warkaris in the buses,” he added.Every year, tens of thousands of pilgrims walk from Dehu and Alandi to Pandharpur in didis (groups), all devotees of Sant Tukaram and Sant Dnyaneshwar. There are 250 registered dindis. This year only 100 people will be allowed for the “palkhi prasthan” ceremony at Dehu and Alandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msrtc-to-provide-buses-free-of-cost-for-this-year-s-palkhi-101624298018151.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Four of extortion gang held after shoot-out in Najafgarh||Four men, suspected to be members of Delhi-based crime syndicate “Nandu-Jyoti Baba gang”, were arrested after a shoot-out with the police in Kharkari village near Najafgarh on Sunday night, the police said, while on their way to allegedly kill a businessman who refused to give in to their extortion demands. Three of the gang were shot in their legs and police recovered four pistols and ten live cartridges from their possession.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said the four men, who have several cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion and robbery against them, were on two motorcycles and they shot at the police when asked to stop and surrender. Police identified them as Vinay Karan, Robin Baliyan, Sumit Poonia and Deepu Dagar.Police said they are members Nandu-Jyoti Baba gang, whose leader Nandu alias Kapil Sangwan is presently absconding while Jyoti Baba is running the gang from jail. The two men are accused of murder, extortion, robbery and other heinous crimes, police said.“There was a rise in incidents of extortion by the Nandu-Baba gang, so special cell teams were working to gather information about them. We received information that the gang members would be coming to Delhi to murder a businessman of Malikpur village, who had refused to yield to their extortion demands,” said Yadav.He said police team laid a trap on the road leading to Ujwa Village form Kharkhari Village, Delhi. “ After waiting for a few minutes, our informant pointed out two motorcycles with four men on them, who were coming from Kharkhari Village and heading towards Ujwa. The informant told us that they were coming to Delhi to murder a businessman of Malikpur village on the directions of the gang kingpin. Our team asked the riders to stop, but they tried to speed away. In their hurry. one of the motorcycle riders lost control of the vehicle while the other abandoned the motorcycle on the roadside and tried to flee on foot. The police team chased them and they fired at the police -- it was a close shave for our two head constables. The police team warned them and returned the fire,” Yadav said, adding that the four men were then arrested.During interrogation, Karan admitted to providing arms, ammunitions and shelter to members of Nandu-Jyoti Baba gang. He allegedly said he also worked as a driver with an app-based cab service and has around 40 criminal cases against him. Police said the second suspect, Robin Baliyan, was assigned to shoot dead the Malikpur businessman. The other two men were also part of the gang, Yadav said, adding that the suspects were in touch with their leaders, who are jailed in different cases.Police said the gang had threatened traders of different Delhi villages such as Bijwasan, Samaspur, NanakPiau and Dinpur. Police did not reveal how many of these traders paid the extortion money but said the gang demanded about a crore each as protection money.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-of-extortion-gang-held-after-shoot-out-in-najafgarh-101624298016717.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Fewest new Covid-19 cases in Delhi since April 30, 2020||The Capital on Monday added just 89 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest spike in over 400 days, as the test positivity rate fell to the lowest ever since the pandemic broke out in Delhi in March last year, in clear signs of recovery for the city after a punishing fourth wave between April and May that infected millions and left thousands dead.Monday’s infection spike is the lowest since April 30 last year, when the city added 76 cases, during the early days of the Covid-19 outbreak in the Capital, before even the first wave, which began around mid-May.To be sure, at that time, the state was conducting significantly fewer tests to check for the infection than it is right now, and was averaging just around 2,700 tests per day. In comparison, an average of over 72,000 people were tested each day for Covid-19 in the seven-days ending Monday.The fourth wave of the pandemic has now seen a steady drop for eight consecutive weeks in the city. The seven-day average of new infections – which denotes a region’s Covid-19 curve –touched a peak of 25,294 new cases a day on April 23, but fell to 159 cases a day in the past week, a drop of over 99% from the peak, showed state government data.The number of active cases also continued to fall, as the city’s caseload continued to reduce, and dropped below the 2,000-mark for the first time since March 10 this year. At the peak of the fourth wave of infections on April 28, 99,752 people in the Capital were battling the viral infection. On Monday, there were 1996 active cases in the city.Experts believe that Delhi might have reached an “endemic level” of the infection. “Such a low level of infection is only possible when endemic levels have been reached. Delhi, along with states such as Maharashtra and Punjab that saw the explosion of cases initially have reached the endemic levels and the entire country is likely to follow soon, probably by mid-July,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.Also read | Over 8 million shots on Day 1 of new driveMonday’s 89 cases came on the back of 57,128 fresh Covid-19 tests, at a test positivity rate of 0.16%, the lowest ever in the national capital. The positivity rate is a crucial metric to understand the spread of an infection in a region. Experts, including the World Health Organization recommend a number below 5% for two weeks before an infection can be considered under control.In Delhi, the test positivity rate has been below this threshold for 32 days, and below 1% for 22 days.The state government also added 11 more deaths of the infections to the city’s toll, taking the number of Covid-19 fatalities to 24,925.He, however, advised caution. “A third wave might happen only if a new variant emerges that is more transmissible than the delta variant or completely escapes the immunity. We should be alert, follow masking and social distancing, and monitor for variants. But the government should change the vaccination strategy now to protect against deaths. Mass vaccination should have happened in January and February to prevent the second wave, now the natural infection has already done what the vaccination had to do. So, now the focus should be comorbid and pregnant people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fewest-new-covid-19-cases-in-capital-since-april-30-2020-101624297956694.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Shoe godown gutted in Peeragarhi, four workers missing||Four people are suspected to have been trapped inside a large shoe godown in Udyog Nagar near Peeragarhi in outer Delhi that went up in fire on Monday, officials of the fire and police departments said. There were at least 10 people inside the building when the blaze started. While six of them were rescued, four are still missing.More than 100 fire fighters and 35 fire tenders worked for nearly eight hours to douse the flames. However, the cooling and search operations were on.The owner of the godown and the family members of the missing people told the police and fire officials that they were not able to contact the workers on their mobile phones. Initially, their cellphones were working as the calls were going through but nobody was responding. Later, the phones went unreachable. Of the four missing persons, two are brothers, fire officials said, quoting the information shared by the family members.“It was a major category fire and a tough operation for our men because inflammable materials such as shoes and packing materials were stored in huge quantity in the godown. As far as casualties are concerned, we have not found any bodies so far. But at least four people are feared to be trapped inside. Until our search operation is complete, we cannot say they are dead or alive,” said Delhi Fire Services chief Atul Garg.According to Garg, the fire was reported to the control room at 8.22am. Initially, 24 fire tenders were sent. Later, 11 more were rushed to the spot considering the intensity of the blaze.He said nobody informed the firefighters about 10 workers who used to sleep in the godown. “Initially, nobody told us about the people who were inside. We would have begun the rescue operation had we been told about the missing persons in the beginning. By the time we were informed, the fire had engulfed the entire godown. We did not rescue anyone from the building till evening,” said Garg.Deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh said the godown is owned by Pankaj Garg who runs a company named Apeksha International. “Initially, 10 people were reported trapped inside the godown. Four of them who were on the ground floor rushed out of the building. Later, two more persons came out themselves. Four are still reported to be inside. The search operation is on. Two ambulances were called to the spot,” said DCP Singh.Locals said that of the six men who survived, two jumped off the first floor of the godown. Fire and police officials said that the godown is spread in nearly 1,000 square metres and consists of two buildings, each having a basement, ground and first floor. The entire premises has a tin ceiling and was packed with shoes, slippers, and packaging materials such as boxes and adhesives.“The presence of such inflammable items in huge quantity helped the fire spread quickly. Since the entire godown and materials are gutted, there is strong heat and smoke that is delaying our search operation. If there are human bodies inside, it’s very difficult to find them in the heap of burnt material. The tin roof collapsed while cracks have developed in the buildings and have now been declared dangerous by the municipal authority,” said Garg, who himself was leading the fire fighting and search operation.HT tried to contact the company’s owner and its representative on the phone numbers mentioned on the internet. A person who responded to the call identified himself as the owner’s brother-in-law but refused to comment on the matter.Police said that a case was being registered. The exact trigger of the fire was not known till late evening.Garg said that the godown did not have any fire fighting arrangement and its owner had not sought a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department. “We have learnt that another fire had taken place in the godown in the past. The exact date and year is not known yet. Since the godown did not have an NOC or fire fighting arrangement, we will write a letter to the local administration for taking action against the owner,” the fire chief added.The search operation in the godown was suspected late in the evening and is expected to resume Tuesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-shoe-godown-gutted-in-peeragarhi-four-workers-missing-101624297897908.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Thieves cut wall and floor of bank in east Delhi, steal ₹55 lakh cash||Unidentified thieves cut through a wall and floor of the Union Bank of India’s branch in east Delhi’s Vishwas Nagar, broke open the iron vault and stole around ₹55 lakh cash on Sunday. The break-in was found on Monday morning when the bank employees reached the building and reported the matter to the police control room around 10.30am, the police said.Since the suspects disabled the CCTV cameras of the bank, it was not immediately clear how many of them entered the bank and for how long they remained inside to execute the heist. Besides a portion of the vault which was broken with the help of gas cutters, the thieves did not touch any lockers and nearly ₹50 lakh cash that was kept in another portion of the vault, senior police officers said.Investigators suspect that the thieves may have run out of gas, forcing them to leave the lockers intact.“The stolen money was cash collection and transactions of Friday and Saturday. We have registered a case of trespass and theft against unknown persons at the Farsh Bazar police station. Prime facie, it appears that the thieves conducted a detailed reconnaissance of the bank and planned everything meticulously. We have got certain clues in the case. Several teams are working on them,” said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram.Police said the heist took place on Sunday, when the bank was shut for the weekend holiday. They said the thieves first entered a vacant under-construction building adjacent to the bank after breaking its lock.“The suspects drilled a hole in the bank’s wall through the adjacent under-construction building. They entered the ground floor of the bank and drilled their way into the basement through the floor. Once inside the basement, the thieves cut open the vault, took out the cash and fled using the same route through which they entered the premises,” said a senior police officer, who asked not to be named.DCP Sathiyasundaram said the theft came to light when the bank’s employees reached the bank and informed the police. The local police along with crime scene inspection team and forensic experts reached the spot and collected evidence. The entire building has been cordoned off and the forensic teams have collected fingerprints and other evidence from the scene, the DCP said.Investigators said the role of an insider could not be ruled out. They have prepared the list of all employees as well as security guards and are ascertaining their whereabouts when the heist took place. The CCTV cameras installed around the bank are also being scanned to find if any suspicious activities were captured on the day of the crime or in the last couple of weeks, when the suspects may have carried out the reconnaissance.The investigators are also preparing a list of criminals who were previously involved or arrested for similar crimes.A similar bank heist took place in outer Delhi’s Mundka in December 2017. The thieves entered the bank by drilling a hole in its wall through an adjacent vacant building. They took away nearly ₹27 lakh cash and jewellery worth several lakhs of rupees after cutting open a safe and some lockers.Investigators are trying to find out if the same set of thieves, who committed the Mundka bank theft, are involved in this crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thieves-cut-wall-and-floor-of-bank-in-east-delhi-steal-55-lakh-cash-101624297897306.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Sisodia inspects pace of construction at 4 new Delhi govt schools||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Monday inspected four newly-built government schools and said that the government will ensure that the classrooms in these institutes are ready before they reopen for students. Schools in the national capital are shut in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Sisodia, who is also the education minister, visited government schools in Kondli, Kalyanpuri, IP Extension and Preet Vihar, and inquired about the construction of classrooms and academic blocks. “Keeping in mind the security and safety of children, we are not calling students back to school anytime soon. We are, however, ensuring that the construction work for new and improved classrooms is done at a fast pace so that when children return to schools, they are welcomed with new and colourful classrooms with the best facilities,” he said in a statement issued by the government on Monday.Also read | Fewest new Covid-19 cases in Delhi since April 30, 2020After the inspection, Sisodia also issued guidelines to officials in charge and directed them to ensure that classrooms are equipped with state-of-the-art facilities. “The schools and classrooms should be designed keeping in mind the psyche of children. We should design schools in a way that they are interactive so that when students return to schools and look at their colourful classes, they are motivated to learn and engage,” the statement added.According to the statement, the construction work at Kondli school, where 20 new classrooms are being constructed at present, will be finished by the end of this month.“Similarly, 97% of construction work is complete in Kalyanpuri school, with 20 new classrooms in the process of being constructed. Around 90% of construction work to build 84 new classrooms at IP Extension school is complete and the project will be fully finished by July 2021. Nearly 84% of classroom construction work is complete at the government school in Preet Vihar. It will be fully finished by August 2021 and will host 48 new classrooms,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sisodia-inspects-pace-of-construction-at-4-new-delhi-govt-schools-101624297896717.html
22-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Private schools say they don’t have surplus funds||Several private schools in the Capital have contested the contention that some institutions hold surplus funds between ₹1 crore and ₹48 crore, arguing that they are instead short of cash reserves and running in deficit.In an affidavit, filed in Supreme Court on June 15, the Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) named 35 private schools that it said have between ₹1 crore and ₹48 crore surplus funds. Among these are four branches of the Delhi Public School (DPS) — in Vasant Kunj, Rohini, RK Puram, and Dwarka. The document said these schools have surplus funds of ₹48 crore, ₹34 crore, ₹11 crore, and ₹23 crore, respectively.Members of the DPS Society, which runs the institutions, contested this.“We have no idea how they came up with these figures. The DPS Society has conducted a statutory audit with the help of a major chartered accountancy firm, and as of March 31, 2020, there was ₹38 crore in DPS Vasant Kunj’s account. When we deduct the amounts for gratuity, leave encashment, salary buffer requirement, and funds for ongoing projects, the school has a deficit of ₹34 crore,” said a member of the DPS Society who asked not to be named.Similarly, the official said, that DPS Rohini and Dwarka branches have deficits of ₹26 crore and ₹34 crore respectively. “DPS RK Puram has three branches, including a senior school and two junior wings. The government has not allowed us to increase fees in the last five years in any of these schools. Despite that, we have to pay salaries to our employees in accordance with the 7th Pay Commission. Besides, if we need to start any infrastructure project in the school, we have to use funds from our savings,” the official added.A senior DoE official, requesting anonymity, said, “If the schools are claiming that they do not have any surplus in their accounts, they can prove that in the court. It’s all on record. The government has gone through their accounts before submitting the data. This is up to the Supreme Court to decide now.”The Action Committee of Unaided Private Recognised Schools, which represents over 1,000 private schools in Delhi, said if a school has surplus funds, these are allocated for a variety of expenditure, including paying employees’ gratuity funds, encashing leave, corporation taxes, for disasters, exigencies, to pay pending arrears to employees in accordance with the 7th Pay Commission, apart from maintaining a four-to-six month salary buffer, as mandated in the Delhi School Education Act of 1973.The Delhi high court on May 31 set aside two orders issued by the Delhi government last year prohibiting private schools from collecting annual charges and development fee during the Covid-19 lockdown, and held that schools may collect these charges for the last academic year retrospectively, on a monthly basis, but only after a 15% reduction in lieu of unutilised facilities (such as water and electricity) in the lockdown period.DoE later challenged the single-bench decision, but the court refused to stay the order, after which the Delhi government on June 15 filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court against the ruling.The education department in its affidavit said that tuition fees cover the standard cost of running the institution, including salary, dearness allowance provisions, bonuses, etc, and other terminal benefits concerning academic activities.However, schools were still levying annual charges, which cover expenditure not included in tuition fees such as expenses on sports equipment, cultural and co-curricular programmes distinct from other activities of the school, despite no such expenses made during the lockdown period.“...The learned single judge has failed to examine that in most cases, the expenditure on salary and establishment is only 40-50% of the total fees charged by the school. However, in some cases, it is 70%, which means each and every school has sufficient funds in hand after charging tuition fees to meet its expenses,” DoE said in its affidavit submitted with the SLP.Officials at New Green Field School in Saket, which the government affidavit said has ₹2 crore surplus funds, said their institute has been in the red since 2019.“Just tuition fees are not sufficient to cover teachers’ salaries. As per an audit, as on March 31, 2020, we had a deficit of ₹2 crore. We have no idea how the government termed it a surplus amount,” said Ashwani Kumar, manager of the school.SK Bhattacharya, president of the action committee of private schools, said, “Schools are on the verge of shutting down due to the Covid-19 situation, with many not able to meet even the essential salary expenditure. Many schools can only meet salary demands by using the annual charges and development funds. Moreover, the DoE has not allowed any fee increase since 2016-17, which has made the situation more dismal for numerous schools.”Advocate Kamal Gupta, who represents the private schools’ body, argued: “The Delhi School Education Act and the judgments of the Supreme Court and high court repeatedly held that capital expenditure can be incurred from fees received by the schools. However, DoE has continuously disallowed such capital expenditure, apart from disallowing the statutory funds maintained or required to pay gratuity to the staff, the contingency reserve for payment of salaries, and depreciation reserve fund mandated by the Supreme Court, and is coining a surplus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-private-schools-say-they-don-t-have-surplus-funds-101624297836697.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Dharam Pal is the new UT adviser||Dharam Pal, a 1988-batch Indian Administrative Services officer and an alumnus of Punjab Engineering College, is the new adviser to the administrator of the Union Territory of Chandigarh. Belonging to the Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram-Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre, his transfer orders were issued by the home ministry on Monday. He will join office on Wednesday.“Consequent upon repatriation from central deputation, Dharam Pal is hereby posted in Chandigarh as adviser with immediate effect,” the notification said. Before his present assignment, he was additional secretary in the department of fertilisers under the Union ministry of chemicals and fertilisers, New Delhi. He replaces Manoj Parida, who was transferred to Delhi on June 17, six months before the completion of his three-year tenure. Parida will take over as the chairman of the National Authority of Chemical Weapons Convention.‘Covid management top priority’Health sector in general and Covid-19 management in specific will remain the new UT adviser’s top priority.“My focus will remain on devising a strategy to manage the next Covid wave successfully,” said Dharam Pal on Monday. Education and infrastructure improvement will be the other priority areas, he said. Belonging to Banga in Hoshiarpur district of Punjab, Dharam Pal completed bachelor of engineering in electronics and telecommunications from PEC in 1985 before doing masters of technology in computer controls and instrumentation from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi. “Chandigarh is the first planned city of India with a rich cultural heritage. I have very fond memories of the city when I was studying at PEC,” he said, adding that this city connect and the fact that he belongs to the region will prove to be an asset in solving the UT’s different issues. Was at loggerheads with AAP govt in DelhiIn the past three decades, Dharam Pal has served on deputation with the Union government, on different positions in the Delhi government and also had a stint in Kosovo as the civil affairs officer. During his tenure as the principal secretary (home), Delhi, he found himself at loggerheads with the Arvind Kejriwal government on the issue of appointment of a joint police commissioner as the head of the anti-corruption branch.After the AAP government removed him from the home department, he refused to step down, stating that he had simply followed the transaction of business rules by issuing the lieutenant governor’s directions. The Union government had backed him on the issue, though he was shortly thereafter transferred to the department of fertilisers at the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dharam-pal-appointed-chandigarh-adviser-101624263936039.html
22-06-2021||Chandigarh||Wrestler-turned-BJP leader Babita Phogat faces protest at Yoga Day event in Haryana||Wrestler-turned-BJP leader Babita Phogat on Monday faced protests by farmers along with some Congress supporters as she arrived to take part in the Yoga Day event at Charkhi Dadri on Monday. Prominent politicians remained away from taking part in the Yoga Day event.The protesters showed black flags and raised slogans against Phogat, who had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 assembly elections on the BJP ticket from Charkhi Dadri.She had lost to BJP rebel-turned-Independent Sombir Sangwan and was later appointed chairperson of the Haryana Women Development Corporation.The protesters managed to reach the Yoga Day venue despite police putting up barricades. The protesters said they will continue opposing the visit of BJP and JJP leaders until the farm laws are repealed.Phogat Khap president Balwant Nambardar said they had protested against Babita earlier also when she tried to enter the district.“To divide people and their brotherhood, Babita and BJP leaders are trying to enter the district periphery even though Khaps and farm unions have announced their boycott. If these leaders will not stop from coming to the district, we will be forced to take strict decisions,” he added.Babita Phogat could not be reached for a comment.Bhiwani-Mahendragarh member of Parliament Dharambir Singh chose to celebrate Yoga Day with his family at his residence in Bhiwani, while state agriculture minister JP Dalal took part in the Yoga Day event along with officials in Bhiwani.FARMERS SHOW BLACK FLAGS TO DUSHYANTScores of farmers waived black flags to protest the visit of Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala in Sirsa.He inaugurated the statue of former deputy prime minister Devi Lal in Chaudhary Devi Lal University (CDLU), Sirsa. He also laid the foundation stone of development projects worth ₹48.67 crore in Sirsa.The protesting farmers said they wanted to unveil the statue of Devi Lal but police did not allow them to enter the university.Carrying black flags, a group of farmers stood outside the university and waived black flags when the deputy CM visited the university.In Hisar, deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa inaugurated the newly-constructed power sub-station of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam. Later, a group of farmers went to the sub-station and sprinkled ‘Ganga jal’ on it to “purify the building”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wrestlerturnedbjp-leader-babita-phogat-faces-protest-at-yoga-day-event-in-haryana-101624263575989.html
