23-06-2021||Noida||Banquet halls in Noida get bookings as weddings resume||Noida: Sector 77 resident Prathamesh Singh was to get married at a banquet hall in Noida’s Sector 62 on May 21 this year. However, with the second wave of Covid-19 striking the country in April, he had to postpone his wedding.Now, Singh is planning to get with 50 of his close family members at a banquet hall in Sector 71 on June 28.“We have been hearing about the possibility of a third wave of the coronavirus disease and are uncertain how long relaxations will continue. Now that some restrictions have eased, we thought of using this window of opportunity to get married in a small ceremony,” he said.Like Singh, many couples had postponed their weddings which were scheduled in April-May this year owing to the spike in Covid-19 cases. Now, with young and old alike getting vaccinated against the virus, families are opting to go ahead with earlier plans.“My wedding was scheduled for May 13 but we had to postpone it because of the restrictions. At the time, only our grandparents had been inoculated. Now, while the grandparents on both sides are fully vaccinated, our immediate family, including uncles and aunts and cousins as well have got their first dose. Though we are aware that vaccination does not ensure full safety from the virus, we feel the risk is lower,” said Vibha Joshi, a resident of Sector 19, Noida.With new cases going down and restrictions getting relaxed, banquet hall owners say bookings have started coming in.“At least 20 weddings were supposed to be held at our banquet hall in the last two months. However, all of them were postponed. Now, we have again started getting at least one query a day and have been booked for three weddings, which are going to take place in the last week of June and the first week of July,” said Shashank Gupta, who runs Rajdhani Party Hall in Sector 104.According to Gurnam Sethi, owner of a banquet hall in Sector 51, most bookings are at very short notice.“Generally bookings for weddings are done months in advance but these days, we have been getting queries asking if the banquet hall is available in the next two-three days itself. Since we have been out of business for the last two months, we are happy to take such bookings as well,” he said.However, with the night curfew still in place – from 9pm till 7 am everyday – weddings have to be wrapped up by 8pm.“We have got around four bookings for weddings and all of them are day weddings, as we have to shut down the hall latest by 8.30pm because of the night curfew,” said Vikas Kasana, who owns a banquet hall in Greater Noida.To control the surge of Covid-19 cases that started this year in April, the Uttar Pradesh government had issued tight restrictions, including on weddings, besides imposing night curfew, which spoiled the wedding plans of many. The restrictions were eased in Gautam Budh Nagar on June 7 after the number of active cases fell below 600, but night restrictions are still in place.On May 19, revised guidelines from the state government restricted wedding ceremonies to 25 people. Now, as per the latest guidelines issued on June 19, weddings can be held with a maximum of 50 people in a closed or open space. All Covid protocols, precautions and social distancing need to be followed and organisers will be solely responsible for any violation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/banquet-halls-in-noida-get-bookings-as-weddings-resume-101624472864569.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad, GB Nagar come up with plans for mega vaccination starting July 1||Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar have prepared their micro plans for the mega vaccination drive that will begin on July 1. Ghaziabad: 40K vaccinations-a-dayGhaziabad has divided the district into 440 clusters that will be served by 305 teams.“In our plan, we can offer at least one dose to the 2.3 million adults eligible for the vaccine within 45 to 60 days. Of the clusters, 401 are in urban area. The biggest cluster is at Makanpur (Indirapuram) that has an estimated population of about 410,000. In Indirapuram, our teams will also hold camps at high-rises,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO) of Ghaziabad. The plan will see each Covid vaccination centre (CVC) reserving 50% of the slots for those who booked online and the rest for those within the cluster. Walk-in registrations will be available.“We have roped in four private hospitals that will also provide free vaccination with vaccines that we will provide,” said the CMO. to for providing free vaccination and more will be roped in. The vaccine to these centres is provided by the health department,” the officer added. GB Nagar: 25K vaccinations-a-dayThe health department said that their micro plan will be completed late Wednesday night and so details are currently unavailable. “We aim at over 25,000 doses a day. Each cluster will cover 8-10 square kilometres of area for one cluster. In rural there will be static vaccination centres and mobile camps that will move from place to place vaccinating people. Housing societies will be covered,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar. Starting June 21, both the districts as also other districts in UP have taken up ‘near to home’ vaccination at selected centres. According to the Cowin portal figures at 9.30pm, the Ghaziabad district on Wednesday administered 20419 doses while GB Nagar administered 22312. The GB Nagar district stood at third spot after Gorakhpur (25861) and Lucknow (25301) while Ghaziabad stood fourth among the 75 districts in the state in terms of single highest one day vaccination. The state of Uttar Pradesh administered total of 743942 doses on Wednesday. “Our previous achievement was more than 26000 doses on June 21 and 22. It dropped somewhat on Wednesday as most of the centres were administering routine-immunisation doses and this activity is done on Wednesday and Saturdays every week. So, our vaccination was less on Wednesday,” Dr Gupta added. At the cluster vaccination centres, the beneficiaries aged 18 years and above can opt for on-spot registration and get the jabs. The teams operating in clusters will provide doses and try to saturate local area population with vaccination and thereafter move to another cluster.Before the cluster vaccination activity, mobilisation teams will take up three-day activity in clusters and will spread awareness about vaccination drive and urge people to come out and get themselves vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-gb-nagar-come-up-with-plans-for-mega-vaccination-starting-july-1-101624472863981.html
23-06-2021||Other||Gun of woman constable posted outside Israeli diplomat’s house goes off accidentally||New Delhi: The gun of a Delhi Police woman constable posted near the house of an Israeli diplomat in Vasant Vihar went off accidentally on Wednesday, senior officers said. They said nobody was injured in the incident and the bullet hit the pavement. The incident took place outside the residence of an attache of the Israel embassy. Delhi police clarified that a woman constable’s 9MM pistol misfired “when she was handling it.” Police said the bullet did not hit anyone and hit a pavement on the road in front of the diplomat’s house on Paschimi Marg. Police said the woman constable was posted in a PCR van outside the attaché’s residence.Deputy commissioner of police(south west) Ingit Pratap Singh said, “Nobody is reported injured in the incident. Senior officers of the south west district and the police control room reached the spot. Crime team is being called on the spot. Further enquiry is on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gun-of-woman-constable-posted-outside-israeli-diplomat-s-house-goes-off-accidentally-101624472863316.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Death count 3.5 times in second Covid wave||An analysis by the Ghaziabad health department found that although the total number of Covid-19 cases in the first and second wave of infections were more or less similar, deaths increased two to five times in different age groups.The department considered the first wave to be from March 1 last year to March 31 of this year. The second wave was considered to be from April 31 to June 18.The analysis also confirmed what experts had long been saying - children were less severely affected. It also confirmed that the elderly was particularly vulnerable, and experts say this further pushed the need to vaccinate them on priority. The analysisIn the first wave, the district accounted for 27,671 cases over 395 days, the second wave saw 27,849 over 78.Two children under 10 years of age died during the first wave, but the second wave had none and also saw fewer cases. Even those between 11 and 20 years had no deaths during both waves.From then on, the mortality rates -number of deaths per 100 cases- kept increasing. Those who were 60 years and above suffered the most with their mortality rate being 1.19% of the 3,354 cases during the first wave and 4.76% of 2,962 cases in the second wave.The overall mortality during the first wave was about 0.37%, while it was 1.28% in the second.And although more males died in both waves, which is consistent with previous research that said men were more likely to contract a severe form of the disease due to their lifestyle and higher levels of ACE-2 receptors that the virus uses to enter the cells, the mortality rate of females was higher.Health dept’s plan for a 3rd waveBased on such data and comments from experts, the district expects the third wave to run on similar lines.“Although we are preparing for any likelihood of the next wave, we expect children not be affected then too. They have shown better immunity, while routine immunisation also helped them against many viruses. The closure of schools and colleges has also helped,” said Dr Rakesh Gupta, district surveillance officer.“The severity of infection was high during the second wave and majority of fatalities took place during the short span in months of April and May this year. It was due to pneumonitis and involvement of lungs which affected about 80% patients during the second wave. Majority of patients were referred to L2 or L3 category hospitals due to severity of infection and demand for ICU beds also soared,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “Children in from 0 to 10 years showed resilience. Still, keeping in mind the possibility of a third wave, we have started preparations with paediatric ICUs in different hospitals and even new oxygen plants are getting installed for medical supplies to serve all ages.”Uttar Pradesh has a three-tier Covid health care system with L1 for mild case, L2 for moderate and L3 for severe cases.Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad), said that although data suggested that children were less affected, it may not have taken into account asymptomatic cases that were not confirmed through tests.“From our experience, we can say that more children were affected during the second wave and many of them were asymptomatic. In any case, in the event of a third wave, it is not only children who may be affected. It could be anyone from the different age groups who have not taken vaccination or have not developed antibodies. The higher severity of the infection (Delta variant) resulted in higher fatality rate in short period during the second wave,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-death-count-3-5-times-in-second-covid-wave-101624472803349.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Police ASI stabs sister-in-law to death in Chandigarh||A Punjab Police assistant sub-inspector stabbed his sister-in-law to death and injured his younger brother after an argument over water supply at their two-storey house in Chandigarh’s Ram Darbar late on Tuesday night. Identified as Harswaroop, 44, the accused is presently posted at the police headquarters. His brother Prem Gyan Sagar, 38, works as a delivery man with Swiggy. The two are married to two sisters.While Prem was stabbed multiple times, his wife Divya, 35, sustained one stab injury that proved fatal. Prem is undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. Harswaroop has been booked under Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code on the statement of the couple’s teenaged son. The couple has two sons. Brothers had strained relationship for longThe two brothers stay in the house owned by their father, who lives in Himachal Pradesh. While Harswaroop stays with his wife, son and daughter on the ground floor, Prem’s family stays on the first floor.According to police, the brothers had a strained relationship and used to regularly fight over issues such as division of electricity and water bill. For the past few days, they had been having arguments over water supply. Prem had reportedly accused Harswaroop of deliberately keeping the water pump motor switched off to stop supply to the first floor, and even called up his father to complain. Harswaroop told police that when he returned home on Tuesday, Prem again started arguing over the issue. Around 9pm, the ASI, who was drunk, went to the first floor and attacked Prem while he was having dinner. Prem was stabbed half a dozen times. As Divya intervened to save her husband, she was stabbed too, said police. ‘I wanted to put an end to daily fights’ Divya’s brother Abhinandan, whose other sister is married to Harswaroop, said the cop has always been hot tempered and had tried to harm Prem and Divya earlier too. In his preliminary questioning, Harswaroop told police that he wanted to put an end to the daily fights. He is reported to have said that Prem used to pick up fights with him and he could not take it anymore. Police have recovered the knife used for the murder. The accused was produced in court and sent to judicial custody on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-police-asi-stabs-sister-in-law-to-death-in-chandigarh-101624472683829.html
23-06-2021||Other||BJP slams Delhi govt for not implementing Centre’s ration scheme||The BJP on Wednesday slammed the Delhi government for misleading people and accusing the central government for stalling the doorstep delivery of ration in the national capital. Senior BJP leaders said the Delhi government must tell people why it has not been able to implement the ‘One nation, One ration card’ scheme in the entire city.Reacting to deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia’s press conference regarding the Centre’s letter on doorstep delivery of ration, Delhi’s BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “It is ridiculous when the government that is unable to deliver ration at fair price shops and distribution centres on time talks about doorstep delivery of ration.”Gupta said the AAP government has failed to ensure proper distribution of ration provided by the Centre. “They have done little to bring transparency in the distribution system. The e-POS system is yet to be implemented,” he said. A Delhi government spokesperson said BJP is giving incorrect information. Imran Hussain, AAP leader and Delhi’s food and supplies minister, said, “Under the visionary leadership of CM Arvind Kejriwal, the Delhi government is firmly committed to provide free ration to both NFS (National Food Secutity) beneficiaries and non-PDS (public distribution system) needy people (who do not have ration cards), as long as the situation warrants. The Delhi government strongly believes that free ration in Covid pandemic is not a privilege but a basic obligation of the government towards its people. We are providing free ration to people of Delhi and will continue to do so.” Senior BJP leaders Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of the opposition in the Delhi assembly, and northeast Delhi MP and former Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari targeted the government for not implementing the Centre’s ration policy and not using e-POS to ensure transparency in ration distribution. Bidhuri alleged that the Delhi government has implemented the One nation, One ration card scheme in just one circle or assembly constituency.Tiwari said, “Most states have implemented the Centre’s schemes and provisions for ration distribution, but only Delhi government has a problem with e-POS and One nation, One ration card scheme.”Gupta also sought an explanation as to why the state government is discontinuing the free ration scheme from July 1. “I want to ask @ArvindKejriwal, when the Centre is giving free ration till November, then why is Delhi government discontinuing free ration scheme from July 1?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-slams-delhi-govt-for-not-implementing-centre-s-ration-scheme-101624472443296.html
23-06-2021||Other||Now, no need to visit RTO for registration certificate||The Delhi government has empowered self-registered vehicle dealers in Delhi to issue temporary registration certificates to owners who buy a new car or two-wheeler from their outlets but reside outside the national capital. Senior transport officials said the larger plan in the coming months is to completely decentralise the process of issuing registration certificates (the permanent ones) at the dealers’ end, so that vehicle owners do not have to visit a regional transport office (RTO) to get it issued. In an order passed on Tuesday night, the state transport department said the temporary registration certificates to be issued by self-registration dealers will be valid for a month. “Self registration dealers in Delhi can now issue temporary registration certificate for new vehicles sold from their outlet, along with a unique registration mark listed under Rule 34 of Delhi Motor Vehicles Rules (DMVR). The self-registration dealers will be allocated blocks of registration marks for the purpose of issuing temporary registration certificates,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot. The order, seen by HT, stated that the temporary registration mark in red letters and figure on yellow background will be displayed on the vehicle in a prescribed manner. The designation and address of the self registering dealer will be also cited on the registration plate, it said.Currently, those who buy a new vehicle from Delhi need to simultaneously visit an RTO to get a temporary registration certificate issued by the motor licensing officer (MLO). Now, this has been decentralised and approximately 200 self registration dealers across the city have been given the authority to create on-the-spot temporary registration certificates. “While it is easy for owners of new vehicles who are residents of Delhi to visit the RTO and do such things, those who come from NCR to purchase a car or two-wheelers in Delhi found it very cumbersome to first go to the showroom, then to the RTO and then return to their city. This will save a lot of time as now, the owner can directly head home after purchasing a new car or bike,” said a senior transport official, who did not wish to be named. Approximately, 1,000 vehicles are sold in Delhi every month, with most of the owners living in other states. “Once they have taken the temporary registration certificate from the dealer, they can directly get a permanent registration certificate made from their respective state and immediately apply for it. No time will be wasted,” the official explained. The state transport department is running a pilot project in three of its RTOs - New Delhi, Sarai Kale Khan and Mall Road - to completely decentralise the process of issuing registration certificate. “The next step will be to issue permanent registration cards directly from the dealers. So, there will be no need to come to an RTO,” said Gahlot.This is part of the department’s ambitious project of providing “faceless transport services” to people. At present, 12 services, including renewal and duplicate driving licence or registration certificate, permit or RC transfer, among others, have been shifted online. The second phase will include 58 services. The department is now also working on issuing learners driving licences online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-no-need-to-visit-rto-for-registration-certificate-101624472384066.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||More than 100,000 get Covid shot in Mumbai for third day in a row||For a third consecutive day on Wednesday, more than 100,000 citizens were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the city as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) restarted vaccination for the 18-30 age group. Dr Mangala Gomare, chief of BMC’s public health department, said, “We are vaccinating maximum citizens daily. 108,148 citizens were vaccinated on Monday, 113,135 were vaccinated on Tuesday and 111,110 citizens were vaccinated on Wednesday.”Dr Gomare added, “On Thursday also, vaccinations will continue as we are getting fresh stock from the Central government on Thursday morning and all vaccination centres will remain functional in the city on Thursday.”There are 386 vaccination centres in the city, of which 94 are private, 20 are state or central government ones, while the remaining 272 are civic centres.According to BMC data, of the 79,748 citizens in the 18-44 age group vaccinated on Wednesday, majority (46,066) were vaccinated at civic centres only.For now, vaccination slots will continue to be on a 50:50 ratio (50% slots will be via online booking and 50% will be on a walk-in basis), said BMC officials.As of Wednesday, 4,684,050 citizens have been vaccinated since January 16, 2021. Of the total, 1,408,527 beneficiaries are from the 45-59 age group, 1,363,740 above 60 years of age and 1,220,040 in the 18-44 age group. The remaining are health and frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-than-100-000-get-covid-shot-in-mumbai-for-third-day-in-a-row-101624472205382.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||76% parents don’t want to send kids to school till Covid cases drop to zero: Survey||Even as several states like Telangana and Bihar have decided to reopen education institutes starting July 1, a survey of over 19,000 parents from across the country, shows how nearly 76% respondents are not ready to send their children to school unless Covid-19 cases in their districts go down to zero, or all children are vaccinated. Interestingly, over 65% respondents have approved that their children receive the Covid-19 vaccine if it is made available by September 2021.“We conducted six separate surveys this year. In January, nearly 69% parents were ready to send their wards to school by April 2021 but this number fell to a mere 20% in the June survey. Given the lack of online education in many rural parts of the country, the fatigue of online classes, the risk of Covid spread and the possibility of a third wave, we conducted this survey to understand the opinion of parents on sending their children to school,” highlighted the survey report made public by LocalCircles, a community social media platform enabling citizens and small businesses to escalate issues for policy enforcement and interventions.The survey received more than 19,000 responses from parents located in 293 districts of the country. Around 48% parents were from Tier 1 districts, 29% from Tier 2 districts and 22% from Tier 3, Tier 4 and rural districts of India. Of the 19,000 respondents who participated in this survey, a little over 2,000 parents belong to Maharashtra. The survey report highlighted how nearly 70% parents in Maharashtra were not comfortable with the idea of sending their children to school unless Covid cases go down to zero. Similarly, 58% parents approved of vaccinating their wards while 25% felt they would consider this move based on appropriate data/findings.“Majority parents are not ready to risk the lives of their children, especially at a time when we are hearing of new variants of Covid and the fact that more children contracted the virus in the second wave. We have been requesting the government to conduct vaccination drives at least for the Class 8 to 12 students for the time being, if not for the younger children,” said Anubha Srivastav Sahai, president of India Wide Parent Association (IWPA). She added that even in January 2021, when the state government decided to reopen schools in some districts, many parents chose not to send their children to school despite dwindling cases. “Instead of focusing on reopening schools, the government should focus on the vaccination drive at present and to ensure that all children have internet facilities so no one misses out on education,” she added. While the state of Maharashtra has not yet clarified its stand on school/college reopening, several other states have announced similar decisions. Both Bihar and Telangana governments have decided to reopen schools and colleges from July 1, whereas the Uttar Pradesh government has asked teachers to start attending schools physically and conduct online lectures from their schools starting July 1.Dr Samir Dalwai, developmental and behavioural paediatrician said the fear among parents is more about the fact that reopening of schools will automatically mean a large number of people sharing the same space. “We cannot trust children to keep masks on or follow social distancing rules,” said Dalwai. He added that there’s also a group of parents who feel reopening of schools will calm the anxiety among children, who have been locked up at home with their families for over a year now. “There has been an increase in the number of children seeking counselling because their interactions are limited to online classes. However, the fear of children contracting the virus in schools is fear and the majority of parents are not open to sending their children to schools,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/76-parents-don-t-want-to-send-kids-to-school-till-covid-cases-drop-to-zero-survey-101624472144687.html
23-06-2021||Other||Delhi Police rescue minor girl from Etawah||A 12-year-old girl, who fled home after her parents scolded her for being active on social media, was rescued from Etawah in western Uttar Pradesh. Police said the minor girl was hooked to Tiktok, a social media platform used for making short videos that was among the first batch of applications to be banned in India after the clashes with China at the Galwan Valley. Following its ban, the girl was active on social media, because of which her parents scolded her. Police said on June 18, they received a complaint from a woman in Sangam Vihar about her daughter who had gone missing. The woman said police had then registered a case of kidnapping against unknown persons. Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said the girl’s mother had received a call from her daughter’s cellphone, before it went off, from a woman who said that the girl was in Etawah. Police said based on the information, a team was sent to Etawah. They found the woman’s house where the minor girl was living. “The woman said she found the girl on the Etawah railway station and brought her home. She then informed the girl’s mother but the phone got switched off,” said Thakur. “The girl said she left home because she wanted to be a TikTok star but was upset as her mother used to scold her about studies. The girl took a train from Delhi and reached Etawah. As she was scared, she went to stay with the woman. Our team successfully traced the girl in time before she could go anywhere else,” said Thakur||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-rescue-minor-girl-from-etawah-101624472143255.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Asha workers call off strike; Maharashtra govt to hike pay by ₹1.5K||Over 70,000 Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers in Maharashtra decided to end their strike on Wednesday after the state government declared to increase their honorarium by ₹1500 a month from July. Asha workers were on indefinite strike in the state from June 15.The state has also assured to provide a smartphone to all the Asha workers and an additional allowance of ₹200 for crowd management duty at vaccination centres. The decision was taken in a meeting with representatives of Asha workers and state health minister Rajesh Tope, on Wednesday.They were receiving around ₹6,000 per month that included ₹1,000 as allowance for Covid duty from the Centre. The state Asha Workers Action Committee had demanded to increase the honorarium up to ₹18,000.It was the third meeting called to resolve the issue as the state government was not ready to increase honorarium, saying that they were facing a financial crunch.Tope said, “After discussions, we have decided to increase fixed honorarium by ₹1,000 and ₹500 for Covid duty a month from July 1. We have also decided to provide smartphones to all the Asha workers which will be very useful for them in their day to day work.”“We have also decided to provide another ₹200 as an additional allowance for crowd management duty at vaccination centres. Besides, ₹500 will also be increased in the honorarium from next year,” he added.The state has around 71,867 Asha workers that include 3,570 supervisors also known as ‘Gat Pravertak’. The hike will bring an additional burden of ₹202 crore on the state exchequer.Asha workers are considered the backbone of the rural healthcare system in the state. They have been playing a significant role in the state’s fight against the Covid-19 pandemic.Asha was formed under the National Rural Health Mission to provide every village in the country with a trained female community health activist. They have been playing an important role in implementing various health schemes across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/asha-workers-call-off-strike-maharashtra-govt-to-hike-pay-by-15k-101624472023330.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Mhada to revamp 47-acre Patra Chawl||The state government has directed the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) to redevelop the long-languishing 47-acre Patra Chawl, one of the mega slum revamp projects in Mumbai which has been mired with multiple controversies.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked Mhada to work out a plan to ensure that the redevelopment takes place in a time-bound manner.He directed Mhada to form a panel to work out modalities that will work on the project cost, the gains to be made by the housing body and also talk to various stakeholders to push forward this long-pending project.Mhada will first allot bigger houses to 672 existing tenants and ensure the completion of 306 houses which the Mhada had already sold through its computerised lottery. In addition, Mhada will also pay rents to the existing tenants who have been deprived of the same for years.The tenants who have been fighting for years finally heaved a sigh of relief. “The state government has finally done justice to our cause. We will finally get our legal house,” said Rajesh Dalvi, president, Patra Chawl Sangharsh Samiti. “This is finally the first time that Mhada will be paying rents to the tenants,” he added.The redevelopment of Patrawala Chawl in Siddharth Nagar has been mired in controversy due to the builder’s failure to provide new houses to existing tenants, depriving Mhada of its share of flats and for not paying rent to tenants.In 2007, Mhada allowed Guru Ashish to redevelop and rehabilitate 675 chawl tenants. However, Mhada received complaints that he had sold the project to HDIL. However, Guru Ashish denied these claims.A 2018 report by the then housing secretary Sanjay Kumar found that an error in the calculation of Patra Chawl area caused losses to the tune of ₹474 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mhada-to-revamp-47-acre-patra-chawl-101624471963330.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt approves ownership change of Navi Mumbai airport||The state government on Wednesday approved the change of ownership of the concessionaire of Navi Mumbai International Airport (NMIA). The GVK Group-led Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL) was constructing the NMIA, which was taken over by Adani Airport Holdings, and thus required the state government’s approval. The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting following a recommendation made by the project control and implementation committee headed by the chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, the officials said.Cidco, the nodal agency for the project, had awarded the contract for construction of the airport in October 2017 to M/s GVK-led consortium—Mumbai International Airport Limited.However, Adani Group recently acquired GVK Airport Developers Limited’s 50.50% stake. This change in ownership has been approved by the Directorate of Civil Aviation (DGCA), Airport Authority of India (AAI), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), Competition Commission of India. The board of directors of Cidco too have approved the change in ownership, said a senior official privy to the development.The first phase of the much-delayed Navi Mumbai airport project is expected to be completed in 2023. The ₹16,000-crore project is said to be one of the world’s largest greenfield airports with two parallel runways of 3,700 metres and full-length taxiways that are 1,550 metres apart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-approves-ownership-change-of-navi-mumbai-airport-101624471843330.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Illicit liquor, public drinking on radar of Noida officials||Gautam Budh Nagar Police and excise officers on Tuesday nabbed two people allegedly involved in illicit liquor trade in the district and busted their operation in Rabupura area. “We found 50 litre of adulterated raw alcohol from their possession along with five kg urea and 100 gram ammonium chloride. Equipment used in producing illegal adulterating was also found,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.Police officials said that five other members of the gang are absconding and a search is on for them. They were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the UP Excise Act.“Most of the illegal supply found here is smuggled from neighbouring states, especially Haryana. However, we have been on alert for a few weeks. The stock has been verified by our inspectors and we don’t have any major issues currently,” said district excise officer, RK Singh.Noida Police has also been cracking down on public drinking. Over 720 people have been prosecuted under section 290 of the IPC (public nuisance, which is a bailable offence) in the past 48 hours, they said. “On Tuesday evening, 364 people were booked while 363 were booked on Monday evening for consuming alcohol at public places like parks or markets,” said a police spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/illicit-liquor-public-drinking-on-radar-of-noida-officials-101624471783284.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Mercury soars, air quality worsens in Noida as monsoon delayed||Noida: The daytime mercury in the city on Wednesday crossed 40 degrees Celsius (°C) mark — a six degrees rise over the past two days — as the delayed monsoon led to dry weather in the region. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the maximum temperature will hover around 41°C on Thursday as well. IMD also said that the monsoon is only expected in the first week of July, refusing to give a fixed date.On Wednesday, IMD recorded maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida at 40.5°C and 28°C, respectively, against 39.8°C and 27.4°C a day earlier. On Monday, Noida had recorded the daytime temperature at 34°C.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the National Capital Region, the maximum and minimum temperatures on Wednesday were recorded at 40.7°C and 28.6°C, respectively.“The monsoon has been delayed and is only expected to arrive in the first week of July. The dry westerly winds would continue, and the maximum temperature may rise slightly on Thursday. There are chances of patchy rains on June 25 and 26 due to formation of convective cloud, which may lead to slight drop in mercury but not below 38°C,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.On June 11, the IMD had forecast that the south-west monsoon would hit the region by June 15. However, in a later forecast, the Met department said that its arrival was delayed by 10-12 days.The monsoon generally hits the region late June with 65cm (long period average) of rainfall expected between June 1 and September 30 and considered normal for Delhi-NCR, including Noida (average based on old records). Last year, however, the region received 57.6cm of rainfall, which was about 88% of long period average. Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad deteriorated from ‘moderate’ to ‘poor’ category over the past 24 hours “due to transport of dust from arid region”, pollution monitoring agencies said.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday was 227 (‘poor’) against 127 a day earlier. Similarly, the AQI of Greater Noida was 240 against 116 a day earlier, while Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 225 against 137 a day earlier. An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the pollution levels are likely to spike for short range of time. “Surface winds are moderate and westerly. Although ventilation is favourable for dispersion, an increase in dust long-range transport is expected for the next three days. AQI is likely to deteriorate,” said a SAFAR statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-soars-air-quality-worsens-in-noida-as-monsoon-delayed-101624471723986.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Man arrested for rape of wife’s sister||Noida: A 25-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raping his wife’s younger sister. The suspect was identified as Ajit Kumar, a resident of Aligarh, said police. Umesh Bahadur, SHO, Jewar police station, said that Kumar had married a woman from Jewar two years ago. However, the couple had some differences a few months after the marriage and Kumar’s wife started living at her parents’ house in Jewar, police said. According to police, the suspect had visited his in-laws’ house in January 2020 and fled with his wife’s 18-year-old younger sister. The family members launched a search but failed to trace them. The suspect’s father-in-law then filed a case against him under Section 363 (kidnapping) of IPC on January 1, 2020, at Jewar police station, police said. Police said that the woman returned home two months ago and informed her family that Kumar kept her in a rented accommodation in Banda district and sexually abused her. The suspect had been at large since then, Bahadur said, adding that he was arrested from Jewar village on Wednesday. “A case was registered against him for kidnapping. Later, he was also charged under Section 376 (rape) of IPC. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-rape-of-wife-s-sister-101624471723337.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Police drones to fly over GB Nagar soon||The Gautam Budh Nagar police department is planning to use drones more frequently in the district, said police.This is part of the police’s “Safe City” project for which the Union ministry of home affairs had approved ₹180 crore from its Nirbhaya Fund last year. The city was the second in Uttar Pradesh to be selected for the scheme after Lucknow.“Drones will soon fly and monitor the Noida and Greater Noida areas for safety purposes,” said additional commissioner of police (additional CP) Pushpanjali.The Safe City will be implemented with support from different industrial development authorities (Noida authority, Yamuna Expressway authority among others) besides help from the transport department. Other measures include CCTV on the roads and crossings and “Pink Police Booths” for women.On Tuesday, it was also decided to introduce 10 more police stations keeping in mind the district’s future requirements– six in Noida area and four in Greater Noida/Jewar. The district presently has 22 police stations, including one exclusively for women.On Tuesday, Gautam Budh Nagar police commissioner Alok Singh met with the additional director general (UP Police Awas Nigam) Hari Ram Sharma where it was decided that, in addition to new stations, there would be police barracks and hostels as well.Additional CP Pushpanjali said the development was keeping in mind the new international airport that is slated to come up at Jewar. The proposed police stations will be at Noida Phase 1, Sectors 142, 63, 115 and 106, Okhla Barrage; and Sectors 18/6A, 29, 25A and Dayanatpur village in Greater Noida, said the officer.Additional CP Pushpanjali said that the Noida Authority has allotted land for the Phase 1 station in Harolla village Sector 5. “The Phase 1 police station will be developed over an acre. For Sector 142 police station, a 4,300 square meter plot has been identified and the allotment will be made soon,” she said, adding that the government had approved these two stations.Police said they have been allotted land for stations in most other sectors too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-drones-to-fly-over-gb-nagar-soon-101624471603913.html
23-06-2021||Other||Yogi pays tributes to Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath paid tributes to Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee on his death anniversary on Wednesday. Dr Mukherjee was the founder of the Bharatiya Jan Sangh, the predecessor to the Bharatiya Janata Party. Speaking on the occasion at Civil hospital here, Yogi praised the Prime Minister and home minister for abrogation of Article 370 and said this was a dream of Dr Mukherjee. “Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee gave a vision to the country but when the Congress government came to power, he dedicated himself to the service of Bharat Mata. When the then central government added Article 370 in the Constitution, he opposed it. He gave a slogan: ‘Ek desh mein do pradhan, do vidhan aur do nishan nahi challenge.’ He became the victim of a conspiracy on this day in 1953. His sacrifice became the basis for the unity of India,” said the CM. “We all appreciate PM Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah who fulfilled the dream of Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee and removed Article 370 in August 2019. This connected Jammu and Kashmir with the mainstream and they prepared the roadmap of development with the pledge to eliminate terrorism from the Valley. J&K is connected with development mainstream now,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-pays-tributes-to-dr-shyama-prasad-mukherjee-101624471543794.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Noida to get two more STPs by December||NOIDA: The deadline of two sewage treatment plants, which are being built in sectors 123 and 168, has been reduced by nine months, the Noida authority said on Wednesday. Officials said that the ₹259 crore project will now be completed by December this year. The authority had in August 2020 started work on the project with a deadline of September 2022. “We are constructing two new STPs as per the needs. These two facilities will benefit the residential areas near the project sites,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The authority is constructing a 100 million litre per day (MLD) capacity STP in Sector 168 and another 80 MLD capacity STP in Sector 123. The treated water from the two STPs will be used for irrigation and horticulture purposes, thereby saving precious groundwater, the officials said.“Both the STPs will be completed by December 2021 as we have expedited the work after restrictions of Covid-19 pandemic were lifted last week,” said an authority official, not authorised to speak to media.Notably, Sector 168 already has an STP (40 MLD capacity) and Sector 123 has a 35 MLD STP. But the authority decided to construct two more STPs in these two areas, where new residential and commercial development is taking place. At present, the city has a total of six STPs -- two (34MLD and 25MLD capacities) in Sector 50, two (33MLD and 54MLD) in Sector 54, and one each in sectors 123 and 168. The proposed STP in Sector 168 will treat the sewage from newly developed group housing complexes located in sectors 128, 129, 130, 135, 150 and 151, among others, while the Sector 123 STP will cater to sectors 118, 119, 120 and 121, among other areas, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-get-two-more-stps-by-december-101624471543287.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rampant speed limit violations in cities, says survey||Over 90% of the 35,000 plus surveyed vehicles violated speed limits in cities like Pune, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nashik, covering 34 key roads, including highways like the Mumbai-Pune highway and the Pune-Bangalore highway, found a recent speed survey conducted by Parisar, an NGO from Pune,Similarly, the survey found that 83% of the drivers travelling on the Mumbai-Agra highway violated the speed limit, while 55% of the drivers travelling on the Pune-Bangalore highway, which has a speed limit of 50 km/h, violated the speed limit. So was the case on the Pune-Nashik highway where 80% of the drivers violated the speed limitFollowing the survey, Parisar has written to the director-general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey to lower permissible speed limits in urban areas and to adopt appropriate and strong enforcement measures to curb speed violations across state.“Our survey shows that vehicles are speeding with impunity. This is despite the fact that there is a minimum ₹1,000 fine for this offence,” said Ranjit Gadgil, program director, Parisar. “The Supreme Court-appointed Committee on road safety has also asked states to take ‘strong and urgent measures to deal with over speeding’ and directed them to suspend the violator’s licence for a period not less than three months. Enforcement of the speed law is not happening adequately,” he added.According to the National Crime Records Bureau 7.58 lakh people lost their lives in road accidents in 2019. Maharashtra has ranked second for the maximum number of road accidents after Tamil Nadu. The state also stood in the second position in terms of fatalities in road accidents with 14,608 deaths in 2019.According to the Maharashtra highway traffic police, 51,495 persons lost their lives in the state in road accidents between 2016 and 2019, while 82,527 people were seriously injured in road accidents in this period. According to the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways report of 2019, Uttar Pradesh recorded the highest 22,655 road crash deaths or 15% of total deaths in 2019 across the country, followed by Maharashtra, which recorded 12,788 or 8.5% of the total deaths in India.Sandeep Gaikwad, senior program associate at Parisar said, “We need to see enforcement agencies showing urgency to enforce speed laws on the road.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-rampant-speed-limit-violations-in-cities-says-survey-101624471484081.html
23-06-2021||Other||‘Atulya Ganga Parikrama’concludes in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: The 5530-km-long ‘Atulya Ganga Parikrama 2020-21’, spanning 190-days culminated here on Wednesday. A team of Atulya Ganga, an organisation formed by Army veterans and civil volunteers, conducted a ‘hawan’ to mark the successful completion of the yatra at Samudra Koop, Jhunsi. Earlier, the team of Atulya Ganga undertook a 7-km walk from Phaphamau to Samudra Koop in Jhunsi, marking the last leg of the journey. The Parikrama had commenced from Prayagraj on December 16, 2020. On Thursday, a formal function to mark the end of the ‘Atulya Ganga Parikrama 2020-21’ (Prayagraj-Gangasagar-Gangotri-Prayagraj) would be held at the Circuit House where the team members would share the ‘The Parikrama Story’ followed by a brief felicitation ceremony for the walkers. One of the organising members of the yatra, Abhay Mishra said that ‘Atulya Ganga’ was envisaged to be a massive mass movement with youth participation. This was to be an endeavour for 11 years (2020-2030) with its main pillars being ‘Ganga Parikrama’ or Walkathon, pollution mapping, tree plantation drives and youth mobilization. “This was the biggest ever Indian walk for the cause of vanishing Indian rivers. On the walk, a dedicated team geotagged, measured and recorded every source of pollutant discharged into the Ganga. As part of Vrikshmaal Drive’, thousands of trees like Bargad, Neem and Peepal were also planted by ‘Atulya Ganga’ team in the flood plains as part of this initiative. The team planted over 30,000 trees with tree-mentor and locations nominated at the sites for ensuring high survival of saplings,” explained Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/atulya-ganga-parikrama-concludes-in-prayagraj-101624471363342.html
23-06-2021||Gurugram||Residents’ associations joined forces to deal with Covid-19 second wave||As the second wave of Covid-19 hit the city hard over the last two months, with thousands of new cases being reported every day, 59 residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) joined forces to support one another with essential supplies and medical aid for infected persons in their societies as the healthcare infrastructure was overburdened.Coming under the banner of RWAs United (RU), the association set up Covid-19 care centres, arranged vaccination camps in residential areas, arranged for regular oxygen supply and ensured timely collection of biomedical waste, after receiving the administration’s approval for the same.“The tragedy and urgency of the situation led to this pan-city RWA group,” said Jyoti Ahuja, the joint secretary of Vatika City RWA, which was one of the founding members of RU in 2019, to promote cooperation among friends and acquaintances living in different societies.Since April, the group expanded from a collective of dozen RWAs of societies located on Sohna Road to include 59 members from across the city.Pawan Tharwani, the president of Carlton Estate Condominium Association, which is a member of RU, highlighted that the collective played an important role in saving the lives of residents. “Our biggest challenge was in late April, when there was no availability of oxygen cylinders anywhere in Delhi-NCR. During this time, all the RU members kept passing leads in the hope of a breakthrough,” said Tharwani. “Finally, one of the members was able to find an oxygen plant in Haridwar that was willing to fill empty cylinders. For seven to 10 days, a vehicle was sent to Haridwar every alternative day to refill cylinders,” he said, adding that the transportation costs were borne by 10-12 RWAs that were in dire need of oxygen cylinders for their residents.Amid making alternative arrangements, the RU was also simultaneously engaged with the district administration for the procurement of oxygen cylinders. “The administration eventually heeded to our demand and registered RWAs for the distribution of oxygen cylinders. Those two weeks were the most challenging for RU, but they were also the most rewarding as we were able to help and perhaps, save many lives,” said Tharwani. Ahuja said that the purpose of this group is to learn and benefit from each others’ experiences and share good practices with one other. “We believe that we will all benefit and achieve more if we come together on common issues and concerns. A united front of RWAs will give us much greater strength and leverage with authorities and government departments to resolve our issues. None of us has prior experience or training in governing our societies, but we learn from each others’ experiences,” said Ahuja.Tharwani said that there are some basic guidelines for the members of this group.“We don’t have any leadership positions in RU. Every member is equal. We believe in representing ourselves to the authorities without any intermediary. Anyone can put up a new idea or proposal for consideration on our Whatsapp group and have it discussed by all present for merit and any improvements or suggestions. With majority consensus it is then forwarded to authorities under a common letterhead,” said Tharwani.Tharwani said that new members have to adhere to a list of guidelines. “Filling up an online form is mandatory for joining RU, in order to authenticate and verify credentials of said RWA. RU can accommodate a maximum of two governing body members from any single residential area,” said Tharwani.Gurugram mayor Madhu Azad commended the group on coming together and said that such associations are vital for getting concerns and demands of residents passed on to the government to expedite resolutions. “Unions and joint groups often lead to positive outcomes. It becomes much easier for the government to pass on directions as well as address queries through a single channel. It not only streamlines the process of dispersing information but also ensures that the maximum number of citizens receive vital and above all, genuine information, through one common entity,” said Azad.Even as the number of Covid-19 cases has decreased this month, members of the association said that they are looking to expand the group further. They said that they will coordinate on civic issues, such as exchanging numbers of contractors who have carried out painting work, built colony roads and fixed electrical transformers, among others.“Under RU, RWA members are exchanging information with each other regarding measures that help in running the society efficiently, discussing ambiguities in laws, holding election processes and sharing concerns with authorities, among other such matters. Our aim to incorporate at least 100 RWAs under this group by the end of this year and serve as a common voice and changemaker in the city,” said Nilesh Tandon, the president of Fresco Apartments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-associations-joined-forces-to-deal-with-covid-19-second-wave-101624471186024.html
23-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Men account for 61.5% of total vaccinations in district||As many as 61.5% of the residents who have been vaccinated so far are men, while women account for only 38% of the total in Gurugram, an analysis of data available on the Co-WIN platform revealed. Experts say that while the existing gender disparity plays a role here, setting up vaccination services near residence will help in reducing the gender gap in vaccination.As per the data, of 1,056, 946 people who have been vaccinated with at least one dose in the district till now, 650, 749 are men, while 406,197 are women. At the state level too, 3,801,804 men have been vaccinated while 3,056, 294 women have received their first dose of Covid-19 shot. The trend was also observed in neighbouring Delhi, where 3,004,947 men and 2,173,101 women have been vaccinated, as per the Co-WIN data.The Co-WIN app, however, did not display data regarding transgender persons in the district.Going by the 2011 census for Gurugram, out of the 1.5 million population, about 800,000 are men while 700,000 are women, with the sex ratio of 854 females to 1,000 males, reflecting the existing gender gap in the population. The chief medical officer for Gurugram, Dr Virender Yadav, said that the health department has been holding vaccinations at all health centres to facilitate people in getting vaccinated. “Many women in rural and semi-urban areas cannot move out easily due to responsibilities or sometimes, they are hesitant to go out on their own. They need the male member of the family to assist them. These factors restrict the (lower) footfall of women,” said Yadav. Vaccination started in the district on January 16, with the inoculation of healthcare workers, followed by front-line workers. It gradually opened for people above 60 years, followed by those above 45 years and then for people in the 18-45 age bracket. The pace of vaccination has picked up in June, with almost 400,000 vaccine doses administered in the last 23 days. On Wednesday, about 12, 419 doses were administered, out of which 7,494 were administered at government health centres while 4,925 were administered at private hospitals in the district. Of the total doses, about 9,437 inoculations were of people in the 18-45 age group, followed by coverage of 2,849 people aged above 45 years. At least 59 healthcare workers and 83 front-line workers and their family members also took the vaccine shot. Senior epidemiologist Dr Rajesh Kumar, the former head of community medicine department and school of public health, PGIMER-Chandigarh, said, “Near-to-home vaccination services started in a few states to cover elderly and persons with disability will help those women who are not able to move out easily due to household chores or restrictions on the movement. It is still a challenge for many women to stand in a queue for hours to take the vaccine shot. In many cases, families prefer getting male vaccinated instead of women. The existing gender gap also casts its impact on the overall vaccination number.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19men-account-for-61-5-of-total-vaccinations-in-district-101624471185438.html
23-06-2021||Other||2 bodies pulled out of Ganga Canal, believed to be mishap victims||MEERUT Two decomposed bodies were recovered from two cars in the Ganga Canal at two different locations in Muzaffarnagar district on Monday. The cars were spotted by passers-by on Monday evening after flow of water in the canal was controlled for desilting work. Police used cranes to pull out the cars and found one decomposed body in each car. SSP of Muzaffarnagar Abhishek Yadav said, “Post mortem examination reports confirmed that the deaths were due to drowning and the bodies were handed over to family members for last rites”. He said that district magistrate Selva Kumari J had directed the officials of the department concerned to put up proper reflectors on the canal side road and also to construct protection walls. The first car was spotted in Ratanpur area and was pulled out with the help of a crane. A decomposed body was found on the back seat and the man was identified as Dilshad Ansari (33) by the driving license recovered. He was a resident of Lakhaan village in Muzaffarnagar and had gone to meet his elder brother in Kukda village on January 17. He left the house at midnight to fetch some people from IGI Airport but neither reached there, nor returned to his village. His family lodged a complaint of missing in Nai Mandi police station on January 22. Police informed his family members about the incident and recovery of his body. Similarly, passers-by spotted a car near Chitaura Jhal after the water level receded. When the car was pulled out of the water a decomposed corpse was recovered and later identified as a retired LIC officer Harendra Atrey (62), who lived with his family in Dwarika City colony of Muzaffarnagar. He was also missing since February 11 and identified through some papers of LIC recovered from his car. A canal side road bifurcates from Moradnagar town in Ghaziabad which goes to Haridwar and commuters use it as an alternative route to go to Haridwar, Rishikesh and Dehradun. Many incidents have been reported in past years when cars fell into the deep water of the canal after drivers lost control over the wheel. These two cars are also believed to have fallen into the canal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-bodies-pulled-out-of-ganga-canal-believed-to-be-mishap-victims-101624471184060.html
23-06-2021||Gurugram||No water supply, police curtailing movement, allege Khori Gaon residents||Residents of Khori village in Faridabad, where about 10,000 houses built illegally on Aravalli land are to be demolished, on Wednesday alleged that increased police presence in the area has brought their daily life to a halt. Residents said that neither are water tankers being allowed to enter the village nor are they being allowed to move out for basic things, such as going to work or seeing a doctor. The police, however, denied the allegations.Sapna, a resident of Khori village, said that only those residents who are packing their belongings and leaving the village are being allowed to move freely. “Water and electricity supply to the village have already been disconnected for over a week and now, police deployed outside the village are not even allowing water tankers to enter. Many houses do not even have drinking water and are being forced to drink dirty water,” she said.Nirmal Gorana, the general secretary of Bandhua Mukti Morcha, an organisation that has been working with the residents of Khori village to seek rehabilitation, said, “In the past two days, police deployment has increased in the area and the main problem that the residents are facing is of water, as tankers are not being allowed to enter. The situation is such that the residents are neither able to live in their own homes nor find a new place elsewhere, as they do not have the financial strength.”Residents of Khori have been vacating their homes since the Supreme Court, on June 7, ordered the demolition of slums encroaching on the Aravalli forest area in Faridabad district, holding that there cannot be a “compromise or concession on forest land”. Residents, however, have been demanding rehabilitation since then, but haven’t received any response from the authorities yet. Last week, a 70-year-old man, who had recently completed the construction of his house by spending around ₹3 lakh, allegedly killed himself, fearing that his house would be demolished.“As the lockdown guidelines have been eased a bit, many residents are trying to go outside to look for temporary jobs, but with movement being stopped, how are we supposed to do that? A group of residents had planned to peacefully march till Delhi to the Prime Minister’s office to share our demands, but that was also stopped by the police officials,” said a resident, who did not wish to be named. Officials of Faridabad police said that around 150 police personnel have been deployed at Khori village and checkpoints have been set up at all entry points of the village. Refuting the allegations of the residents, Sube Singh, spokesperson for Faridabad Police, said, “Police have set up checkpoints at entry points of the village from a safety point of view, to ensure that outsiders do not spread violence or misinformation in the village. Residents of Khori are being allowed to move freely.” Officials of the district administration also said that water supply through tankers is being continued to the village. “Water tankers might not be allowed to enter the village but tankers are regularly being sent to the area and stationed at particular points from where villagers can carry the water,” said Pankaj Kumar, the subdivisional magistrate of Badhkal, which comprises Khori village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/no-water-supply-police-curtailing-movement-allege-khori-gaon-residents-101624471183270.html
23-06-2021||Gurugram||Material recovery facilities to replace secondary waste collection points||To reduce the load on the Bandhwari landfill, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is planning to develop material recovery facilities, for segregating waste at a secondary level, officials said on Wednesday. Currently, all waste collected from households is dumped at a waste collection point or waste pit, marked as secondary points, from where it is carried to the landfill for processing. During an interaction with MCG councillors on Monday, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja said that the civic body is changing its waste collection strategy and setting up material recovery facilities to replace all existing secondary collection points. The facilities, he said, will be used for segregating waste, from which recycled items can be sold to private companies. “There is a big difference between sitting in Chandigarh and seeing Gurugram on the ground. We all (officials and councillors) have to work together to make Gurugram a better city. Officials have been directed to make the city garbage and polythene free. Under this, material recovery facilities will be developed instead of pits or secondary waste points,” said Ahuja, who, until last month, served as the deputy commissioner of Panchkula.During the meeting, Ahuja also apprised councillors that Ecogreen, the MCG’s concessionaire for door-to-door collection of waste, and the civic body’s sanitation wing officials have been directed to set up these facilities. MCG officials said that a material recovery facility is a key component in the Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules, 2016.A senior official, requesting anonymity, said “Besides reducing the load on the landfill, a material recovery facility helps in saving and earning money. With the load of waste reducing, the quantity of waste carried to the landfill, and the number of trips to carry it also reduces, thereby saving fuel and transportation costs. The sale of recycled waste then helps in generating money.” The official said that in a nutshell, a material recovery facility will have various types of machines to segregate waste at different stages, through which items such as plastics, glass bottles, metals and paper, among other such items, can be recovered, recycled, and sold. MCG officials said that a survey is currently underway to determine the exact quantity and type of waste that is generated across the city to determine the amount of potential waste that can be recycled and the number of facilities needed for it.“The initial process for setting up MRFs has already commenced. Land has been earmarked at three locations, including Carterpuri and Sector 43, for the facilities. As per the agreement, the MCG will be responsible for setting up the boundary wall while Ecogreen will set up the facility and maintain its day-to-day operations,” said Sanjeev Sharma, official spokesperson, Ecogreen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/material-recovery-facilities-to-replace-secondary-waste-collection-points-101624471123940.html
23-06-2021||Gurugram||Illegal road on forest land closed near Damdama||Taking action against illegal encroachments in the Aravallis, the Gurugram forest department shut one such route used near Damdama, officials said on Wednesday.Officials from the forest department said that they found that locals had constructed a road that was more than the approved length on the pretext of repairing a road to a local temple. “We had learnt from the villagers that they wanted to repair a kachha road leading to a temple in Damdama near Rojkagujar, but when our staff visited the area, they saw that the villagers had formed the road on more than required area, which can be used for illegal mining. The road connects around 12 villages and around four small lanes had also been carved out. But as the work continued for a longer duration, we found it was suspicious. We blocked the road after an inspection by our team,” a forest official from the Sohna forest range said.Encroachments in the Aravallis of Gurugram and Faridabad have increased in the past two months of Covid-19 induced lockdown. Earlier this month, encroachments were reported at the Aravalli Biodiversity Park near Nathupur village in Gurugram, along with similar incidents being reported from Faridabad. In May, a wall was built across one acre of Aravalli land in Faridabad, in a fresh encroachment attempt. In March, a little over 25 acres of forest land in Ankhir village of Faridabad forest division was also found encroached.In another incident, reported from Mangar village in Faridabad, locals alleged that four acres of Aravalli land were levelled on Tuesday.Raj Kumar, the divisional forest officer Faridabad forest division, said, “I learnt from locals that levelling of land was being done with fresh mud dumped on an encroached plot in the Aravallis. We sent a team for inspection to the site on Wednesday and I am waiting for a report from them.” The land in question is notified under special sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Preservation Act that extends protection against land-use change to certain specified Aravalli areas, forests and trees. Sunil Harsana, a resident of Faridabad, said, “This land was encroached upon around 2017 and some or the other work like fencing, dumping of mud is being carried out at regular intervals. Due to the lockdown, it has been easier to encroach Aravalli land and in the latest incident, around four acres have been levelled for further construction.” After several complaints were made by citizens’ groups over encroachments and illegal mining taking place in the Aravallis, authorities have increased vigil over illegal activities. On June 1, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had written to all forest and police officials to take action against illegal activities being reported from the Aravallis and submit a report. The deputy chief minister was responding to complaints registered by a Gurugram based citizens’ group, Aravalli Bachao. Neelam Ahluwalia, of Aravalli Bachao, said, “After the deputy chief minister wrote to all the authorities seeking reports, the officials are more alert as encroachments and illegal mining activities increased a lot during the lockdown. We had been repeatedly writing to all forest and police staff, reporting about such illegal mining activities. The Aravallis need to be saved for the future generations of Delhi-NCR as, otherwise, residents would choke from dust storms while our natural water resources also continue to get affected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-road-on-forest-land-closed-near-damdama-101624471123331.html
23-06-2021||Other||At a joint panchayat, SP and RLD allege zila panchayat members being framed||: The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) convened a joint panchayat at the SP office in Baghpat on Wednesday over their workers being named in alleged ‘fake cases’. They demanded withdrawal of ‘fake cases’ registered against some zila panchayat members and their family and alleged they were being registered on their workers and zila panchayat members to pressurise them to vote in support of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate in zila panchayat presidents’ election on July 3. At the over three-hour long panchayat, they warned officials of serious consequences if this continued. RLD general secretaries Rajendra Sharma, Dr Marijuddin Ahmad, former MLA Veerpal Rathi, party’s Baghpat president, Jagpal Singh Teotia, SP’s district president Manoj Choudhary, Khap Thambedar Brijpal Singh and Deshkhap Choudhary Surendra Singh who attended the panchayat later handed over a memorandum to the officials, accusing them of working at the behest of the ruling BJP. “Officials have assured of fair investigation in all the cases registered against zila panchayat members,” Dr Mairajuddin said. RLD leader Kuldeep Ujjwal said that panchayat has warned officials against framing their party members. Baghpat has 20 zila panchayat members. A candidate requires support of 11 members to ensure victory. The district is a reserved seat for dalit woman. In panchayat elections RLD backed candidates won 8 seats, SP backed candidates won 4 while independent candidates bagged 4 seats. BJP won 4 seats but later a SP zila panchayat member defected to the BJP and was declared BJP candidate. RLD and SP are fighting together, and their leaders claim support of 14 members, including 3 independents. The RLD and SP leaders claimed that four cases were registered against SP’s elected zila panchayat member Mehmoob Alvi and his family members after Alvi’s win on May 2. His brother and two sons were taken into custody for interrogation on June 20 after a case under SC/ST was registered against them on June 19. They pointed out case of another zila panchayat member, Shahida, who was backed by RLD and won. ‘Her sons were accused of being involved in a firing incident in the village,” the leaders said. “We had given memorandum to IG (Meerut zone) Praveen Kumar who has directed district officials to be fair in their action, but nothing happened,” said RLD secretary Kuldeep Ujjwal who was present at the panchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-a-joint-panchayat-sp-and-rld-allege-zila-panchayat-members-being-framed-101624470403271.html
23-06-2021||Other||Now, Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad mulls ways to prevent religious conversions||PRAYAGRAJ: Following arrest of two persons from the state recently who were allegedly involved in religious conversions, the Akhil Bhartiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) has decided to convene an emergency meeting of all 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders and decide on steps to be taken to put a stop to such practices. ABAP’s president Mahant Narendra Giri said that we must provide an equal opportunity to all so that such incidents can be stopped.“Past experiences have shown us that those, who have been neglected or who have been treated as outcasts, have often taken refuge in other religions. We will request all Hindus to rise above the caste lines and not to treat anyone as inferior while ensuring that they do not create circumstances wherein someone changes his or her religion”, said Mahant Narendra Giri.He said that soon a meeting of the representatives of all the 13 akharas would be held and the only agenda would be to ask disciples and common Hindus to rise above the caste system and mull over the steps for bringing back those who have changed their religion. “We have always advocated welcoming back those who have switched over to other religions and our seers and disciples would be given the task to make people aware of the need to rise above the narrow caste system. Juna Akhara and for that matter even ABAP does not believe in caste system because of which even dalit have been appointed as Mahamandeleshwars,” said Mahant Hari Giri, ABAP general secretary and chief patron of Juna Akhara, the largest of the 13 akharas in terms of members.The decision of the ABAP comes close on the heels of their earlier stand advocating for bringing a legal draft for population control. Narendra Giri, in a press statement had said that the seers have already been demanding that the ever-increasing population in the country should be controlled. He had said that under the Population Control Act it should be ensured that couples, irrespective of their religion, should have only two children.He said that if the population growth in the country is not stopped by bringing a law, then there may be a big population explosion in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-akhil-bhartiya-akhara-parishad-mulls-ways-to-prevent-religious-conversions-101624470283219.html
23-06-2021||Other||Jewar airport: YIAPL clears proposal seeking extended financial close||The Yamuna International Airport Ltd (YIAPL) board cleared the proposal seeking 120 days’ time for financial closure after the State Bank of India (SBI) recently sanctioned ₹3,725 crore loan for the development of Noida International Airport in its 10th meeting chaired by chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari here on Wednesday. The YIAPL is the special purpose vehicle (SPV) of the Zurich Airport, the company that is setting up the airport at Jewar. A status report on the progress of the work done so far to develop the Noida International Greenfield Airport at Jewar was also presented in the meeting, In his presentation YIAPL chief executive officer Arun Veer Singh said the SBI had sanctioned a loan of ₹3,725 crore to the developer, the Zurich Airport’s SPV. He said the company needed 120 days’ time for financial close and the board cleared this proposal. The CEO also said in the meeting the developer had prepared a revised master plan for the airport. The CEO said the revised master plan would be sent to the civil aviation ministry and other agencies for approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jewar-airport-yiapl-clears-proposal-seeking-extended-financial-close-101624470103382.html
23-06-2021||Lucknow||Don’t harass small defaulters during disconnection drive: UP power min||: Energy minister Shrikant Sharma on Wednesday directed discom managing directors (MDs) to personally monitor power disconnection drives and ensure that small defaulters were not harassed. Holding a meeting here he said focus should be on big defaulters and that too after giving them an opportunity for clearing their dues. “Knock at big defaulters’ door for three months asking them to pay their dues before snapping their supply,” he said. “Disconnection per se is not the solution to the problem,” he added. The minister directed MDs to regularly monitor disposal of power supply related complaints received on the 1912 helpline and through social media platforms and advised them to carry out random reality checks to know the truth. Sharma warned that no laxity with regard to power supply maintenance would be tolerated. He said all possible measures should be taken to provide power to consumers as per the roster without extra load shedding. He said people’s representatives including village pradhans must be informed about emergency rostering, if and when any, in their areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dont-harass-small-defaulters-during-disconnection-drive-up-power-min-101624469923306.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Delivery of services by HUDA: RTS commission cracks whip on Gurugram, Panchkula, Faridabad estate officers||Cracking the whip on the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA), also known as Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), the Right to Service (RTS) Commission on Wednesday issued notices to two estate officers of Gurugram and their counterparts in Panchkula and Faridabad asking them to appear before the commission to explain deficiency in delivery of services.The estate officers have been asked to produce documents pertaining to instances where they failed to deliver notified services.The estate officers of HSVP, besides managing the urban estates by selling developed and undeveloped plots, are also responsible for pursuing matters pertaining to construction activities within the framework of construction and building byelaws.Sixteen services pertaining to HSVP including sanctioning of building plans, grant of completion and occupation certificates, issuance of conveyance deed, transfer permission, no dues certificate, change of ownership, demarcation of plots, and water and sewerage connection have been notified for time-bound delivery under the Right to Service Act.Secretary to the commission, Meenaxee Raj, said chief commissioner of Haryana RTS Commission TC Gupta has ordered issuing of notices for July 8 and 9 to four estate officers in exercise of powers of civil court conferred by the Right to Service Act.The commission constituted under the Haryana Right to Service Act aims to provide delivery of service to citizens in a time-bound manner.Raj said the commission has the powers to take suo motu notice of failure to deliver services. It also has the powers to initiate inquiries against government departments which fail to deliver services falling under the ambit of the commission.Separate notices issued to HSVP estate officers I and II of Gurugram, Panchkula and Faridabad said it has been ascertained that these estate officers have failed to deliver or delayed delivery of notified services in accordance with this Act in many cases.Thus, it has been decided by the commission to initiate suo motu inquiries to ascertain whether services have been delivered to the applicants who applied between January 1 and March 31 this year within notified timelines or not, to ascertain names of officials responsible for non-delivery or delays in delivery of services, to decide whether imposition of penalty or recommendation of departmental action is called for, the notices read.The commission said that it also intended to review and re-fix the timelines prescribed for delivery of services notified by the HSVP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delivery-of-services-by-huda-rts-commission-cracks-whip-on-gurugram-panchkula-faridabad-estate-officers-101624469324029.html
23-06-2021||Other||Karnal admn issues notices to 9 pvt hospitals for overcharging Covid patients||As many as 481 Covid-19 patients were forced to pay ₹57.17 lakh more than the prescribed rates by nine private hospitals in Karnal during the second wave of the pandemic.This came to light in the investigation report of a panel formed to examine hospital bills of all private Covid hospitals in district.The notices were served to these hospitals following an investigation by the panel formed by the Karnal deputy commissioner under Dr Aditi, managing director of the Karnal sugar mill.These hospitals have been asked to refund the money to the patients within a week or strict action will be taken against them.As per the report, the committee examined over 3,000 bills of patients admitted in all 15 hospitals designated for Covid patients from March 1 to 31.During the investigation, it was found that private hospitals - Virk Hospital, Ujala Cygnus, Park Hospital, Shri Ram Chander Memorial, Swastik Hospital, Arpana Hospital, Dua Multi-specialty Hospital, Amrit Dhara Hospital, RP Wellter - had allegedly overcharged from their patients.Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the panel was formed following complaints of overcharging by private hospitals. It was found that the nine hospitals took ₹57.17 lakh more than the prescribed rates.He said that one hospital has also been served show-cause notice for not providing records to the panel.The matter came to light on May 26, after one Rohit Kumar, of Assandh, filed a complaint with the deputy commissioner alleging that a private hospital charged around ₹4.62 lakh (including ₹44,000 for 22 PPE kits used by doctors) during treatment of his father from May 4 to 25.He had alleged that the hospital had charged ₹3,15,000 for Covid ICU, ₹76,000 for medicines, ₹30,000 for tests and CT scans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-admn-issues-notices-to-9-pvt-hospitals-for-overcharging-covid-patients-101624469206081.html
23-06-2021||Other||Mosque’s minaret vandalised in Mathura||Two minarets of a mosque were found to be vandalized by unidentified miscreants in a village in Mathura district on Wednesday.The incident took place in a village in the Chhata area of the district and came to light in the morning after the locals noticed and reported it, police said.Police claimed it had got the damaged minarets repaired and has registered a case against unidentified miscreants.“Police force moved to the village after minarets were found vandalized and ensured peace and tranquility in the area,” said superintendent of police (Mathura rural) Shrish Chandra. “A case has been registered at Chhata police station on complaint received from village head against unidentified persons. Strict action would be taken against those involved,” said the SP, rural.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mosques-minaret-vandalised-in-mathura-101624467283106.html
23-06-2021||Pune||‘Godmen’ asked for human sacrifice to get desired results||The “godmen” arrested for duping a businessman of ₹52 lakh with promises of making money rain, had asked for a human sacrifice of a family member as the final step to make it happen.The Pune police made this submission in a court in Pune on Wednesday to oppose a bail application made by one of the five arrested people.The court of Additional Sessions Judge Prabhakar Jadhav denied bail to Kailas Ramdas Solunke (22), a resident of Gangapurin, Aurangabad, who is in judicial custody, along with the main accused Kisan Asaram Pawar (40), Nanam Asam Solanke (35), Krushna Asaram Solanke (33), and Vijay Uttam Chavan (42), all residents of Jalna.“The bail application of Kailas Ramdas Solunke and the anticipatory bail application for his father Ramdas Solunke was rejected by the court,” said public prosecutor Premkumar Agarwal.The police have seized “Children’s Bank” notes of various denominations of the value of ₹30,90,500. The money was used to fool the complainant into believing that the conmen had a cache of money.“In the case, two more people are yet to be arrested. If the applicant accused is released on bail, he will reveal details of the investigation to those on the run and tamper with evidence crucial to the case,” read a part of the submission made by the police in the court.The police are also yet to recover the ₹52 lakh that the businessman paid from 2016 until 2020. In his complaint, the businessman had submitted that he had stopped paying the money after a point.However, the accused started bad-mouthing him saying he was going to put a curse on his family. After this, the businessman listened to the main accused who told him that only one last step was remaining before the money rain could happen - that was of human sacrifice. Since Pawar’s arrest on June 3, the police have received at least three other complainants who were also duped by him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/godmen-asked-for-human-sacrifice-to-get-desired-results-101624466683133.html
23-06-2021||Other||Fatehgarh Sahib road renamed after Diwan Todar Mal||Fatehgarh Sahib To promote the legacy of Diwan Todar Mal, who defied the Mughals to cremate the two youngest sahibzadas (sons) of the tenth Sikh master, Guru Gobind Singh, the state government has renamed the road connecting Jahaz Haveli, Todar Mal’s residence, to the main road as the Diwan Todar Mal Marg.The Jahaz Haveli, believed to be a 17th century structure resembling a sea ship, is today at Harnam Nagar village of Sirhind in Fatehgarh Sahib district. Its intricate layers of Nanakshahi bricks are unique, and add to the beauty of the heritage structure. Punjab Public Works Department (PWD) and school education minister Vijay Inder Singla, on Wednesday, said, “This is the state government’s way to express the gratitude towards his extraordinary courageous deed. Diwan Todar Mal also performed the cremation after getting the bodies from Mughals.”Singla added that the connecting road to Jahaz Haveli from the GT Road will be widened and tenders for this had already been approved. He added that apart from a small chunk of 1.5 km, which was to be used sewerage lines, the physical widening work on the remaining road will start soon. “It is our endeavour to unleash the potential of services and schemes in the state, For this, we are preparing state-of-the-art infrastructure in the entire state by way of constructing roads, buildings and bridges,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fatehgarh-sahib-road-renamed-after-diwan-todar-mal-101624465244047.html
23-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand govt extends lockdown till July 1||Giving no further relaxations, the Jharkhand government has extended the ongoing lockdown till July 1 morning. Chief secretary Sukhdev Singh issued a circular in this regard on Wednesday. It also mandates another complete lockdown during the weekend beginning 4pm on Saturday till early Monday morning. Most of the places of mass gatherings such as educational institutions, multiplexes, cinema halls, banquet halls, bars, clubs, stadium, gymnasium, swimming pools and parks will continue to remain closed, officials said. On weekdays, however, all kinds of shops, malls, departmental stores, government and private offices will continue to operate till 4pm across all 24 districts. “The threat from the pandemic is still not over. We are in the middle of a second wave with a probability of a third their wave. So, we have decided to extend the restrictions for another week. I request people to follow protocols set by the government,” chief minister Hemant Soren told media persons at the state Secretariat. As per the standing order for the complete weekend lockdown, all shops including that of fruits, vegetable, grocery and sweets, which are open on weekdays, will also remain closed. However, medical emergency shops, medical equipment-related shops, petrol pumps, LPG outlets and milk stores will remain open during the 38-hour lockdown. The provision of e-pass will remain in place for interdistrict and interstate movement. Restriction on passenger bus movement, both interstate and interdistrict, will also remain in place. The state clamped lockdown-like restrictions on April 22 this year after it started witnessing a jump in daily Covid-19 cases. It has extended the lockdown multiple times since then. However, the government also gave few relaxations under its gradual unlock plan in wake of fall in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-govt-extends-lockdown-till-july-1-101624464703059.html
23-06-2021||Ranchi||Four J’khand Cong MLAs in Delhi with wish list||Four Congress MLAs from Jharkhand, including party’s state unit working president Irfan Ansari, have met their central leaders in New Delhi to discuss measures to “strengthen the party”, appointment of party leaders in state-run boards and corporations, besides staking claim for the vacant berth in the Hemant Soren cabinet. The visit comes barely three days after party’s state unit president and incumbent finance minister Rameshwar Oraon returned from Delhi after meeting top leaders. Besides Ansari, the legislators camping in Delhi are Ramgarh MLA Mamta Devi, Barhi MLA Umashankar Akela and Khijri MLA Rajesh Kacchap.The party currently has 18 legislators in 81-member Jharkhand assembly, including two former JVM (P) legislators who joined Congress following a split in their parent party after the 2019 assembly polls.Ansari said the legislators led by him met party in-charge RPN Singh on Tuesday night and general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal on Wednesday and discussed measures to strengthen the party in the state. Ansari has been one of most vocal voices in the state Congress seeking a change of guard in the state unit based on the principle of one person one post set by the central leadership. “Our senior leaders Rameshwar Oraon and Alamgir Alam are good people. However, they are holding two posts. Had I been in their place, I would have quit one so that other party workers could get chance to serve and strengthen the party,” Ansari told media persons after meeting with the central leaders. Alam, the rural development minister, also holds the post of Congress legislature party leader in the assembly. The group led by Ansari has also demanded that the vacant 12 berth in the state cabinet be filled with a Congress member. “The JMM is the lead party in the coalition government and chief minister is a very practical person. They should fill the vacant 12th berth in cabinet with a Congress member.” Congress has similar demands in the past, but JMM, which has 30 legislators, has maintained that the 12th berth would go to it whenever the CM chooses to fill it. Besides CM Soren, JMM currently has five ministers, Congress four and RJD one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/four-j-khand-cong-mlas-in-delhi-with-wish-list-101624464643928.html
23-06-2021||Patna||Patna doctor among 4 held in big ivory haul||A team of forest officials seized 35 kilograms of ivory (tusk) from a private hospital in Patna Tuesday evening and arrested four people, including a doctor.Divisional forest officer (DFO) of Patna, Ruchi Singh, said the raid was carried out on a tip-off and a team of Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) had arrested Dr Jyoti Kumar, his driver Guddu Rai and two other accomplices, Bunty Patel and Ravi Ranjan, from the premises of Chirayu hospital near Zero Mile under Agamkuan police station area of the state capital.Dr Jyoti, a resident of Hajipur, is also BJP’s district unit president in Vaishali.The seized tusks were said to be worth an estimated ₹8.50 crore in the international market.The tusks will be sent to the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) in Dehradun for chemical examination to verify if it was of Asiatic elephant and other details.The DFO said the arrested doctor kept saying during questioning that tusks were from two elephants he owned and which had died four years back. However, he failed to produce a licence for owning elephants or a postmortem report.“Even if he had an elephant, the tusks were required to be submitted to the government as per Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972,” the DFO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patnadoc-among-4-held-in-big-ivory-haul-101624464643099.html
23-06-2021||Patna||Bihar govt finally pays compensation to Munger firing victim’s kin||The Bihar government finally handed over the cheque of ₹10 lakh as compensation to the family of Anurag Poddar (18) who lost his life in the Munger police firing incident during idol immersion on October 26, 2020. Munger district magistrate (DM) Navin Kumar summoned the deceased’s father Amarnath Poddar to his office on Wednesday and handed over the cheque. The DM also handed over a compensation letter to the victim’s father.Hearing a petition filed by the victim’s father, the Patna High Court on April 7 this year observed that Poddar was not involved in any act of violence and ordered the Bihar government to pay a compensation of ₹10 lakh to the victim’s family. The state government filed a special leave petition (SLP) with the Supreme Court and challenged the order of Patna HC in the Munger firing incident. On June 4, the SC dismissed the SLP saying, “It is shocking that a young boy was shot.” A Bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and M R Shah observed that the police did not transparently investigate the case as the then Munger SP was a relative of a member of the ruling party. The Bench said, “We find no ground in interfering with the judgment and order impugned exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India.” Following the HC’s order in April, the axe finally fell on 17 police officials, including three inspectors, who were transferred to other districts. Day after the transfer of 17 policemen, the district SP Manavjeet Singh Dhillon was also shifted to Samastipur. The then DM Rajesh Meena and SP Lipi Singh were transferred from Munger on the directive of the Election Commission as the incident took place two days before the Assembly polls in the constituency..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-finally-pays-compensation-to-munger-firing-victim-s-kin-101624464583656.html
23-06-2021||Patna||Walkers heave a sigh of relief as parks open; hundreds turn up at Patna zoo||Fitness enthusiasts in capital city Patna heaved a sigh of relief on Wednesday as they came out for walks, jogging and exercise at their familiar parks and zoo after a hiatus of nearly two months.Hundreds of morning walkers and joggers also thronged Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, in compliance with Covid-19 safety protocol, officials said. At present, only botanical garden of the biological has been opened to visitors.The state government recently on Monday allowed reopening of city parks and zoo from 6am to 12pm on a daily basis under unlock 3.0 guidelines.Satyajeet Kumar, director of Patna zoo, said all precautionary measures were taken as per Covid-19 protocol.“Around 700 people visited the zoo on Wednesday. All visitors went through thermal screening and sanitisation at the entrance gate. Only botanical garden has been opened at present, while zoological area is still closed for visitors for safety reasons. Other facilities such as boating, cafeteria, 3D theatre are still not accessible.”“Wearing face mask is mandatory for visitors. A disinfectant tunnel has been set up at the entrance gate for complete sanitisation,” the zoo director said. Meanwhile, a majority of city parks such as Veer Kunwar Singh Azadi Park, Children’s Park, Energy Park and Eco Park also returned to normalcy, as people were seen walking and practising Yoga. Rajbanshi Nagar-based Navin Sinha Park welcomed visitors with roses on the reopening day. In order to ensure strict compliance of Covid-19 protocol, forest guards have been deployed at all parks across the city, while officials concerned have been instructed to regulate crowd, said principal secretary (environment) Dipak Kumar Singh. As per forest division, which runs all the 72 parks in Patna, around 3,500 to 4,000 people visited parks on Wednesday.Divya Singh, a college student who lives near Shivpuri, said, “I am glad to visit the park now. I used to walk on the terrace when parks were closed. Lockdown has affected my physical and mental wellness.”The Patna zoo and other city parks were closed since May 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/walkers-heave-a-sigh-of-relief-as-parks-open-hundreds-turn-up-at-patna-zoo-101624464583039.html
23-06-2021||Other||Endangered turtle species recovered from Rishikesh-Howrah Exp||A Railway Protection Force (RPF) team recovered as many as 48 live turtles, including an endangered species allegedly being smuggled to Kolkata, from a train at Sasaram station on Tuesday evening, officials said on Wednesday.The RPF team, based on a tip-off, carried out inspection in a coach of Rishikesh-Howrah Express at the station, following which they recovered the turtles from four bags, inspector PK Rawat said. However, the smugglers succeeded in escaping. The recovered turtles were handed over to the forest department, Rawat Said.According to divisional forest officer (DFO), Rohtas, Pradyumn Gaurav, two of the recovered turtles were 1.5 feet long and belonged to a rare Indian Softshell variety. The rest of the turtles were of the Indian flapshell variety found in rivers Ganga and Indus, and stagnant water bodies, he said.Officials suspect that the turtles were poached and brought from Rishikesh to be sent to Kolkata for supply in the international smuggling market. The Indian shoftshell turtles are in high demand as pets and also for their meat, officials said.Some of the recovered turtles are endangered species listed in schedule 1 of Wildlife Protection Act, and poaching and trafficking of the species is punishable with three to seven years’ imprisonment and forfeiting of property, the DFO said.He said the seized turtles will be produced in a court and released in River Ganga after due permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/endangered-turtle-species-recovered-from-rishikesh-howrah-exp-101624464524353.html
23-06-2021||Patna||NIA to probe links between Maoists of Bihar, Bengal, Jharkhand||The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has involved the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to probe links between Maoists from Bihar, West Bengal and Jharkhand. The ministry suspects a larger conspiracy in the seizure of arms and ammunition from the Danapur area of Patna and Karauna in Jehanabad on March 31.The Special Task Force of Bihar (STF) had arrested five Maoists, including Parshuram Singh alias Nandlal and his associate Sanjay Singh from their village Bistaul in Jehanabad while Parshuram’s two sons, Rakesh Singh and Gautam Singh, were later arrested from their residence in Gajadhar Chak locality with lathe mechanic Mohammad Badaruddin on March 31 this year.STF officials said two hand grenades, three instruction manuals for making rocket launchers, four detonators, one pressure switch, two safety fuses, numerous safety pins and grenade levers were recovered from Nandlal’s Danapur residence. Jehanabad superintendent of police (SP) Deepak Ranjan said, “The NIA is investigating the case.”According to MHA officials, the probe has revealed that arms and ammunition are being brought in the area since a long time with the help of Maoists from Jharkhand. A three-member team of NIA reached Jehanabad and inspected Nandlal’s house and orchard and recovered arms, ammunition and explosives, said an official.“A grenade launcher base was spotted for the first time in this region. Following a tip about the presence of Maoists close to Bistaul village, an NIA team began a search operation when they chanced upon the Maoists’ countrymade grenade launcher base,” an official said.Seized items included more than 600 detonators, one regular rifle, seven magazines, six rifle bolts, 25 live cartridges, two wireless sets, three police uniform, electric wire bundle, 279 detonator caps, two-strike pins, 685 safety catches, rubber washers for grenades, five partially manufactured grenades, three grenade launching bases.According to MHA, the arrested persons have been booked under sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), and the NIA will probe the case.” The team is expected to visit Jharkhand and other states to investigate the manufacturing and storage of arms and explosives,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nia-to-probe-links-between-maoists-of-bihar-bengal-jharkhand-101624464523732.html
23-06-2021||Patna||Rahul tweets concerns on ‘flood’, Bihar minister says fed wrong info||Though the real flood fury in Bihar is yet to unfold, miseries caused by the initial brush of Monsoon and heavy rainfall in Nepal, which led to inundation and waterlogging in many areas, has set off a war of words over Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi’s tweet on Wednesday.“My sympathy with flood-affected people of Bihar. This disaster, at the time of a pandemic (Covid-19), is a big crisis. I appeal to Congress workers to extend their help in relief work. Each of our step should be for public help. This is the real Congress ideology,” Gandhi tweeted.Not wasting time, Bihar water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha immediately responded on the social media platform with a list of the present state of rivers. “No river was flowing above the danger mark on Wednesday. But, I cannot help if people fail to differentiate between waterlogging and flood. The Bihar government is always on the ground at the time of crisis to ensure safety and relief to people. It does not do kite-flying on social media,” he wrote.Jha, through another tweet, said the water resources department (WRD) team is working round-the-clock for protection from flood and keeping a constant vigil on the water level and embankments. He also called out the Congress leader for not having “correct information” about the ground situation in Bihar. “Your tweet shows that either you are not provided with correct information about the situation on the ground, or you are not interested in knowing the real picture,” he tweeted.He added, “Looks like you have been wrongly fed about ‘floods’ in Bihar. There is none yet and in wake of heavy rains we’re not ruling it out either... Kindly refrain from confusing people.”However, the minister said the flood threat in Bihar was “real”, and it was not entirely due to heavy rains in the state. “The reason lies in Nepal and heavy discharge of water often causes waterlogging in some areas, but that cannot be termed as floods. We know the huge threat perception, and therefore the chief minister himself keeps monitoring it,” he said.Though the Congress vice-president did not tweet further in response to Jha, party MLC Prem Chandra Mishra fired salvos, citing the flood in Gandak, which has affected a large population in East and West Champaran and Gopalganj. “Kamla, Kosi, Gandak and Bahmani rivers have touched the danger mark at several places, the breach in the Piprasi bundh is yet to be bridged,” he said.JD-U spokesman Ajay Alok, however, said the government was prepared for the flood threat, but such a situation had not arisen so far, with rivers not even touching the danger mark. “Even if the rivers touch the danger mark, they don’t cause immediate flooding. Danger mark is to heighten alertness,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/rahul-tweets-concerns-on-flood-bihar-minister-says-fed-wrong-info-101624464523070.html
23-06-2021||Other||Darbhanga station blast: Local FSL can’t figure, CCTV clues give hope||The Regional Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) at Muzaffarpur, which was examining samples from a parcel that caused a low-intensity blast at Darbhanga railway station on June 17, has expressed its inability to provide a report citing lack of expertise, an official familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.The probe in the blast, which took place in a parcel booked from Secunderabad in a train bound for Darbhanga, continues to be inconclusive six days after the incident, though a team of Government Railway Police (GRP), which is camping in the Telangana town, is said to have got some clues from the CCTV footages.“We will have to obtain a court order afresh for sending the collected material to more sophisticated lab as FSL Muzaffarpur couldn’t provide report citing lack of expertise,” railway SP (Muzaffarpur) Ashok Kumar Singh said on Wednesday. The parcel was booked from Secunderabad in the name of one Mohd Sofian on June 15. The consignment, carrying a bundle of ready-made clothes, caught fire following an explosion upon arrival at Darbhanga railway station, while it was being shifted. Though no one was injured, an investigation was launched by the railway police.A glass bottle having 50 ml of unidentified liquid was retrieved from the damaged parcel packet after the blast and sent for forensic examination.Darbhanga’s senior superintendent of police Babu Ram said local police had no role in the probe.Meanwhile, a GRP team iin Secunderabad station is tracing the origin of a car on the basis of CCTV footage that showed four men getting down from the vehicle and carrying a packet which looked similar to the one that exploded at Darbhanga station. A senior railway police official said the mobile number as provided in the parcel receipt had also been traced and located. A CCTV footage from Darbhanga station obtained by GRP is said to be showing a man moving around the blast site and talking on a mobile phone. The man later boarded Swatantrata Senani Express bound for New Delhi from platform number one, sources said.The parcel had been booked in the name of one Mohd Safian, who is yet to be found, said GRP sources.A senior railway police officer said no other security agency had contacted him regarding a probe so far. Darbhanga was last in news for alleged terror links in 2014, when Delhi Police arrested Tehseen alias Monu from Samastipur, who was allegedly inducted into proscribed outfit Indian Mujahideen in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/darbhanga-station-blast-local-fsl-can-t-figure-cctv-clues-give-hope-101624464403715.html
23-06-2021||Patna||Chirag welcome to join RJD alliance: Tejashwi||Bihar’s leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Wednesday said Lok Janshakti party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan, who has been at the receiving end following a rebellion in his party led by his uncle, was welcome to join the opposition alliance in the state led by his party Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD).LJP is a constituent of the ruling National Democratic Alliance at the Centre. “It is for Chirag bhai to choose whether to stay with those propounding ‘Bunch of Thoughts”( reference to a book written by RSS ideologue M S Golwalkar) or join forces with those who believe in the principles of B R Ambedhkar who framed the Constitution,“ Yadav said.He was talking to reporters upon his return to Patna after a two-month sojourn in New Delhi. This is the first time the RJD scion has spoken about the LJP following rebellion in the party in which five of its six MPs broke away from Chirag Paswan and threw their lot with his uncle and Hajipur MP Pashupati Kumar Paras.Paswan, son of former union minister and LJP founder late Ram Vilas Paswan, is currently locked in a tough battle with Paras to regain control of the party. While the Lok Sabha secretariat has recognised Paras as LJP’s leader in the House, the Election Commission of India is yet to decide as to which faction would retain the party symbol. Paswan has also expressed his disappointment at the BJP’s silence on the rebellion in his party, saying he had always supported Prime Minister Narendra Modi wholeheartedly.Yadav also took a swipe at chief minister Nitish Kumar over the LJP split, saying “everybody knows who masterminded the rebellion in the party”. On his father Lalu Prasad’s health, Yadav said he was is recovering from his ailments and could return to Patna soon. Days after he got bail in April a series of fodder scam cases in which he was convicted, Prasad was released from AIIMS in Delhi where he was undergoing treatment for various ailments and is currently recuperating at his daughter Misa Bharti’s house in the nation capital. Meanwhile, JD(U) MLC Neeraj Kumar hit out at Tejashwi Yadav. “Tejashwi is only busy on Twitter and has come back after the lockdown after coronavirus cases subsided in Bihar. It shows his commitment for the people of the state,” he said. BJP’s state president Sanjay Jaiswal said the Yadav scion is more like a tourist to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/chirag-welcome-to-join-rjd-alliance-tejashwi-101624464403047.html
23-06-2021||Other||Row over 6th Pay Commission recommendations: Explain fraud, call special session of assembly: SAD to state govt||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday demanded that the Punjab government must convene a special session of the Vidhan Sabha, immediately, to explain the fraud meted out to state government employees in the name of the Sixth Pay Commission. “Employee associations are pointing out anomalies and instances of injustice. All these must be resolved within a month,” the SAD added. SAD senior leader Bikram Singh Majithia said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh should explain why allowances of some categories of employees had been stopped altogether. “Why has the state created different categories of employees by enforcing the Central Pay Commission on new recruits. The chief minister should also tell why thousands of contract employees, whom he had committed to regularise five years ago, still continue to be on contract,” Majithia added. He also sought immediate dismissal of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. “Employees across the Ssate have expressed their no confidence in the finance minister by holding a pen-down strike followed by a walkout from government offices. The agitation is expected to intensify in the coming days with the employee federations announcing a week’s agitation plan. The CM should sack Manpreet immediately so that talks with employees can begin.”“It seems that not only employees, but even the government has been deceived as the Pay Commission report which is being sold as a bonanza for employees, in fact is discriminatory towards them,” Majithia claimed, adding that Non Practicing Allowance (NPA) of doctors must also be fully restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-over-6th-pay-commission-recommendations-explain-fraud-call-special-session-of-assembly-sad-to-state-govt-101624463803775.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees another jump in its daily Covid-19 count; 10,066 fresh cases, 163 new deaths recorded in 24 hours||Maharashtra recorded 10,066 cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) on Wednesday, pushing the state wide tally to 59,97,587, and marking another significant jump from the 8,473 cases recorded on Tuesday. A total of 11,032 people also recovered from the infection, taking the cumulative number of recoveries in the state to 57,53,290, according to the state health bulletin.In the previous 24 hours, the state also recorded 163 fatalities, and an additional toll of 345 fatalities were also reconciled. The death toll now stands at 119,303.The capital city of Mumbai reported 864 new cases of Covid-19, recording a spike from the 568 cases reported just a day before. The death toll too went up after 23 people succumbed to the virus, pushing the death toll to 15,338.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe state tested a total of 241,801 samples on Wednesday, a slight increase from the 216,861 tests conducted a day before.The Union health ministry wrote to chief secretaries in the state to enhance public response to the virus as cases of the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 have been reported “sporadically” in the states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, and Kerala. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that officials have been directed to collect 100 samples from every district for genome sequencing. Retrospective analysis on samples have also shown that the delta plus variant was first recorded in the state as early as April 5.The state has been advised to ramp up vaccination measures and increase surveillance. Maharashtra vaccinated the largest number of people in the state on Tuesday, by administering 552,921 jabs. Currently, the vaccination campaign is limited to 30 year olds and above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-another-jump-in-its-daily-covid-19-count-10-066-fresh-cases-163-new-deaths-recorded-in-24-hours-101624463021623.html
23-06-2021||Pune||Retired policeman duped of ₹1.3 lakh in PIN misuse||A retired policeman was cheated out of ₹1, 30,000 from his bank account by a person who slyly exchanged his card and noted the PIN. The case came to light after he lodged a complaint and a case was eventually registered. The 61-year-old complainant was out with his son on June 7 when the card exchange took place, according to the complainant. The man was duped of a total of ₹1, 30,000. “He gave his card to the man to withdraw cash. The man pretended that money was not coming out and while returning his card, he exchanged it,” said senior police isnpector Deepak Lagad of Wanowrie police station. The two had met at one ATM kiosk where the money was not getting dispensed, according to the complainant. The man then took the senior citizen to another, nearby kiosk where the exchange happened. “He has swiped the card and shopped on it at some places and also withdrawn cash from it. From technical analysis, we have a suspect. We will catch him soon,” said Senior PI Lagad. The man managed to swap the card when the man received a call from his wife and moved a few steps away to answer the call, according to the police. In the previous kiosk, the man had already stood behind the man and looked at his ATM PIN. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Wanowrie police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/retired-policeman-duped-of-rs-1-3-lakh-in-pin-misuse-101624462962988.html
23-06-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar's aide says Rahul Gandhi for 'confused' waterlogging with floods||A key aide of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday mocked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for "confusing" with floods the "water-logging" in parts of the state which have been receiving heavy rainfall of late.Sanjay Kumar Jha, the water resources minister, however, added that he was "not ruling out" the possibility of floods in Bihar which suffers devastation on account of the calamity almost every year."Dear @RahulGandhi ji Looks like you have been wronged about floods in Bihar. There is none yet and in the wake of heavy rains we are not ruling it out either. However, you are intelligent enough to distinguish between water-logging and floods. Kindly refrain from confusing the two," Jha tweeted.The senior JD(U) leader, considered a confidant of his boss, was reacting to a tweet, in Hindi, by the former Congress president."I sympathise with flood-affected families of Bihar. It is a big disaster to have struck in the midst of corona pandemic. I appeal to my colleagues in the Congress that they help in relief work. Every step of the Congress must be in the direction of helping the people this is what Congress ideology is known for," Gandhi had tweeted.Thousands of people have been affected by the flood- like situation that prevails in half a dozen districts of north Bihar, especially those situated along the river Gandak.The river has been in spate ever since catchment areas in adjoining Nepal were pounded by torrential rainfall a couple of weeks ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-s-aide-says-rahul-gandhi-for-confused-waterlogging-with-floods-101624461648842.html
23-06-2021||Pune||Food delivery executives turn chain snatchers for gym membership||Two of the three men arrested for chain snatching were food delivery executives who were participating in the plan of the third arrested man who wanted to pay for a gym membership, according to Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-5 of Pune police. The three men were identified as Akash Sindhaling Jadhav (23) who is a Zomato delivery executive; Vijay JagannathPosa (22) who is a Swiggy delivery executive, and Sahil Anil Gaikwad (22) who works as housekeeper at Activate Gym in Solapur, according to the police. “They are all from Solapur and knew each other from there. The first two had been working in Pune for more than a year. Posa had shifted from Zomato to Swiggy a few months ago. They do not have a previous record in Pune or Solapur. It was Sahil Gaikwad who wanted to pay for a gym membership and had recently been taught by a chain snatcher in Solapur the trick to do it,” said DCP Patil. The police were investigating a case of chain-snatching from a 60-year-old woman in a society located along Sane Guruji Marg in Uruli Devachi. On June 16 around 1:10pm, the woman was walking from one daughter’s house to the other, located a few hundred meters from each other, along with her granddaughter when one of the three snatched her chain and ran to the gate where the two others were waiting ready on the bike. “DCP madam asked us to check with the delivery sites about who was delivering in that area around that time. We found the bike and set a trap around it. After a few hours, one of them arrived there on an Activa to retrieve the bike and we caught them,” said senior police inspector Digambar Shinde of Hadapsar police station. The men fled on the bike and managed to snatch 18gm of the 20gm gold chain that the woman was wearing, according to the police. “They were emboldened by this success and on June 19, they were waiting to get an order from an area with heavy delivery load. They got a delivery address in Chandan nagar and tried to do the same but got some 3-4gm from the chain and rest remained in the victim’s hand,” said DCP Patil. The men were arrested in Monday and remanded to police custody during which the two cases were brought to light.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/food-delivery-executives-turn-chain-snatchers-for-gym-membership-101624462063018.html
23-06-2021||Pune||SPPU merges several departments to set up 18 different “schools”||For the purpose of better coordination, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has set up different “schools” under four different branches. Under this proposal some departments will be merged under the umbrella of schools for better academic coordination. The department of Instrumental Science and department of Electronic Science will be merged, and a new department of Electronics and Instrumentation Science will be established; it will be renamed as the School of Electronic and Instrumentation Science. The department of Health Sciences will be renamed as the School of Health Sciences. The institute of Bioinformatics and Biotechnology will be merged into the department of Biotechnology and renamed as the School of Department of Biotechnology. Prafull Pawar, registrar of SPPU said that SPPU has started the new school system for better coordination. “There are a few departments which have similar courses; they will be a part of the school. For example, the department of Political Science will be renamed as the School of Political Sciences and the department of Instrumentation science and the department of Electronic Science will be merged and renamed as School of Electronic and Instrumentation science,” said Pawar. He added that the courses will not be scrapped. “The purpose of this is to streamline and further organize the courses and administrative work of various departments. We will be using human resources and infrastructure facilities in a more efficient way. Students will also get an opportunity to enhance their knowledge by interacting with their peers,” said Pawar. SPPU had eight departments back in 1949. Since then, the first restructuring of the departments happened in 2020 which is in line with the global trend. Madhavi Reddy, professor and head of department of Communication Studies (DCS) said that the merger of departments may take another academic year. “The plans are in place but due to Covid, it is on hold. The university will take further decisions in the matter. However, any kind of implementation will be done only in the next academic year,” said Reddy. The plans for merger of the department of Communication and Journalism and Department of Media and communication studies under the School of Communication, Journalism and Media Studies was also proposed by the university.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-merges-several-departments-to-set-up-18-different-schools-101624462002940.html
23-06-2021||Pune||PMPML to construct mega charging station for e-buses at Manjri depot||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) authorities will be constructing a dedicated mega charging station at its Manjri –Budruk-Shewalewadi depot to cater to the rising demand of electric buses in the near future. The PMPML will be adding a number of e-buses to its fleet in the next few months which has prompted them to start the facility. According to the PMPML authorities, the number of e-bus services will be going up as more buses are being inducted in the fleet. Currently, the charging station is situated in Bhekrainagar in Phursungi which has a limited capacity but a mega charging station will be set up at Manjri depot. MLA Chetan Tupe who has been spearheading the project said that even private vehicles or buses can get their batteries charged at the said station which will have sufficient capacity to accommodate a number of buses on a daily basis. MLA Tupe, PMPML officials including Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) authorities have conducted a site inspection and a feasibility report has been submitted to the administration. Funds from the deputy chief minister’s office including the local MLA fund will be spent for the construction of the state-of-the-art charging station which will charge the bus batteries in real time. MLA Tupe said, “PMPML president Rajendra Jagtap had briefed us about the project where he has said that the existing facility at Bhekrainagar is limited and with the introduction of new buses, a new set up will be required. We have conducted a visit and all the modalities have been worked out. MLA Sanjay Jagtap has also taken serious efforts towards this project which will be started soon.” The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) last week had proposed 15 new charging stations in an initiative aimed at promoting electric vehicles (EV) in the city in addition to the existing station used for the public transport bus service. The PMPML, a public transport bus service, has a fleet of 2,431 buses, and has already inducted 150 e-buses in 2019. It is in process of procuring an additional 500 e-buses through the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of EV (FAME) scheme of the union government. The new buses will arrive by December 2021 and will be immediately inducted in the fleet .The civic body has made the charging station at Bhekrainagar operational for the 150 e-buses of PMPML wherein 90 buses get charged in Bhekrai Nagar Also, the PMPML is planning to allow private e-vehicles to use the charging stations set up in the PMPML depots. As of March 2021, Pune 156 e-buses, 398 e-four-wheelers, 239-e-three wheelers and 3,264 e-two-wheelers are commuting on the city roads. The PMPML efforts are aimed at putting the city in the top-notch ranking of the all India smart city project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-construct-mega-charging-station-for-e-buses-at-manjri-depot-101624461883017.html
23-06-2021||Lucknow||UP CM disburses ₹2,505-cr loan to boost MSMEs impacted due to Covid-19||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath dispensed a loan of ₹2505.58 crore to more than 31,542 micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) in a bid to help the state’s youth get back on their feet following the second wave of Covid-19. The Online Swarozgar Sangam is aimed at rebuilding the MSME sector to counter the devastation wreaked by the Covid pandemic on the sector. The state government also aims to create employment opportunities by increasing the pace of industrial development.“Today the youth in the state are focusing on creating job opportunities rather than running after jobs. Schemes like the Prime Minister's Employment Generation Programme, Mukhyamantri Yuva Swarozgar Yojana, One District One Product have provided support to the youth. The women and daughters of the state have shown great enthusiasm in self-employment programs. Women are actively involved in traditional crafts like Chikankari of Lucknow,” chief minister Yogi Adityanath said according to a press release.Adityanath launched a special portal and laid the foundation stone of Common Facility Center in nine districts of the state. The foundations were laid in Ghaziabad, Mainpuri, Mau, Mirzapur, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Agra, Moradabad and Bhadohi. These centres will provide entrepreneurs with all the components starting from production to marketing of the chosen products of the district under the ODOP scheme, such as raw material, design, production process, quality improvement, research and development, environment and energy conservation.The chief minister also launched https://diupmsme.upsdc.gov.in/en. He also appreciated the role of fellow minister Siddharth Nath Singh who handles the MSME department. He thanked the State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) as well.“MSME units did a commendable job in this direction. Last year, financial assistance was given to about 34,000 MSME units during the Covid period. As the second wave of Covid is under control, a provision is being made to provide loans to these industries once again,” the chief minister said.UP minister Siddharth Nath Singh said that the sector has achieved great heights in the last four years. He said due to the efforts undertaken by Yogi Adityanath the ODOP scheme is destined to be recognized across the globe. He also said that the government has extended great support to the traditional crafts and industries for development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-cm-disburses-rs-2-505-cr-loans-to-boost-msmes-impacted-due-to-covid19-101624460325467.html
23-06-2021||Other||Lucknowites can get Dussehri mangoes at their doorstep via CISH’s app||LUCKNOW Mango lovers in Lucknow can now get their favourite Dussehri variety of the fruit from Malihabad at their doorstep via Mango Baba — a mobile application developed by the Central Institute of Subtropical Horticulture (CISH). The mobile app is a digital platform that connects pandemic-hit mango growers to the buyers and at the same time helps them market their products directly. Apart from facilitating home delivery of mangoes, the app also deals in mango byproducts and plants. CISH officials said the institute began working on the mobile application last year in collaboration of two young entrepreneurs —Yadvendra Singh and Ashish Yadav. “The idea was to market these mangoes and facilitate home delivery in times of pandemic. The mobile application is ready now,” said Shailendra Rajan, director, CISH. “Once downloaded, the user has to log in to the mobile application using phone number. Once logged in, the user can place the order. The order would be passed on to the other mango growers on the app and the demand is fulfilled,” said Rajan. He said all standard grading and packaging procedures are carried out under the supervision of the institute’s scientists and mangoes are delivered under hygienic conditions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknowites-can-get-dussehri-mangoes-at-their-doorstep-via-cish-s-app-101624460563114.html
23-06-2021||Bangalore||This Karnataka village did not see any Covid-19 case during second wave||The second wave of the Covid-19 outbreak which caused havoc across the country, reportedly did not affect people of the Allapur village of Dharwad district in Karnataka.According to Mallikarjun Radder, president, Covid-19 Taskforce, Allapur Gram Panchayat, rigorous action was taken to prevent the villagers from contracting the virus and thus there was not even a single case of the novel coronavirus reported from the village during the second Covid wave.Awareness campaigns were conducted and hand sanitizers and masks were also distributed to the people, he told ANI."Allapur is a small village in Kundgol town of Dharwad district. We were scared as the virus was fast spreading in rural areas. Being a part of a small village, it was difficult to brainstorm measures to curb the virus. So we formed a Covid-19 taskforce, wherein, members went from door-to-door and distributed masks and sanitiser," he said.Hygiene has come to the fore as the main element in keeping the infection at bay and thus, a sanitization drive was conducted in the village every week, said the president."Gutters were cleaned to maintain hygienic atmosphere, priority was given to clean drinking water supply. Taskforce members kept an eye on the villagers' health and whenever symptoms were seen we took them to hospital and got tested," said Radder.Following these measures, not a single Covid-19 positive case was reported in the village, he said.Tremendous efforts were being put in at a time when several villages across the country were registering high number of cases and related deaths. Many had even complained of not getting access to a proper medical facility or testing centres.A hotel owner in the village, Shivalingapp Angadi, said that he refrained from opening it to the public in the light of Covid-19."I have a hotel but I did not open it due to the Covid-19. We maintained distance and did not visit other villages," he said.Ratnavva Basvanneppa Hubballi, a villager from Allapur stressed that it was a team effort to achieve a Covid-free village."Anganwadi teachers, ASHA workers, Gram Panchayat members - all together went from door to door to create awareness about the pandemic and preventive measures that needed to be taken."She further informed that the villagers showed full cooperation as they wore masks and maintained social distancing even while working in fields."Some cases were reported in the nearby village of Kadapatti, but none in ours," she said.Karnataka on Tuesday recorded 3,709 fresh cases of Covid-19. So far, 28,15,029 positive cases have been registered in the state. Over 24 hours 139 deaths were reported taking the death toll to 34,164. Currently, there are as many as 1,18,592 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/this-karnataka-village-did-not-see-any-covid-19-case-during-second-wave-101624458539367.html
23-06-2021||Other||Umar Gautam went to Britain 18 times,US four times for religious conversion programmes||LUCKNOW Maulana Umar Gautam, 57, who was arrested along with his accomplice Jahangir Alam, 52, for allegedly being part of a nationwide religious conversion racket, went to Britain 18 times, US four times and Africa for conversion programmes, said police on Wednesday after scanning two of his videos that surfaced before the UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS).These videos purportedly showed Umar Gautam addressing people and narrating his story how he progressed in life after embracing Islam in 1984. He also stated that seven of his friends studying with him in a university got him to embrace Islam, said an ATS official.Gautam’s original name was Shyam Prakash Singh Gautam and he was born in Thakur family of UP’s Fatehpur district in 1964. He embraced Islam under the influence of his Muslim friends while pursuing higher studies (BSc and MSc Agriculture) in Nainital in 1984, said police.One of Gautam’s close friends from a Yadav family in Gorakhpur too embraced Islam under his influence and changed his name to Mohd Usman.Umar Gautam and Jahangir Alam, 52, both residents of Jamia Nagar in New Delhi, will be interrogated further about their claims in the videos and conversion programmes conducted by them during their seven-day custody remand that began on Wednesday.In the video, Gautam was even heard saying that several people from countries like Poland, Portugal, Germany, Singapore, US and England visited the Islamic Da’wah Centre (IDC) run by him in Delhi’s Jamia Nagar to get legal assistance to embrace Islam, said the official.In a previous video, Gautam had stated that he and his organisation helped over 1,000 people embrace Islam in Delhi, UP and other parts of the country, said the official. “The ATS has also come to know about Gautam’s properties in Ghaziabad. A team will be sent along with him to Ghaziabad to probe into his network in Ghaziabad and people linked to his mass religious conversion racket,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/umar-gautam-went-to-britain-18-times-us-four-times-for-religious-conversion-programmes-101624459062964.html
23-06-2021||Other||Punjab govt doctors to strike on June 25 against reduction in non-practising allowance||Moga Government doctors have given a statewide strike call on June 25 (Friday) against the state government’s decision of decreasing the Non-Practising Allowance (NPA) and de-linking it from basic pay according to the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission. The joint coordination committee of government doctors has also decided that only emergency services will remain operational. On Wednesday, doctors also submitted a memorandum to deputy commissioners in this regard Dr Gagandeep Singh, state president, Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS), said, “Doctors are risking their lives every day in this pandemic. We hoped for a financial gift from the Sixth Pay Commission. It has, however, reduced the NPA, which has resulted in huge financial loss to our community.”Dr Indervir Gill, organising secretary, PCMS, said, “All organisations related to the medical profession are fighting against the state government seeking the restoration of the NPA, under the banner of the Joint Coordination Committee. We appeal to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to intervene and ensure justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-govt-doctors-to-strike-on-june-25-against-reduction-in-non-practising-allowance-101624458343680.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||‘Obligation of father does not end after son turns 18’: Delhi HC||The Delhi high court on Tuesday said that a father’s obligation does not end as soon as his son turns 18 years as the burden of his education and other expenses cannot fall only on the mother. The court made this observation while granting ₹15,000 interim maintenance to a divorced woman to cover expenses for her adult son until the time he completes graduation or starts earning.The court said that it cannot turn a blind eye to the rising costs of living and said that it is unreasonable to let the mother single-handedly bear the entire burden for herself and for her children. The husband was giving a small amount of maintenance for the maintenance of their daughter.“The woman has to take care of the entire expenditure of the son who has now attained majority but is not earning because he is still studying. The Family Court, therefore, failed to appreciate the fact that since no contribution is being made by the respondent (man) herein towards the son, the salary earned by the woman would not be sufficient for the woman to maintain herself,” Justice Subramonium Prasad said, according to a PTI report.The estranged couple got married in November 1997 and had two children. They divorced in November 2011. The son and the daughters are 20 and 18 years old respectively.“The two children are living with the mother. Since the purpose of granting interim maintenance is to ensure that the wife and the children are not put to starvation, the courts while fixing interim maintenance are not expected to dwell into minute and excruciating details and facts which have to be proved by the parties,” the court said.“This court is therefore inclined to grant a sum of ₹15,000 per month as interim maintenance to the woman from the date of son attaining the age of majority till he completes his graduation or starts earning whichever is earlier,” the court further added.The high court noted that the woman was working as an upper division clerk in Delhi Municipal Corporation, earning about ₹60,000 per month. The court also said as per salary certificate filed by the man the gross monthly income, as on November, 2020, was ₹1.67 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/obligation-of-father-does-not-end-after-son-turns-18-delhi-hc-101624456254775.html
23-06-2021||Bhopal||MP gang targets people by recording obscene video calls, blackmailing them||When a local Bharatiya Janata Party leader from Madhya Pradesh’s Chambal received a Facebook request from a woman, the unsuspecting politician accepted it and began chatting with her in April this year. The two soon began talking via WhatsApp before the politician was shocked to get an extortion call from a gang. The caller asked him to pay or else they will make the politician’s obscene video calls public. The politician paid some money initially. He was left with no choice but to approach the police when the gang continued blackmailing him for money.The politician is among at least 100 people the gang has targeted in Madhya Pradesh alone. The victims also include several other political leaders, doctors, businessmen, students, and even police personnel.Chhatarpur police superintendent Sachin Sharma said a Congress leader was trapped after he received a message on his WhatsApp from an unknown number. “The person introduced herself as Anushka from Mumbai. The person did an obscene video call and recorded it. Later, the accused sent a screenshot of the chat between two and recorded video with a threat of uploading it on Facebook.”Also Read | Madhya Pradesh creates record, 1.64 mn people vaccinated in a daySharma said the Congress leader registered a case and a 19-year-old student, Adil Khan, was arrested from Rajasthan’s Bharatpur for blackmailing him. He cited their probe so far and added Khan was allegedly a part of the organised gang of over 40 people, who blackmailed people by recording their obscene calls with women. Sharma said many cyber frauds and online extortionists operate from Bharatpur.Police said the gang sourced a SIM card from Odisha for entrapping people and has extorted ₹14.22 lakh from at least 21 people from across India. Sharma has submitted a case study of over 40 people from Khan’s village in Bharatpur to Madhya Pradesh’s cyber cell to investigate other cases of extortion.The Madhya Pradesh police were looking for three more accused in the case.Additional director general of police (cyber cell) Yogesh Chaudhary said this was an old modus operandi of extorting money but the number of such cases increased during the Covid-19 pandemic. “In Rajasthan and Haryana, fraudsters... have started (online) extortion in an organised manner.”He said the cyber cell was investigating the matter and has also informed the police forces of other states. Chaudhary added the cell has also issued an advisory asking people to avoid video calls from unknown people on WhatsApp and friend requests on Facebook.Cyber-law expert Yashdeep Chaturvedi this type of cybercrime is increasing as people do not file complaints out of fear of getting defamed “They should understand that the Supreme Court has said the identity of victims in such cases will not be revealed as it is a breach of privacy. If they started reporting incidents, the number of such cases will come down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-gang-targets-people-by-recording-obscene-video-calls-blackmailing-them-101624452883378.html
23-06-2021||Other||After 1st dose of Covaxin, Assam siblings get Covishield as second dose||Two siblings from Assam’s Silchar have alleged that they were given Covishield as the second Covid-19 vaccine dose on June 21 after getting Covaxin shots on May 11.Sayantan Bhattacharjee, one of the two, said they booked their slots only after 100 of them for Covaxin were available at a school in Hailakandi amid reports about the scarcity of Covaxin doses in particular. Bhattacharjee added they got their doses but were later told they have been administered Covishield after they inquired about it out of curiosity. He said he recorded his conversation with a health worker confirming that they were administered Covishield instead of Covaxin and were even offered fake certificates.Also Read | 4 arrested for assaulting woman health worker at vaccination centre in Assam“There was no physical distance or proper wearing of masks. However, since it had been almost 42 days since our first dose, we decided to get the vaccine... We went to get the vaccine knowing that Covaxin was being given. Even the message that was sent to us mentioned Covaxin. But the health worker gave us Covishield instead. I think there are many people who were getting Covishield instead of Covaxin in this process.”Bhattacharjee said when they threatened to expose the matter, the health workers said that they have only been provided with Covishield. “This means even though slots for Covaxin were shown on the app, many people are getting Covishield as the second dose. We do not know yet what the side effects of this might be, but we are now afraid.”Hailakandi’s joint director (health services) Ashutosh Barman said he has suspended the verifier of the centre and ordered an investigation. “We are aware of the matter and the person-in-charge has been suspended. The case has to be investigated thoroughly and we can take action after we get the probe report.”Manabendra Chakraborty, a former employee of the Cachar Paper Mill, has separately threatened to go on a hunger strike if he did not get the second Covid-19 vaccine dose that he has been waiting for almost two months.“My wife and I are waiting after 58 days of our first dose. I have heard that if you do not get the second dose within 56 days of taking the first dose of Covaxin, the first one will not help. I have written to the deputy commissioner twice before as well and demanded for the availability of the second dose of Covaxin.”District immunisation officer (Cachar) Sumana Naiding assured that doses will be arranged for the couple. “Manabendra Chakraborty is a senior citizen, and we are aware of his concern. We have asked him to write a letter to us with all his details including the certificate of the first dose. Due to a shortage of Covaxin, we were facing some issues, but things have been sorted now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-1st-dose-of-covaxin-assam-siblings-get-covishield-as-second-dose-101624450845828.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi vaccinating citizens regularly unlike Madhya Pradesh: AAP slams Centre||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain told reporters on Wednesday hit out at BJP-ruled states of Madhya Pradesh and Haryana over claims that these states slowed down their vaccination drive on days leading up to June 21, when the latest vaccination drive was launched.“We are not vaccinating like Madhya Pradesh, inoculating lakhs in a day and unable to vaccinate even 1,000 on other days. We are not vaccinating for photo-ops or event management,” Jain told reporters during a briefing.“Citizens are being vaccinated regularly. Everyone knows there was a scarcity of vaccines these past days,” he added.Jain’s reaction followed Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri’s criticism of the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government’s vaccination drive."On a day India vaccinated more than 84 lakh people, Delhi administered only 76,259 out of more than 11 lakh doses available. Why? Instead of focusing on health & welfare of people of Delhi, Kejriwal Ji is busy in Punjab searching for a Sikh CM face for his party," Puri tweeted on Tuesday."Vaccination is not an event,” Jain said, adding, "They are asking why we didn’t vaccinate more people on that particular day, but we are any way vaccinating 75,000-80,000 a day. Isn’t it better to vaccinate everyday rather than one day?"Jain told reporters that Madhya Pradesh’s vaccination numbers have been “nosediving” since June 21. “They prepared for an event for a long time, gave everyone Monday’s date just to show they vaccinated a large number of people,” he said.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, too, responded to Puri’s allegations on Tuesday, asking the latter to provide enough vaccines for the citizens instead of “abusing” the chief minister.Also Read: Madhya Pradesh accused of 'slowing down' Covid-19 vaccine drive to achieve record high"Hardeep ji: pls focus on providing enough vaccines for the youth, rather than just abusing Arvind Kejriwal all the time. Central Govt’s vaccination flip-flops have created a crisis situation all over the country." Sisodia posted on Twitter.On the lack of vaccine availability the health minister said that a crunch in the available number of Covaxin doses will continue for the next many days but Covishield will be available. As per the vaccination bulletin tweeted by AAP leader Atishi on Tuesday, the Covaxin stock reserved for the 18-44 age group in the national capital will last one more day.The health minister said the national capital recorded 134 cases of covid-19 in the last 24 hours. 8 more individuals also succumbed to the virus, and Delhi's positivity rate stands at 1.45% as of Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-vaccinating-citizens-regularly-unlike-madhya-pradesh-aap-slams-centre-101624446615203.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai woman jumps off 12th-floor after pushing son, neighbour held||A woman in Mumbai died of suicide after jumping off her apartment on 12th floor of a highrise along with her 10-year-old son on Monday. The woman first pushed her son off and then jumped in an alleged suicide in Chandivali in Mumbai's Saki Naka area.Reshma Trenchil, 44, accused her neighbours in a note of harassing her by complaining about her son Garud,10, making noise. A pilot, who stayed in the building was arrested on Tuesday for abetment to suicide, ANI quoted the police as saying.Also read: HC asks Mumbai top cop to take action on woman’s plaint against Sanjay RautThe incident took place in Tulipia building, where the woman has her flat, a police official said. "A suicide note we have found claims the people in a flat on the 11th floor were constantly complaining against her, mainly over noise emanating from her 12th floor flat to the housing society management as well as local police station," ANI quoted the official as saying.Based on what is claimed to be a suicide note, which names three people, a 33-year-old pilot working with an international airline has been arrested for abetment to suicide, according to the official.Trenchil, who had recently lost her husband to Covid lived with her young son alone in the flat at the apartment building in the Chandivali area of Mumbai. They had shifted to the building in April and reportedly had troubles with their neighbors, mainly over noise emanating from her 12th floor flat.The neighbours were Ayub Khan aged 67, his 60-year-old wife and their son Shadab, according to media reports.As per the reports Trenchil had been depressed since her husband Sarat Mulukutla, died on May 23. Mulukutla was a chief business officer for an online trading platform for agri commodities.Mulukutla had gone to Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh to take care of his parents, who got infected with Covid-19. Unfortunately, both his parents died of the infection and soon after Mulukutla also succumbed to the virus.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-woman-jumps-off-12th-floor-after-pushing-son-neighbour-held-101624443078046.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||When Atithi Devo Bhava was practised as preached||As we turned our bicycles from the national highway to the main city of Kurukshetra on our way to the ancient water pool of Brahma Sarovar, my partner slowed down. Pointing towards a nameplate, my seasoned structural engineer friend in his late 50s said, “I think that’s the home of one of the Art of Living (AOL) volunteers. Let’s meet him.” Without giving much thought, I agreed. We stopped outside the huge gate, seeking permission from the guard to meet the owner, Mr Sudershan. Our appearance in bicycle gear with helmets, goggles and cycling shorts amused the guard, yet he instantly spoke to someone on the landline. He gestured at us to enter even before he hung up the receiver. The house was at an appreciable distance from the main gate, as the first half of the property served as a plastic factory. By the time we walked with our bikes to reach the house at the other end, Mr Sudershan was standing at the main door to receive us. We could see the welcoming glow on his face as he greeted us with the AOL catchphrase, “Jai Gurudev.” With that, he led us straight to his living room, elevating us to the category of family friends and relatives. No sooner than we sat down, his better half and father too came in to greet us. They were in awe and admiration of our bicycle ride from Ambala to Kurukshetra. On hearing the encouraging applause, we too felt delighted by our feat. With AOL serving as the common ground, all of us immediately began relating our respective journeys and experiences on the spiritual path and how our lives had been transformed. A little later, their 23-year-old son, who had just finished his MBA, joined us and mentioned that he was coming up with an innovative oral care range for the Indian market. As he displayed his products, I shared that I’ve been a dental practitioner in Ambala for 25 years. On knowing my professional credentials, Sudershan Ji said, “You’ve not come to meet us; you’ve come to bless our son. Now he can also resolve his queries and take feedback from you.” I heartily treasured the divine connotation given to our meeting. However, it wasn’t just about the AOL connection; the reception we received from this family we met in person for the first time was heartwarming, too. We could feel the traditional Indian philosophy of Atithi Devo Bhava, revering guests as Gods; from the moment we stepped in. We had literally gatecrashed, but the warmth with which we were served poha, cutlets and almond milk prepared in a matter of minutes was another mark of their affection. The entire family came out to see us off when it was time for us to depart. As we clambered onto our bikes, we could see the engaging friendliness in their eyes. Sealing that in our hearts, as we pedalled our way out of the entrance gate, the charming smile flashed by the gatekeeper was a bonus. From entry to exit, the grace with which we were greeted and entertained was unforgettable. vikasdeepak23@gmail.com The writer is an Ambala-based dentist||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/when-atithi-devo-bhava-was-practised-as-preached-101624444482995.html
23-06-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka records two Delta plus Covid-19 variant cases||Karnataka recorded its first two cases of the Delta plus variant of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday. State health minister K Sudhakar told reporters that one case each of the Delta plus variant was recorded in Bengaluru and Mysuru districts, and that the Union home ministry has been notified.“Two cases (1 in Mysuru and 1 in Bengaluru) of the Delta plus variant of novel coronavirus have been found in Karnataka. This information has been shared with the Union health ministry,” Sudhakar was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.This news comes against the background of the Union health ministry urging the states of Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, and Maharashtra to be on guard as these three states have been recording cases of the new variant sporadically. "As of now among the samples sequenced (45000) in India, the Delta plus variant has been observed sporadically in Maharashtra, Kerala & Madhya Pradesh, with around 40 cases identified so far and no significant increase in prevalence," the health ministry said.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the chief secretaries in these states, asking them to take up immediate measures for containing the spread. "The Public Health Response, in this case, while broadly remaining the same, has to become more focused and stringent. Thus, you are requested to take up immediate containment measures in these districts and clusters including preventing crowds and intermingling of people, widespread testing, prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage on a priority basis," Bhushan wrote.Mysuru’s first recorded case of the delta plus strain is asymptomatic, reported PTI. Sudhakar told reporters that the infected individual has been isolated and the infection has not been passed on to his primary and secondary contacts, calling it a “good sign”.The state health minister also said that genome sequencing is being done on 5% of the total samples tested to track cases of variants. The government is also sending vaccines to districts which are vulnerable to the variant and the state is conducting 1.5 lakh tests a day, he added.Bhushan sought to assuage public concern about the new variant. "Currently the number of such Delta plus variants in India are only few,” he wrote in his letter. However, he urged states to exercise caution and enhance contact-tracing measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-records-two-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-cases-101624441902503.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Second autopsy at PGI rules out gangster Jaipal Bhullar tortured||The autopsy conducted by the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, has ruled out that gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar was subjected to torture before his death in Kolkata on June 9. After the post-mortem on Tuesday, a board of four PGIMER doctors said in their report: “X-rays of all major joints, including both upper and lower limbs, do not show fracture of any kind. There are no injuries suggestive of physical torture. The possibility of multiple firearm injuries resulting in haemorrhagic shock cannot be ruled out.” Also read: 2 dead, 16 injured in blast near LeT founder Hafiz Saeed’s Lahore residenceGangster’s father had alleged torture This was the second post-mortem examination as the first was performed in West Bengal. Jaipal, a wanted gangster, was killed in a police encounter in Kolkata. However, his father Bhupinder Singh, a retired Punjab Police inspector, alleged that Jaipal was killed in a staged encounter. Bhupinder claimed that his son’s body was handed over by the West Bengal authorities in a sealed box on June 12. Before conducting the last rites the next day, he said, a number of injuries were found on the body, showing that Jaipal had been tortured. He demanded a second post-mortem. Bhupinder also claimed that he was denied an autopsy report of his son, detailing the cause of death and other factors. On June 13, Bhupinder alleged that Jaipal’s body had multiple injuries, including a fractured left arm, indicating he was tortured before being killed in a fake police encounter. The family had refused to cremate the body. Second autopsy on high court’s directions The second autopsy conducted on the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court refutes the allegation of torture. “Fracture on the left forearm, alleged to be caused by torture, is actually due to impact of bullet resulting in fracture and shattering of the bone. The presence of a metallic piece adjoining that shattering (limb) proves the same,” reads the report. X-ray examination states four bullet injuries and fractures caused by firearm impact. Three bullets were recovered from the gangster’s body. A panel of experts was unanimous to say “no underlying injury was found at any place suggestive of any kind of torture.” Upset father refuses to share next move When contacted at his Ferozepur residence, Bhupinder expressed shock and rejected the findings of the report. “My hopes were dashed as I thought PGIMER experts will give a fair picture. Jaipal was killed in a gruesome manner and the WB police administration acted in an inhuman way. We want justice but I will not share the next move,” he said. Bhupinder confirmed that the autopsy was duly photographed and filmed. It took three hours for the post-mortem examination on Tuesday and a report was handed over to Bhupinder the same night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/second-autopsy-at-pgi-rules-out-gangster-jaipal-bhullar-tortured-101624442262727.html
23-06-2021||Kolkata||Lok Sabha MP Mimi Chakraborty busts fake Covid-19 vaccination drive||Lok Sabha MP and Trinamool Congress leader Mimi Chakraborty on Wednesday said that she busted a 'fake' vaccination drive in the New Market area of Kolkata. Mimi said that her suspicion arose after she received no SMS or vaccine certificate after she herself got the jab at the centre, the MP representing Jadavpur parliamentary constituency told Hindustan Times Bangla. The parliamentarian immediately investigated the matter following which police arrested one man.“I received a message that a vaccination drive was launched by the joint commissioner of Kolkata Municipal Commission for transgender and differently abled people. They asked me to go for the vaccination drive as it would encourage people to get their jabs. I went there to inspire people and also got vaccinated,” Mimi said.“It struck me when I did not receive the message that beneficiaries receive after their vaccination. I also asked for my vaccination certificate which they said I would receive within some time. I immediately asked my office to enquire if people present at the site received registration messages, to which the people present said that they have not received any such message,” she further added.Mimi said she stopped the vaccination drive immediately and with the help of the police arrested one Debanjan Deb who posed as an IAS officer. The police later recovered a fake ID card along with hand sanitizers and masks which had the logo of Kolkata’s civic authority.Police are trying to ascertain how the miscreants got access to Covishield vaccines which were used at the centre. They are also trying to ascertain if the vaccines were fake. The vials have been sent to a lab for inspection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/lok-sabha-mp-mimi-chakraborty-busts-fake-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101624441001544.html
23-06-2021||Jaipur||15 Raj Congress leaders flag turncoats’ influence in state unit to Sonia Gandhi||Fifteen Congress leaders, who lost the assembly elections in 2018 have written to party president Sonia Gandhi about the undue influence of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP)-turned-Congress MLAs and independents in the state government, as the political turmoil in the Rajasthan Congress continues to intensify.“We welcome the support of BSP MLAs who joined Congress and independent MLAs to the government. In the 2.5 year tenure of the party’s government, there was negligible participation of the Congress leaders but was of BSP turncoats and independents, be it the appointments of the officials or the nominated councillors,” the letter, which HT has seen, read.The workers and public who voted in 2018 aren’t being heard in the government, the letter stated. Also Read | Minister Dharmendra Pradhan now blames Congress for petrol, diesel prices hikeIn Rajasthan, Congress leader Sachin Pilot and chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s factions have been sparring against each other for a fortnight over Cabinet expansion and political appointments. One of the signatories, the party candidate from Shahpura, Manish Yadav, said the MLAs were weakening the party workers and organisational structure in the assembly area. “It is unfortunate that the party organisation is working on the whims of these MLAs (which was visible in the local body and PRI polls where they participated fully and we did not). The party workers and voters are feeling cheated,” he said. Yadav said, “We have urged the leadership to ensure workers’ participation in the political and organisational appointments.” Commenting on the letter, state Congress president Govind Singh Dotasara said, “In the party, every work is done after consultation and suggestions from all, be it ticket distribution or appointments. Because of this, good results were received in the local and PRI polls. However, if there are some issues, we will look into them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/15-raj-congress-leaders-flag-turncoats-influence-in-state-unit-to-sonia-gandhi-101624438602618.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM given deadline to act on Bargari sacrilege, drug issues||The Congress has asked Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to act on sacrilege and police firing cases, drugs, power purchase agreements and public welfare measures within a deadline. All India Congress Committee general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat said the chief minister has been given a time-frame by the three-member central committee to implement 18 poll promises.Also read: $49.49mn worth of drugs seized in Canada“Bargari is an emotional issue in Punjab. We respect the emotions of people. The CM has been told to take action in accordance with the public sentiment within the legal parameters. On drugs, strong action has been taken. Action in pending cases will be taken soon,” Rawat told the media after his meeting with former Congress president and Lok Sabha member Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday. Rahul meets Jakhar, Bajwa and Manpreet Earlier, Rahul met Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. Rawat also listed free power up to 200 units, Scheduled Caste scholarships, loan write-off of poor people, land rights of poor and further action against sand and transport mafias among the 18 points on which Capt Amarinder has been asked to take action. “The chief minister has agreed to act. He will hold a press conference soon and give details on all these issues,” said the former Uttarakhand chief minister. Several of these issues were raised by Sidhu and dissenting ministers and MLAs who have been critical of the chief minister in recent weeks. The committee, comprising Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal and Rawat, had discussed all these issues with Amarinder on Tuesday. The meeting was their second in less than three weeks. Rawat goes soft on Sidhu Asked about former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s statements targeting the chief minister, Rawat said that the committee had taken notice of issues raised by him. “As for his statements, the committee and the leadership were aware. I have called for his statements. I will give him advice wherever needed. In case there is need for a direction, I will do the needful,” he said, going soft on the former minister. Some party leaders, including two MPs, had drawn the attention of Rahul and Kharge to Sidhu’s statements on Tuesday. He said that Congress president Sonia Gandhi will take the decision by the first week of July and all, including Sidhu, have agreed to abide by it. On the controversy over the government appointments given to two Congress MLAs Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey’s sons on compassionate grounds, Rawat said he had been told that they had agreed to thank the government and not to take these jobs. “Bajwa has agreed. I am to check with Pandey,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-given-deadline-to-act-on-bargari-sacrilege-drug-issues-101624438363257.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Former Haryana CM OP Chautala to be released from Tihar jail soon||Former Haryana chief minister OP Chautala, who is out on parole, will be formally released as he has completed his sentence, Tihar jail officers said on Wednesday. The 86-year-old was lodged inside jail number 2 of Tihar after being convicted in the Haryana junior basic teachers recruitment scam in 2013.The prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel, confirmed Chautala had served his time and would be released. Chautala is among the many prisoners out on parole as one of the measures taken by prison officers to decongest the jail complex to contain the spread of Covid-19. Housing over 20,000 prisoners, Tihar is one of the most crowded prison complexes in the country.Prison officers, privy to the latest development regarding the former chief of the Indian National Lok Dal, said Chautala was sentenced to 10 years’ imprisonment by a city court in 2013. On Tuesday, he completed 9 years and 6 months in custody, including remission.Also Read | ‘Stuggle will continue’: Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Asif Tanha releasedRemission is the reduction of a prisoner’s sentence based on his/her good conduct or number of years spent behind bars.Jail officers said the remaining 6 months of Chautala’s prison time were waived off because of a recent Delhi government notification, regarding special remission of 6 months to convicts sentenced for 10 years.“He is currently out on emergency parole granted because of the Covid-19 pandemic. He will have to surrender before the jail superintendent after which his release order will be signed by the jail superintendent. We have already informed his lawyers and the person whose number he had provided in the prison records,” said a prison officer, who asked not to be named.On January 16,2013 a special CBI court had held Chautala, his son Ajay Chautala and 53 others guilty of illegally recruiting 3,206 junior basic trained (JBT) teachers in the state in 2000. Chautala is the first person to be released in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/former-haryana-cm-op-chautala-to-be-released-from-tihar-jail-101624434042683.html
23-06-2021||Patna||Endangered turtles recovered from Yog Nagari express at Sasaram railway station||Railway Protection Force recovered live turtles, including some of rare variety, from a coach of Yog Nagari (Rishikesh-Howrah) Special Express (03010) at Sasaram station in Bihar.Based on a tip off, a RPF team led by inspector PK Rawat recovered 48 live turtles from four bags in S7 coach of the express train, however, the smugglers succeeded in escaping. The turtles were handed over to the forest department on Wednesday, inspector Rawat said.Divisional forest officer Rohtas Pradyumn Gaurav said two of the recovered turtles were 1.5 feet long and of rare Indian Softshell variety, while the remaining 46 were of Indian flapshell variety found in the Ganges and Indus rivers apart from other water bodies.Authorities suspect the turtles were poached from Rishikesh and were being smuggled to Kolkata for international black markets, where the Indian Shoftshell turtles are in high demand as pets and for their meat, based on belief that it’s consumption increased sex drive and lifespan, officials said.Turtles are endangered species listed in schedule 1 of the wildlife protection act and poaching and trafficking it invites three to seven years’ jail and forfeiture of property earned with the proceeds of such sale, the DFO said.The seized turtles will be produced before the court before they are released in Ganga, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/endangered-turtles-recovered-from-yog-nagari-express-at-sasaram-railway-station-101624433742402.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s sero-prevalence remains same, report calls for another round of survey||Delhi’s latest sero survey shows that the population-level prevalence of antibodies in the city was at 56.09%, almost the same as that of the January round, said officials. The survey, however, is not comparable to the earlier one, which found the sero-prevalence to be 56.13%, as sample collection had to be cut short this time amid rising Covid-19 cases mid-April. The report, submitted to the government last Monday, hasn’t officially been released yet.The report by researchers from Maulana Azad Medical College also suggests that the next round of sero survey be conducted in June-end or July-beginning to capture the exposure to infection during the massive second wave that saw Delhi reporting over 28,000 cases in a day. For the April round, around 13,000 samples were collected instead of the proposed 28,000; and from just 141 of Delhi’s 272 wards. To make it comparable, researchers will have to go through the data from these 141 wards from the previous round of the survey. Also Read | 6th sero survey kicks off in Delhi amid Covid-19 case surge“The survey had to be stopped midway because cases started rising and a lockdown was implemented. Now, the samples that were collected during the five or six days that the survey was carried out are being analysed,” a Delhi government official had told HT earlier. The sample collection for the sixth round began on April 12, just a day after the city reported over 10,000 cases in a day for the first time, and was stopped once the government announced a lockdown on April 19. The reports of the antibody testing are yet to be shared with the study participants. “The dates for the next round of sero survey haven’t been confirmed yet,” said an official from Delhi’s health department.When the first sero survey was conduced in June-end last year, 22.6% of the 21,000 people sampled had antibodies. This shot to 29.1% of the 15,000 people sampled in August, and then dropped to 25.1% among the 17,000 people sampled in September (due to a change in methodology and dropping antibody levels in the population, the researchers said). In October, it went up to 25.5% in a sample size of 15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-sero-prevalence-remains-same-report-calls-for-another-round-of-survey-101624433622454.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal transfers 41 IAS officers, including 8 DCs||The Himachal Pradesh government has transferred 41 Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, including deputy commissioners of eight districts, besides two Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) officers. The transfer orders were issued late on Tuesday night. Also read: IndiGo launches special discount on its flights for vaccinated customersSubhasish Panda, IAS, principal secretary, public works department, will also hold the charge of principal secretary, tourism and civil aviation. Devesh Kumar, the secretary to the chief minister, who is holding the charge of secretary, general administration, sainik welfare and parliamentary affairs, shall also hold the charge of managing director, Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation Limited, Shimla. Rakesh Kanwar, who is director, public finance, public enterprises and special secretary (finance); director, treasuries, accounts and lotteries; special secretary and state project director, zero budget natural farming; has been transferred as secretary to governor and shall continue to holding the charge of the zero budget natural farming project. Amit Kashyap new tourism director Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation Limited managing director Amit Kashyap, who holds the charge of General Industries Corporation MD, has been shifted as director, tourism and civil aviation, and shall hold the charge of MD, tourism development corporation. JM Pathania, the director, finance and personnel, State Electricity Board Limited, has been transferred as managing director, Himachal Pradesh Agro Industries Corporation Limited. He shall hold the charge of MD, Himachal Pradesh Agro Industrial Packaging India Limited, relieving Rajeshwar Goel. Special secretary, education, housing and health and family welfare, Rakhil Kahlon goes as director, women and child development, while Manasi Sahay Thakur, MD, Himachal Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited, has been posted as the MD, General Industries Corporation. Raj Krishan Pruthi is special secy, agriculture Excise and taxation commissioner Rohan Chand Thakur, who is also holding the charge of MD, Himachal Pradesh Kaushal Vikas Nigam, has been transferred as MD, HP Financial Corporation, while Sirmaur deputy commissioner Raj Krishan Pruthi has been posted as the special secretary, agriculture, and will hold the charge of director, agriculture, relieving HPAS officer Naresh Thakur of the charge. The chief executive officer of the Baddi, Barotiwala, Nalagarh Development Authority (BBNDA) Vinod Kumar has been shifted as MD, Himachal Pradesh Backward Classes Finance and Development Corporation. He relieves Ashwani Kumar Chaudhary. Yunus is excise and taxation commissioner Tourism and civil aviation director Yunus will be the new excise and taxation commissioner, while Chander Prakash Verma, the director of the Himachal Pradesh Institute of Public Administration, who also holds the charge of special secretary and additional commissioner, tribal development; special secretary, industries; and commissioner, departmental enquiries; goes as special secretary, personnel, HP. He shall continue to hold the charge of the posts of special secretary and additional commissioner, tribal development, and commissioner, departmental enquiries. Special secretary, personnel, Amarjeet Singh, who is also holding charge of the director of estates, Himachal Pradesh, has been shifted as director, public finance-cum-public enterprises-cum-special secretary, finance, and director, treasuries, accounts and lotteries. Mandi deputy commissioner Rugved Milind Thakur has been transferred as director, rural development and panchayati raj and ex officio special secretary, panchayati raj. He replaces Lalit Jain, who goes as MD, state civil supplies corporation limited. Vivek Bhatia, director department of empowerment of Scheduled Castes, other backward classes, minorities and the specially abled, who holds the charge of MD, Himachal Pradesh Minorities Finance and Development Corporation, will also hold the charge of director, Himachal Pradesh Institute of Public Administration. Special secretary, MPP, Power and NCES, Gopal Chand, who holds the charge of director, youth services and sports, shall also hold the charge of the post of special secretary, industries. Solan deputy commissioner Kalyan Chand has been posted as the director, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs. He shall hold the charge of MD, Himachal Pradesh Minorities Finance and Development Corporation. Kangra DC Prajapati posted as director, industries Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati has been posted as director, industries, relieving Hans Raj Sharma. He shall also hold the charge of MD, State Industrial Development Corporation, Shimla. Kullu DC Dr Richa Verma has been transferred as chief executive officer, BBNDA, while director, ayurveda, DK Rattan goes as secretary, Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission (HPPSC), Shimla. Kritika Kulhari is Solan DC, while Ashutosh Garg posted as Kullu DC Kritika Kulhari, director, women and child development, will be the Solan DC and Ashutosh Garg, Secretary, HPPSC, who holds the charge of director, information technology, will be the Kullu DC. Special secretary, excise and taxation and public works department, Arindam Chaudhary, who is also holding the charge of MD, Himachal Pradesh State Electronics Development Corporation, has been transferred as the Mandi DC. Ram Kumar Gautam, the director, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs, is the new Sirmaur DC, while Lahaul-Spiti DC Pankaj Rai goes as the Bilaspur DC. Mukesh Repaswal is director, IT Shimla additional deputy commissioner Apoorv Devgan has been transferred as the member secretary, Himachal Pradesh State Pollution Control Board, and Chamba ADC Mukesh Repaswal goes as director, information technology. He shall hold the charge of MD, Himachal Pradesh State Electronics Development Corporation. Sirmaur ADC Priyanka Verma has been shifted as director, personnel and finance, Himachal Pradesh Power Corporation Limited, and Solan ADC Anurag Chander has been transferred as the special secretary, excise and taxation and public works department. He shall also hold the charge of director, estates. Sonakshi Singh Tomar has been posted as the Sirmaur ADC on her return from maternity leave leave. New ADCs at Shimla, Solan, Chamba and Kullu Sarkaghat SDM Zaffar Iqbal goes as the Solan ADC, while Chamba SDM Shivam Pratap Singh has been transferred as the Kullu ADC; Salooni SDM Kiran Bhadana as the Shimla ADC and Mandi SDM Nivedita Negi as the Chamba ADC. HPAS officer Kumad Singh, who is the MD, Tourism Development Corporation, Shimla, and holds the charge of MD, Himachal Pradesh Handicrafts and Handloom Corporation, Shimla, goes as MD, Kaushal Vikas Nigam, Shimla. She shall continue to hold the charge of MD, Himachal Pradesh Handicrafts and Handloom Corporation. Vinay Singh, the special secretary to the chief minister, who holds the additional charge of the post of special secretary, PWD, has been shifted as director, Ayurveda. Hemraj Bairwa is new NHM mission director Hemraj Bairwa, the Kinnaur DC, is the new mission director, National Health Mission and labour commissioner-cum-director of employment, while Neeraj Kumar joins as the deputy commissioner, Lahaul-Spiti. Manmohan Sharma, director (personnel and finance), HPPCL has been posted as director, urban development, and shall also hold the charge of the post of chief executive officer-cum-managing director, Shimla Smart City Ltd. Bilaspur DC Rohit Jamwal has been posted as the labour commissioner-cum-director of employment, while Abid Hussain Sadiq, director, urban development, who holds the charge of chief executive officer-cum-managing director, Shimla Smart City Limited, goes as the Kinnaur DC at Reckong Peo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-transfers-41-ias-officers-including-8-dcs-101624433262475.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad admin allows weekly markets to open from Monday to Friday||District administration in Uttar Pradesh's Ghaziabad has given permission for weekly markets to open from Monday to Friday, till 9pm, officials have said. Issuing a strict warning, additional city magistrate (first) Khalid Anjum said strict legal action would be taken against those found violating Covid-19 norms.However, opposing the move to allow weekly markets to open, the Shastri Nagar Vyapar Mandal handed over a memorandum to the district administration saying Covid-19 protocol cannot be followed when more than 1,000 temporary kiosks would function in the market. Additionally, Ashok Chawla, general secretary of the Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal said, "Even before the outbreak of the pandemic, house owners and shopkeepers raised their concerns against weekly markets as the shopkeepers set up their temporary stores in front of houses."Chawla further said the administration should allow weekly markets in open spaces such as Ramlila grounds which, he said, would help maintain social distancing.On the Covid-19 front, both Ghaziabad and the neighbouring Gautam Buddh Nagar district saw less than 10 new Covid-19 cases on June 22, with the number of active cases in the two places also falling below 100, official data showed. While nine fresh infections were detected in Gautam Buddh Nagar, the corresponding number for Ghaziabad was four, with their respective active cases being recorded at 93 and 77.Also, 38 and seven patients recovered in the two districts, taking cumulative recovered cases to 62,453 and 54,968 respectively, the data showed. The cumulative death toll due to the viral disease, meanwhile, is at 466 in Gautam Buddh Nagar and 461 in Ghaziabad.(With inputs from PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-admin-allows-weekly-markets-to-open-from-monday-to-friday-101624428665538.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM seeks Centre’s help to free Vishal Jood from Australian jail||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has sought external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s intervention to secure the release of Kurukshetra youth Vishal Jood, currently lodged in an Australia prison for alleged hand in a series of hate attacks on suspected pro-Khalistan Sikhs in Sydney earlier this year.A statement released from the CM’s office said 24-years old Jood was “innocent” and was jailed following a “conspiracy from anti-national forces” since he opposed anti-India elements for the Tricolour’s sake. The statement said that Jaishankar has in return assured the chief minister of taking steps to secure Jood’s release.Jood, who has a visa to study in Australia, was arrested on April 16 in Sydney for alleged hate speech and role in three suspected hate crimes, including clashes between youths from Haryana and members of the Sikh community at Harris Park in Sydney in March and April this year. Several videos of the clashes at Harris Park were circulated widely on social media.Khattar raised this issue following a week-long protests by the members of the Ror community—to which Jood belongs-- in Karnal and Kurukshetra districts. The community has been pressuring the ruling party leaders on this issue. The community members claim that Jood saved the Indian flag from a group shouting pro-Khalistan slogans, however, local media earlier this month cited the New South Wales (NSW) police as saying that Jood was arrested for three incidents, including the one on February 28, for attacks on Sikhs in which baseball bats, rods, sticks and other weapons were used.The police had said that the group of Sikhs attacked on February 28 had earlier participated in an anti-farm laws protest in Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cm-seeks-fm-s-help-to-secure-vishal-jood-s-release-from-australian-jail-101624430562386.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Toxic foam floats on surface of Yamuna in Delhi||A layer of toxic foam was seen floating on the surface of the Yamuna river at Kalindi Kunj in Delhi on Wednesday morning. Before this, the toxic foam was seen floating over the river on April 6 and 20.At that time, the environmentalists had said that the frothing could be because of the release of certain gases when reacting with few specific bacteria.Also read| Yamuna pollution: Artificial wetland to naturally treat Kondli drain to be ready by NovemberThe foam at the Yamuna river made global headlines in 2019 when the devotees of Chhat puja were seen standing in waist-deep toxic forth in the Yamuna at Kalindi Kunj.When inquired about the incident, experts said that the formation of forth was a common thing in the Yamuna but has increased in the last five to six years.The Delhi government chalked out a nine-point action plan earlier this year to reduce frothing in the Yamuna river, which is happening due to the discharge of untreated sewage in the river.The state government on June 14 also banned the sale, storage, transportation, and marketing of soaps and detergents not complying to the latest BIS parameters to curb pollution in the river.The Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC)'s, which was set up by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in July 2018, recommendations, made in January, were accepted by the tribunal. The YMC had suggested directing the government to issue an order "prohibiting sale, storage and transportation and marketing of detergents which do not conform to the revised BIS standards".The NGT has also directed to initiate an awareness campaign to educate about the harmful effects of using substandard soaps and detergents.High phosphate content in the wastewater because of detergents used in dyeing industries, dhobi ghats and households is the main reason leading to the formation of toxic foam in the Yamuna river, PTI quoted an official of the Central Pollution Control Board as saying."A large number of unbranded detergents are also used in households and dyeing industries. The wastewater containing high phosphate content reach the river through untapped drains," he said, reported PTI.These detergents and other organic matter get deposited in the riverbed when the river is flowing at its normal pace but when the water falls from height on reaching a barrage, it causes turbulence and churning resulting in the formation of the froth.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/toxic-foam-floats-on-surface-of-yamuna-in-delhi-101624420711017.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Monsoon to evade Delhi for another week, says IMD||Delhi will have to wait another week before monsoon can officially hit the national Capital, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said, “Further progress of monsoon is unlikely in the remaining parts of the country, including in Delhi for the next seven days at least.”Srivastava said that till monsoon showers arrive in Delhi, Delhiites will have to continue to bear with the sultry weather. Monsoon has so far covered most parts of the country except parts of Rajasthan, Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. “The salient feature of the monsoon in 2021 is its progress to eastern, central and adjoining northwest India earlier than normal (up to 7-10 days). However, further progress over the remaining parts of the country is unlikely during the next seven days,” IMD said.Also Read | Delhi’s air quality likely to deteriorate marginally from WednesdayThe northern limit monsoon continues to pass through Barmer, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Aligarh, Meerut, Ambala and Amritsar. There is 37% excess rains over the country till Monday—76% excess over northwest India; 58% excess over central India; 24% excess over south peninsula and 13% excess over east and northeast India.Normally, the monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27 and covers the entire country by July 8.Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29, according to Skymet Weather, a private forecasting agency.Mahesh Palawat from Skymet Weather said chances are that Delhi will get monsoonal showers only around June end. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/monsoon-to-evade-delhi-for-another-week-says-imd-101624417061932.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Journalist allegedly robbed at gunpoint by 5 in Noida||A journalist was allegedly robbed at gunpoint by five unidentified men in Greater Noida, the police said on Tuesday. The incident took place with editor-in-chief of Hindi Khabar, Atul Agrawal, on the intervening night of June 19 and 20, they added.The accused took around ₹5,000 cash that he was carrying in his wallet and tried to choke him, Agrawal said in a Facebook post.Police said that they have not received a complaint from Agrawal regarding the incident but have launched an investigation into the matter after taking suo moto cognizance of his social media post.In his Facebook post, Agrawal said that the incident took place barely 250-300 metres from a police post in Greater Noida (West), also called Noida Extension."The music system in my car had some issues so I had to stop my car to adjust the USB pen drive. Suddenly, five young men on two motorcycles came there and waylaid my car," he added."The car was locked from the inside. They started banging the windows but I resisted. Then one of them pulled out a gun and pointed it at me, forcing me to come out of the car. I had no other choice so I followed their instructions as they held me at gunpoint," he said in his Facebook post.Agrawal said he pleaded with the assailants, all of whom were wearing face masks, to spare his life as he has a young son and told them they could take his car and whatever money he was carrying.He further said that the assailants took around ₹5,000 cash that he was carrying in his wallet but left behind his mobile phone and gold jewellery after finding out that he is a journalist.At one point, Agrawal claimed, one of the accused attempted to choke him but was stopped by one of his associates."We took suo motu cognisance of the incident after it came to light on social media. We have formed police teams to investigate the matter and track down the assailants," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central Noida) Harish Chander told news agency PTI."However, there has been no cooperation from the journalist with the local police. He has not given any formal complaint so no FIR has been lodged till now," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/journalist-allegedly-robbed-at-gunpoint-by-5-in-noida-101624414877279.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Back to the bench||The sun’s glare is blinding, but here it feels like an unconfirmed rumour. The leafy tree is doubling up as an ample parasol. Make the bench on this cool spot your part-time getaway. It is in a bus terminus in Connaught Place.Only a few chai shacks are open this afternoon in Shivaji Stadium Bus Terminal. Only a sprinkle of commuters. You could as well be in some secluded corner of the city. Being on this bench is special because it connects you to the Delhi of a different era, when our city’s underground had not been hollowed out yet into a maze of tunnels—that is, when there was no Delhi Metro. When travelling in the DTC bus was the primary experience of every carless Delhiite. When the city roads would be chock-a-block with those privately-owned Blueline buses notorious for their reckless speed.Around the turn of the century, Shivaji Stadium would team with these now-extinct buses from early morning to late night. A great number of Delhiites working in Connaught Place would board their route numbers from here rather than from the bus stop nearer to their office, in the hope of finding a spare seat, for the terminus would be the starting point. The place also doubled as an all-purpose bazaar. There would be pavement stalls hawking a great variety of “ladies and gents garments”; there would be a handful of magazine kiosks that also stocked questionable monthlies one would buy with some shame; there would be stalls serving every desi snack imaginable, from jhalmuri and roasted bhutta to anda bread, aloo tikki and chhole bhathure. Very many commuters would buy takeaway burger-cum-softy from a chain outlet whose rear side opened into the terminus. A rare person with spare time might settle down on this bench to catch a breath.Today, most of the area’s magazine stalls are history (including many of the magazines they stocked). Most snack stalls are gone as well. You don’t see that many buses either. Perhaps because the Connaught Place commuters have shifted their loyalty to the super-busy Rajiv Chowk Metro station nearby.One isn’t certain if this bench dates from those years or has replaced a previous bench. Whatever, sitting on it—under a tree that has been a continuous witness to the area’s changing life—gives you a sense of escape from the hurry-hurry of contemporary life, and connects you to the ghost of Delhi’s former commuting subculture. Come here, preferably by bus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-back-to-the-bench-101624399541198.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Govt, civic bodies join hands to ensure smooth transition of students||The Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) and the Municipal Corporations of Delhi (MCDs) on Tuesday joined hands to track each student who transitioned from corporation schools to government ones in Class 6 this year.The move comes after government schools faced several challenges in tracking such students last year as their admissions were done virtually due to the closure of schools in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Every year, around 170,000 students move from municipal schools that offer education only up to Class 5 to government schools in Class 6.Owing to the pandemic, the induction of such students is happening online this year as well, on the basis of names sent by municipal schools. As per the official data, only 76% of the students who transferred from municipal schools last year could be traced.On June 8, Hindustan Times reported that the Delhi government was planning to collaborate with the three civic bodies to track and trace Class 6 students who were transferred to DoE-run schools.Education minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday chaired a meeting with the municipal commissioners of North, South, and East Delhi corporations on the matter.During the meeting, Sisodia asked the three corporations to provide the correct contact details of transferred students. “Last year, only about 30-35% of students’ phone numbers were correct. So, a large number of students could not get the worksheets or participate in the semi-online classes. Government school teachers made special efforts to ascertain the whereabouts of these children and, eventually, 76% of students enrolled in Class 6,” the government said in a statement.“We should ensure that students transitioning from MCD to DoE schools get the same emotional and learning support as other classes,” Sisodia said.Initially, government schools will try to contact students and in case their phone numbers are found to be incorrect, the municipal teachers will try to find out the correct details with the help of their other students, the government statement said.MCD officials said they have also been asked to provide details of students who have not been attending online classes or visiting schools to collect worksheets. “Together, we will make efforts to trace them,” said a senior official of the east civic body’s education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-civic-bodies-join-hands-to-ensure-smooth-transition-of-students-101624397458209.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kharge panel discusses party rejig, pending poll promises with Captain||Amid growing tension in the ruling Congress, Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had a three-hour meeting on Tuesday with the three-member committee set up to end the factionalism in the party’s state unit ahead of next year’s assembly polls even as some ministers and MLAs conveyed to the central leadership their displeasure over former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s public statements. Capt Amarinder met the committee headed by leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge at the latter’s Parliament House office in Delhi. The committee, which also has Congress general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal as members, discussed with him the implementation status of the 2017 poll manifesto, revamp of the party’s organizational set-up and preparations for the coming elections, said one of the members on the condition of anonymity. He said the panel specifically asked the chief minister about the pending poll announcements, including justice in sacrilege and police firing cases, action against drug dealers and the annulment of power purchase agreements (PPAs) with independent power producers, that have been raised by the dissenters. Amarinder, while informing the trio on the progress made on election promises, specifically briefed them about the status of probe into sacrilege and police firing cases, with an assurance to implement the pending ones within the next six months, according to sources close to him. “The committee members were informed that the special investigation team report in Kotkapura firing incident was quashed by the court and the new SIT had already made quick progress,” they said. The CM’s one-to-one audience with the central panel – their second meeting in less than three weeks – came on the day the SIT questioned SAD patriarch Parkash Singh Badal, who was the chief minister at the time of the 2015 police firing, for two hours. Hindustan Times has learnt that the panel is expected to meet Congress president Sonia Gandhi tomorrow to update her about the issues. However, the problem between Amarinder and Sidhu may have got exacerbated with both taking a ‘maximalist’ position according to one person who didn’t want to be identified. The CM told committee members that they should make a fair assessment about what each person brought to the table. While he was willing to go along with whatever the party decided, he wanted them to see the troubles Sidhu was stirring with his public outbursts against the CM. Capt’s side seemed to be upset that Sidhu drew his support from Priyanka and Rahul. “The problem is we need both CM and Sidhu so we have to work it out,” said the leader quoted above. The other issue, said the above leader, was the choice of deputy chief ministers or PCC chiefs. Both Sidhu and the CM are from Patiala and so the central leadership is looking for another deputy candidate that would balance out regional representation. The discussions with the CM were also about rollout of Dalit- oriented schemes as they form 30% of the population in the state. Amarinder later also met senior party leader Ambika Soni, who is also a Rajya Sabha member from Punjab, at her Lodhi Estate residence over lunch. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, who met Kharge after the committee’s meeting with the CM, said Rahul is having a close look at everything and the party’s set-up in the state would be revamped within the next few days. Though the CM was scheduled to return to Chandigarh on Tuesday, he decided to spend one more day in the national capital. (WITH INPUTS FROM DELHI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kharge-panel-discusses-party-rejig-pending-poll-promises-with-captain-101624393666671.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi varsity fake billing scam: Panel submits report, finds ‘key evidences’ against erring officials||The fact-finding committee probing the alleged fake billing scam at Punjabi University, Patiala, on Tuesday submitted its interim report to the vice-chancellor. Though the contents of the report were disclosed yet, the three-member panel claimed to have gathered “substantial evidences” to proceed against the erring employees. A senior assistant working in an administrative department of the varsity had come under the scanner for a multi-crore embezzlement, which went unchecked for at least six years.The matter came to the fore when the internal audit department and the varsity’s finance wing flagged issues in five bills amounting to ₹6 lakh purportedly submitted by a department.The stamp and signatures of the department head were found to be fake and even the names of research scholars and assistants against whom the bills were raised turned out to be bogus.Acting on a complaint early this month, vice-chancellor Prof Arvind formed the fact-finding committee comprising registrar Varinder Kaushik, dean (research) Ashok Tiwari and finance officer Rakesh Khuranato file an interim report. “The committee gathered substantial evidences in the matter. It probed bank accounts of the senior assistant in question and his alleged accomplices. The assistance from varsity’s forensic department was also taken to investigate fake signatures and stamps,” said a panel member.Prof Arvind confirmed having received the preliminary report.“We have made good progress in the matter. The preliminary report was sought to see who are involved in it. The issue will be taken to its logical conclusion,” the V-C said.According to the initial probe, the senior assistant — who handled funds provided to the university under various heads and was posted in the same department for over a decade — used to create and submit fake bills in the name of “ghost” research scholars and assistants to siphon off the money.The funds mainly included those provided by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for development schemes, non-UGC grant for research projects and scholarships given by the Union ministry of education besides those received under the Rashtriya Uchhchatar Shiksha Abhiyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-varsity-fake-billing-scam-panel-submits-report-finds-key-evidences-against-erring-officials-101624392163251.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana youth killed in crossfire between two groups in Kotkapura||A 26-year-old youth was killed in crossfire between two groups in the Rishi Nagar area of Kotkapura town in Faridkot district on Tuesday. The deceased, identified as Deepak Kumar of Ferozepur Rajput village in Haryana’s Palwal district, was one of the 3-4 unidentified assailants who opened fire on Harvel Singh, a history sheeter, in the afternoon, police said. Tension gripped the area following the incident. Superintendent of police (SP) Bhupinder Singh Sidhu said, “Harvel and his aides also returned fire. Around 15 rounds were fired by the two groups. During the crossfire, the persons who attacked Harvel accidentally shot one of their aides. He was rushed to the government hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. We found a driving licence on the deceased. Further investigation is underway.” “A forensic team inspected the crime spot and collected all vital evidences. We are trying to identify the other accused and the motive behind the attack. As per the preliminary investigation, it seems an attempt was made on Harvel due to rivalry between two gangs,” he added. A case was registered under section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act at the Kotkapura city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-youth-killed-in-crossfire-between-two-groups-in-kotkapura-101624392162216.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||NIA arrests 2 more suspects in Shaurya Chakra awardee killing||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested two more suspects in connection with the high-profile killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu. The arrested men —Harbhinder Singh, alias Pinder Dhillon of Jeobala village and Navpreet Singh of Jhamke village in Tarn Taran district— were allegedly in contact with key accused Inderjit Singh, who was taken into custody earlier, sources said. Sandhu, who was awarded the bravery award for fighting terrorism in Punjab, was gunned down by two-bike borne men at his residence in Bhikhwind town of Tarn Taran district in October last year. On Tuesday, Harbhinder and Navpreet were produced in a Mohali court that sent them to four-day NIA remand, said Harbhinder’s counsel advocate Navjot Kaur Chabba. The two had allegedly been in contact with the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF), a militant outfit. Inderjit was arrested by the Punjab Police in January from Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, Mumbai, hours before he was scheduled to board a flight to Dubai. The Punjab Police had claimed that Inderjit was one of the two shooters who barged into Sandhu’s house. Another shooter was identified as Gurjit Singh, alias Bha. Chabba, citing NIA, said the two were arrested on Monday. “The NIA had served notices to the duo and Harpinder has appeared before the investigating agency twice. She said both the two were cooperating with the investigators and their arrest was uncalled for. Harpinder, who had taken part in army recruitment thrice, had applied for an Australian visa,” she said. Earlier, the special court in Mohali had granted bail to 12 accused in the case as chargesheet was not presented against them. The case was initially registered by the Punjab Police in Tarn Taran on October 16, 2020. Later NIA took over the probe after registering a case on January 26 this year. It had earlier filed a chargesheet against eight accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nia-arrests-2-more-suspects-in-shaurya-chakra-awardee-killing-101624392161240.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||PM’s all-party meet: Pro-Jammu outfits stage protests, burn effigies||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s all-party meet scheduled for June 24 has stirred a hornet’s nest in Jammu where pro-Jammu parties feel enraged over what they called “BJP’s appeasement politics of inviting Kashmir-centric and pro-separatists parties to the meeting and giving negligible share to them.” Under sweltering sun, outfits such as the Panthers Party, the Dogra Front and the PoJK Refugees Front staged protests in Jammu. The Panthers Party activists led by former minister Harsh Dev Singh staged a vociferous protest and burnt the effigy of the BJP for “neglecting Jammu region in all party-meet and development programmes”. “We are protesting over the way political parties of Jammu are being neglected. Kashmir has always remained a pampered child, while Jammu has always been neglected, be it jobs, tourism, power, development projets, assembly seats, or allocation of funds. In this all-party meet, Jammu has been given a negligible share, but from Kashmir leaders who talk about separatism and separatists are being invited. Even those who do not want to attend are being persuaded,” he rued. “We have no hope from BJP leaders from J&K because they surrendered before the PDP in the past and played a second fiddle. The Congress unit will also toe the central line. Then who will talk about Jammu? It’s an attempt to subjugate Jammu, which will have far-reaching consequences on the region and its people,” he added. Dogra Front president Ashok Gupta also questioned the logic behind government’s decision to invite Valley-based politicians. “Farooq Abdullah sought China’s help for the restoration of Article 370. Mehbooba Mufti made derogatory remarks against the Tricolour. And they have been invited to the all-party meeting, but Jammu’s nationalist and patriotic political leaders have been ignored. Displaced Kashmiri Pandits who were driven out of their homes in the Valley by terrorists have also been neglected,” Gupta said. Ikkjutt Jammu (United Jammu), a Jammu-based political party, has also slammed the Modi government for “surrendering to Kashmir-centric parties”. Party president Ankur Sharma has said that the government is committing a big blunder by inviting the Kashmiri parties. “The Centre has invited parties from Kashmir, who are not even recognised, but the political parties from Jammu, who took part in elections, were not afforded even a single opportunity of being heard,” he said. A frontal organisation of the Kashmiri Pandits — Panun Kashmir — has also criticised the decision. Ajay Chrungoo, chairperson of Panun Kashmir, said, “The government is negating everything which had been achieved following the revocation of Article 370 and 35A. The dialogue process started by the government is a clear testimony to the fact that the government still wants to run J&K through halfway separatism. This is a political suicide.” PoJK Refugee Front, which staged a protest outside the local Press Club, sought 24 assembly seats for them. “Those who are distress have not been called for the meeting,” he said. The meeting has its own sanctity: J&K BJP president Without according much priority to the demands of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), the president of Jammu and Kashmir Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Ravinder Raina, on Tuesday said, “The all-party meeting by the Prime Minister has its own sanctity and all the issues which are in the interest of the people of Jammu and Kashmir will be discussed.” He, however, added that “J&K was, is and shall remain an integral part of India”.Addressing mediapersons after holding an impromptu meet here, Raina said, “Since PM Modi has invited all parties with an open mind and a big heart, therefore we should also talk about Ek Bharat, Sreshth Bharat.” “The PM has invited all parties from J&K to discuss the issues and problems. He was the one who strengthened grassroots level democracy in Jammu and Kashmir after 70 years of successive rule by various parties. He was the one who tried to do justice with West-Pak refugees, PoJK refugees, Pahari speaking community, Gurkha and Valmiki communities and women,” he said. “I am confident that all the leaders invited there will take part and with an open mind and heart will discuss all issues before the PM,” he said in a clear reference to PAGD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pms-all-party-meet-pro-jammu-outfits-stage-protests-burn-effigies-101624392104239.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 188 fresh Covid infections, five deaths||Himachal Pradesh recorded 188 fresh Covid-19 infections on Tuesday taking the state’s tally to 2,00,791 while the death toll mounted to 3,437 after five more people succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 36 were reported in Shimla, 28 in Mandi, 21 in Chamba, 19 Kangra, 18 in Kullu, 16 in Bilaspur, 15 in Una, 12 in Solan, 11 in Hamirpur and six each in Lahaul-Spiti and Sirmaur.One fatality each was reported in Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Sirmaur, and Una.Recoveries have reach 1,95,055 after 314 people recuperated while the active cases have come down to 2,276. In terms of the caseload, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 45,697 cases so far followed by Mandi where 26,962 people have been tested positive to date and Shimla with 24,972 cases. Solan has 22,150 cases, Sirmaur 15,264, Hamirpur 14,270, Una 13,212, Bilaspur 12,568, Chamba 10,988, Kullu, 8,802, Kinnaur 3,205 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,701.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-188-fresh-covid-infections-five-deaths-101624392103101.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kolkata encounter: PGIMER conducts second autopsy on gangster Bhullar’s body||The Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, on Tuesday conducted second post-mortem on the body of gangster Jaipal Singh Bhullar who along with another person was killed in an encounter with the West Bengal Police in Kolkata on June 9. The medical report was handed over to the gangster’s father Bhupinder Singh late night. On Monday, the high court had directed the PGIMER to conduct the second autopsy and to hand over the copies of the report to the Punjab Police and the petitioner Bhupinder. Following the encounter, Bhupinder, a retired police inspector, had demanded that his son’s autopsy be conducted again to ascertain the exact details and nature of the injuries caused on him. He had claimed that Jaipal was killed in a fake encounter, which according to him was substantiated from the injuries noticed on the body.The first post-mortem was conducted at Kolkata. A five-member board of PGIMER doctors, led by the forensics department, conducted the autopsy till 3.30 pm. The doctors, then, said it will take some time to conclude the autopsy findings. As per the protocol, videography of the autopsy was also done. Dr YS Bansal from department of forensic science, who headed the 5-member board said, “The post-mortem was conducted earlier in the day and doctors are compiling the report. We will hand over the reports to the petitioner today itself.”The petitioner’s lawyer Ishma Randhawa said, “After conducting the autopsy, the PGIMER handed over the body to the family and it was taken to Ferozepur.” The body will be cremated on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kolkata-encounter-pgimer-conducts-second-autopsy-on-gangster-bhullar-s-body-101624392101989.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||428 more contract Covid in J&K, seven succumb||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 428 fresh Covid-19 infections and seven deaths on Tuesday. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 999 with active positive cases dropping to 7,181 from the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,01,134 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 96.33%. There were 280 cases and four deaths in Kashmir. The Jammu division saw 148 infections and three fatalities.Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,12,584 and the death-toll has hit 4,269.The officials said that 43,786 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT taking the overall number of tests conducted since the pandemic started to 9.58 million.Officials said with 104 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 32 in Jammu. Six districts had single-digit cases.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.21 lakh cases and 1,948 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,126 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 822 deaths.From June 7, the UT has mostly recorded below-20 daily fatalities with lowest (four) on June 19.The second Covid wave peaked in May in the UT with the highest daily cases of 5,443 on May 7 and the highest daily deaths of 73 on May 17.The month of May was most devastating for Jammu and Kashmir recording the highest 1,14,382 Covid-19 cases and 1,625 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/428-more-contract-covid-in-j-k-seven-succumb-101624392100912.html
23-06-2021||Other||Decommissioned IAF copters attract crowd at Mansa’s scrap workshop||Three decommissioned helicopters of the Indian Air Force (IAF) have turned a scrap dealer’s workshop into a major attraction in Mansa city.These flying machines, without engines or other sophisticated gadgets, were brought to the city on Monday from Sarsawa air force station in Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur district.Since then, scrap workshop ‘Mithu Kabaria’ has become a hotspot with Mansa residents and adjoining villages making a beeline to catch a glimpse of these disused choppers.Undeterred by the scorching weather of south Punjab, residents sit in the cockpit to click selfies and make videos. Some share their experience by posting live videos on their Facebook handles.Mansa resident Rakesh Kumar said he came with his family for the maiden experience of aircraft. “People are very excited as a backward town like Mansa has never seen anything like this,” he said.Dealer Mithu Ram Arora gladly obliges and lets the visitors rejoice the helicopters.“I am happy that people, who were stressed due to one-and-a-half years of Covid-19 restrictions, have got something to stay entertained in their town,” said Arora, who has been dealing in scrap since 1988.Arora paid about ₹42 lakh, including GST, to the air force authorities for the structures of six choppers.“I have already sold three helicopters to different parties. One was purchased by someone from the Mumbai film industry, while a Ludhiana-based entrepreneur bought two. One of these choppers has been kept at Morni hill resort in Panchkula district while the other may be used at a hospitality property in Ludhiana,” said Arora.His son Dimple Arora said the family plans to keep one chopper after refabrication at the workshop while the remaining two would be sold off.Aroras had made an online bid early this year but Covid-19 restrictions delayed the deal with the air force authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decommissioned-iaf-copters-attract-crowd-at-mansa-s-scrap-workshop-101624392046563.html
23-06-2021||Other||Punjab govt starts free Hepatitis B treatment, testing||The Punjab government on Tuesday introduced free testing and treatment of Hepatitis B in all government health institutions.Presiding over the statewide launch of the initiative at Mohali district hospital, health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the state government has introduced Hepatitis B screening tests and treatment in all medical colleges, district hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals and anti-retroviral treatment, oral substitution therapy centres. In addition, Hepatitis B viral load testing facility will be extended at 27 centres, free of cost.The state health department has entered into a rate contract with Oncquest Laboratories under which they have provided a laboratory technician at every district hospital and government medical college. Hepatitis B samples will be taken at these institutions free of cost from the patient while the cost of the test will be reimbursed to the lab at the rate of ₹851 by the government.The line of treatment for Hepatitis B is long and expensive, but the state government will give free medicine to the concerned. Even the Hepatitis B positive Punjab patients under treatment in PGIMER will be provided medicine free of cost, Sidhu said adding that a nodal officer has been deputed in PGIMER for the same and has been handed over the stock of requisite medicine.All patients infected with HIV, persons under treatment at OST centres and all pregnant women will be extended the Hepatitis B and Hepatitis C testing free of cost. Any rapid test positive will be followed by free viral load test.All the medical specialists and doctors of Punjab who treat Hepatitis B and C have been trained by Dr Varinder Singh, professor and head of hepatology department, PGIMER and more training will be imparted in the future.Punjab was the first in the country to introduce free test and treatment for Hepatitis C about five years ago. Hepatitis C treatment centres have been increased from 25 to 66. So far about 96,000 patients in Punjab have been treated for Hepatitis C free of cost. Their cure rate is 93%. The treatment of Hepatitis C was continued even during pandemic. In the year 2020, about 12,000 patients were treated for Hepatitis C and by May 2021, approximately 4,900 patients have been treated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-govt-starts-free-hepatitis-b-treatment-testing-101624392044583.html
23-06-2021||Other||AAP’s youth wing lays siege to Singla’s house in Sangrur||Scores of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) youth wing workers on Tuesday laid siege to the residence of Punjab education minister Vijay Inder Singla in Sangrur in support of ETT-TET pass and contractual teachers and staged a protest.They also broke barricades put up by the police and burnt the minister’s effigy at the site. The dharna was led by AAP MLA and youth wing state president Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer.MLA Baljinder Kaur, district youth wing president Narinder Kaur Bharaj, party leaders Balkar Sidhu and Dr Balbir Singh among others specially joined the dharna against the “false” promise of Ghar-Ghar Rozgar scheme by the Congress during the 2017 elections.Meet Hayer said that lakhs of youths in the state were struggling to get jobs even as the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress party had promised to provide Ghar-Ghar Rozgar during the 2017 elections. “After four and a half years of the Captain government, educated youth of Punjab and unemployed ETT-TET pass teachers are sitting on the streets to get jobs, while thousands of contract teachers have been struggling for regularisation of services for 15 years,” he said.Hayer said that education providers like Education Guarantee Scheme (EGS), Alternative Inclusive Education (AIE) and Special Trainer Resource and contractual teachers had given the precious time of their lives to government schools and worked on meagre salaries of ₹5,000 to ₹10,000.Prof Baljinder Kaur said nobody wants to violate Covid guidelines but the policies of the Congress government forced the youths to hold dharnas. “Women protesters are being beaten up by male cops. We demand jobs for unemployed youths and the AAP stands by the protesters,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aaps-youth-wing-lays-siege-to-singla-s-house-in-sangrur-101624392043681.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet decisions: Interstate bus services to resume in HP from July 1||The Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday decided to resume interstate bus services, including luxury buses, with 50% capacity and discontinue e-pass system for entering the state from July 1. The meeting presided over by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur reviewed the Covid situation in the state and decided to ease the curbs as the second wave is waning.The government offices would start functioning with full staff strength, said urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj.All the shops would remain open from 9am to 8pm while restaurants would be allowed to operate till 10pm. Religious places will be also opened for pilgrims.The restriction on gatherings in social functions, including weddings, has also been eased. Fifty persons can gather in indoor facilities while 100 people would be allowed in the outdoor gatherings.Class-12 evaluationThe cabinet further approved the formula for evaluation of Class 12 students who have been promoted. Students will get 10% weightage for Class 10 results, 15% to Class 11 results and 55% weightage for first term, second term and pre-board exam results and 5% weightage for Class 12 English paper that was held before the annual exams were suspended. The Class 12 result would be declared by third week of July.The cabinet also approved one-month vacations in schools from June 26 to July 25. Kullu district will have vacation for 23 days from July 23 to August 14, while Lahaul and Spiti district will have vacation from July 1 to 31. Teachers in the winter closing areas would start attending schools from July 1. However, online studies for students would continue.The cabinet also directed education and health departments to formulate a plan so that maximum number of teaching and non-teaching staff is immunised by the end of this month.The cabinet approved to set up new police station of state vigilance and anti-corruption bureau at Baddi along with creation and filling up of 14 posts of various categories.The cabinet gave its approval to open new division of Jal Shakti department in Baddi besides a new Jal Shakti section at Sai.It decided to enhance the stipend of PG students, junior residents, tutor specialists and DM/Mch students of the government medical colleges and dental colleges of the state by ₹5,000 per month. A decision was also taken to double the diet allowance of the sportspersons of the education department. The cabinet gave its nod to upgrade five government middle schools to high schools and three high schools to government senior secondary schools in Chamba districts along with creation and filling up requisite posts of different categories. It also gave its consent to enhance the honorarium of part-time water carriers of the education department by ₹300 per month from April 1. The cabinet also gave ex post facto approval to fill up 1,602 posts of different categories in various health institutions up to June 30 on outsource basis. It also decided to extend the lease/tender period of modification in working of the Govind Sagar reservoir for one to four years.The cabinet decided to fill up 25 posts of assistant district attorney in prosecution department on contract basis through direct recruitment. Approval was also given to create and fill up 30 posts of different categories in newly opened sub jail at Kalpa.HIGHLIGHTSShops to open from 9am to 8pm; restaurants, bars to open till 10pmReligious places to reopenRestrictions on gathering in social events eased. Maximum, 50 people allowed in indoor events, 100 in outdoorEvaluation formula for Class-12 result approvedOne-month vacation in summer closing schools from June 26Stipend of medical college students increased by ₹5,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cabinet-decisions-interstate-bus-services-to-resume-in-hp-from-july-1-101624392042223.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal police arrest taxi driver with pangolin scales||The Hamirpur police in Himachal Pradesh have arrested a taxi driver for possessing over 4kg pangolin scales. The accused has been identified as Sunil, a resident of Kotlu village in Bhoranj tehsil. Hamirpur superintendent of police Karthikeyan Gokulachandran said they had got a tip-off that some person was selling pangolin scales on online portal.Consequently, a police team set up a naka at Jhiralri village on Monday and intercepted a car going from Bhota towards Una.“The car driver was jittery after seeing the police which raised the suspicion. Upon checking the police recovered 4.424kg pangolin scales kept in a gunny bag in the vehicle,” he added. Gokulchandran said the accused has been booked under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act and was being interrogated in police custody.He said the cost of pangolin scales is estimated to be more than $3,000/kg in the international market.Pangolins are killed for meat and traditional medicine.Demand for pangolin scales is mainly in China and Vietnam where they are used to make medicine for variety of ailments.Pangolin scales are made of keratin, the same material that makes up fingernails, hair, and horn. There are eight species of pangolins. Four species are found in Asia and rest four in Sub-Saharan Africa. All eight pangolin species are protected under national and international laws, and two are listed as critically endangered on the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species. The anteater species mostly live on land while black bellied pangolin also climbs trees.They range in size from a large housecat to more than four-feet long. They are largely covered scales and roll into a ball when threatened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-police-arrest-taxi-driver-with-pangolin-scales-101624392040850.html
23-06-2021||Other||Jalandhar reports second case of green fungus||A 43-year-old Covid survivor has been diagnosed with green fungus infection, also known as invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, at a hospital in Jalandhar.This is the second confirmed infection of green fungus in Jalandhar in three days and could be the second case of its kind in the state.The patient was initially admitted to the hospital in May for the treatment of Covid-19 and was discharged after recovery on June 3. Dr Ashutosh Dhanuka of Sacred Heart Hospital said that post-discharge the patient complained of low-grade fever, cough and blood in sputum and was re-admitted on June 14.Since the patient was a follow-up case of severe Covid, the possibility of a fungal infection was to be ruled out and hence a series of medical investigations were performed. He said a suspected fungal culture report came positive for aspergillus flavus and anti-fungal medications were started. The patient’s condition is improving, said Dr Ashutosh.He added that multiple factors including diabetes, use of steroids and underlying damaged lungs predispose patients to secondary infections and hence the cases of green and black fungus are on the rise in India.On June 20, a 62-year-old Covid survivor had been diagnosed with green fungus infection at the hospital in Jalandhar.Symptoms of the diseaseAmong the symptoms of allergic aspergillus sinusitis are stuffiness, runny nose, headache and reduced ability to smell. Symptoms of an aspergilloma or “fungus ball” include cough, coughing up blood and shortness of breath, fatigue etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jalandhar-reports-second-case-of-green-fungus-101624391984421.html
23-06-2021||Other||Ex-serviceman among six of gang held for robbery in Patiala||Six members of a gang of robbers, including an ex-serviceman, were arrested by the district police here on Tuesday.The accused had looted ₹15,000 from a filling station on the Patiala-Sirhind road on June 6. They also snatched the security guard’s rifle and vandalised the property during the heist that lasted around 15 minutes. A case has been registered against them.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Kumar Garg said one of the accused involved in the case is a former army jawan Harbhajan Singh, who was convicted for life for murdering his colleague during his posting at Naushera in Jammu and Kashmir in 2007.“He was shifted to Patiala central jail where he jumped his parole. The main accused, Vishal Kumar, formed the gang along with Harbhajan and four others, and committed robberies in different parts of the state,” he said.The other gang members have been identified as Gursantkirat Singh, Gobind Singh, Shailpreet Singh and Amardeep Abrol, all residents of Sangrur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/exserviceman-among-six-of-gang-held-for-robbery-in-patiala-101624391983247.html
23-06-2021||Other||Gang stealing transformer oil busted in Amritsar, five held||The police on Tuesday busted a gang involved in stealing oil from transformers with the arrest of five of its members during two separate operations.Over 400 litres of stolen oil, 11 cans for storing and transporting the same and two SUVs —Tata Safari and Toyota Innova — were seized from the possession of the accused.Police said the gang was active in the city for the past four months and committed 24 oil thefts. The accused used to sell the oil to one Sukhpreet Singh, alias Dana, of Chatiwind village. Sukhpreet would further sell it to transporters and autorickshaw drivers, said police.The arrested accused have been identified as Satnam Singh, alias Mithu, of Atalghar village, Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukh, of Ghanupur Kale village, Karan of Chheharta, Manpreet Singh, alias Golu, of Chabhal Road area and Balwinder Singh, alias Bunty, of Khandwala area in Amritsar.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said Mithu was the gang’s kingpin. He said, “We had been receiving several complaints from PSPCL and the locals about the theft of oil from transformers causing disruption in power supply. All police stations were instructed to curb the crime. On Tuesday, our teams nabbed the accused.”The accused used to sell the stolen oil for ₹40 to ₹50 to transporters. He said the accused have so far confessed to committing 24 incidents. Thousands of litres of oil have already been sold by the gang.Two separate cases under sections 379 (theft) and 411 (dishonesty receiving property) of the Indian Penal Code, and the relevant sections of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, have been registered against the accused at Civil Lines and Division B police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gang-stealing-transformer-oil-busted-in-amritsar-five-held-101624391982319.html
23-06-2021||Other||Army lieutenant dies by suicide in Ambala, husband held for dowry death||A 32-year-old air force squadron leader was arrested on Tuesday after his 29-year-old lieutenant wife, who was working in the Military Nursing Services, died by suicide in Ambala Cantonment.The woman hanged herself at the Indian Air Force residential quarters during the night intervening Sunday and Monday. Her autopsy was conducted at the Military Hospital here on Tuesday. The couple’s house has been sealed by the air force police.Her family said that she was the mother of a two-year-old boy and had tied the knot with the man in December 2018 in an inter-caste marriage according to Hindu customs, almost two years after she was posted in Ambala.The deceased’s family met home minister Anil Vij in the morning demanding a fair probe and later refused to take the body for cremation as no arrest was made by the police till evening.The accused husband will be presented before a court on Wednesday, inspector Vijay Kumar, Ambala Cantt police station in-charge, said after meeting the woman’s family.The victim’s in-laws were also been booked under sections 304-B (dowry death) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC on Monday. The complaint was filed by the deceased’s brother.He alleged that soon after the marriage, the accused’s family moved to Ambala and started taunting his sister for not giving him a car or cash as dowry. He also alleged that his brother-in-law was always suspicious of his sister and had even installed CCTV cameras in their own bedroom.Inspector Vijay said they will try to retrieve the footage from the lab. The rest of the accused will be arrested as investigation proceeds, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-lieutenant-dies-by-suicide-in-ambala-husband-held-for-dowry-death-101624391981003.html
23-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC employees’ protest: Traffic snarls at Jalandhar-Panipat highway||Continuing their agitation for the regularisation of services, municipal employees from different parts of the state staged a protest under the banner of the Municipal Employees Action Committee, Punjab, in Doraha on Tuesday.Covid norms were flouted as hundreds of protestors blocked the Jalandhar-Panipat highway for around two hours, giving social distancing and masks a miss. The commuters had to face problems as massive traffic jams were witnessed on the highway.The employees lifted the protest after Payal sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Mankanwal Singh Chahal visited the spot and they handed over the memorandum to him.Ramesh Gaichand, convenor of the Municipal Employees Action Committee, said that the municipal employees including sweeper and sewermen in over 135 municipal councils and corporations across the state have been on strike since May 13 seeking regularisation.“Apart from regularisation of employees, we have also been demanding abolishment of the outsourcing system. Employees should be recruited directly. Other demands include implementation of the old pension scheme, increase in pay scale, etc. If the government fails to fulfil the demands, then we will be forced to raise the agitation to the next level, “ said Gaichand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-employees-protest-traffic-snarls-at-jalandhar-panipat-highway-101624391924222.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||29-year-old killed, brother injured in Amritsar road rage assault||A 29-year-old man was killed and his younger brother was injured in an assault allegedly by a police sub-inspector’s son and his aides over a road rage incident in the Kot Mitt Singh area of Amritsar city on Monday night. The deceased, Avtar Singh, who worked with an Amritsar-based liquor contractor, was declared dead by doctors at the Amritsar civil hospital. Avtar’s brother Hira Singh was referred to the surgical ward of the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital. The police have identified the suspects as Anter Kahlon (prime accused), his aides Happy, Jaskaran Bholu, Ghulla, Gursimran, Vimal, Jaskaran and Jagroop Bamrah, all residents of Amritsar. Antar’s father Tejinder Singh is posted in the crime investigation agency (CIA) wing in the city. Officials said they are trying to identify more accused. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP-investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said, “The incident took place around 10:30pm when Avtar, Hira and four others were on their way to Kot Mitt Singh area from Taran Wala bridge in a Mahindra Bolero car. They came across the other group coming from the opposite side in another Bolero and a motorcycle near a dargah (tomb). A quarrel ensued between the two parties over passing of their vehicles.” “The quarrel turned ugly and the accused assaulted Avtar and his associates with iron rods and baseball bats,” he added. “Avtar recently helped the police seize illicit liquor due which the accused nursed a grudge against him. Antar, who was recently elected president of an engineering college in Amritsar,” said Hira. Avtar is survived by his wife and three children. The DCP said they were also investigating the family’s allegations. Sultanwind station house officer (SHO) Parneet Kumar said, “We are conducting raids to nab all the accused.”A case under sections 302 (murder), 323 (hurt), 324 (hurt by dangerous weapons), 148 (rioting with weapons), 149 (every member) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/29yearold-killed-brother-injured-in-amritsar-road-rage-assault-101624391923146.html
23-06-2021||Other||Narinder Singh elected as president of Punjab State Chess Association||Narinder Singh from Amritsar and Jagjit Singh Cheema of Jalandhar were elected as the president and honorary secretary, respectively, of Punjab State Chess Association, during the elections held at Ludhiana.Returning Officer BK Mehta, district and session judge (Retd), announced that the office bearers were elected unopposed for the respective posts of the executive body.Harcharan Singh of Patiala was elected as senior vice president; Vikas Sharma of Ludhiana, Juninder Joshi of Barnala, Sandeep Sharma of Faridkot and Tejinder Singh of Ferozepur were elected as vice presidents; Ashwani Tiwari of Jalandhar elected as treasurer; Kultar Singh of Mohali, Anuj Shingari of Amritsar and Varinder Puri of Fatehgarh Sahib were elected as joint secretaries; Rohit Sharma of Amritsar and Prabhujot Singh of SBS Nagar were elected as organising secretary and press secretary, respectively.Narinder Singh said that amid pandemic, the ways of organising competitions have changed at the international level. Now, every competition is being played virtually, he added. So, the focus of the new executive body will be to train and update the coaches as well as players and make them familiar with the digital medium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/narinder-singh-elected-as-president-of-punjab-state-chess-association-101624391920281.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Cong leaders meet Rahul, say Sidhu’s actions will damage party||ChandigarhAfter former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s spate of interviews bad-mouthing chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, some party leaders are learnt to have conveyed their displeasure to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and the three-member central committee, telling them that such actions would damage the party. Rahul met more than a dozen party leaders from Punjab for direct feedback as part of his consultation efforts before the central leadership takes any steps, including changes in the organisational set-up, to end factionalism in the state unit. Those who met him included cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Charanjit Singh Channi, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, MPs Ravneet Singh Bittu, Dr Amar Singh, MLAs Kushaldeep Singh Dhillon, Pargat Singh, Tarsem Singh, Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Inderbir Singh Bolaria and ex-MLA Ashwani Sekhri. Bittu and Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla met leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, who heads the panel looking into the present crisis in the state unit, according to people familiar with the matter. During these meetings, at least four leaders, including two MPs, drew their attention to the Amritsar East MLA’s statements against Amarinder over the past two days. In a series of interviews, Sidhu had accused the two-time chief minister of colluding with Badals and failure to fulfil several key poll promises, besides alleging corruption in the state government. Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, who raised the issue with both Rahul and Kharge, said that several leaders have informed the high command about his (Sidhu’s) statements and notice has been taken. “There is discontent over this. The CM has been appointed by Sonia Ji and Rahul Ji. This kind of things coming from someone who was in the cabinet is unfortunate and not acceptable,” he said, insinuating that such blame game happens close to the elections when people are looking to jump ship. Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla, while expressing his displeasure, is also learnt to have urged the leadership to discipline those who are not adhering to the party’s directions and decorum. In their one-to-one meetings with Rahul, the Punjab leaders, most of whom have been critical of Capt in the recent weeks, repeated the concerns they raised during their interaction with the Kharge panel three weeks ago. Rahul gave on an average 15 minutes to each leader. Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh told him about justice in sacrilege and police firing cases, action in drug cases and power purchase agreements being their prime concern, pointing out that if these promises are fulfilled, issues will get resolved automatically. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa are likely to meet Gandhi on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cong-leaders-meet-rahul-say-sidhu-s-actions-will-damage-party-101624391862207.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana administration swings into action to check flooding during monsoon||With monsoon just around the corner, district authorities on Monday reviewed flood protection measures being implemented along the banks of Sutlej River and directed the officials concerned to ensure the work was completed by June 30. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said work was being carried out on war footing in flood-prone areas such as Jamalpur Lilli, Ghumana Complex, and Khaira Bet. Around 15 drains are being cleared to prevent low-lying areas from becoming waterlogged.“Around ₹5 crore was spent on flood protection work along Sutlej River. It will be completed by the end of next week before the advent of monsoon on July 1,” the DC said, adding work was taking place round the clock at all vulnerable sites along the Sutlej. 24X7 flood control room A 24X7 flood control room (0161-2433100) has been set up and a duty roster of staff has already been prepared to ensure residents do not face any difficulty during the monsoon. “In the event of a flood, the administration has prepared an evacuation plan. Safe places have been identified where residents of flood-prone areas will be shifted to, if required,” the DC said. The DC was accompanied by sub-divisional magistrate Baljinder Singh Dhillon and executive engineer Harjot Singh Walia.  Memories of the destruction caused due to the 70-ft long breach in Sutlej’s Dhussi Bundh at Bholewal Qadim village in 2019 are still etched in locals’ minds. The water released from the bundh had destroyed hundreds of acres of agricultural land. Water had also entered several houses and the National Disaster Response Force had to be pressed into service to carry out rescue operations. Over the last two years, there has been increased soil erosion and breaches reported along the banks of Sutlej River.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-administration-swings-into-action-to-check-flooding-during-monsoon-101624391861070.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||NTSE: 25, including 2 govt school students, clear stage 1 of scholarship exam in Ludhiana||Twenty-five students from the district, including two studying in government schools, have cleared the first stage of the prestigious National Talent Search Examination (NTSE), the results of which were declared by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) on Tuesday. As many as 4,376 students had applied for the exam, of which 3,691 had taken the test on December 20. Students who qualify the second stage will be eligible to receive an annual scholarship of ₹15,000 ( ₹1,250 per month) for two years through Classes 11 and 12 and ₹2,000 per month as undergraduates. A total of 194 students will appear for the second stage of the scholarship examination, of which 18 students are from government schools across Punjab. The two government school students who cleared the first stage are Kriti Verma, a Class-11 student at Government Senior Secondary School, Gill (GSSS, girls) and Bhavdeep Singh of GSSS, Baddowal Cantt. While Kriti scored 133 of a possible 200 marks, Bhavdeep scored 131 marks.Kriti, who is pursuing the non-medical stream, said, “I attended online classes regularly and took mock tests online, which helped me clear the examination. I am glad my hard work paid off. Our science teacher, Shaffy Makkar, and principal, Smriti Bhargav, encouraged me to take the exam.” 14-year-old Bhavdeep Singh, who aims to become an IAS officer, said, “This is a huge achievement. I am glad that I cleared the exam. I will work harder to clear Stage 2 of the exam. My teachers and district mentor for mathematics Sanjeev Taneja helped me prepare for the examination.” Singh devoted three hours a day for NTSE preparation and said he found that his score was improving in each online test. His father, Jatinder Singh, is a driver and mother, Rupinderjit Kaur, is a housewife.District education officer, secondary, Lakhvir Singh congratulated the students, staff, and school principals for the result. He also gave a shout out to former NTSE nodal officer Balwinder Kaur and district block mentors who had provided free-of-cost coaching to these students.Top scorers Shivam, a student of Kundan Vidya Mandir School scored 191 marks, Samrath Jain of DAV Public School, BRS Nagar, scored 190 marks and Anvit Singh Bindra of Bal Bharti Public School (Primary) scored 189.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ntse-25-including-2-govt-school-students-clear-stage-1-of-scholarship-exam-in-ludhiana-101624391381928.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor bottling plant unearthed in Patiala village, 3 held||Patiala Police have unearthed an illicit liquor bottling plant and at Chaura village in Patiala district on Tuesday.Bottling plant machinery, 16,000 liquor bottles, 41,000 labels of country made liquor meant for sale in Chandigarh only, 10,000 lids and seal dispensers, 80 litres of flavour, labels of different brands and boxes have been recovered from the spot.Police said Salwinder Singh, 29, Hardeep Kumar, 37, and Hanish Kumar, 21, have been arrested and their Toyota Fortuner SUV has been impounded. Two of their accomplices Attinderpal Singh and Vishal Vihari are yet to be arrested.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Kumar Garg said the accused used to smuggle liquor from parts of Chandigarh and Haryana and sell it in Punjab after mixing it with extra neutral alcohol (ENA) and flavours.“The accused confessed that they set up the bottling plant at Jhil village of the district in March 2020 after purchasing machinery from Delhi. Later, they shifted it to Ghanaur and then to Chaura village. The accused made huge profits by selling adulterated liquor after smuggling it from neighbouring states,” the SSP said. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (for making forged documents), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) of the IPC and other sections of the Excise Act has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-bottling-plant-unearthed-in-patiala-village-3-held-101624391380887.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC notice to Punjab over withdrawal of security cover to former minister||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday sought response from the Punjab government on a plea from former Congress cabinet minister and now Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Hans Raj Josan seeking restoration of his security cover.The high court bench of justice Rajesh Bhardwaj has sought response by July 5 on the plea in which Josan had submitted that threat perception still persisted but the state government out of vengeance withdrew his security cover, days after he left the Congress and joined the SAD, his lawyer CM Munjal had told the court.The court was informed that Josan had security cover since 1992 and he served as a cabinet minister twice in the Congress governments, first in 1992-1997 and then in 2002-2007, and also served as the chairman of the Punjab Leather Board. Four securitymen entrusted were withdrawn on April 17, three days after he joined the SAD, the court was told.Josan had contested the 2009 bypoll and the 2012 assembly poll from Jalalabad against Sukhbir Singh Badal but lost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-notice-to-punjab-over-withdrawal-of-security-cover-to-former-minister-101624391141854.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Jobs to Congress MLAs’ sons: LIP leaders, workers detained after scuffle with cops in Ludhiana||At least 24 Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leaders and workers were detained near Bharat Nagar Chowk on Tuesday as they marched towards the deputy commissioner’s (DC’s) office to protest against the state government’s controversial decision to provide jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs on Tuesday.Alleging that the administration had failed to provide jobs to thousands of unemployed youngsters in the district while MLAs’ sons were being hired on compassionate grounds, LIP workers led by state president of the youth wing Gagandeep Singh Sunny Kainth marched towards the Mini Secretariat to lock up the DC’s office. Minor scuffles broke out between the protesters and cops as the workers attempted to break through the police barricades, following which around two dozen workers, including women, were detained.“Arjun Partap Singh Bajwa, the son of Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, has been appointed a Group B inspector in the Punjab Police, while Bhisham Pandey, the son of Ludhiana (north) MLA Rakesh Pandey, has been made naib tehsildar. However, the fate of the thousands of youngsters who had filled forms under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozgar’ mission is still up in the air,” said Kainth. On the party’s decision to lock up the DC’s office, LIP student wing president Harjap Gill said, “Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma should clarify how many of the youngsters who had registered themselves at job fairs organised by the state government and administration have been provided jobs. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh approved the jobs to gain the MLAs’ backing amid a feud in the Congress.” Saying that the youth had been backstabbed, Kainth said, “Teachers and other contractual staff in different sectors have been agitating, while the government has announced jobs for the sons of affluent MLAs, who have crores in their coffers.”Division number 5 police station house officer Kuldeep Singh said LIP workers and leaders were detained to maintain law and order. “No FIR has been lodged against the protesters and they were released after some time,” he said. At a time when epidemiologists have advised caution and predicted a third wave of the Covid pandemic, a large number of LIP workers gathered at the protest site, disregarding social distancing and masking protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jobs-to-congress-mlas-sons-lip-leaders-workers-detained-after-scuffle-with-cops-in-ludhiana-101624391140810.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Woman accuses husband of raping toddler in Ludhiana, probe on||A 28-year-old man was booked for allegedly raping his one-and-a-half-year-old daughter on his wife’s complaint on Monday. The accused a Ludhiana-based labourer and the complainant got married in 2018. The complainant, however, left her husband four months after the marriage and moved back to her parents’ home in Jalalabad. She said that on June 13, her husband and his relatives brought them back to her marital home. “On June 15, I noticed that my daughter was unwell. I noticed some swelling in her nether regions. The next day, I awoke hearing my daughters cries and was shocked to find my husband sexually assaulting her,” she said, adding that she left the house with her daughter and went to her aunt’s home in Tajpur village. A case has been registered under Section 376 (rape) and sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Basti Jodhewal police station. SHO Mohammad Jamil said, “The matter appears fishy as the mother is not allowing medical examination of her daughter. The toddler appears fine and active. As the complainant has recently filed for divorce, she may be trying to implicate her husband. The matter will be cleared, once the toddler is medically examined.” The accused has not been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-accuses-husband-of-raping-toddler-in-ludhiana-probe-on-101624390840924.html
23-06-2021||Other||Mother, stepfather murdered 9-year-old Ludhiana girl for insurance money||A day after a nine-year-old girl was strangulated to death by her mother and stepfather at a cattle-feed factory in Humbran, police on Tuesday said the couple had committed the murder for an insurance payout. The couple — Pinki, 27, and her new husband, Narinderpal, 31 — had bought a ₹2.5 lakh insurance policy for their daughter, Bharti in 2018. Assistant sub-inspector Harpal Singh said,“The couple had bought a plot for ₹3 lakh in 2019 and were paying for it in instalments. They had already paid ₹1.49 lakh to the bank, but were struggling to pay the remainder. Thus, they came up with the plan to kill Bharti and use the insurance money to settle their dues.” The accused lived in the quarters of the cattle-feed factory, where Narinderpal was employed, with Bharti and their six-year-old son. Neighbours said Narinderpal did not like Bharti, who was Pinki’s daughter by her first husband, and would often beat her up. “On the intervening night of June 19 and 20, Narinderpal was on night duty. He returned home around 2.30am and strangulated his sleeping stepdaughter, while Pinki gagged her with a dupatta. After committing the murder, Narinderpal went back to work. The couple rushed the nine-year-old to a private hospital when the night shift ended, claiming that they had found the girl lying unconscious in the morning. Doctors declared the girl brought dead,” the ASI said.Police sent the body to the civil hospital for post-mortem. A team of experts declared that the girl had been strangulated to death. The victim’s parents have confessed to the murder.“The accused wanted to get rid of the girl. Earlier, Pinki had approached her brother and other relatives asking them to adopt Bharti, but no one wanted to adopt a girl,” the ASI said.Pinki had left her first husband in 2013 when Bharti was eight months old. She had met Narinderpal of Mallpura village of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar in 2014. The court has sent the duo to a three-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mother-stepfather-murdered-9-year-old-ludhiana-girl-for-insurance-money-101624390480803.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Minor runaway girl seeking security sent to Nari Niketan||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday sent a runaway girl to Nari Niketan after coming to know that she was a minor.The girl from Sangrur and a major boy had approached high court seeking protection. They had told court that they have got married and now fear for their lives at the hands of girl’s relatives. While the boy was 22-year-old, the girl was 17 years five month old. It was pleaded that they solemnised marriage on June 7 as per Sikh rites and ritual and photographs were also annexed with the petition as a proof. It was stated that they knew each other for three years and wanted to marry each other. However, the girl’s parents were against it and even threatened to eliminate them.State’s counsel sought time from the court and submitted that the girl was a minor and appropriate action would be taken against the persons involved in the marriage under the relevant statute.Seeking response from the state by July 15, the court ordered the police to take the minor to Nari Niketan, where she will be kept till the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/minor-runaway-girl-seeking-security-sent-to-nari-niketan-101624390421338.html
23-06-2021||Bangalore||Despite Cong warning, 2 more MLAs back Siddaramaiah as CM||At least two more legislators from the Congress on Tuesday endorsed Siddaramaiah as the future chief minister of Karnataka, adding to the growing factionalism and challenges for the principal opposition party in the southern state ahead of the 2023 assembly elections.The public airing of views on the party’s chief ministerial choice comes on the same day when state Congress president, DK Shivakumar met Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on Tuesday.“It is the dream of the entire people of the state that Siddaramaiah should become the chief minister,” JN Ganesh, the Congress legislator from Kampli in Ballari said on Tuesday.Bhima Naik, the Congress legislator from Hagirbommanahalli in the same district, added that the youth who voted for BJP in the 2018 assembly elections, are now stating that they had made a mistake. Naik too said that it was his opinion that Siddaramaiah should become the chief minister again.The statements fuels factionalism in the Congress party and further sours relations between opposition leader Siddaramaiah and state party president DK Shivakumar.The statements come a day after the national leadership of the Congress warned legislators in Karnataka from projecting anyone as the chief ministerial face.Earlier, Chamrajpet MLA Zameer Ahmed Khan and Koppal legislator Raghavendra Hitnal had aired their views backing Siddaramaiah in public, irking the state party president who also nurses ambition to take the top job if the Congress is voted to power in 2023 elections.Shivakumar was in Delhi on Monday to get the central leadership to crack down on such statements. Promptly, Congress national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka, Randeep Singh Surjewala issued a statement in which he warned party legislators from airing their views on who will be the next chief minister.Speaking to reporters earlier in the day, Shivakumar said that he did discuss various developments of the state with Rahul Gandhi but refused to comment on a specific question of his party legislators mooting Siddaramaiah’s name as chief minister.“I am a Congress worker,” Shivakumar said and walked away.Siddaramaiah has distanced himself from the statements but people aware of the developments said that the former was trying to mobilise support among party legislators.“The statements made by few of @INCKarnataka MLAs about the next @CMofKarnataka are their personal opinions & not our party’s stand. High command will decide after the elections based on Congress Legislature Party’s collective opinion. Any discussion now is unnecessary,” Siddaramaiah said in a post on Twitter.Siddaramaiah who was in Ballari, on Tuesday said that in a democracy, legislators are allowed to air their views but this is not the party’s opinion.“Have I said that I will become CM anywhere? Has it been decided in the party? There is no discussion in the party. There is no need to give it so much importance and is not even a point for discussion,” Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/despite-cong-warning-2-more-mlas-back-siddaramaiah-as-cm-101624390420236.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 409 Covid cases, 20 more deaths||Punjab on Tuesday registered 409 new Covid cases, taking the infection tally to 5,93,063, while 20 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 15,888, according to a medical bulletin.There are 5,968 active cases in the state and the positivity rate stands at 0.91%, the bulletin said. Deaths were reported from Amritsar, Bathinda Faridkot and Ludhiana. Fazilka reported 48 infections, followed by 36 in Jalandhar and 34 in Ludhiana.With 880 recoveries, the number of cured people reached 5,71,207, according to the bulletin.There are 155 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 438 other critical patients and 1,813 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 1,05,01,071 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-409-covid-cases-20-more-deaths-101624390302784.html
23-06-2021||Bangalore||In report on 3rd wave, panel suggests reopening of schools||An expert committee led by noted cardiologist Dr Devi Prasad Shetty on Tuesday submitted a 91-page interim report to the Karnataka government in which it has recommended the reopening of schools and colleges in the state despite the looming threat of a third wave of Covid-19 infections. The government appointed technical advisory committee (TAC), in its recommendations, argued that education is the fundamental right of a child and stated that reopening physical schools would optimise learning, physical and mental health as well as for nutritional aspects of children. “Any further delay in school reopening may push children into malnutrition, child labour, child marriage, child trafficking, begging etc., making their condition further worse,” according to the report. According to the TAC, there are 23,838,995 people below the age of 18 in the state having an estimated population of 70,259,592, which accounts for 34%. However, Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that they are still yet to take a decision on the same and will review the recommendations. The report also said that the possibility of schools being areas of large transmissions has not been proved anywhere in the world, adding to uncertainty on the impact the third wave will have on children. In a statement from the chief minister’s office (CMO) on Tuesday, the government said that it was considering reopening colleges in the state after making arrangements to vaccinate all students above 18 years of age. “It is suggested to prioritize inoculation to students and teaching fraternity. The committee has suggested reviewing phase-wise reopening of schools and colleges,” according to the statement. After having neglected the advice of experts for the preparedness of the second wave, the BS Yediyurappa government is now attempting to ensure there are adequate preparations in place for any subsequent waves to minimize impact on health and economy of the state. The mismanagement of Covid-19 during the ongoing second wave, that began around the first week of March, had also stirred dissent within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators who, among other factors, used this to cite the incompetence of the chief minister and sought his removal from office. The committee has also advised to seek help of experts and make use of both human and financial resources to contain the impact of the third wave. “Among the total Covid-19 infections, children aged between 0-18years constituted around 8 to 10% during (the) 1st and 2nd wave. Most of national and international data indicated that a maximum of 5-7% of such children required hospitalisation. However, a recent data from the US suggests that children in the age group of 12-17 years requires almost around 31% ICU admission and among them 5% needed invasive ventilation, but no deaths were reported. To meet the surge in India, especially in Karnataka, we need to be ready for a little higher number to be requiring hospitalisation,” the report added. The TAC has also estimated that the bed requirement according to categories of moderate, best- and worst-case scenarios to estimate the rough requirement of hospital beds. According to estimates made by the TAC, the state government would require around 51,008 beds required, including 6,801 ICU/HDU beds in the best-case scenario. In the moderate case scenario, the TAC has calculated a requirement of 73,963 beds in total. And in the worst-case scenario, the TAC has estimated the bed requirement of 95,216, including 13,602 ICU/HDU beds. The report also emphasises the need for the presence and wide utilisation of mental health professionals in every hospital to boost the morale of Covid-infected children. “It is necessary to give priority to solve post Covid health issues and other health problems other than Covid,” the CMO added. For testing, the TAC has said that non-conventional methods like nasal and oropharyngeal swabs, gargle and salivary RT-PCR, which are ways that children are comfortable with. “We are working under tremendous uncertainty,” Dr Jagdish Chinnappa, pediatrician at Manipal Hospital and one of the 16 members of the TAC told Hindustan Times. He added that there is no enough data to indicate how the disease will impact children which is why there is a need to find a balance between “over preparedness and complacent”. He, however, said that Karnataka has around 3,000 pediatricians and the state’s healthcare infrastructure was far better than other regions in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/in-report-on-3rd-wave-panel-suggests-reopening-of-schools-101624390060222.html
23-06-2021||Bangalore||Nandi firm case: Gowda fined ₹2cr in defamation case||Bengaluru A local court in Bengaluru has directed former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda to pay ₹2 crore as damages for making defamatory statements against Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprise Limited (NICE) in an interview to a Kannada TV channel in 2011.“The defendant is directed to pay damages of Rs.2,00,00,000/- to the plaintiff Company for the loss of reputation of the plaintiff Company on account of the defamatory comments made by the defendant in the interview telecasted in the ‘Suvarna 24/7’ Kannada news channel dated 28.6.2011...,” the VIII additional Civil and sessions Judge Mallanagouda, said in his order on June 17.The court ordered Gowda, who also accused Ashok Kheny, the promoter and managing director of the company of land grabbing and corruption, to be restrained permanently from making any defamatory statements against the firm on any media platform henceforth.Gowda, in the interview, said Kheny promoted the firm’s Build-Own-Operate-Transfer (BOOT) project and added it was actually a “loot project”. He referred to Kheny as “land mafia”, according to the order copy.The court said Gowda did not have anything on record to prove the allegations.The MoU for the Bangalore Mysore Infrastructure Corridor project was signed in 1995 when Gowda was chief minister of Karnataka. The two parties had signed a contract to build a road between Bengaluru and Mysuru, around 111 kms, that was meant to be of international standards and reduce travel time by over half between two of Karnataka’s biggest cities.Gowda could not be reached for comment.A Janata Dal (Secular) party spokesperson also refused to comment on the development.The project proposed to acquire over 20,000 acres and during the later half of the 1990’s, allegations of kickbacks, land grabbing were levelled by both sides, leading to over two decades of delays. There were also allegations that Gowda had tried to get Kheny to alter the route of the expressway to avoid the lands of a few influential people, which the latter objected to.There are over 550 lawsuits filed in the case over the years.In 2012, the Lokayukta police filed an FIR against three former Karnataka chief ministers Dave Gowda, SM Krishna and BS Yediyurappa and 27 others, alleging irregularities in the project, PTI reported in November 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/nandi-firm-case-gowda-fined-2cr-in-defamation-case-101624390000202.html
23-06-2021||Bangalore||K’taka may have stockpiled jabs for record inoculations: Data||A record number of Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in Karnataka on Monday compared to the previous days, official data shows, indicating the possibility that the BS Yediyurappa-led state government had stockpiled supplies to show a surge on the occasion of the nationwide Vaccination Maha Abhiyan. Data from CoWin shows that Karnataka administered 68,172 doses on Sunday as against a record 11,21,648 on Monday. Bengaluru, which topped the cities’ list in the country, administered just 25,054 on Sunday as against a record 1,68,958 on Monday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led campaign saw administration of 85,96,807 doses across all states as against 29,37,503 on Sunday, raising questions if similar exercise was followed in other places to show higher numbers and mark the success of the event. “Vaccination cannot be seen like a one-day fixture. Clearly, yesterday (Monday) was a pre-planned, image-booster. Today we have not sustained that level. We simply have to sustain at least 80 lakh a day for the next four-five months,” Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh said in a post on Twitter. Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar shared Ramesh’s views. “Instead of treating vaccination rates as a one-day event, Bengaluru and Karnataka need to increase vaccination rates day by day. If we can vaccinate 80% of adults in the next 3 months, we can prevent the third wave,” Shivakumar posted on Twitter. Senior government officials said Karnataka is among a handful of states that have been administering doses every day unlike several others who designate two or three days in a week. The allegations of stockpiling for the event added to challenges of the state government, which is already facing criticism for claiming a sharp decline in new infections by reducing the number of tests as well as charges of underreporting deaths. “If we get more vaccines, we will deliver more. Even in slumber we can deliver 5 lakh doses every day. With a little bit of effort, we can go up to 6-7 lakh per day,” said a senior government official, requesting not to be named. Karnataka crossed the 20-million vaccination mark and is among the highest in the country, as it administered 3,78,038 doses on Tuesday, according to CoWin data. Karnataka has also had a higher rate of vaccination compared to other states. The Yediyurappa government, like his counterparts in other states, is looking at higher vaccination to minimise the impact of a third wave of infections. Karnataka, which was among the worst Covid-hit regions in the country, has seen a sharp decline in cases over the last few days, prompting the Yediyurappa-led government to relax lockdown-like restrictions and allow some normalcy to return after almost six weeks. Karnataka registered 3,709 new infections in the 24-hour period, according to the daily bulletin of the state health department on Tuesday. There were 8,111 recoveries that brought down the active caseload to 118,592. The positivity rate was at 2.87% as the state conducted 129,099 tests, data shows. However, fatality rate saw a sharp spike to 3.74% as 139 more succumbed to the virus, taking the toll to 34,164. Bengaluru recorded 803 new infections and 1,745 recoveries that brought down its active caseload to 69,344. There were 26 more deaths reported, taking the toll to 15,499. The official quoted above said that the state received an additional 200,000 doses of Covishield and 25,000 of Covaxin on Saturday as part of the campaign. He said that the state can achieve a far higher rate of vaccination if it has adequate supply. There are around 13,000 vaccination centres in Karnataka of which around 6,700 are operational, which the official said would ensure around 1.3 million doses every day even if each centre administered just 100 doses. Karnataka has administered 100,000 to 300,000 doses per day, data shows. Of this, a majority are still the first dose. The state government has set a target of giving at least one dose to all eligible citizens of the state by the end of the year. However, a significant number of these vaccine doses in places like Karnataka are paid as people prefer the hassle-free experience in private healthcare providers. In Bengaluru, private hospitals account for more than 50% of all doses administered as these centres are inoculating even those categories of people not on the priority list of the state or the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-may-have-stockpiled-jabs-for-record-inoculations-data-101624389940172.html
23-06-2021||Other||After Chennai, Ludhiana MC team to visit Gurugram to study solid waste mgmt model||After studying the solid waste management model in Greater Chennai Corporation, the municipal corporation (MC) committee headed by mayor Balkar Sandhu, will now visit Gurugram (Gurgaon) to study the waste management model there.Returning from Chennai, the MC committee stated that the management model in Chennai is different from what was proposed for the city.While the MC has proposed to deploy three different contractors for door-to-door lifting, shifting of garbage to the main dump, and processing of waste at the dumpsite, only one contractor has been deployed for all the works in Chennai. Also, waste processing is not being done in Chennai as of now.Apart from Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal, councillors Jai Prakash, Sunny Bhalla and Yashpal Chaudhary; secretary Jasdev Sekhon, superintending engineers Rahul Gagneja and Rajinder Singh; nodal officer (health branch) Ashwani Sahota and Harpal Aujla were part of the committee, that went for a five-day visit to Chennai last week and returned on Sunday.Malhotra said they were mainly looking for a company to process the 1,100 tonnes of solid waste which is generated in the city daily. But the processing plant was not yet made functional by the company deployed in Chennai. The committee however appreciated the use of e-rickshaws for the door-to-door lifting of garbage, and installation of static compactors to stop open dumping of garbage, among other practices.Malhotra said that the scope of work in Chennai was bigger as around 5,500 tonnes of garbage is generated daily there. They have deployed around 3,000 e-rickshaws for the door-to-door lifting of garbage, and 38 road sweeping machines, which require a lot of funds. Their project cost is around ₹1,200 crore.Mayor Sandhu said, “MC will study different models before finalising the pattern for the city. The tender which was earlier floated to finalise a contractor for shifting of garbage from secondary dump points to the main dumpsite has been put on hold for now. A team will now visit Gurugram to study the waste processing model there.”The MC has been facing flak over its apathy in dealing with the solid waste in the city. The monitoring committee of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had also recently directed the PPCB to impose a penalty on the civic body for its failure to deal with over 16 lakh metric tonnes of legacy waste accumulated at the main dumpsite at Tajpur road. Over 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage, which is generated in the city daily, is getting added to the legacy waste due to MC’s failure to deal with the issue. The residents have also been raising hue and cry over the open dumping of garbage at different points in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-chennai-ludhiana-mc-team-to-visit-gurugram-to-study-solid-waste-mgmt-model-101624389882644.html
23-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana: PSPCL expands its call centre for lodging complaints||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited on Tuesday expanded its customer services call centre at Janta Nagar by increasing the total number of seats from 40 to 60 at ₹31 lakh. This, in addition to the 60 seats at Chaura Bazar call centre, has taken the total capacity of the ‘1912’ call centre to 120 seats. DPS Grewal, director, distribution, dedicated the expansion of the Electricity Call Centre at Janta Nagar to the consumers of Punjab and informed that PSPCL had also undertaken several customer-centric initiatives such as expanding customer care facilities and various system strengthening works of 11 kV and 66 kV transmission systems. Earlier, the consumers, in their feedback, had been complaining about the ‘1912’ number remaining busy. Now, this issue is likely to be resolved with the increased number of complaint registration incoming lines. PSPCL appealed to the residents to get their contact numbers and email ids registered on their website https://contactregistration.pspcl.in/ for availing prompt billing-related services and getting other information timely on their mobile phones. Besides 1912, consumers can also register complaints by giving a missed call on toll-free number 1800-180-1512, or by sending SMS “no supply” on 1912 or through the PSPCL mobile app or by sending a message on WhatsApp at 96461-06835, or on Facebook at fb.com/PSPCLPb, or on Twitter at twitter.com/PSPCLPb or a mail at 1912@pspcl.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianapspcl-expands-its-call-centre-for-lodging-complaints-101624389880949.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Suspecting infidelity, cab driver kills wife in Mohali||Suspecting her fidelity, a man strangulated his 30-year-old wife to death at their rented accommodation in Lalru Mandi in the wee hours of Tuesday. He kept her body in the almirah before fleeing, but was arrested hours later.The accused has been identified as Jasbir Singh, who is a private cab driver and belongs to Patiala. The victim, Rama Rani, was a homemaker. The couple has two minor daughters.Station house officer (SHO) Bhinder Singh Khangura said the incident happened around 3am on Tuesday. The accused, who is an alcoholic, used to suspect the woman’s fidelity and the couple had verbal spats daily, he said. However, this time the argument turned violent and he strangulated her. During the incident, the younger daughter was sleeping, while the elder daughter was at a relative’s house, said the SHO.After a few hours, the accused called his in-laws, who stay in Lalru, and told them to come to his house as Rama and he had to visit some place.“When the woman’s parents reached there, they found her body inside an almirah and informed police. We arrested the accused from the old bus stand in Lalru, from where he was trying to flee to Delhi,” said the SHO.The accused allegedly confessed that he killed his wife as she used to threaten to leave him and marry someone else. A case of murder has been registered against him under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code, and he will be produced in court on Wednesday.Past cases in tricityFebruary 2021: A 35-year-old man killed his wife following a heated argument at their rented house in Sunny Enclave, Kharar. He later died in a road mishapSeptember 2020: A 42-year-old government teacher killed his wife, also a government teacher, at their house in Sector 23, Chandigarh October 2020: Suspecting infidelity, a 46-year-old man killed his wife at their house in Dhakoli, ZirakpurJanuary 2020: A 21-year-old man committed suicide after killing his wife at Rajiv Colony, Sector 16, Panchkula. He suspected she was having an affair||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suspecting-infidelity-cab-driver-kills-wife-in-mohali-101624389766986.html
23-06-2021||Other||NCB arrests son of retired Mumbai ACP with 436 LSD blots, marijuana||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday night conducted a search at the house of a retired assistant commissioner of police (ACP) in Goregaon and arrested his son Shreyas Kenjale, 24, after allegedly seizing 436 blots of LSD (lysergic acid diethylamide) –– considered to be one of the largest seizures of recent times –– and 300 grams of marijuana from his possession.According to NCB, based on specific input, they raided Kenjale’s house at Nagare Niwara in Goregaon (East) late on Monday night. During the search, NCB sleuths found the drugs from a bedroom. “Kenjale is an alleged supplier of LSD and he has a team of peddlers working under him to supply drugs, for several months. It appears that he procured drugs through the dark web, but our investigation is on to find out the source and his buyers,” said NCB’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede.LSD is a hallucinogen – a synthetically created psychedelic drug that is known for its induction of a range of psychological effects. It has emerged as a popular drug in Mumbai, especially among youngsters and college students, and is mostly illegally imported from European countries through the dark web, said an NCB officer. In a second operation, the agency seized 9kg of charas (cannabis) hidden in a cavity near the petrol tanks of two bikes in Dadar. The arrests were made following the interrogation of Rajvinder Singh and Gurmit Singh, who were held last week allegedly with hashish. They had travelled from Punjab on a bike carrying 5kg of the contraband in a backpack. The agency raided a religious place in Dadar last week and arrested Singh, Gurmit, Kamlesh Gupta and Amit Patel. The four had booked a room in the lodge inside the religious place, where a drug deal was on. NCB recovered 2kg of charas and ₹2.2 lakh from the accused. The agency then raided an area in Chunabhatti and arrested Noor Mohmmad Jumman with 3.3kg of charas and cash ₹2.2 lakh. After questioning all the accused, NCB officers arrested two more persons – Shabir Usman Shaikh and Nizamuddin Ahmad Taza – and recovered 12kg of charas at Padga, Bhiwandi. “The drug recovered at Padga was brought to the city in trucks from Jammu and Kashmir,” said Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ncb-arrests-son-of-retired-mumbai-acp-with-436-lsd-blots-marijuana-101624389701508.html
23-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC reopens drain to ease water- logging woes||The municipal corporation (MC) has re-opened the old open drain near Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib, that was blocked for over two decades, to ensure relief from water logging on GT Road near Dholewal Chowk, Millerganj, Gill Road, and adjoining areas.Through this drain, the rain water will get into Ganda nullah in Fieldganj area through a natural slope, from where it will be dumped into Buddha Nullah.Mayor Balkar Sandhu, senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, area councillor (ward number 51) Amrit Kaur’s husband Iqbal Singh along with the MC officials inspected the ongoing work on Tuesday.As per information, the drain was closed in 1998 after the MC had established a disposal point near Gurdwara Dukhniwaran Sahib. Instead of the natural slope, the water was drained into the Ganda nullah through pumps but due to the low capacity of the disposal point, the rain water now accumulates at old GT road, Dholewal chowk, Gill Road and adjoining areas.Iqbal Singh said that the width of the sewer line through which the water was currently drained into the Ganda nullah was 36 inches, but the old natural drain had more capacity as it is 3 feet wide and 7 feet deep. Around 100 tippers of waste have been pulled out of the blocked drain and the nullah is almost clean now. Special permission was sought from the railway department as the nullah runs below the rail lines near the Manjit Nagar railway shed.“Residents apprised me of the blocked drain. Mayor Sandhu conducted a meeting with the railway department following which the drain was opened. It is expected that the rain water, which used to get accumulated for around 7-8 hours after rainfall will be drained out in an hour or two,” said Singh.Mayor Sandhu said the movement of traffic is also hit due to rain water accumulation in the area. We are working to clean all the old natural drains of the city including Talab Bazar drain, which moves through different parts of the Old City area, to deal with water logging during the monsoon season.Mayor Sandhu and councillor Rakesh Prashar, among others, also inspected the ongoing work of installation of the storm sewer line from Rekhi Cinema Chowk to the Clock Tower. He said that the work will be completed by June 30. Shopkeepers and commuters are facing a lot of trouble as the road portion has been dug up at different points for installation of the sewer lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-reopens-drain-to-ease-water-logging-woes-101624389700994.html
23-06-2021||Other||HC asks Mumbai top cop to take action on woman’s plaint against Sanjay Raut||Taking cognisance of the grievances raised by a Santacruz-based psychologist against the police inaction on her complaint against Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the Mumbai Police commissioner (CP) to look into the matter. The 36-year-old woman in her petition has complained of stalking and harassment by certain persons, allegedly at the behest of Raut and her estranged husband. HC also asked the woman to file a separate petition to deal with her contention of being arrested illegally on the allegations of using a fake degree to practice in a hospital at Bandra. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, was hearing the woman’s petition seeking directions to Mumbai Police to investigate three first information report (FIRs) lodged on her complaint in 2013 and 2018 against unknown persons and to initiate action against the deputy police commissioner (DCP), zone 8, for allegedly not taking action on her plaint despite directions by the National Women’s Rights Commission. The woman’s advocate, Abha Singh, submitted that after the petition was filed, the police arrested her client based on a complaint which alleged that she was practicing at a well-known hospital in Bandra (West) on a fake clinical psychologist degree for two years before being removed from the post. Singh submitted that her client was in jail for 10 days now and her personal liberty was at stake as the entire police machinery was unleashed on her after she filed the petition. Singh added that the police have acted in a mala fide manner, and hence, the bench should pass orders with regards to her original petition as well as the latest developments. The court, however, declined to deal with the two separate issues together and suggested that the woman file a separate petition to challenge her arrest. It then directed the police commissioner of to look into the grievances raised in the petition and take appropriate measures and submit a report by Thursday. In an earlier hearing on March 5, senior Raut’s advocate Prasad Dhakephalkar had opposed the plea and raised preliminary objections to it, stating that the allegations were false. Dhakephalkar had informed the court that the woman was like a daughter to his client and she made the accusations against him as she thought that he was siding with her husband in the couple’s matrimonial dispute. In April, Raut had also filed an application in a Mumbai court against the woman, seeking removal of some “offensive” posts put up by her on social media against him. HC will hear the plea on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-mumbai-top-cop-to-take-action-on-woman-s-plaint-against-sanjay-raut-101624389640206.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University allows research scholars to return to campus||With the second Covid wave ebbing, Panjab University (PU) on Tuesday decided to allow its research scholars to return to campus so that they can resume their pending work.The decision was taken based on the recommendation of a varsity panel and a communication in this regard was issued by the office of the dean students’ welfare. As per the circular issued, the research scholars who had left before the start of the second wave of Covid-19, have been allowed to return to the campus.Last month, PU had advised students to vacate hostels in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases, following which a number of research scholars had vacated their accommodations.The undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students of Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital, whose exams will be held physically from June 28, have also been allowed to return to campus to take their exams.Final semester students who have to complete dissertation/assignments have also been allowed, with the stipulation that they will leave the hostel immediately after completing their work.Other students who had left the campus earlier due to the pandemic have been advised not to return to campus without any valid reason.Entrance exams to be rescheduledPU will announce the revised dates of its entrance exams soon. The varsity has already postponed the PU-CET (PG) entrance exam which was scheduled for June 12 and 13. As per the previous schedule PU-CET (UG) was to be held on June 27 followed by other entrance exams. However, due to the delay in CBSE Class 12 results, the varsity will reschedule them. The other entrance exams will also be rescheduled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-allows-research-scholars-to-return-to-campus-101624389581665.html
23-06-2021||Other||Work to reconstruct road overbridge near Mumbai’s Byculla station to begin soon||The Central Railway (CR) will soon begin the reconstruction of a road overbridge (RoB) near Byculla station. The RoB will be rebuilt at a cost of ₹5 crore and is expected to be ready by the year-end. The bridge was flagged as unsafe by a team of experts from Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B).The railways earlier had undertaken work of strengthening RoB structures, including the girders of the bridge. The bridge portion that crosses the railway tracks will be built by CR, while the road landing is expected to be constructed by the civic body. The zonal railway floated a tender for the construction of the approach road, deck slab and other work for rebuilding the Byculla RoB. “The work on construction will begin as the tender has been awarded. The bridge will be completed four months after awarding the tender. Vehicle speed restrictions had been imposed on the bridge after an IIT-B team had inspected it,” said a senior CR official.A speed restriction of 30 kilometres per hour (kmph) was also imposed on all the vehicles on the Byculla, Arthur Road and Currey Road RoBs. The institute had restricted heavy vehicles of more than 16 tonnes on Byculla, Ghatkopar and Arthur Road RoBs. The experts’ team had also asked for the closure of the footpath adjacent to the Byculla RoB near the market. Light vehicles, including cars and two-wheelers, were only allowed on the lane next to the footpath. A cable-stayed RoB is also being constructed between Byculla and Sandhurst Road stations.The construction and reconstruction work will be undertaken by Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (MRIDCL). Experts from IIT-B, Central and Western Railways as well as civic body officials from Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli and Navi Mumbai had undertaken an audit of 445 bridges across the suburban railway tracks after the Gokhale bridge at Andheri railway station collapsed in July 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-to-reconstruct-road-overbridge-near-mumbai-s-byculla-station-to-begin-soon-101624389580141.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mayor promises free WiFi from digital boards in Panchkula markets||Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal on Tuesday promised residents free WiFi from digital boards being installed in Panchkula city.“In European countries, news, surrounding information, information about government and administration facilities are displayed on the digital board itself, and the same system is being launched in Panchkula,” said Goyal.He said, “The digital boards are installed in many places, but only advertisements are run on them currently. The new system is being tested.”Goyal said that the work of installing the digital boards had started at various places. The municipal corporation has entrusted Taksha Media Private Limited with the task of setting up the boards: “In lieu of this work, not even a single rupee will be spent by the MC, and advertising money of ₹12 lakh will be taken from the company annually,” said Goyal.Panchkula mayor added that a server room will also be set up and in case of any crime, the police would immediately inform the server room and the message would be flashed on all the digital boards of the city. These boards will display emergency numbers, municipal services, water, electricity, sewerage helpline numbers, weather, air quality index and news headlines. “With the big digital boards installed in markets, the people coming here will be provided free WiFi,” he added.The entire project is expected to cost around ₹7 crore. The company claims that the maintenance, WiFi, electricity, software of the digital board will cost around ₹15 lakh annually: 62 digital screens and 50 guide maps will be installed in the city under this project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mayor-promises-free-wifi-from-digital-boards-in-panchkula-markets-101624389521332.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC team makes futile visit to Ambala waste plant||A team of 10 councillors and officials of the municipal corporation (MC) on Tuesday visited an Ambala-based waste processing plant to examine the technology being used for processing dry waste. To their embarrassment, however, it turned out that the plant didn’t even process dry waste.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor Shakti Prakash Devshali said, “The Ambala plant only processes wet waste while Chandigarh requires technology for dry waste processing.”Criticising the BJP-led MC for the Ambala plant visit, Devinder Singh Babla, Congress councillor and leader of the opposition, said, “The visit was a total waste of time and energy. Thousands of MC funds were wasted on it. The MC is already processing its wet waste and only needs the technology for dry waste. Even then, we were taken to the Ambala plant, which only processes wet waste. The MC officials should have confirmed the status at the plant before they finalised the trip. When I asked them why it was not done beforehand, they replied ‘ab pata chal gaya (now we know)’.”Notably, councillors during the MC General House meeting in May had decided to visit the plants of the firms, who had offered technological solutions for upgrading of the garbage processing plant, Sector 25. The aim was to study which technology is to be adopted for processing dry waste in Chandigarh.The Ambala plant visit was the third such visit in these series of visits. Earlier, the councillors had visited two plants in Delhi.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, who was also part of the MC team that visited the Ambala plant, said, “In their presentation before the House and councillors, the firm had stated they were processing dry waste at the plant. We were not told that this was not the plant where they were doing it. There was also an impression created that this plant might process Chandigarh’s waste for the time being before our plant was upgraded. But this was also not the case.”More visits plannedNow, MC officials say more visits to other waste processing plants will have to be planned. Sharma said, “We may visit more plants before preparing the report regarding the visits.” He was confident that the visits would be completed in time so that an agenda on the issue could be tabled before the MC General House meeting scheduled for later this week.The MC has been delving on the issue of upgrading the waste processing plant for almost a year now. Earlier, 13 companies had made presentations for alternative technologies to be adopted for upgrading dry waste processing in UT, which was working at less than 10% of its capacity.As a result, most of the dry waste, around 250 metric tonnes daily, is being dumped at the dumping site without being processed. The MC had taken over the Dadumajra plant from Jaypee group in June last year.After the MC House finalises the technology to be adopted, the MC will float tenders to hire an agency to upgrade, maintain and run the plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-team-makes-futile-visit-to-ambala-waste-plant-101624389461003.html
23-06-2021||Other||Mumbai nurse on Covid-19 duty fights molester on train||A 28-year-old nurse, employed in a Covid-19 civic-run hospital in Mumbai, was allegedly molested by a man inside the ladies coach of a Virar-Dahanu MEMU (mainline electric multiple unit) train late on Sunday night. He was nabbed by the Government Railway Police (GRP) at Dahanu Road station after the nurse raised an alarm.“The complainant fought back the 22-year-old accused, Sukhram Jangu Ganva, and also retrieved her phone that he tried to snatch from her,” said senior inspector Yogesh Devre of Palghar GRP. The woman had boarded the train at Virar, and when the local reached Vangaon station around 11.35pm, she was alone in the ladies compartment. “The accused entered the coach through the vestibule while the complainant was on her phone and tried to snatch it. She fought back even and as the train approached the last station at Dahanu Road around 12.05am, raised an alarm and alerted the cops on platform number 4. The accused bit the woman on her hand and moved quickly through the vestibule but the GRP nabbed him from one of the coaches,” said Devre.The accused hails from Jhabua, Madhya Pradesh, and works as a casual labourer on Western Railway projects. “We have arrested Ganva under sections 354 (molestation) and 393 (attempt to robbery) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 162 (entering ladies coach)and 137 (travelling without ticket)of the Indian Railway Act. He does not have a criminal record. The Palghar court on Monday remanded Ganva in police custody till Wednesday,” said Devre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-nurse-on-covid-19-duty-fights-molester-on-train-101624389340307.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 2-day monsoon session to commence from July 5||The business advisory committee (BAC) of the Maharashtra legislature on Tuesday decided to curtail the upcoming monsoon session to two days starting July 5, in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic and new variants. The decision was taken amid opposition from the Bharatiya Janata Party. The Maharashtra government is likely to present supplementary demands for approval and a few bills are also likely to be discussed during the session. Election for the post of Assembly speaker may not be held and is likely to be postponed once again, the officials said. “Although Covid cases are in control, the pandemic has yet not ended and the state government is not in favour of giving any reason for its rise,” Anil Parab, state parliamentary affairs minister said after the meeting. The position of Speaker became vacant after Nana Patole resigned to become Maharashtra Congress president on February 4. “It is difficult for us to hold an election for the post of Speaker as the session is for a very limited period. It is likely to be postponed for this session as well,” said a senior official from the state legislature, requesting anonymity. The state had decided not to hold the election during the budget session of the state legislature held during March 1 and 10 despite a directive issued by Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari in February. In a letter, the governor had directed the legislative secretariat to hold the election in the first week of the budget session. Meanwhile, the BAC has decided to make RT-PCR tests mandatory for all those attending the session including ministers, legislators, officials and the staff. Only those having negative test reports will be allowed to enter. “A camp will be set up outside Vidhan Bhavan premises for free testing for those allowed to attend the session,” said a senior official. The seating arrangement of the legislators in both the Houses will also be made in order to maintain social distancing, he added. Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis slammed the state government for proposing to curtail the monsoon session. “We believe that the state government is using Covid-19 as a reason to curtail session period and avoid debates on major issues that are directly related to people. We walked out of the BAC meeting to express our displeasure on the government’s stand,” Fadnavis told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-2-day-monsoon-session-to-commence-from-july-5-101624389280170.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt files review plea for Maratha quota||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday filed a review petition before the Supreme Court, seeking reversal of its May 5 decision to scrap Maratha reservation. The petition was filed based on recommendations of a state-appointed committee led by retired chief justice Dilip Bhosale to examine the apex court judgment and suggest measures. Advocate Sachin Patil, counsellor for the state government in the Supreme Court, confirmed the development. He, however, refused to share details of the petition.A five-judge bench of the Apex court in its ruling on May 5 struck down the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018, which extended 12% and 13% reservation to the Maratha community in education and employment respectively in excess of the ceiling limit of 50% fixed by the Supreme Court earlier. The 50% cap in reservation was fixed in the Indra Sawhney judgment passed by a nine-judge bench. The bench had also ruled that only extraordinary circumstances would justify grant of reservation in excess of the 50% ceiling. The state, in its petition, has pointed out many reasons based on which they have requested the five-judge bench to hear the case once again. It has said that the reservation for the economically weaker section (EWS) passed by the central government also breaches the 50% ceiling in many states. It was also challenged before the apex court for the same reason of 50% ceiling and is still pending with it. Hence, the issue of 50% ceiling for reservation is yet not cleared, said a senior official requesting anonymity.As the Sawhney judgement passed by the nine-judge bench says that only extraordinary circumstances would justify grant of reservation in excess of the 50% ceiling, in that case the extraordinary circumstances have to be decided either by nine-bench judges or more than that. Thus, rejecting the state government’s prayers for referring the matter to the 11-judge bench was erroneous. In addition, the prayer was supported by 20-odd states such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Jharkhand, Rajasthan etc., said the official.The petition also pointed out that the apex court while quashing the SEBC Act also said that the states have no powers to grant reservation to socially and economically backward classes post 102nd amendment in the Constitution, following which was challenged by the central government through a petition. “The grounds of the apex court cannot sustain when the central government time and again has clarified that the rights of the states for providing reservation to a community have not been removed,” he informed.In response to the appeal made by CM Uddhav Thackeray last week, Maratha outfits from Monday have put their ongoing silent protest on hold for four weeks. The decision was taken, expressing satisfaction over the steps taken by the state government in relation to the six major demands put forth by the Maratha outfits. “Today, Maharashtra government has filed for the review petition in context with Maratha Reservation in the Supreme Court as per the primary demand raised by us,” tweeted Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, Rajya Sabha MP, who is leading the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-files-review-plea-for-maratha-quota-101624389220207.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Congress, CM remarks: Maharashtra’s ruling allies resolve to be careful to avoid friction||The three ruling parties of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) — Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress — on Tuesday resolved to be careful and avoid saying anything, which may lead to friction between them. It was also decided to make appointments on the government boards and corporations in the next 15 days. Days after friction between Shiv Sena and Congress came to the fore over contesting polls, the issue was discussed in the state coordination committee of senior leaders. The leaders said that they don’t have the liberty to say whatever they want to disturb the coalition partners. “The Shiv Sena made it apparently clear that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is upset with state Congress president Nana Patole who started giving statements on contesting upcoming elections on their own. It was also said that they should avoid taking any such move which would harm the prospects of MVA government and their common objective is to keep the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) away from power,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity. Earlier this week, Patole had said that his party would fight all forthcoming elections alone. The Congress will be the single-largest party in 2024 Assembly polls, he had said. Addressing the Shiv Sena’s 55th foundation day, Thackeray on Saturday said, “If we do not offer solutions to people’s problems, but only talk about going it alone in politics, people will beat us with footwear. They will not listen to our party-centric ambitious talk of contesting elections alone.” Though he chose not to name anyone, the remarks were clear that he is not happy with the stand taken by the Congress state unit. Shiv Sena minister Eknath Shinde after the meeting said there is no lack of coordination or miscommunication in MVA. “We have taken a decision on a few state-owned corporations in today’s meeting. However, the final decision has to be taken by the chief minister. The sharing will be done on the basis of the party’s strength in the state assembly. There is no miscommunication and misunderstanding among the three parties,” Shinde said. Patole said, “There is nothing new if one talks about contesting on its own. Every party has the right to get it strengthened. However, no one is upset and there is no dispute among us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/congress-cm-remarks-maharashtra-s-ruling-allies-resolve-to-be-careful-to-avoid-friction-101624389100181.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Lukewarm response to walk-in vaccination drive in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh health department on Tuesday started a walk-in vaccination facility for eligible beneficiaries across all hospitals and dispensaries in the city, but not many turned up at the site.Only 7,398 vaccine doses were administered across the UT on Tuesday, even when a large population in the 18-44 age group are yet to take their first shot. On Monday, 6,764 doses were administered with prior bookings and mobile vans.Of the 7,398 beneficiaries, 6,123 in the 18-44 age category and 863 in the 45-plus age group took their first shots. A total of 368 beneficiaries took their second dose.Till now the beneficiaries had to book a slot through the CoWIN app to take the jab, but the UT health department had decided to allow people to get on-the-spot registration for vaccination.However, people can continue to take prior appointments through the online portal to avoid spending time on registration. If citizens are not registered on the CoWIN portal, the staff at the vaccination centres will help them in the process, an official said.“Since most of the population in the 45-plus age category has already been inoculated with the first dose, only people in the 18-44 age category are turning up at the vaccination sites. Also, our focus remains on vaccinating the targeted group, including the vulnerable sections of the society like shopkeepers, vendors, etc. We are getting a good response from people and we will soon vaccinate the eligible population,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, UT health services.Dr Kang further added, “Our health teams are helping people to do on-the-spot registration as not every section of the society is aware about booking the slots online. Besides, people are also walking-in to mobile vaccination vans and with their help, we will be able to vaccinate people living in urban-clusters at the earliest.”So far, the health department has administered 4,67,343 vaccine doses, including 1,45,422 in the 18-44 age group. In the 45+ age category, 1,95,946 beneficiaries have received the first dose and 48,211 have been jabbed twice.UT to get supply of 2 lakh doses in JulyWhile giving details about the availability of the vaccine stock in Chandigarh, Dr Kang said, “At present, 40,000 vaccine doses are available in Chandigarh and we can get 50,000 more doses from the central government for the month of June. Besides this, the central government has allocated 2 lakh doses for Chandigarh for the month of July.”Of the 2 lakh doses, 1.5 lakh will be given to government hospitals while 50,000 will be for private hospitals in the city. Dr Kang said, “We have enough vaccines in store to vaccinate the eligible population at the earliest.”UT administrator VP Singh Badnore during a review meeting on Tuesday also advised director health services to form a vaccination team to administer doses at home for those senior citizens who cannot visit the vaccination centres owing to being bed-ridden or suffering from acute illnesses. Meanwhile, the Mohali administration has already launched the home-vaccination service for seniors and specially-abled people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lukewarm-response-to-walk-in-vaccination-drive-in-chandigarh-101624388620852.html
23-06-2021||Other||37-year-old arrested for attempt to murder in Dombivli||A 37-year-old man who allegedly tried to murder a Rajasthan-based businessman last week, was arrested from Dombivli in a joint operation between the Rajasthan Police and Thane crime branch. The accused harassed the businessman, Aditya Jain’s wife when the couple resided in Dombivli. Tired of the harassment, Jain, 49, shifted to Jaipur last year. This enraged the accused, Kamlesh Shinde, who hired two gunmen to kill Jain. According to police, on June 16, Jain was washing his car when two men on a motorcycle approached the spot and fired three rounds at him. The duo sped away from the scene and Jain, who sustained a gunshot wound to his hand, was rushed to the hospital. The Karni Vihar police subsequently started investigations into the matter. “The investigating team found out that the Jains used to stay in Dombivli between 2018 and 2020. During this time, Shinde fell in love with Jain’s wife Shefali and started harassing her. The harassment reached a point where the Jains decided to shift to Rajasthan,” senior police inspector Sanju John, Thane crime branch said. Based on this information, a team from the Rajasthan Police reached Dombivli on Monday and sought assistance from the Thane crime branch. Accordingly, personnel from crime branch units 3 and 4 were assigned and the joint team picked up Shinde from his residence in Devicha Pada, Dombivli (West) for questioning. “Inquiries confirmed that Shinde paid Rs5 lakh to the two gunmen to kill Jain and he was arrested by the Rajasthan police for attempt to murder. We are now working to trace and apprehend the gunmen, who are also from Dombivli. Shinde has been taken to Jaipur by the Rajasthan Police for further investigation,” John said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/37yearold-arrested-for-attempt-to-murder-in-dombivli-101624388560832.html
23-06-2021||Other||21-year-old arrested for killing brother-in law near Thane||A 21-year-old Ulhasnagar resident was arrested for allegedly stabbing his brother-in-law to death at the latter’s residence on Monday. According to Central police, the incident occurred around 11pm on Monday in Subhash Nagar area at Ulhasnagar Camp No 3. The police said that the victim, Sachin Khedekar, 31, was a porter by profession, while his wife Shubhangi, 27, is a homemaker. Shubhangi’s brother Roshan Jadhav, who worked as a labourer, used to stay in the same locality. “Khedekar was an alcoholic and frequently assault Shubhangi on suspicions of cheating on him. Jadhav had argued with Khedekar on several occasions over this in the past, due to which relations were strained between the duo,” said senior inspector SC Suradkar from Central police station. Suradkar added that on Monday night, Khedekar started assaulting Shubhangi again after getting in an inebriated state and Jadhav, on learning about it, rushed to save his sister. Khedekar tried to attack Jadhav with a dagger and a scuffle ensued, during which Jadhav allegedly snatched the dagger from his brother-in-law and stabbed him repeatedly. “Jadhav left the blood-soaked body at the spot and went home. Meanwhile, the other residents of the locality called the police and we sent a team to the spot. Jadhav was picked up from his residence, brought to the police station for inquiries and subsequently placed under arrest,” Suradkar said. Officers said that Jadhav has been charged with murder under the Indian Penal Code and was produced in the judicial magistrate’s court in Ulhasnagar, which remanded him in police custody for three days. `||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/21yearold-arrested-for-killing-brother-in-law-near-thane-101624388560237.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad case: Bharadwaj seeks bail claiming illegal detention||While making submissions for Elgar Parishad accused lawyer Sudha Bharadwaj’s default bail, her counsel Yug Choudhary informed the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday that the extension of her 90-day custody granted by the special court to Pune Police in November 2018 was not valid. He said that though there was a designated bench to hear matters under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), the state had got an extension order from a non-designated judge. In light of this, Bharadwaj’s counsel submitted that her detention of more than a year is illegal. The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar, while hearing the application of the activist, was informed that the accused was illegally detained since her arrest in November 2018 for more than a year. Choudhary submitted that though the Pune Police, which was initially investigating the case had secured an extension of 90 days after filing an incomplete charge sheet, it was not valid. Bharadwaj was arrested under UAPA on August 28, 2018. Choudhary further submitted that as the National Investigation Agency (NIA) was not in the picture at the time, the grievance was against the state, and Bharadwaj’s detention in Byculla women’s prison is illegal and hence, she deserved to be released on default bail. Choudhary drew the attention of the bench to the fact that though Bharadwaj was booked under UAPA, the extension of detention was granted by a judge who was not competent to hear such cases.Choudhary’s arguments were based on responses received by lawyers under the Right to Information (RTI) Act from the HC registry, which stated that sessions judge KD Vadane, who on November 26, 2018, had granted the 90-day extension to Pune Police was only a district and additional sessions judge at Pune and was not appointed as the special judge by the state government under section 22 of the NIA Act, 2008, for the period between January 2018 to July 2019.However, NIA – represented by advocate Sandesh Patil – opposed the application and said that as the agency had taken over the investigation, the grievance against the state at this stage was not maintainable. Patil also sought time of two weeks to file a reply. After hearing the submissions the bench directed NIA and the state to file their replies before July 3 and said that it would not allow any more adjournments. Bharadwaj had approached HC through her daughter last month, seeking bail on medical grounds or for providing medical treatment at a government hospital as she was suffering from various ailments and comorbidities. After the prison authorities got her the requisite treatment, the application had been disposed of.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/elgar-parishad-case-bharadwaj-seeks-bail-claiming-illegal-detention-101624388440219.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: No death in Chandigarh for third day||For the third consecutive day, no death due to Covid-19 was reported in Chandigarh on Tuesday. However, 22 fresh infections surfaced, up from Monday’s 14, which was the lowest since the second wave hit the city.Till now, 61,467 people have tested positive in Chandigarh, of whom 806 have died and 60,383 have recovered. The active caseload stands at 278 and positivity rate at 1.55%.The neighbouring Mohali district reported 29 cases and two deaths. It took the infection tally to 68,077 and death toll to 1,041.Among the fresh cases, 11 surfaced in Kharar, eight in Dhakoli, six in Mohali city, three in Dera Bassi and one in Kurali. Meanwhile, 52 patients were discharged, taking the total of those cured to 66,651 and bringing down the active cases to 385.Panchkula district recorded only four cases and one death. The deceased was a 32-year-old man from Pinjore. The district has reported 30,532 cases so far, of which 30,077 have been cured. While 372 patients have succumbed, 83 are still undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-no-death-in-chandigarh-for-third-day-101624387661146.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: One killed, three injured in family clash||A 48-year-old man was killed by his nephew who was allegedly unhappy over his uncle’s interference in his marriage, said police on Tuesday.The incident happened in Greater Noida’s Saqipur village on Tuesday morning. Police identified the victim and the absconding suspect by their first names as Mahendra and 25-year-old Shekhar, respectively. Deputy commissioner of police (Noida Central) Harish Chander said, “Shekhar had a troubled marriage with a woman from Bulandshahr and the two families met on Monday to resolve the issue.” Ajay Kumar, station house officer (SHO) of Surajpur police station, said the two families could not reach an amicable solution and decided it would be better for the couple to separate. “Mahendra proposed that Shekhar pay ₹60,000 to the woman’s family. Shekhar was not happy with this,” he said. On Tuesday morning, Shekhar allegedly attacked Mahendra with a sharp weapon. When Mahendra’s wife Seema (45), daughter Neha (18) and son Tanishq (16) came to his rescue, they too were attacked, said police.The four victims were rushed to a private hospital where Mahendra died of his injuries. The three others were under treatment, said police. Surajpur police have registered a case against Shekhar, his father 55-year-old Satyapal and brothers 27-year-old Mukesh and 30-year-old Golu under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code. “All the suspects are absconding. We have launched a search to arrest them,” the SHO said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-one-killed-three-injured-in-family-clash-101624387600113.html
23-06-2021||Chandigarh||Now, shops can stay open till 8pm in Chandigarh||With the number of Covid-19 cases consistently falling in Chandigarh, the UT administration on Tuesday extended the timings for opening of shops and restaurants. All shops can remain open from 10am to 8pm. Earlier, they had to shut down by 7pm. The shop owners will ensure that Covid protocol is duly followed. All restaurants and bars can remain open with 50% capacity from 10am to 10:30pm. Earlier, the operations were allowed till 10pm. In the Covid review meeting chaired by UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, it was also decided to further curtail the night curfew. In effect since April 6, now it will be in force from 11pm to 5am. Earlier, the timings were revised to 10.30pm to 5am. Another major relaxation announced on Tuesday allows more people to gather for marriages, cremations and any other social events. From 30, the cap has been increased to 50.The administration has also allowed boating with 50% capacity at Sukhna Lake, which was opened for visitors on June 8. Even sports complexes can be used by members, subject to Covid appropriate behaviour. Pointing to the decline in pandemic, Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, told the administrator that 11,581 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in the city in the past one week and the positivity rate has dropped to 1.8% while the overall recovery rate stands at 98.2%. As all three health institutions — PGIMER, GMCH and GMSH — reported the opening of physical OPDs, they were advised to take Covid samples of non-vaccinated OPD patients as they are more prone to Covid infection. Badnore also directed the director general of police to ensure strict action against the violators of Covid protocol, particularly for not wearing of masks at Sukhna Lake and other public places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-shops-can-stay-open-till-8pm-in-chandigarh-101624387421925.html
23-06-2021||Lucknow||Yogi govt purchased more wheat in 4 yrs than SP, BSP did in 10 yrs: UP agriculture minister||Uttar Pradesh agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi on Tuesday launched a counterattack on the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Congress for questioning the ongoing wheat purchase at the minimum support price (MSP) in the state. He claimed that the total amount of wheat purchased from farmers during the last four years under the Yogi Adityanath government outstripped the amount of total wheat bought by the Congress-supported SP and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) governments together during their 10-year rule. “During their 10-year rule between 2007 and 2017, the SP and the BSP governments together purchased 221.07 lakh MT of wheat worth ₹26469.35 crore. Against this, the Yogi Adityanath government bought 218.86 lakh MT of wheat worth ₹39037.01 crore benefitting a record 46,34,828 farmers in just four years,” Shahi said. He said more than 56 lakh MT of wheat had already been purchased from farmers during the current procurement season alone. Former CM and SP national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday demanded the government to release a white paper on the wheat purchase in the state and a day later on Monday Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also raised the issue by writing a letter to CM Yogi Adityanath demanding him to ensure guaranteed wheat purchase from farmers till July 15. Accusing the SP and the Congress of doing drawing-room politics having no idea of ground realities, the minister said that the statistics clearly showed as to who was farmers’ real well-wisher. Adityanath government outperformed the SP and the BSP governments in paddy purchase as well as in payment of cane dues to farmers, he said. “Our government has purchased a record 214.56 lakh MT of paddy worth ₹37825.66 crore from 31,88,529 farmers in just four years against which the SP and the BSP governments together purchased only 238.49 lakh MT of paddy worth ₹28040.98 crore from 18,89,362 farmers in 10 years,” he pointed out. “Similarly, we have paid as much a ₹137820.96 crore to farmers as cane dues till last Saturday while SP and BSP governments paid only ₹95215 crore cane dues in 10 years,’ he added. The minister said in food grain production as well as productivity, the Adityanath government had been breaking its own record for last four years due to timely availability of good quality seeds, fertilisers and reliable power supply to farmers. Shahi said that this was because of a number of welfare measures taken by the government that the farmer’s agitation failed in UP despite all the efforts by the anti-Modi forces. “The opposition’s act of giving sermons to the Yogi Adityanath government on the issue of farmers is like showing light to the sun,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-govt-purchased-more-wheat-in-4-yrs-than-sp-bsp-did-in-10-yrs-up-agriculture-minister-101624387420174.html
23-06-2021||Noida||20 police teams formed to probe missing children cases in GB Nagar||The Noida Police Commissionerate has formed 20 teams to investigate cases of missing children in the district in coordination with other agencies.The teams were formed as part of Operation Smile formed in 2016 to trace missing children. There are 58 pending cases of missing children registered in the district.“Our teams will contact anti human trafficking units (AHTUs) across the country and also the shelter homes in the state through the social welfare department. Keeping in mind the pandemic, the initial work will be done online and once there are confirmations, we will have the teams travel to meet the children,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police, women and child safety.She also said that the Noida AHTU will also interact with children who are lodged in the four registered district shelter homes and help them reach their parents.In the first week of June, two kids, aged 11 and 16, present in a Noida shelter home were reunited with their families after information came to light through such sessions.On Tuesday as well, a 16-year-old missing boy from Jammu and Kashmir was handed over to the J&K police in the Dankaur police jurisdiction. An eatery owner had informed police that the boy was looking for work. A class 7 student, the boy had left home a few days back after an argument with his family over his academics, said police.The operation to help missing children is in coordination with the district administration and the Childline.According to the childline data since March 2020 there have been over nearly 60 missing children cases of which 34 were of kids who had been found. Off these, 19 are currently under progress. Most of these cases occurred in March 2021 (20) followed by post unlock months last year like September and October (17 and 15, respectively).“Sometimes, missing children incidents come directly to us and sometimes go to the police. But after due action with the Child Welfare Committe, all of them are converted to missing cases. It is encouraged that even for those cases that are reported to cops directly, information should be shared with us so that we can also use our resources to help these kids,” said Satya Prakash, chief operating officer, FXB India Suraksha, the NGO managing the district Childline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/20-police-teams-formed-to-probe-missing-children-cases-in-gb-nagar-101624387300777.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Noida: One more arrested in gold theft case||Noida: Police on Tuesday arrested a person in connection with the case of theft of gold bars and cash worth ₹40 crore from a flat in Greater Noida. Police said that the suspect, Pradeep, worked as a driver for the family of advocate Kislay Panday who earlier allegedly lived in the apartment.With Tuesday’s arrest, as many as seven persons have been arrested so far in the case, police said, adding that the mastermind in the case, Gopal, and his three accomplices are still at large. On Sunday, police had served a notice to the lawyer and his parents to join the investigation in the case. Police said that Pradeep knew Gopal and had shared the information of the gold consignment to him. Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida, said that Pradeep had worked for Panday’s family till January 2021. “Pradeep’s interrogation revealed that his brother was known to the mastermind Gopal. Later Gopal and Pradeep also became friends. Pradeep had leaked the information of gold consignment to Gopal, who conducted the theft with other accomplices,” he said. According to police, Pradeep had received ₹5 lakh as his share from the stolen valuables. Police have recovered ₹1 lakh, two gold rings and one gold chain from his possession. Police had earlier said that the gold and cash belonged to advocate Panday, who completely denied having anything to do with the valuables. Meanwhile, police said that Panday has moved the Allahabad high court against the development. “The high court on Monday served the Noida police a notice in this case. We are going to reply to the notice in the court soon,” said the additional DCP. Panday refused to divulge details about the writ petition in the high court in this case. “I will not comment on that at this stage,” he said. He also said that he has no information about Pradeep’s arrest, and reiterated that the stolen property does not belong to him.The massive gold theft was unearthed on June 11 this year when the Sector 39 police first arrested two persons – Rajan Bhati and Arun alias Chatri – from Som Bazar in Noida. Police recovered some gold bars weighing one kilogram each from them, along with some cash. Based on information collected during their interrogation, four more suspects – Ajay Singh, Neeraj, Anil and Bittu Sharma – were arrested. In total, police recovered 13.09 kg gold and ₹57 lakh in cash from these six suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-one-more-arrested-in-gold-theft-case-101624387300110.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Noida groundwater table continues to deplete, over a100 tube-wells left defunct||Noida has to dig deeper to access groundwater, according to the Uttar Pradesh ground water department that completed its limited pre-monsoon assessment for the year.According to the data, which HT accessed, groundwater was deepest at the Government Degree College at 31.4 metres. Last year the same site had a depth of 30.3 metres and the year before that, it was 28.06 metres. In Sector 39, the decrease was less severe - from 30.14 metres last year to 30.82 metres.The data is limited as the department surveyed only 24 of the 84 sites in the district from where real-time data is available. This is a normal practice, and the full assessment is expected later this year. At all 24 sites, the groundwater depth showed an increase.But experts say that the data was consistent with practical experiences and showed that Noida was extracting far more water than what nature can replenish. Of the city’s requirement of 406 million litres per day, about 50% is now from the Ganga.We are extracting more, and conservation or harvesting is very less. We need to control the extraction, increase water use efficiency through technology and revive hundreds of ponds in the city. We need to use recycled water, treated water should be used for industrial and construction sector,” said city-based environmentalist Vikrant Tongad.Over the last five years, the average pre-monsoon depth increased from 9.95 metres in 2016 to 25.28 metres in 2020 - a change of 154%. For Greater Noida, the average groundwater level dropped from 6.66 metres to 12.75 metres during the same period - a change of 91.41%.The drop is visible in the number of tube wells going defunct.“Every year, we see a six to eight feet drop in the water levels in our tubewells. Of 430 tubewells we have, 120 are defunct. Out of 12 ranney wells in the city we have, only six are functional at present, rest have dried. Proper recharge, rainwater harvesting, and zero waste of water is the only way forward,” said RP Singh, deputy general manager (water), Noida Authority.There was, however, some silver lining.At Gulistanpur Primary school in Greater Noida, the groundwater level fell only by one metre to 20.5m against seven metres last year. At Greater Noida Delta-3, the level fell only by a metre against 3.59m last year.“This year, we are building water harvesting tanks at Sector 31 over 2,000 square metres, and over 2,200 square metres at Sector 2. Also, the work on rejuvenation of ponds in ongoing, and the depletion at some areas have also slowed,” Rahul Dev, junior engineer, UP Ground Water Department, Gautam Budh Nagar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-groundwater-table-continues-to-deplete-over-a100-tube-wells-left-defunct-101624387181308.html
23-06-2021||Other||Leopard spotted in Agra’s residential locality, rescued||The Wildlife SOS and the Uttar Pradesh Forest Department rescued a full-grown leopard on Tuesday which was seen roaming on the streets in Etmauddaula area in trans- Yamuna locality of Agra on the same day in the morning.Residents of Sita Nagar in Etmauddaula area (located 5 km from the Taj Mahal) spotted a leopard roaming in the neighbourhood and intimated the forest department. CCTV cameras installed on the street captured the big cat running out of a house and wandering frantically across the narrow, crowded streets. The leopard eventually made its way into a small fruit storage room and the locals managed to lock the animal inside.The incident was immediately reported to the forest department and Agra based NGO Wildlife SOS. Equipping themselves with safety nets, a trap cage and protective gear to carry out the rescue mission, a nine-member team from Wildlife SOS immediately rushed to the location accompanied by a team of forest officers. By the time the team reached the spot, over 200 people had gathered outside the storeroom. The rescue team drilled a hole in the wall of the store house to tranquilize the leopard without opening the gate. They inserted a camera through the hole to locate the leopard.The forest officers and police personnel implemented crowd control measures while Wildlife SOS veterinarian Dr S Ilayaraja immobilised the leopard using a sedative injection through the hole. The leopard was carefully transferred to a transit facility for temporary observation.Akhilesh Pandey, divisional forest officer, Agra said, “This is a densely populated area, so the leopard sighting caused a wave of panic among the residents. After deploying our team to assess the situation, we contacted Wildlife SOS for their assistance in the rescue operation. We were able to provide effective and timely intervention with their help. ”Dr Ilayaraja, deputy director of veterinary services at Wildlife SOS said “The leopard is a male, between 7 to 8 years old. Such rescue operations are highly sensitive and need careful planning in order to ensure the safety of the animal as well as of the people. With a huge crowd of over two hundred people gathered around, the rescue was extremely challenging.”“The depletion of natural prey base and habitat due to encroachment and deforestation is forcing wild animals like leopards to seek easily available prey such as poultry and livestock in human settlements. This often leads to human-leopard conflict which can have violent and brutal consequences for both humans and wildlife. We are grateful to the forest department and the police for making this rescue a success,” said Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO Wildlife SOS.Last year, Wildlife SOS assisted the forest department in the safe rescue and release of an adult leopard that was wandering across Govardhan city in Mathura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/leopard-spotted-in-agra-s-residential-locality-rescued-101624387180771.html
23-06-2021||Noida||FASTag on Yamuna Expressway begins functioning||The FASTag system has been implemented on the 165-km long Yamuna Expressway from Tuesday. This has automated the toll collection resulting in shorter wait time at the gates.“Commuters can pay toll via FASTag in two of the three lanes on each side. One lane will be for those who do not have the system installed in their vehicles,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida). Singh inaugurated the service at 4:30pm at the Jewar toll plaza. “The manual lane will be done away with once as per government rules and regulations.”The toll rates for two-and three-wheelers are ₹175. For cars and jeeps, it is ₹360 and for light commercial vehicles it is ₹565. FASTag was supposed to start from April 1, but the private operator Jaypee Infratech Limited (JIL) could not meet the deadline due to software issues. The system had already been implemented on all highways maintained by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). “Now the system has been integrated with NHAI server. We had installed all cameras, censors and other required equipment last week,” said a JIL spokesperson requesting anonymity.The NHAI has recently issued guidelines for toll plazas with FASTag facility which will not allow queues longer than 100 metres from the toll gates. The new guidelines aim to reduce time taken to process toll fees to just 10 seconds per vehicle, even during peak hours. The rules also say that in case a queue gets longer than 100 metres, the vehicles at the front of the queue will be allowed to pass the toll gate without having to pay toll charges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fastag-on-yamuna-expressway-begins-functioning-101624387180076.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Incidents of confusion, depression among post-Covid patients on the rise, say doctors||Sector 29 resident Nisha Jha has not been able to focus on her work even a month after she recovered from Covid-19. The 27-year-old works at an IT firm and tested positive for Covid on May 15. She underwent treatment in home isolation for about 20 days and, on June 5, she tested negative for the virus. But since then, she is plagued with confusion, forgetfulness and a lack of focus.“Not just work, I am unable to focus while driving as well. Often, I find myself forgetting familiar routes or even conversations that I may have only a couple of days ago. I told my doctor about this and was suggested to consult a psychiatrist,” said Nisha.But doctors say Nisha’s is not an isolated case. They say several people in Gautam Budh Nagar are dealing with psychological issues post recovering from Covid.Dr Abhay Tomar, psychiatrist at Government Institute of Medical Science (GIMS), Greater Noida, said his department is currently seeing at least hundred such people since mid-May.“Depression, anxiety, restlessness, sleeplessness, confusion, mood swings, forgetfulness and brain fog are some of the issues that people who recovered from Covid-19 recently have reported. Our department has seen over 100 such patients in the past one and half months,” said Dr Tomar.He said doctors are searching for a neurological correlation to such issues being reported in recovered patients. “Patients say that they find themselves lost and unable to understand what is happening around them. We are studying such patients and looking for neurological correlations to Covid-19,” he said.Dr Manu Tiwari, head and senior consultant psychiatrist, Fortis hospital in Noida, agrees that there has been a rise in such cases since May.“We have been seeing around four to five patients daily since May. While some cases are follow-ups who have been discharged from the hospital, others are those who come as new out-patients. We have seen that in such patients, the brain’s limbic system is inflamed due to which they face cognitive issues. Some patients have also reported panic attacks, trauma and anxiety spectrum issues,” said Dr Tiwari.Dr Kunal Kumar, professor and head, department of psychiatry, Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida, said many such patients do not realise that they need psychiatric care.“Often, it is the general physicians who treat such patients and when the patient complaints of psychological issues, they are referred to the psychiatric department. In some cases,there is resistance on the part of patients as they think they are being termed as ‘mentally unstable’. Whereas, they are in need of immediate attention,” said Dr Kumar. He added that their department has consulted at least 50 such cases since mid-May. “In post-Covid cases, psychiatric care is the second stage of follow-up after the pulmonological care to restore a patient’s respiratory strength,” Dr Kumar said.Dr DK Gupta, chairman, Felix Hospital, Noida, said some studies have shown that in a few recovered patients, there is a loss of grey matter. The hospital has seen around 20 such patients in the past 15 days.“Grey matter deals with the cognitive functions of a person such as memory and analysis. There have been studies that have found that brain neurons were damaged due to the coronavirus infection,” said Dr Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/incidents-of-confusion-depression-among-post-covid-patients-on-the-rise-say-doctors-101624387120769.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra administers record 552,921 Covid-19 vaccine jabs||Maharashtra on Tuesday achieved its highest single-day Covid-19 vaccination figure of 552,921 jabs after the state opened the drive for all adults. “Maharashtra is leading the nation, in terms of vaccinations, as it has administered more than 28,697,948 doses to its citizens till date,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, state health department. The previous highest single-day total was 534,372 doses on April 26. Meanwhile, for a second consecutive day, more than 100,000 doses were administered in Mumbai, despite the drive not being for all above 18 years of age. The civic body said vaccination for 18+ will start in the city from today. Also on Tuesday, the state recorded 8,470 new Covid-19 cases, including 568 in Mumbai. The city witnessed 10 deaths with its toll reaching 15,315. There were 216,861 tests done on Tuesday, while the number of recoveries clocked was 9,043.Maharashtra’s tally of active cases currently stands at 123,340, while the total number of deaths has reached 118,795. Mumbai has 18,432 active infections, followed by Pune at 16,955 active cases. The state, which was allowing vaccinations for only those above 30 years of age, on Monday decided to widen the scope to 18+, starting Tuesday. Many social groups also joined in this drive as they set up vaccination centres across the state to aid the state in its drive. The Chandrakant Kotecha Trust organised camps in various places in Mumbai. “We plan to vaccinate at least 10,000 slum dwellers for free in Bhandup,” said Mihir Kotecha, president of the trust.Currently, the state has a stock of around 1,500,000 doses which will be enough for three-and-a-half days. “Till Monday, only those who are 30 years and above were allowed to get inoculated in Maharashtra, but to give a boost to the vaccination drive, we have approved vaccination for all adults,” said Rajesh Tope, Maharashtra health , on Monday. ““I want to urge the youths from Maharashtra to go to the nearest centre and get vaccinated as they are allowed to take it,” he added.The state government had started its drive for beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group on May 1 after it was allowed by the Centre. However, it was suspended owing to the non-availability of vaccine doses on May 12.Meanwhile, chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, while reviewing the functioning of the state education department, has asked officials to check whether it was possible to start classes for Classes 10 and 12 in those villages that are Covid-19 free. He said officials need to ensure that Covid-19 rules are followed in such places. Thackeray also agreed to the proposal of free education from Classes 1 to 10 for those children who lost their parents to Covid-19.(input from Mehul Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-administers-record-552-921-covid-19-vaccine-jabs-101624387120050.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Near-to-home vaccination centres in Jewar see over 80% turnout||NOIDA: After the poor turnout of 22% on the inaugural day of trial run for the near-to-home vaccination on Monday, the vaccination centres in Jewar block on Tuesday witnessed a very warm response. Officials said that over 80% eligible people in the block got Covid-19 jabs on Tuesday. District magistrate Suhas LY said that taking lessons from the shortcomings on the inaugural day of the trial run, which is a precursor to the mass vaccination drive from July 1, the health department officials on Tuesday properly informed the villagers about the near-to-home vaccination. Apart from Jewar, the trial run is also being conducted in Dadri block. “From a meagre turnout of 22% in Jewar block on Monday, we achieved over 80% of the target today as more than 1,600 people out of 2,000 received their jabs. Similarly, we vaccinated 2,700 people out of 3,000 in Dadri,” he said. On Monday, about 550 beneficiaries out of 2,500 had received jabs in Jewar. However, Dadri block had witnessed a decent turnout with 2,700 (target of 3,000) getting Covid shots. The DM also said that over 16,000 people were inoculated at 76 government vaccination centres working on Tuesday. “It was more than today’s target of 14,000. Overall 23,298 persons received their shots today at all vaccination centres, including 44 in private hospitals of the district. To take the mega vaccination drive beginning July 1 to the highest level, the officials have been asked to mobilise the villagers and coordinate with residents’ welfare associations, village pradhan, ward members, and anganwadi and accredited social health activist (ASHA) workers. In this drive, we’ll try to give at least one dose of vaccine to all eligible residents over 18 years in the district,” he said. Prasun Dwivedi, sub-divisional magistrate (Sadar), said a meeting of tehsil task force was held on Tuesday to chalk out a blueprint for vaccination of everyone over 18 years in Greater Noida from July 1. “We have properly coordinated with various residential bodies, village pradhans, ward members and anganwadi workers, among others, to increase numbers for upcoming vaccination,” he said. Health officials said that a total of about 1.04 million doses have been given in the district so far. “While 923,584 people have taken their first dose, 120,519 have taken their both the doses. The participation of women in the vaccination drive is also as per our expectations, which is nearly 45% of the total vaccinations,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/neartohome-vaccination-centres-in-jewar-see-over-80-turnout-101624387060067.html
23-06-2021||Lucknow||Covid contained in UP, need to stay alert from those coming from other states: Yogi||With total number of active cases going down to less than 4,000, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said Covid-19 pandemic had been contained in Uttar Pradesh.He said 3,910 patients were undergoing Covid-19 treatment in the state now and no new cases were reported from 16 districts.He said the number of new Covid-19 cases was in single digit on Monday. Yogi was reviewing the Covid-19 situation at a high-level meeting here on Tuesday.He said 16,78,486 persons have recovered from Covid-19 up to now and the recovery rate was now 98.5% in Uttar Pradesh. The positivity rate was 0.1 percent in the state. The positivity rate was 0.2 percent in early June, and this was an indication that the Covid-19 had been contained.He said a total of 5,57,30,488 tests had been conducted so far.He said 2,44,275 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours and 255 new cases had been reported. As many as 397 persons have recovered during the same period. He said 2,525 persons were undergoing treatment in home isolation.Yogi said there was a need to maintain a strict vigil in the state in view of rise in Covid-19 cases in other states. He said those reaching the state by railway, road and air should be tested for Covid-19. He said special arrangements be made to conduct antigen tests at railway stations, bus stations and airports and if needed RTPCR tests should also be conducted. He said contact tracing should be done of those found positive for Covid-19.He said medical kits were being distributed for adults while door to door distribution of medical kits for children would begin on June 27. He said packets of medicines should be given to monitoring committees through public representatives and people should be educated about their health.On vaccination data, the CM said the campaign was gaining new dimensions because of the inspiration of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Insisting that 7,29,197 persons were vaccinated against the target of 6 lakh on the first day of the campaign on June 21, the CM said this pace of vaccination should be continued.He said 2,63,22777 vaccine doses had been given so far while a target of carrying out 10 to 12 lakh vaccinations from July 1 onwards has been set.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-contained-in-up-need-to-stay-alert-from-those-coming-from-other-states-yogi-101624387003947.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 2,800 IIT-B students, staff get shots in campus Covid vax drive||Around 2,800 students, faculty and staff members have been inoculated in the Covid-19 vaccine camp held at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B).Following demand from the student community, IIT-B kicked off a three-day vaccination drive on Monday. “We are expecting another 1,400 people to be vaccinated on the third day,” said Tapanendu Kundu, dean, student affairs and chief organiser of the vaccination drive, which is being held in partnership with private hospitals.“Beneficiaries of the vaccine drive have to pay the government charges of ₹780. For students, the same is adjusted from the hostel fees paid by them,” Kundu added. The student community had been demanding free vaccines for all students on campus. There are around 3,000 students on campus currently. Last week the institute had informed students that a workplace vaccination drive would be held and students would have to pay ₹1,000 plus taxes.The institute had also sought help from its alumni network to fund the vaccination drive. While students are allowed to get their vaccine shots from any government centres outside the campus, they have to complete a 14-day quarantine upon their return to campus. This rule discouraged students from seeking vaccine appointments off-campus.While the institute’s hospital on campus is registered as a government vaccination centre for Covid-19 vaccines, it had initially not been able to procure vaccine doses. Now, the hospital vaccinates only those above 45 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-2-800-iit-b-students-staff-get-shots-in-campus-covid-vax-drive-101624386941255.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Dahanu students risk lives in makeshift boat to reach school||It is 2021 and a plastic rope tied across a river, along with a makeshift, rickety wooden boat serve as the only school commute for a group of 40-odd teenagers from the Kosesari and Bavadi villages in Dahanu, Palghar district.The Class 10 students of the nearest government school have to attend offline classes for their internal assessments now, after being spared the unideal commute by the coronavirus-enforced lockdown for more than a year.“We form a human chain holding each other’s hands at the Surya river bank, while boarding the boat. We then tightly hold the two-inch thick plastic rope and slowly move towards the other side of the river,” said Sagar Bhawar, a student. In one trip, six students stand as they cannot sit without risking their balance. The students carry spare clothes in their bags in case their uniforms get wet, especially during the monsoon. The wet clothes are laid out in the school to dry. The distance between the two banks is 600m and it takes around 35 minutes to get from one side of the river to other on the makeshift boat.The boat trips sees the parents praying for the safe return of their children, even as the 21-year demand of the villagers for a bridge remains in limbo. The inaction has forced many villagers to send their children to other government schools. “Since 2000, the locals have been demanding a bridge, but the proposal has just gathered dust. We have to circumvent 25km on land to reach the other side and are forced to hire private vehicles at high rates as MSRTC buses are irregular,” said Shailesh Karmode, zilla parishad member.“I have sent countless reminders to the public works department (PWD), but till date I only got empty assurances. The cost of the bridge is ₹6 crore and till date the PWD has not sanctioned the proposal. The PWD has also done many surveys at the spot, but there is still no sign of the bridge till date,” said Karmode.Vinod Nikole, MLA from Dahanu, said, “I will again actively take up the bridge proposal during the next Assembly session and hopefully get the budgetary grant from the PWD.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dahanu-students-risk-lives-in-makeshift-boat-to-reach-school-101624386940714.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Rat nibbles ICU patient’s eye, Mumbai civic body orders inquiry||On June 21 at midnight, a rat allegedly nibbled into the eye of a patient who was on a ventilator in the intensive care unit (ICU) at the civic-run Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar. Mayor Kishori Pednekar who visited the patient on Tuesday confirmed the development. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ordered an inquiry into the incident.Srinivas Yellapa, a 24-year-old patient, was admitted to the hospital after complaints of respiratory issues. After being admitted to the hospital, he was also diagnosed with brain and liver damage and was then shifted to the ICU. Later, on Tuesday, his relatives noticed that the patient was bleeding from the eye. After examining his eyes, it was revealed that a rat had bitten the lower part of the eye.However, the doctors from the hospital claimed that the injuries were ‘superficial’ and the patient’s eye has not been affected.Dr Vidya Thakur, dean, Rajawadi Hospital, said that the patient has been treated. “The ward is on the ground floor where some garbage was disposed of, and rats might have come from there.” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said they have ordered an inquiry in the rat incident and have asked for a report with immediate effect. “We have taken all required steps to prevent such incidents,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rat-nibbles-icu-patient-s-eye-mumbai-civic-body-orders-inquiry-101624386940101.html
23-06-2021||Noida||Work on oxygen plants may stretch to mid-August in Ghaziabad||The work on 10 oxygen generation plants to meet the medical requirement of the district may extend to the mid-August, the officials of the Ghaziabad district administration said on Tuesday. The plants are proposed to be set up with the help of local area development funds of legislators and also from the funds of corporate social responsibility (CSR). The officials after a review meeting said the oxygen plant at ESIC Hospital and the one at Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital will be ready by June 30, while the plant at MMG District Hospital is likely to be ready by July 7. Earlier, officials of the health department had said all plants were likely to be ready by June 30. “We have asked the respective agencies to expedite the construction/installation work. Two plants will be ready before June 30 while five will be ready in July. The work on the remaining three is likely to get over by mid-August. Since most of the plants are being set up using CSR funds, vendors have started the work, but face difficulties as they have several such orders coming in,” said RK Singh, district magistrate. The 10 plants are proposed at ESCI Hospital at Sahibabad , Combined District Hospital in Sanjay Nagar, District Women’s Hospital, one each at four community health centres of Loni, Muradnagar, Modinagar and Dasna, one at the primary health centre in Bhojpur and two at the MMG district hospital. The decision to set up new oxygen plants was taken after the city faced an oxygen crisis during the second wave of Covid-19 from mid-April to mid-May. Families of Covid and non-Covid patients had a tough time arranging oxygen cylinders and oxygen beds for their kin in hospitals. “Most of the plants are of a capacity of over 200 litres per minute. The orders that were placed before May 29 are as is -- they have a capacity of 150-200 litres per minute. The plants proposed after May 29 are of 300 litres per minute capacity. The new plants will boost our medical oxygen capacity,” Singh said. On May 29, the state officials sent a communication to all district magistrates and divisional commissioners directing that the quality of plants be maintained. The communication further added that if purchase orders for plants were sanctioned, they should be fitted with equipment of 150 lites per minute, or more, capacity. The health department officials said one oxygen bed requires about 10 lites per minute of oxygen while one bed (with ventilator) requires about 24 litres per minute of oxygen supply. “With 10 new plants, we will be able to fully oxygenate 364 beds in government facilities at MMG district hospital, ESIC Hospital, Sanjay Nagar combined district hospital and the women’s hospital. The new oxygen plants will be of great help in case a third wave hits the country,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. The Ghaziabad district at present has 3,410 beds for Covid-19 patients, which include 2,674 oxygen beds in 50 private and eight government hospitals. The overall bed availability also includes 769 ICU beds and 229 ventilator beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/work-on-oxygen-plants-may-stretch-to-mid-august-inghaziabad-101624386880665.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Covid vax scam: Beneficiaries got fake Covid shots, say cops||The Kandivli police, investigating the vaccination scam, believe that what was administered to 390 members of Hiranandani Heritage society, 150 employees of Matchbox Pictures, employees and students of Aditya College and several others Covid at the unauthorised vaccination camps were not Covid vaccines at all, but something else said police officers.“We really cannot say what it was, in absence of forensic laboratory reports, but we are certain that those were not Covid vaccines,” said a police officer privy with the investigation.The police officer said the main accused Mahendra Singh, who got alerted after the scam was reported to us, has destroyed his mobile phone and other evidence, which might have revealed what the bottles contained.“We have just found the broken screen of Singh’s mobile. We are now looking for other evidence like the vaccination vials and bottles which were reported to be opened during the camp at Hiranandani Heritage.The officer added that they were also surprised by the fact that none of the 390 members of Hiranandani Heritage reported any symptoms or side effects after getting the purported Covishield shots.“The civic body (Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation) has denied providing any vaccination to the arrested accused, however, we believe that if the bottles had the actual vaccine, it was procured by Dr Manish Tripathi who is the sixth accused and is still absconding,” added the officer.Mahendra Singh had approached Hiranandani Heritage Residents Welfare Association (HHRWS), a managing body representing three buildings in the residential complex at Kandivli (West), and offered to set up a vaccination camp aided by Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, Andheri.On May 30, 390 members were administered the vaccines. But they weren’t registered on the centralised Co-WIN portal, as per the rules. After seven-eight days, the residents started getting messages about their vaccination certificates. But to their surprise, they were issued certificates from two private hospitals— Nanavati Max Super Speciality and Lifeline hospitals — and the civic-run NESCO jumbo centre, Goregaon, which does not even hold vaccination in societies.The society members got suspicious about the camp after they got certificates from different hospitals, other than Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani Hospital, and reported the matter to the police.The police have so far arrested five persons in connection with the vaccination scam. The five men are identified as Mahendra Kuldip Singh, 39, Sanjay Gupta, 34, Chandan Singh, 32, Nitin Mode, 32 and Karim Ali, 21. Police officers said they have confessed to having organised such camps in nine other societies before holding a camp at Hiranandani Heritage.The Khar police on Monday night registered the third FIR in the vaccination scam. Based on a complaint lodged by Tips Industries Ltd. police have booked Rajesh Pandey, Sanjay Gupta and four others. According to the police 206 employees of Tips Industries and their family members were administered alleged fake vaccines by the group by charging them ₹2,84,696. The Khar police have booked the six men for cheating and endangering the lives of the beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-vax-scam-beneficiaries-got-fake-covid-shots-say-cops-101624386880035.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Consider marking homeless mentally ill with vaccination tattoos, HC tells Maharashtra govt||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the state government to consider marking mentally challenged, homeless persons with a permanent tattoo after vaccinating them, to identify them as inoculated. The suggestions came after the petitioner informed the court that such persons neither have any identity document nor are mentally sound to inform the concerned authorities on whether they have been vaccinated or not. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) of actor and model TJ Bhanu, was informed by advocates Sarosh Bharucha and Shrey Fatterpekar that the petition was filed to ensure that homeless persons including those suffering from mental illness are given vaccines along with related post-vaccination care which is in line with the Central government’s guideline. The counsels submitted that the homeless, especially, those who suffered from mental illnesses were not aware of their condition and are usually seen roaming around aimlessly on the streets. The advocates averred that as such persons did not have any identification document on themselves nor were they in a position to give consent for vaccination, hence it was up to the state and Centre to come up with some mechanism to ensure that these persons are vaccinated. The advocates also suggested that a biometric system should be put in place so that a record of whether such persons were vaccinated and if vaccinated when and where they received the jab is maintained. Additional government pleader for the state informed the bench that the state was following the guidelines laid down by the centre in this regard. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh also confirmed that the state was required to follow the guidelines for vaccination issued with regards to the homeless, pavement dwellers and people with an unsound mind. After hearing the submissions the bench concurred with the submissions of the petitioner and said that it was usual to see mentally unsound persons wandering on the streets and as they were wont to wander from one area to another it was difficult to keep track of them. The bench however observed that it was the state’s responsibility to have a system to maintain a record of the jabs administered to such persons and hence rather than putting a mark with marking devices would be useless as the same would get wiped off after a few days. The court suggested that instead, the state should think of some tattoo that would not only show whether the person has been vaccinated or not but also the number of jabs received by them.The bench then asked the state to submit data of the number of such persons already vaccinated in the state and posted a hearing of the PIL after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/consider-marking-homeless-mentally-ill-with-vaccination-tattoos-hc-tells-maharashtra-govt-101624386820612.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 1.5 lakh beneficiaries give second dose a miss||Almost 1.5 lakh beneficiaries in the state, including 40,000 in Mumbai, have not taken their second vaccine jab. A majority comprise healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) who were the first to be vaccinated at the beginning of the mass immunisation programme in January, said public health officials. Doctors said giving the second dose a skip could hamper efforts to protect the populace from Covid-19.Both vaccines — Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) have two shots. The trial phase for each of the two-dose vaccines showed that after a certain time, the rate of immunity to Covid-19 plateaued with just one dose but the second dose helped boost the immunity further.However, lack of awareness and fear among citizens is holding back many first time beneficiaries from taking the second shot, which is mandatory as per the Union Health Ministry’s guidelines.“Almost 1.5 lakh beneficiaries who took the first dose and were scheduled to take the second dose have missed their appointment dates. We are trying to reach, counsel and motivate them to take the second shot which will boost their immunity further,” said Dr Archana Patil, director of Maharashtra health and service.The second dose of Covishield is given after 12 weeks of the first jab and the second dose of Covaxin is given after four-six weeks after the first dose.In the state, so far, 2.8 crore people have been vaccinated of which 37 lakh have taken the second dose on their scheduled time. But it has been observed that most of the defaulters are HCWs and FLWs. “We are also taking help from ASHA workers to reach these defaulters and talk to them. We need to understand the reason why they aren’t taking the second dose,” said Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer.In Mumbai, around 40,000 beneficiaries haven’t taken the second dose. The Covid-19 ward war rooms are contacting the defaulters.Various reasons have been cited for the default—the presumption that one dose is adequate, fear of side effects from the second dose.“As known, after inoculation, some develop minor side effects like fever and body ache. This often discourages them from taking the second shot. But having minor health issues are good signs which indicate that the vaccine is effective,” said Dr Mohan Joshi, dean of Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion Hospital.Witnessing a low turnout among HCWs and FLWs for the second dose, recently, the central government has directed all the state government and union territories to speedily vaccinate these groups.With multiple mutations of Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, doctors insist on taking the second dose as, at present, it is the only protective shield to fight against the pandemic.“No vaccine provides 100% protection but, it has been observed that infection among people with two shots has been mild. The death rate among fully immunised beneficiaries is limited across the state. Though, we still don’t know how the present vaccines would be effective on the mutated viruses, but, skipping the second dose won’t do any help,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, part of the Covid-19 task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-1-5-lakh-beneficiaries-give-second-dose-a-miss-101624386820060.html
23-06-2021||Lucknow||State rivers breach banks, flood waters cut off 70 villages||Some 70 villages in the north-western part of the state have been cut off from the district headquarters due to the rising water levels in rivers following heavy rainfall in recent days.Most of these villages fall in the districts of Moradabad, Sambhal, Amroha, some parts of Rampur, Pilibhit and areas of Lakhimpur, bordering Nepal. “My house has been submerged under nine feet of water. All our belongings have been destroyed. We somehow managed to leave the village,” Sadiq Khan of Khaddar area said that Amroha has been hit worst by the flood. Khan and his family of five are currently putting up with relatives in Amroha city.In the Moradabad region, at least 30 villages have been cut off due to the flooding of connecting roads. “Some villages in Thakurdwar, Kanth and Bilari have been affected largely by the rise in the level of the Ram Ganga, which flows through the district,” Shailendra Kumar, district magistrate, Moradabad, said. Likewise, the rise in the level of the Sharda, which passes through some parts of Pilibhit and Lakimpir Khiri, has caused flooding in surrounding low-lying areas.In Pilibhit, some 14 villages located in the north and east of the district have been cut off from the district headquarters. The number of such villages is double in Lakhimpur Kheri district.The districts are yet to compile the damage caused by the flooding. However, flood water has submerged large swathes of farmland with the paddy crop standing in the districts. Several hectares of land near river banks has also eroded due to strong flow of water.In wake of a possible disaster, the respective district administrations have sprung to action. “We have set up around 20 flood relief posts in the areas susceptible to flooding. These posts are coordinating with the district administration on how to provide relief to people in affected villages,” said Pulkit Khare, district magistrate, Pilibhit.The district administrations have also set up relief camps where inhabitants are provided food, shelter and medical care.“Teams of the State Disaster Management Authority have also been pressed in to conduct relief operations. The teams are working in tandem with other departments. Additional personnel can also be called if needed but the situation is being handled well by our current staff,” Khare said.Rivers flowing over the danger markFour major rivers – Ganga, Ram Ganga, Sharda and Kuawno – were flowing close to the danger mark on Tuesday, updates from the Flood Management Information System Centre (FMISC) revealed. According to these updates, the Sharda in Palia, Lakihmpur was recorded to be flowing 0.1 metre above the danger mark. The river is followed by the Ghaghra and the Ram Ganga which were recorded to be flowing 0.8metres and 0.5 metres above danger mark in Barabanki and Moradabad, respectively.Meerut, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor districts on alert as Ganga threatensExcess water released from the Bijnor barrage, into the Ganga, flooded fields of standing crops in many villages of the Meerut, Muzaffarnagar and Bijnor districts. Many villages were put on alert due to the release of excess water into the Ganga.FMISC data put the water level of the Ganga at Kachala, in Badaun, 0.1 metre above the danger mark.Irrigation department chief engineer Mahesh Chand said that 4.2 lakh cusecs of water was released in the Ganga from the Bijnor barrage after heavy rainfall in the hills. Bijnor, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar districts were put on alert.He said that though the water entered the fields in a large area in district Bijnor, no loss of life was reported, adding that officials were on alert and motorboats and divers were ready to meet any eventuality. “The excess water released from the barrage has now passed downstream, therefore, the level of water in the river is returning to normal,” he said. “Only 40,000 cusecs of water was released from the Hardwar barrage on Tuesday,” he added.Excess water in the river damaged embankments near village Sirjopur, in Hastinapur area of Meerut district on Sunday, flooding fields in many villages.Meerut district magistrate K Balaji visited the villages situated on the banks of the Ganga and reviewed preparations to control the flood-like situation.”Receding level of water in the river has resulted in decrease of water in the fields at some places and the situation is under control,” Balaji said, and added that officials have been put on alert to ensure safety of villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/state-rivers-breach-banks-flood-waters-cut-off-70-villages-101624386702399.html
23-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Vaccination for all above 18+ from today||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said that vaccination for all above the age of 18 years will restart on Wednesday in the city, over 40 days after the drive was suspended owing to the shortage of vaccine doses.The Maharashtra government has allowed vaccination for all above 18 years of age from Tuesday. However, the BMC on Tuesday said it will start vaccination from Wednesday or Thursday owing to the arrangements required for the same.According to civic body officials, to start vaccination for all above the age of 18 years, crowding will be a major concern, hence the BMC did not start vaccination for all above 18 from Tuesday to undertake preparations for the same. The civic body officials said that daily 50% of slots will be available through online booking and the rest slots will be for walk-in. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of the BMC said, “Vaccination for all above 18 years of age will start in the city from Wednesday. We have given around 150 doses in each centre for the 18-45 age group. Initially, it will be limited for now and going ahead we will increase the doses as the response increases and we get more stock.”Kakani added, “Vaccination across all age groups will be conducted at all vaccination centres to ensure there is no crowding. We had initially thought to designate centres on basis of age groups but we think this might result in crowding.” However, according to BMC officials, if there is crowding at centres, they will develop a mechanism to control the same. As of Tuesday, BMC says they have vaccine stock that will last for around five days.Every vaccination centre is given 200 to 300 vaccine doses as per the demand and usage. Currently, there are 380 active vaccination centres in the city, of which, 268 are active civic-run centres, 20 centres are of state and Central government, and the remaining 92 are private vaccination centres.The BMC had from Saturday started vaccination for the 30 to 44 age group based on getting permission from the state government. On the second consecutive day, more than 100,000 vaccine doses were administered in the city. On Tuesday, 113,135 vaccine doses were administered in the city. Overall, since January 16, 4,684,050 vaccine doses have been administered in the city. The BMC had suspended vaccination for the 18 to 45 age group on May 12, around 12 days after the drive was started on May 1. At that time, the reason for the suspension of the vaccination was owing to the shortage of vaccine doses. However, now as the Central government has announced to supply 75% of the vaccine requirement, the civic body hopes to resume drive for all above 18 years of age in the coming days.Meanwhile, the BMC has also decided to vaccinate on priority “potential super spreaders” or those who are in touch with multiple people daily, to control the spread of Covid-19, amid the threat of a third wave. This category includes autorickshaw and taxi drivers, hawkers, delivery executives, restaurant staff, daily wage workers, among others. However, with the decision to allow vaccination for all above 18 years of age, the plan to vaccinate potential super spreaders will be put on hold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vaccination-for-all-above-18-from-today-101624386701847.html
23-06-2021||Other||Doyens of medical service: BJ Medical College in Pune celebrates 75th foundation day||The Byramjee Jeejeebhoy Medical College (BJMC), which is attached to Sassoon General Hospital, is celebrating its 75th foundation day on Wednesday, June 23. The hospital has played a pivotal role in providing tertiary care to not just residents of Pune, but also to districts in the state. Students from BJMC are recognised internationally for their published work in international journals and medical services provided by them at the hospital.The hospital had played a crucial role during the 2009 Swine flu outbreak and even now, before PMC could upgrade its hospitals with ventilators and tertiary care, Sassoon was the only government hospital providing tertiary care to Covid-19 patients. Dr Shashikala Sangle, aged 64, retired on May 31. She has been associated with the hospital for the past 45 years since she was a student and headed the department of Medicine. Dr Sangle said, “BJMC has definitely carved its niche as being reputed for generating the most honest and hardworking alumni and staff. I had a student who wanted to study further in the US and her examiners who saw her report and saw the BJMC name, without any further questions admitted her. The decades of hard work has earned this name. BJ has produced many important medical research works.”Dr Sangle also describes the Swine flu outbreak period. She said, “When we look at it in retrospect, Swine flu was not as big as Covid-19. We were able to manage it in just one building. However, with Covid-19, the sheer numbers and the complications and also the post Covid-19 complications are a bigger challenge. However, even during the pandemic our cardiac catheterisation lab was functioning smoothly and also chemotherapy of cancer patients continued. We took all due precautions and tests and ensured that other vital routine treatments are not hampered.”While the hospital was founded in 1867, the BJ Medical school was founded in 1871, after completing 75 years, the school was expanded to BJ Medical College in 1946. Right from its foundation till now the hospital has been supported through charities and CSR funds form the community and philanthropists. On June 23, 1946, BJ Medical College was founded and Dr B. G Kher, head of the Bombay government, laid the foundation stone. The college has been named after Parsi philanthropist Byramjee Jeejeebhoy who donated the land in 1871. The medical course of MBBS was affiliated to the University of Poona (Pune) in 1949.Some of the historic moments in the hospital include the birth of Avtar Meher Baba who was born in the old maternity ward in the hospital, and the father of the nation, Mahatma, Gandhi who was operated upon for emergency appendectomy in 1924 by a British surgeon Col Murdoch with an Indian anaesthetist Dr Datey in attendance. The main building of BJMC was inaugurated by Dr Radha Krishnan in 1952. The first Principal of the BJ Medical College, which started with 50 students, was Dr BB Dikshit, a renowned academicianAnnually 200 students are admitted for MBBS and 143 for post-graduation. At any given time, now, 1,700 students are on the campus with more than 2,000 staff including 268 faculty members. Presently, courses of MBBS, MD, MS, PhD, Diplomas, MCh (CVTS), MSc, GNM, BSc Nursing, DMLT, PGDMCH, and PGDGM are offered here.Some of the path-breaking research works by the college are Dr Dikshit’s work on the role of acetylcholine in sleep and Dr Bhende’s discovery of the Bombay blood group. The hospital also has its name in the Jablonski’s Dictionary of syndromes, for the syndrome discovered, by Dr Ganla and Dr MJ Narsimhan.In the last two decades, the colleges has been sought out by many research institutes including Department of Science & technology (DST), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Outreach services in mental health, preventive medicine, human reproduction research, tribal research, through national agencies like ICMR, and international agencies like WHO and UNICEF got underway. With the initiation of large-scale research projects the Institutional Ethics Committee was born. The Infosys super speciality building on the campus is catering to super speciality services for patients.A six-week extended nevirapine (SWEN) study was conducted with this grant over the period of 2002-2007 for prevention of mother to infant transmission of HIV. This landmark study was published in Lancet (2008), which led to modification of guidelines by WHO for prevention of mother to infant transmission of HIV in breastfeeding population in resource poor areas. This gave BJMC the capability of international grade research.After this successful demonstration of research capability, NIH USA granted Clinical Trial Unit to BJMC in collaboration with JHU for 2008-2014. BJMC-JHU application in response to RFA of NIH was among the first five amongst applications from all over the world.In 2005, through the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) the HIV treatment center (ART) was started giving treatment free of charge. Presently more than 24,000 HIV infected patients are registered in the ART centre and 12,000 are on free ART. BJMC is recognised Government TB treatment centre with 4,000 tuberculosis patients/suspects per year.BJMC and Sassoon helped fight the 2009 H1N1 (Swine Flu) outbreak in Pune and Maharashtra. In February 2010, BJ also promptly handled the casualties of German Bakery bomb blast. Prominent community donations include food for all patients prepared by donation from the Shrimant Dagadusheth Halwai Ganapati Trust and the hospital has also contributed when it provided complete medical coverage to the athletes who participated in 30th Asian Athletics Games at Balewadi, Pune.Dr Murlidhar Tambe, dean BJMC said, “Unfortunately, due to Covid-19, we cannot celebrate it as a grand event. However, the hospital has proven its worth in time. For our 2025 vision board we had proposed a Cancer hospital, a dental college, physiotherapy college and multiple super-specialities, for which we have submitted our proposal to the government. Hopefully, we get approval for some. The research work of students from BJMC has been recognised globally and also the care provided by our staff and students is noteworthy. Now is the time to expand and introduce new courses of UG and PG in various faculties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doyens-of-medical-service-bj-medical-college-celebrates-75th-foundation-day-101624386701228.html
23-06-2021||Lucknow||Another teacher who used papers of Anamika Shukla to get job arrested||Yet another teacher, who got the job of a science teacher at the government-run Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) chain by using the name and academic records of Anamika Shukla, was arrested from Lucknow by Rae Bareli police on Monday after a chase of over 12 months, said senior police officials here on Tuesday.A senior police official privy to the investigation said one Manjesh Kumari alias Anjali was arrested on connection with an FIR lodged against her for getting job in the KGBV at Bachhrawa, Rae Bareli on June 6, 2020. He said Manjesh Kumar was among the many imposter teachers who misused record and identity of one Anamika Shukla to get job at KGBVs.The official said as many as six women had been arrested for impersonating as Anamika Shukla in the matter so far. He said the UP Special Task Force (STF) investigation had earlier revealed that a woman having name of Anamika Shukla found enrolled in 25 KGBV schools in different districts across the state.He said the racket was exposed after the arrest of a woman posing as Anamika Shukla working as a teacher at Faridpur KGBV in Kasganj district for the past 13 months in January 2020.Interestingly, the probe revealed that several proxy teachers using the identity of Anamika Shukla are employed in KGBVs in different cities and was drawing salaries accordingly.The state basic education department had later registered nine FIRs in as many districts on suspicion that proxy teachers were using the documents of Anamika Shukla to obtain jobs.The official said Manjesh Kumar went missing after resigning from the job on May 26, 2020, when the basic education department sent notice to present her documents. He said the department thereafter lodged the FIR against her. She was missing since then. He said the Rae Bareli police had even announced the reward of ₹15,000 on her arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/another-teacher-who-used-papers-of-anamika-shukla-to-get-job-arrested-101624386700662.html
23-06-2021||Pune||53 vax centres operational in Pune for 18-plus age group with 100 doses each||A day after state health minister Rajesh Tope announced that Maharashtra would begin free Covid-19 vaccinations of all those aged above 18 years, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) announced plans for what is touted to be its largest vaccination drive. The civic body announced that around 53 centres would be operational for 18-plus age group beneficiaries. Each centre will have 100 doses.Announcing the restart of the drive, which was shut down shortly after it began in May, Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The vaccination for 18-year olds will be done in a comprehensive manner. As announced by PM Modi, corona vaccination will be started in the city and the campaign will be implemented on a large scale. All the systems of PMC are ready for this.”Mohol said that vaccination for citizens above 18 years of age is an important step for Pune. He added, “The city of Pune is at the forefront of vaccination, but the new vaccination policy will give a big boost to the fight against corona. Considering the number and prevalence of citizens above 18 years of age in the city, the corporation has planned the vaccination.”Mohol added, “On the first day, we are vaccinating at 53 centres and 100 Covishield vaccines have been made available at each centre. At each of the centres, 70 per cent doses have been made available to the citizens who have made online appointment bookings, while 30 per cent doses have been made available for on-spot registration. Online registration will start at 8 am on Wednesday.”While the vaccination at government centres was stopped shortly after it was started on May 1 for those aged above 18 years, private hospitals continued with the drive and have vaccinated thousands till now. “On April 26, 0.534 million people were vaccinated on the same day,” said additional chief secretary of the Health Department, Dr Pradip Vyas.Meanwhile, the state saw more than 0.552 million citizens vaccinated on Tuesday, which is the highest so far, said Tope. Till date, more than 28.5 million people have been vaccinated. Today, 0.552 million citizens were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/53-vax-centres-operational-for-18-plus-age-group-with-100-doses-each-101624386700103.html
23-06-2021||Other||NEERI to study pollution at Vaikunth crematorium, suggest changes to PMC||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sought help from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-linked National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), to tackle air pollution in the area around the Vaikunth crematorium, located in a residential area of Pune city. Residents and an NGO filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the Bombay High Court on the issue of pollution at Vaikunth crematorium.The PMC Standing Committee approved a proposal to conduct a study and audit of the crematorium and give recommendations to minimise the pollution. The committee has approved ₹17 lakh for the project involving NEERI.Hemant Rasane, chairman, standing committee, said, “PMC requested CSIR-NEERI to inspect and perform amn assessment of the air pollution control system at Vaikunth crematorium and suggest if any modification is needed to improve the air quality. We have set a six-month deadline for them to submit the report to the PMC.”Shriniwas Kandul, additional city engineer, electrical department of the corporation, said, “The corporation has taken precautions to control pollution at Vaikunth crematorium, however, due to PIL filed, the court has given directives to take necessary measures to control pollution. So, the corporation has taken the decision to appoint NEERI to conduct a study and submit a report with recommendations.”He added, “The recommendations will be implemented at Vaikunth crematorium as well as at other crematoriums in the city to control the air pollution.”Of the 24 cremation facilities in the city, 10 are electric and 13 are operated on gas. Three crematoria have both electrical and gas facilities.Meanwhile, residents in the neighbourhood of Vaikunth crematorium have registered complaints of air pollution due to a spike in cremations of Covid fatalities. PMC, on record, cremated 589 Covid bodies in April-May using white coals at various crematoria in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/neeri-to-study-pollution-at-vaikunth-crematorium-suggest-changes-to-pmc-101624386641789.html
23-06-2021||Other||Tour bookings to tourist spots increase as second Covid wave wanes||Outstation tour inquiries have seen a surge with most tourist destinations now open for the public. However, the compulsion of RT-PCR tests and different protocols at different tourist sites is making people looking for a holiday cautious.With Covid positive cases declining every day, citizens have already started planning holiday. Along with tourists allowed in Lonavla, Khandala, Panchgani, and Mahableshwar, states like Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan are also allowing tourists to enter their states.“Leh-Ladakh is receiving too many inquiries and the package rate has also gone down as flight rates are cheaper. Many people are also preferring weekend trips to Lonavala and Mahableshwar, both of which are sold out,” said Ashwin Kardekar, director, My Travelogue Holidays. Packages to Ladakh, which generally cost ₹50,000 for a couple, are now ₹40,000.“Many people are also not planning to travel immediately, but they doing booking for July and August,” added Kardekar.Uttrakhand, Goa, Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir have still banned the entry for the tourists.“My most preferred is road trip to Goa, but with restrictions in place we are planning a trip to Rajasthan. My family has taken the first dose of the vaccination, but Rajasthan allows entry to tourists who are fully vaccinated (both doses), or you need to carry a RT PCR negative report. We will get the RT-PCR test done,” said Sanjay Jadhav, a Nigdi resident.Most of the tourist spots are asking for RT-PCR negative reports. Travelling agents are informing clients about dos and don’ts of respective tourist spots before completion of bookings.“Our Andaman trip is long pending and we have planned it in the first week of July. I feel an island is safer than other destinations. RT-PCR test negative report is mandatory,” said Rucha Shah, Kothrud resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tour-bookings-to-tourist-spots-increase-as-second-covid-wave-wanes-101624386641192.html
23-06-2021||Other||1,600 on waiting list for donation of kidneys in Pune: ZTCC||PUNE As many as 1,600 patients are on the recipients’ waiting list for donation of kidneys alone. A drastic drop in organ donations is being registered so far, this year.Doctors and patients have been wary of accepting organs from cadavers for fear of the Covid infection. This year, there have been 13 donors until June 2021. In 2018, there were a total of 61 cases of organ donations, and 63 in 2019.Despite the efforts of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Centre (ZTCC), Pune, to raise awareness using social media and an interactive website, lockdown has made it difficult to find organ donors.“The ongoing pandemic has exacerbated the crisis further, as it instils fear in the minds of people who come forward to donate their organs. Organ donors, as well as receivers, are a bit hesitant due to additional tests whereupon even the smallest speck of a shadow over a lung can cause the organ to be rejected,” said Dr Shailesh Kakade, nephrologist and consultant with Jupiter hospital.According to Arti Gokhale, central co-ordinator, ZTCC, Pune, “In 2020 from January to December we had 41 organ donors, but this year from January 2021 till today, we have had only 13. This is the impact of the second wave of covid. There is a distinct drop in the number of patients in hospitals. Usually, organ donations come through if it is a traffic accident, or intracranial bleeding or a sudden brain injury,” said Gokhale.According to ZTCC, there are 1,600 patients waiting for a kidney transplant, 75 for a liver transplant, 50 for heart and lung transplants, and 70 patients in waiting for multi-visceral organs.Though the figures seem drastic, ZTCC is hopeful that with this unlock, things will improve. “In February this year, as Covid cases started rising, our transplant programme was put on hold. For the last two weeks we have started the programme again. Norms have been set for transplants with precautions, so that patients don’t get infected by Covid. Covid rates will further go down with vaccination,” Dr SM Ambike, nephrologist, Jehangir Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1600-on-waiting-list-for-donation-of-kidneys-in-pune-ztcc-101624386640603.html
23-06-2021||Pune||Expert concerns leave Rajgad fort ropeway project in knots||PUNE Environment experts, fort conservationists, and trekking experts have raised doubts about the proposed ropeway to be built on Rajgad fort. They fear that this plan may affect the eligibility of Rajgad, and other 13 forts, to be marked as world heritage sites by the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation (Unesco). Experts have also raised concerns about the ecological impact of this project and the threat to the historic structure of the fort. On June 12, the state department of tourism and the Indian Port Rail and Ropeway Corporation Limited (IPRCL) signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to build a ropeway at Rajgad fort in the Pune district. Rajgad fort, which is located in Velhe tehsil, is a historically important fort as it was the capital of the Maratha empire under the rule of Chhatrapati Shivaji, until the capital was moved to Raigad fort. It is also a popular tourist destination and a favourite spot for trekkers on an overnight stay. The state tourism department has proposed the ropeway project for easy accessibility to the fort. “A few years back the state tourism department had sent a proposal to nominate Rajgad and 13 other forts for the world heritage tag. Now they are advancing with the ropeway project. This will jeopardise the efforts to get a world heritage tag for Rajgad. Also, there are currently four access points to the fort on foot. There is no need for a fifth. The fort is already overburdened with an overwhelming number of tourists and trekkers. This project will just increase the crowd. It will pose a threat to the historic structure of the fort,” said Prasad Dangat, president, Fort Conservation Committee, an NGO involved with fort restoration and conservation. Saili Palande-Datar, an environmentalist and history researcher, also opposes the project, citing archaeological and environmental concerns. “The administration should do a feasibility report of this project. Its environmental and archaeological impact needs to be studied. This area is a sensitive zone in the Western ghats. So before going ahead with this project all of these documents should be in the public domain. There should be a public hearing on the objections related to this project,” said Palande-Datar Some experts have claimed that there is not enough space on the Rajgad to construct a ropeway. “Unlike Raigad, Rajgad doesn’t have enough space. So the administration might want to rethink the location. It can be built on a nearby plane surface from which Rajgad is accessible,” said Umesh Zirpe, head of Giripremi. Activists have threatened to go to court if their concerns are not addressed by the government. Earlier, speaking in Pune, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar strongly defended the project and claimed that a ropeway would increase accessibility to the fort for all age groups. “Those who are opposing it now are young. When they turn 60 and want to visit Rajgad, what will they do? There was opposition to the ropeway at Raigad as well. We need to think about all people,” said Pawar after a recent Covid review meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/expert-concerns-leave-rajgad-ropeway-project-in-knots-101624386580126.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt directs authorities to triple Covid-19 shots||The Delhi government has directed all the districts in the Capital to triple the number of Covid-19 shots being administered each day from Wednesday, by increasing the number of centres for those in the 18-45 age group, opening up centres that immunise only those above the age of 45 years to the younger age group as well, and using the vaccine doses provided by the Central government for all categories.On Tuesday, most of the vaccination sites also opened up walk-in facilities for those between the ages of 18 and 45 years, with half the slots at each centre being reserved for unscheduled vaccinations.“The number of vaccination centres will be increased by around 25% across Delhi from tomorrow (Wednesday),” said a senior district official.Currently, there are 1,040 vaccination sites across Delhi, of which only 30% are meant for those between the ages of 18 and 45 years. “By tonight, we should also get an order from the state government to use all vaccine doses – whether sent by the Centre or purchased by the state – across age groups,” said the official.So far, the free doses provided by the Centre were meant for only those above the age of 45 years, while the state government procured separate doses to vaccinate the young. The policy changed on Monday with Centre now providing all vaccine doses for free.Even as the number of shots given on the first day of the new vaccination drive soared to 8.5 million across the country on Monday, Delhi recorded lower than usual with 76,062 doses. Delhi administers over 84,000 shots on an average every day, with nearly 67% of it for those in the 18-45 age group.“The number of vaccinations go down in the city whenever doses for the youth are unavailable because more than 50% of those above the age of 45 years have already been immunised, with many still not eligible to get the shot after being infected during the previous wave. The Centre’s guideline states that vaccine should be administered only three months after an infection. Also, some people are of course hesitant,” said AAP MLA Atishi.Akriti Sagar, district magistrate (central), said they started walk-in for everyone from Tuesday in vaccination centres run by the Delhi government. “We have started walk-in vaccination for 18-45-year-olds now. Officers at session sites have now been directed to keep 50% of the vaccine stock for those who walk-in and the other half for those who have registered through the CoWin portal,” she said.Ankita Chakravarty, south Delhi DM, and Isha Khosla, DM (north), also confirmed that walk-in vaccinations for those above 18 years of age started in their district from Tuesday.The centres in South district, where this has begun, include Gargi Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya, Green Park extension, Government boys senior secondary school, Malviya Nagar, and Government co-ed school, Masjid Moth. All these centres are using vaccine stocks for walk-ins and pre-registered beneficiaries on a 50:50 basis.Some districts were yet to allow walk-ins at their vaccination sites. “We will begin walk-in vaccination for 18-45-year-olds tomorrow (Wednesday). We have been given the mandate to increase vaccination three folds. Currently, we are immunising around 4,000 people a day; tomorrow we expect to immunise at least 10,000,” said a senior official from South east district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-directs-authorities-to-triple-covid-19-shots-101624385320058.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||AAP, Union ministers spar over vaccination drive||Union ministers Hardeep Singh Puri and Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday criticised the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi for allegedly not participating actively in the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, drawing sharp criticism from the AAP with Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia suggesting the central ministers to focus on providing sufficient vaccines instead of “just abusing” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal “all the time”.The political war of words began with the housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri tweeting, “On a day India vaccinated more than 84 lakh people, Delhi administered only 76,259 out of more than 11 lakh doses available. Why? Instead of focusing on the health & welfare of people of Delhi, Kejriwal Ji is busy in Punjab searching for a Sikh CM face for his party.”Sisodia responded to his tweet, alleging “flip-flops” by the central government on Covid-19 vaccination. “Hardeep ji: pls focus on providing enough vaccines for the youth, rather than just abusing Arvind Kejriwal all the time. Central government’s vaccination flip-flops have created a crisis situation all over the country,” he tweeted.Also read | At 5.4 million doses, Day 2 of Covid-19 vaccination drive records declineLater, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan also joined in and accused Sisodia of lying. On Monday, the deputy chief minister in a press briefing claimed that no vaccine doses were provided to Delhi by the Centre in the current month for the 18-45 years category. Citing a Ramcharit Manas verse, Vardhan tweeted in Hindi: “Some people accept only lies, offer lies to others and feed and chew lies only. This Ramcharit Manas chaupai fits Arvind Kejriwal and his ministers.”In his response, Sisodia said that at the current pace of distribution of doses to Delhi, the city would take 15-16 months to vaccinate its entire adult population. “Doctor sir, is the Central government going to give any fresh supply of vaccines to Delhi after June 21 or will it get only those many doses, which the Delhi government procured for the month of June? For the month of July also the Centre has allocated only 15 lakh vaccines for Delhi. You yourself think, at this pace it will take 15-16 months to vaccinate everyone,” he tweeted.AAP MLA Atishi who presents daily vaccination bulletin of the Delhi government said the Centre refused to let the city administration use vaccines meant for 45+ category for 18+ group, and on Tuesday, it “slyly” clarified the same through press releases.“Today, when the Delhi government has raised its voice saying that it has not received the free vaccine stock and that the Centre is running a fake vaccination campaign, they have slyly started issuing clarifications. Puri via a tweet and the Central government via a press release, are now telling us to use the 45+ stock for everyone. When the Delhi government was asking to do the same, the central government disapproved. It is our request to the central government to drop this abusive politics of press conferences, press releases, and Twitter. The country will not be safe from Covid-19 just by insulting Arvind Kejriwal. The country will be safe from Covid-19 only through vaccination,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-union-ministers-spar-over-vaccination-drive-101624385260500.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Charred remains found in Delhi shoe factory gutted in major fire||A charred body was found in the early hours of Tuesday from a large shoe godown in Udyog Nagar near Peeragarhi in outer Delhi which went up in flames on Monday morning, fire department officials said.At least five more persons are still missing as the search operation continued for nearly 40 hours since Monday morning.Delhi fire services chief Atul Garg said the assistant divisional officer Rajesh Kumar Shukla suffered fracture in his ribs when he slipped from the staircase of the building. He is undergoing treatment at Balaji Action hospital, Garg said.Police as well as fire department personnel on Monday said that four families have come forward, claiming one of their members worked in the factory and was missing. Late on Monday night, two more families reached the godown and claimed their kin were also missing, they said.While Garg confirmed that the charred remains of a human body was found on the second floor of the godown at 3am on Tuesday during their search operation, police officials said they would confirm it only after the an examination by the forensic experts.“We have not been able to retrieve the remains that the fire officials found early Tuesday morning. Nothing can be said until we get the forensic report,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh.Police said the remains will be sent for DNA profiling to ascertain the identity and to know if they belong to one person or more. The missing persons have been identified by their families as Sonu, Vikram, Shamshad, Abhishek, Ajay and Neeraj. Sonu and Vikram, in their early 20s, were brother who lived in Ghazipur in east Delhi, their family members told the police.DCP Singh a case of attempt to commit culpable homicide has been registered under Indian Penal Code’s section 308. The owner of the godown, Pankaj Garg, is absconding. “We may add more relevant sections of IPC in the case once it is confirmed that the charred remains are of a human body,” he added.On Monday around 8.30 am, the fire control room was informed about a fire in a godown that is spread in nearly 1,000 square metres and consists of two buildings, each having a basement, ground and first floor. More than 100 fire fighters and 35 fire tenders worked for nearly eight hours to douse the flames. However, the cooling and search operations were on till Tuesday night.The entire premises had a tin ceiling and was packed with shoes, slippers, and packaging materials such as boxes and adhesives. The tin roof collapsed while cracks have developed in the buildings and were declared dangerous by the municipal authority.Initially, the fire and police department were told that there were at least 10 people inside the building when the blaze started. While six of them were rescued, four are still missing. Later on Monday night, families to two more workers informed about their missing.“There is still extreme heat inside the building which is causing hindrance for officials to examine. Once the cooling operation is complete, we will use sniffer dogs to search the bodies,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/charred-remains-found-in-delhi-shoe-factory-gutted-in-major-fire-101624385200813.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||DDA ropes in pvt agencies to help residents of unauthorised colonies||To expedite the process to give ownership rights to residents of 1,731 unauthorised colonies in Delhi under PM-UDAY scheme, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has decided to rope in private agencies that will go door-to-door and help beneficiaries register on the agency’s portal, a senior DDA official said.As a pilot project, DDA has roped in a private firm that will carrying out registration and application filling process in 250 unauthorised colonies in Delhi. “We are in the process of finalising the list of 250 unauthorised colonies where the the firm is likely to start work from July 1. The private agency will go door-to-door and assist people in registering on our portal. It will also create awareness and clear people’s doubts. We have also empanelled seven firms to assist people in uploading all the relevant documents online to expedite the process,” the official said.“This is in addition to the ongoing process of people registering directly on our portal. If this pilot project is successful, then we plan to do it in all 1,700-odd unauthorised colonies,” said a senior DDA official.Ahead of the Delhi assembly elections in 2020, the BJP-led central government announced the Pradhan Mantri Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana (PM-UDAY) which is aimed at benefiting four million people living in 1,731 unauthorised colonies in the Capital. For this, the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Recognition of Property Rights of Residents in Unauthorised Colonies) Act, 2019, was passed in the Parliament in November 2019, to allow residents of these colonies get ownership rights to their property.The implementation of the scheme, for which registration process started in December 2019, has been marred due to the coronavirus pandemic and procedural and land-related issues. Almost one-and-a-half-years later, only 6,372 property owners could get final documents of property ownership (authorization slip or conveyance deed) from DDA.According to a senior official, 4.15 lakh property owners have registered on DDA’s portal for ownership rights. Of these, a GIS survey of 3.06 lakh property has been done. “So far, we have received 73,180 complete application forms along with all the necessary property documents,” said the official.Explaining the reason for the slow pace of work, a senior DDA official said, “Immediately after the scheme was launched, there were assembly elections in Delhi. By the time work picked up pace, lockdown was announced due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While people were registering on our portal, work on the ground couldn’t be done due to the lockdown. This year, again, the work got affected due to the lockdown. Now, we are planning to expedite the work and clear all the pending applications by July 10,” said the official.The change in DDA’s strategy is aimed at increasing the number of complete application forms. “In a lot of cases, we have to reject the application forms as the documents are not in order. This is why we have empanelled agencies to help people upload all relevant documents. We have also simplified the process,” said the official.In some cases, property owners got the GIS survey done and uploaded the documents only to find out that their properties were falling on Master Plan roads, parks or spaces earmarked for various utilities in the zonal plan. “To avoid such problems, we have developed a mobile application using which people can find out whether their property is falling in zones where ownership can’t be given,” said the official.Of the 1,731 unauthorised colonies, ownership process in 76 colonies has been put on hold as these fall in the O-zone (Yamuna floodplains). The DDA is preparing a proposal to demarcate the boundaries of Zone O -- the land planning zone which encompasses the Yamuna floodplains -- to provide ownership rights to 76 unauthorised colonies that have come up along the river. The proposal will be submitted to the principal committee of the National Green Tribunal.But a large number of people living in unauthorised colonies in Jaitpur, Badarpur, Okhla, Karawal Nagar, etc had applied for ownership rights. But due to the O-zone issue, their applications couldn’t be processed.The draft Master Plan of Delhi-2041, which was recently put in public domain for feedback and suggestions, has proposed that the floodplain will be delineated. The O zone will be split in two—the floodplain and the riverfront.Anil Sharma, a resident of Meethapur in south east Delhi, has formed an association to push the demand for removal of the colony’s name from the restricted zone. He said the colony was situated more than 1.5km away from the floodplain. “Effort has been made to resolve the issue. But we are not sure whether it will address our issue or not. It’s going to be almost a year since the issue came to light.,” said Sharma.Brij Mohan Somani, a resident of Badli, said, “There are so many people who have paid for the GIS survey and applied for ownership. DDA is taking a lot of time to process the files.”Sabyasachi Das, former planning commissioner with the DDA, said, “This is a tricky issue as there are multiple problems in implementation of the scheme. What happens to properties which are falling on master plan roads or areas earmarked in the zonal plans? In a lot of unauthorized colonies, people have purchased properties floor-wise. The DDA needs to clarify whether it will give floor-wise ownership or not. One of the biggest concerns of people in these colonies is regarding getting their building plans sanctioned. Property ownership documents don’t help in getting building plans sanctioned. The DDA has to clarify these things to people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dda-ropes-in-pvt-agencies-to-help-residents-of-unauthorised-colonies-with-paper-work-101624385140568.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Man held for creating ruckus at Delhi airport||A 36-year-old businessman was arrested at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport for allegedly creating a ruckus after being denied boarding by airline officials for not carrying the mandatory RT-PCR report.“We registered a case under Sections 92, 93 and 97 (punishment for obstructing or annoying passengers in the street and misbehaviour with intent to provoke a breach of the peace) of Delhi Police (DP) Act and arrested the passenger, identified as Suraj Pandey,” said deputy commissioner of police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan.DCP Ranjan said that Pandey, a businessman from Deoria in Uttar Pradesh, was arrested based on a complaint received from Deepak Chadha, Deputy Manager of Vistara Airlines. In his complaint, Chadha alleged that the passenger had come to the Delhi airport’s T3 terminal to board a Vistara Airlines flight to Mumbai without the mandatory RT-PCR report -- mandatory for any air travel -- following which he was denied permission to board the flight.The airline official said that Pandey allegedly turned violent, started shouting and even started walking on the baggage conveyor belt, thereby obstructing the airline staff and other passengers.The airline staff alerted the CISF personnel who caught Pandey and handed him over to the police, the DCP said.“We checked the CCTV footage that verified the allegations of the complainant. Accordingly, a case was registered and Pandey was arrested. His medical examination was also conducted. He was later released on bail,” he said.An official statement issued by the Vistara spokesperson said the passenger was not carrying an RT-PCR report.“He behaved badly with our staff and other customers, and his acts threatened the safety of ground operations. We have provided a full refund of the booking to the customer and notified the authorities of the incident,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-creating-ruckus-at-delhi-airport-101624385080684.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi opens special vaccination centre for transgender persons and sex workers||Delhi has started special vaccination drives for transgender persons and sex workers in the city as part of its efforts to inoculate such people, who have been categorised as ”high risk groups” by the ministry of health and family welfare. One such dedicated vaccination centre for transgender persons opened on Tuesday at the DUSIB Flats, opposite the Sultanpuri bus terminal, in north-west Delhi, while another one was launched for sex workers in the central district on Monday, officials said. A third one, in the west district, is in the process of being launched, they said.Delhi has at least 55,633 female sex workers and 9,496 transgender persons in the high risk groups, according to the National AIDS Control Programme of the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Cheshta Yadav, district magistrate (DM), northwest, said the Sultanpuri centre vaccinated at least 45 beneficiaries till 4pm on the first day. The district administration shared posters of the drive to spread awareness about the programme and also provided transportation to persons in these groups, who were identified with the help of NGOs in the area. The centre will function from 9am to 5pm till Friday.Samaira (19), a social worker and a transgender person, took her first vaccine dose from the centre on Tuesday. “I cannot tell you how relieved I am to finally get access to a vaccination centre. The best thing is that this is a walk-in centre and it is exclusively for people from my community. One of my transgender friends, who was bold enough to go to a general vaccination centre, did not return happy; she had to face eyeballs and murmurs while waiting in queue. We feel safer in set-ups that are exclusively meant for people of our community,” she said.On June 8, Hindustan Times first highlighted how Delhi lacked special vaccination centres for transgender persons and sex workers. Several activists and NGOs, working for transgender persons and sex workers, also demanded easier access to vaccines in “community friendly settings” and assistance in booking slots.Masoom, a sex worker who wanted to be identified only by her nickname, said the problem she and many of her friends faced was the lack of identity cards. “The Co-WIN portal asks for Aadhaar or other IDs and most of us don’t have any. Registration was a problem. I hope walk-in centres are opened for us soon,” she said.A senior Delhi government official said the Union government has allowed vaccination of people in high risk groups even if they do not have any of the seven acceptable ID proofs. “District administrations have to identify one key facilitator in each such group and that person must have an active mobile number and at least one valid identification proof. The Co-WIN system now provides the facility to create special vaccination sessions -- facilitated cohort registration -- that allows the registration of as many beneficiaries as are to be covered (subject to the limit prescribed), without the mandatory capturing of mobile number and photo ID of each,” the official said, asking not to be named.Akriti Sagar, district magistrate (central), said her district just completed one round of the special vaccination drive for sex workers and the second round is scheduled for Wednesday. “We are conducting a multipronged outreach programme for marginalised communities. GB Road (a red-light district) falls under our jurisdiction. So, today (Tuesday), we conducted a special medical camp and counselling session for sex workers by sending our mobile vans there. Tomorrow, we will hold the second round of vaccination for them at Mata Sundari school,” said Sagar.The district has identified at least 800 trans persons, who will be vaccinated in two phases, the DM said. “The first phase will be held on Thursday at Happy School, Daryaganj. We will also provide them with ration kits on the day of vaccination, as an incentive for others to take the jab. More vaccination centres will be set up for trans persons and other marginalised sections in the coming week,” Sagar said.Kriti Garg, district magistrate (west), said the district administration is currently identifying such beneficiaries in the area. “We are in touch with a few representatives of these groups (transgender and sex worker) and we will have a session site for them as soon as we get some data on the number of beneficiaries. We have deployed mobile teams and their roster will be confirmed soon,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-opens-special-vaccination-centre-for-transgender-persons-and-sex-workers-101624385021336.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Rise in pass percentage of Class 9, 11 students in Delhi govt schools||The Directorate of Education (DoE) on Tuesday announced the results of students enrolled in classes 9 and 11 in its schools, recording a spike in overall pass percentage in both the classes from last year. While the pass percentage in Class 9 increased by 15 percentage points, Class 11 pass percentage saw a marginal spike of under one percentage point, in comparison to last year.The students of these classes were promoted on the basis of their performances in mid-term exams and internal assessments since their final exams could not be held in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The mid-term exams for these classes were underway when the second wave of the pandemic hit the country in April.Delhi government schools usually follow a strict assessment process in classes 9 and 11. For instance, according to a 2019 Praja Foundation report, around 55% of Class 9 students in the 2016-17 academic year did not pass their annual exams.With the pass percentage in classes 9 and 11 rising due to the alternative assessment policy adopted since last year in view of the pandemic, principals of several government schools have also expressed concern over how their students will perform in the CBSE board exams for classes 10 and 12 next year.“The increase in passing percentage might affect the Class 10 and 12 board exam results of government schools next year. We just hope CBSE comes up with an alternative evaluation criteria for board classes for next year as well,” said a principal of a government school in Rohini.According to a statement issued by the Delhi government on Tuesday, mid-term exams of Social Studies, Sanskrit, and the third language for Class 9 students, and exams for Geography and Business Studies for class 11 students, could not be conducted in 2020-21. “The average marks of the students’ two best performing subjects, out of the five main ones, have been given in subjects where the exams could not be conducted or the student was absent for some reason,” the statement read.Going by the government data, of the 2.58 lakh students enrolled in Class 9 across 1,030 government schools in the 2020-21 academic session, 2.45 lakh appeared for their mid-term exams. “The final results of students were collated based on the mid-term and internal assessments. Based on this evaluation criteria, 1.97 lakh students (80.3%) in Class 9 passed in Delhi,” the statement added. Last year, the overall pass percentage in Class 9 in Delhi government schools was around 65%.While around 1.7 lakh students were enrolled in Class 11 for the academic session 2020-21, only 1.69 lakh students appeared for the mid-terms, out which 1.65 lakh students passed. Last year, the pass percentage of Class 11 was 96%, which increased to 99.25% after the compartment exams.According to the government data, during the mid-term exams held in April, as many as 12,500 Class 9 students and 3,500 class 11 students did not appear. “All those students who have not appeared for any exams will be eligible for re-assessment. The re-assessment will be based on class-based assignments, project work, and other assessments. Guidelines regarding re-assessment will be released soon by the Directorate of Education,” the statement added.The results were declared on DoE’s official website and schools also sent results to students via SMS and WhatsApp messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rise-in-pass-percentage-of-class-9-11-students-in-delhi-govt-schools-101624385020122.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Mason took 5 hours to steal ₹55 lakh from East Delhi bank; arrested||A 34-year-old mason single-handedly cut through a wall and floor of the Union Bank of India’s branch, broke open the iron vault and stole a little over ₹55 lakh cash – all in five hours – on Sunday, the police said on Tuesday, after arresting the prime suspect and recovering ₹54.48 lakh from him.About ₹49,000 was recovered from the mason’s 39-year-old friend, who has also been arrested on the alleged charges of receiving stolen money, while they together spent ₹5,400 on gambling, the police said.Ironically, before his arrest, the mason, Hari Ram, who lives in a lane close to the bank, was called in by the bank officials on Monday afternoon to patch up the holes that he had drilled the previous day for executing the heist. The bank officials entrusted Ram for fixing the drilled holes because they knew him and had hired him in the past for some repair work. Ram patched up the holes after the forensic teams lifted evidence from the crime scene, said deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Satiyasundaram.Six months ago, Ram carried out repairs for fixing seepage in the strong room in the basement, where the bank’s lockers and vault are located, police said. As Ram was familiar with the layout and design of the bank’s building, he planned the heist three months ago. He needed money to pay off ₹10 lakh that he borrowed from various people and lost them in gambling, police said.Investigators said Ram chose an under-construction building adjacent to the bank to enter the premises because he knew it has been abandoned. Also, three months ago, he had replaced the lock on the building so that he could enter without any signs of break-in. Police said the building was locked for the past two years because of some dispute over the property. Ram had first worked there as a mason, and then caretaker till the owner sold it to someone two years ago.Ram wanted to execute the plan sometime around April but had to drop it because he couldn’t buy tools to cut through a wall and the vault as all shops were closed due to the lockdown, said the DCP.Last week, the DCP said, Ram purchased a grinding machine, its blades, a hammer and a chisel from a shop in Shahdara. Ram decided to execute the plan on Sunday because he knew that the cash transactions of Friday and Saturday were kept in the bank’s safe and that the bank is closed for weekend.“He carried out a detailed reconnaissance of the areas around the bank to check the position of CCTVs around the bank building,” said an investigator, who asked not to be named.On Sunday around 2pm, Ram went to the first floor of another building and changed the focus of a CCTV camera that could have captured his entry to the under construction building. Then, he opened the lock of the vacant building, went inside, drilled a hole and entered the bank’s ground floor. He disabled the CCTV cameras and then drilled his way into the basement through the floor, said DCP Sathiyasundaram.“Once inside the basement, Ram cut open the vault, took out the cash and fled. He put the cash in a plastic sack, went to the roof of a building near his house where he worked as a guard and cleaner, and hid it in a blue drum. He took out around ₹55,000, and gave ₹50,000 to his friend Kali Charan (now arrested) and spent the remaining ₹5,000 in gambling,” added the DCP.The DCP said investigators scanned nearly 50 CCTV cameras, including the one that Ram tampered with. That camera had captured Ram entering the building before it went out of focus.“We showed the footage to some people working in that building. Two of them identified him as Hari Ram and told us that he had worked in the under construction building two years ago. We checked the other CCTVs and found Ram carrying a bag in the adjacent lane around 7 pm on Sunday. Ram was interrogated and confronted with the video footage. He broke down and confessed to the crime. He took us to his employer’s building from where the stolen cash was recovered,” added the DCP.Originally from Madhya Pradesh, Ram came to Delhi for livelihood seven years ago. His wife and two children live with him in Delhi but they were unaware of his crime. His friend, Kali Charan, runs a small business, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mason-took-5-hours-to-steal-rs-55-lakh-from-east-delhi-bank-arrested-101624384900535.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Administrative hurdles delay annual revision of power tariffs in Delhi||The schedule for the annual revision of electricity tariffs in Delhi has been delayed by nearly three months, and so has the process of selecting a new chairperson for the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC), senior government officials said on Monday.“The tariff order is ready, but some verification process is going on currently. Also, the process coincided with the selection of the DERC chief which too has not been completed till now,” said a senior official, on condition of anonymity.On April 1 this year, the Union ministry of power wrote to all state power regulators to mandatorily issue the tariff orders before April every year. “It has been brought to the notice of the government that despite explicit legal provisions, there are significant delays in the issuance of tariff orders by some of the state commissions. Regulatory assets are being created by some of the state electricity regulatory commissions (SERCs) as a matter of routine. This is against the letter and spirit of the law and not only negatively impacts the financials of the distribution licensees and their business sustainability but is also prejudicial to the public interest as the discoms do not have enough money to buy power or maintain the distribution system,” read the letter written by Ghanshyam Prasad, joint secretary, government of India. HT has seen a copy of the letter.The delay could persist for several weeks because the current DERC chairperson, Justice (retd) Satyendra Singh Chauhan, will retire on July 4. “While the tariff order is ready, the problem is that selection of the next chairperson has not progressed and now one of the members of the commission has recused from signing anything. The first committee under Justice (retd) Sarvesh Gupta of Uttarakhand high court was formed in March this year, but the panel’s tenure got over and the selection could not happen,” said a second senior government official.Now, a second committee headed by Justice (retd) GP Mittal has been formed and has even received the approval of the lieutenant governor, but the Delhi government is yet to constitute the screening committee which is supposed to ask the public to send in applications, various documents seen by HT showed.Last year also, the DERC issued the tariff order as late as August. In its 2020 order, the power regulator had increased electricity bills of all consumers marginally by 1.2 percentage points from September 1 through a hike in the surcharge. It , however, did not change the per unit and fixed rates.This year, discoms BSES Rajdhani and BSES Yamuna have projected a revenue gap of ₹1,703 crore and ₹1,148 crore respectively for 2021-22, while Tata Power expected a gap of ₹1,108 crore. The companies have put the cumulative revenue gap (till 2019-20) at ₹28,623 crore (BRPL), ₹19,123 crore (BYPL) and ₹3,810 crore (TPDDL). Discoms have been demanding a power tariff hike over the last six years.However, the Delhi government is unlikely to increase tariffs in the national Capital as it is one of the key models of its governance which the Aam Aadmi Party plans to showcase in the upcoming MCD elections in Delhi and the assembly elections it intends to fight in six states such as Gujarat, Punjab, Goa and Uttar Pradesh in two years.The DERC is an autonomous quasi-judicial body, but the selection of the commission which has a chairperson and two members are done with some involvement of the Delhi government. Besides, the Delhi government, from time to time, can also send policy proposals to the commission by invoking Section 108 of the Electricity Act.The annual power tariff announcement is important because the traders are demanding that the Delhi government waive off the fixed charges in power bills as the city was put under a strict lockdown for 6-7 weeks with the Capital reeling under a brutal fourth wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/administrative-hurdles-delay-annual-revision-of-power-tariffs-in-delhi-101624384899993.html
23-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt plans check dams on major drains to trap pollutants||The Delhi government is working on creating low-cost check dams in at least 20 “strategic locations” on major drains to reduce the pollutant load being released into the Yamuna by 70-80%, senior officials said.While two such check dams have already been installed -- on the supplementary drain near Rithala and Rohini sewage treatment plant and on the Shahdara drain -- on a pilot basis, officials said the project will be expanded to the rest of the locations once its tested during the monsoon when water level in the drains rise.A senior official privy to the developments explained that the idea behind installing these check dams or weirs is to increase the travel time of drain water so as to allow solid pollutants, primarily sewage from nearby unauthorised colonies, to settle down before the water is released into the river. Officials said it will also strengthen the biological treatment process.“The primary idea behind constructing these weirs is to increase the time taken for the drain water to reach the river. For instance, if it took eight hours for the drain water to reach the river earlier, now we will increase it to 24 hours, by blocking the flow of the drains at these strategic locations. What we are achieving by this is that, first, when a wall is created, the solid pollutants settle down before the water overflows from the weirs, and second, the time for microbial treatment or the natural treatment process of drain water increases,” the official explained.He said that these weirs will act as checkpoints, beyond which untreated wastewater will not move forward.Delhi Jal Board (DJB) data shows that the Capital generates around 720 million gallons of wastewater per day, of which around 525 million gallons is treated by sewage treatment plants. While there are five major drains — at Najafgarh, Shahdara, Barapullah, Delhi Gate and Mori Gate -- carrying wastewater to the Yamuna, the 20 check dams will be installed only on the drains at Najafgarh, its supplementary channel and the one at Shahdara. Curiously, apart from local polluting sources, the Najafgarh and Shahdara drains also gets waste from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.Government estimates show that with these check dams, the pollutant load entering the Yamuna from these drains will drop by nearly 70-80%.Officials explained that these weirs are based on “in-house designs”, each of which cost the government ₹4-5 lakhs. Going by this figure, the construction of around 20 weirs, which is the government target, will be completed with a budget of under ₹1 crore.“The cubes used for the weirs have all been constructed and assembled on site. We have also taken into consideration that in case of emergency, when Delhi receives extremely heavy rainfall, these cubes can be lifted and kept aside. However, the design of the weirs has taken into consideration the fact that during monsoon, water level will rise and can easily overflow,” the official explained.Bhim Singh Rawat, from South Asian Network on Dams, Rivers and People, said that bioremediation is a known method to clean water bodies, but it’s success depends on how polluted the water body is. “For instance, the Najafgarh drain is highly polluted and carries discharge from industries and household. The check dams may not have a visible effect but it is a promising start,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-plans-check-dams-on-major-drains-to-trap-pollutants-for-a-cleaner-yamuna-101624384840026.html
23-06-2021||Pune||Labourers to be flown in from U.P., Bihar for Pune metro, PMC projects||Maharashtra which saw agitations on the streets against labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar a decade ago, is now offering a red carpet by flying them in. After Maha Metro, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to bring back 100 workers by air next week. Due to Covid -19 pandemic and lock down, labourers working at various places travelled back to their home state, however, as cases have fallen, work has begun at most places. In order to boost the economy and get infrastructural works done, government agencies and private organisations are flying migrant labourers in from their home state. Both government authorities and private establishments are facing the problem of worker shortage. PMC water department head Aniruddha Pavaskar said, “The work of water tanks is going on, but contractor is facing a manpower shortage. The contractor is only carrying out the work with 40 per cent work force. Now to speed up the work, it is decided to bring workers by air. Next week the contractor decided to bring 100 workers who have expertise in water tanks. Even after opening up of first lock down, PMC had flown in some labourers by air.” Maha Metro’s director work Atul Gadgil said, “It is true that there is shortage of workers. We are trying to bring them back. Last time, we provided air travel for bringing back the labourers.” Sambhaji Bhosale, hotel owner said, “As government allowed to open restaurants, we are facing a man power shortage. The staff is mainly from the northern state. They are not getting railway tickets so I asked them to travel by air, without them it is tough to start operations.” Private contractor Sandeep Shah said, “I asked the labours to hire a bus or small cars from their locality and return back. I promised them to bear the cost of their travel.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-faces-manpower-shortage-labourers-flown-in-from-u-p-bihar-101624378179846.html
23-06-2021||Other||Cleric nabbed on religious conversion charges: Born as a Hindu, Umar Gautam embraced Islam under influence of Muslim friends||LUCKNOW Maulana Umar Gautam, who was arrested along with his accomplice for allegedly being part of a nationwide religious conversion racket, was born in a Thakur family of Fatehpur in 1964 and embraced Islam under the influence of his Muslim friends while pursuing higher studies (BSc and MSc Agriculture) in Nainital in 1984, said police.Umar Gautam, 57,and Jahangir Alam, 52, both residents of Jamia Nagar in New Delhi, were arrested by the UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Monday for their alleged involvement in large-scale illegal conversions of people to Islam in UP and other parts of the country. The ATS claimed that the racket was allegedly funded by international organizations, including Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI, for the conversion of specially-abled children and other vulnerable groups of society. The accused were involved in conversion of over 1,000 people in the last 18 months, claimed police.Officials said Umar Gautam’s original name was Shyam Prakash Singh Gautam, son of Dhanraj Singh Gautam. He was the fourth among six siblings — Udai Raj Singh Gautam, Udai Pratap Singh Gautam, Udai Nath Singh Gautam, Shyam Prakash Singh Gautam, Shri Nath Singh Gautam and Dhruv Singh Gautam.“Family members had no relations with Shyam Prakash after he embraced Islam nearly 37 years ago,” said his second eldest brother Udai Pratap Singh Gautam, who stays in Fatehpur. He said their father had disowned Shyam Prakash after coming to know that he had accepted Islam and changed his name.Udai Pratap said his family had no idea about Shyam Prakash’s working as he remained completely disconnected with them for years. Shyam Prakash, his wife and two children stayed in New Delhi. He said Shyam Prakash even made his wife Rajesh Kumari embrace Islam and changed her name to Razia.A senior ATS official said Umar Gautam alias Shyam Prakash looked for vulnerable people for conversion and influenced them by narrating his own story of being a Thakur who embraced Islam.He said Gautam used to highlight “caste discrimination” among Hindus to influence vulnerable people and instilled hatred among them towards other religions. Udai Pratap said the group even lured people into conversion with a promise of jobs and other avenues. “Shyam Prakash was suspected to be lured into conversion with a promise of job,” he added. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/religious-conversion-racket-born-as-a-hindu-umar-gautam-embraced-islam-under-influence-of-muslim-friends-101624373319564.html
23-06-2021||Other||Mathura temple case: Hindus offer alternative land for mosque||Hemendra Chaturvedi hemendra.chaturvedi@htlive.com AGRA Petitioners in the Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi case awaiting hearing in a court of Mathura have offered the opposing parties representing Muslims one-and-a-half times more land some distance away from the Braj area where the temple and mosque that are subject of the legal dispute are currently located, and urged them to give up their claim on the land.This offer has been made by the petitioners quoting the 2019 judgment by the Supreme Court in the Ram Janmabhoomi case, where the court ruled in favour of the Hindu parties but asked the government to provide land to the Muslims for a mosque. According to the petitioners, the UP Sunni Central Waqf Board and the management committee of Shahi Masjid, Eidgah should accept the offer to resolve the matter amicably.One of the petitioners, Mahendra Pratap Singh, an advocate, moved an application to this effect in the court of civil judge (senior division) at Mathura on Tuesday. He is also the president of Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi Mukti Andolan Samiti and claims that his organisation will make the land available to Muslims, if they accept the offer.The court of civil judge (senior division) in Mathura has fixed July 5 as the next date of hearing.Tanveer Ahmed, secretary and counsel for Shahi Masjid Eidgah in Mathura, denied that a copy of the application has been provided to them. “No copy of such application was handed over to us. We will examine the averments made therein after receiving the copy,” said Ahmed.”The Supreme Court, in its judgment in Ram Janmabhoomi case of Ayodhya, stated that Babri structure was built after bringing down Ram Janmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya over the same land. The court passed the order holding the disputed place as that owned by ‘Ramlala’ and in lieu of it, Muslims were provided land to have their place of worship across river Saryu in Ayodhya,” stated Singh.“We have made an offer to the opposite parties (UP Sunni Central Waqf Board and management committee of Shahi Masjid Eidgah) to give up their claim on the land originally belonging to the temple where the Eidgah was built. And in lieu thereof, they (Muslims) would be offered land more than one and a half times anywhere beyond 84 kos of Braj,” it added.A suit was filed in 2020 on behalf of deity Lord Krishna seeking removal of the Shahi Eidgah (mosque), adjacent the temple complex in Mathura. Ahmed, however, said that suit itself has been challenged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sri-krishna-janmabhoomi-case-muslims-offered-land-elsewhere-by-petitioners-101624372899671.html
23-06-2021||Other||‘Illegally adoption’: Karnal police yet to bring back Karnal woman’s child||A week after registration of FIR against a Meerut-based couple for their involvement in illegal adoption of a Karnal woman’s child last year, the Karnal police have failed to reunite mother with her son.Jyoti, 28, who is a farm labourer living in a rented accommodation with her two kids in Kunjpura, has alleged that police is not taking the issue seriously.“A week has passed since registration of the FIR but no efforts were made to bring my child back,” she alleged. “Since the last nine months, I am forced to live away from my son,” she added.As per the FIR, Jyoti alleged that on September 18 last year, her baby was taken from her by a Meerut-based doctor couple on pretext of giving him better treatment as he was facing respiratory problems.Later, investigation in the case was handed over to the district women and child protection officer and it was found that the baby was illegally adopted by a Meerut-based couple by signing an affidavit with the help of Dr DP Shrivastav and his wife Shashibala.Based on investigation, police had booked the doctor couple under Sections 363, 368, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 80 and 81 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 on June 15.Police associated with the investigation said the accused did not join the probe and efforts are being made to trace the couple who allegedly adopted the baby.Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said the case is under probe and a notice has been issued to the accused to join the investigation. “Action will be taken if the accused fails to join the investigation as per the notice,” the SP said.In an investigation report related to the case, Kunjpura SHO said that the Kunjpura police had tried to reach the couple even before registration of the FIR but they could not contact Dr Shrivastva. They had met his wife Shashibala who said that Jyoti had come to Meerut with her son and handed over the baby to the couple and took ₹1.50 lakh cash from them.As of now, police is yet to trace the couple Vishal Shrivastav and Neha Shrivastav who had adopted the baby. Officials in the women and child welfare department said that the process of adoption is illegal and in violation of the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act.The protection officer had also issued notices to the couple earlier but they had not joined the investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegally-adoption-karnal-police-yet-to-bring-back-karnal-woman-s-child-101624371160868.html
