24-06-2021||Other||5-member gang of robbers arrested by PCMC police||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad police have arrested a five-member gang of robbers who were found during an investigation into the robbery of an elderly couple in their house in February. Stolen gold worth ₹47 lakh from six cases was recovered from the five . The investigation and arrests were made by Unit 5 of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch.The five arrested were identified as Ajit alias Lingya Vyankappa Pawar, Appa Ram Bhosale, Sarika Santosh Chougule alias Payal Appa Bhosale, Akshay Mangesh Shinde, and Ajay Rika alias Rahul Pawar, according to the police.The total worth of 95 grammes of gold was found to be ₹47,50,000, according to the police. The men and woman were arrested from three location - Aurangabad, Solapur, and Osmanabad.The first to be arrested was Lingya Pawar who was found in possession of 48 tola (over 480 grammes) of stolen gold from six cases. The remaining gold weighing 47 tola (around 470 grammes) was recovered from Rahul Pawar.The gold recovered was found to have been reported stolen in three cases from Talegaon MIDC police station, two cases from Dehu road police station, and one case from Talegaon Dabhade police station. The gang is also wanted in one case each registered at Hinjewadi, Dehu road, Bhosari, Chakan, and Alandi police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5member-gang-of-robbers-arrested-by-pcmc-police-101624559391086.html
24-06-2021||Lucknow||District panchayat chief’s polls: BJP leaves two seats for ally Apna Dal (S) in Uttar Pradesh||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday left two zila panchayat chairpersons’ seats for the Apna Dal (Sonelal), a party mostly comprising Kurmis, an other backward classes (OBC) community with pockets of influence in eastern UP. The ally had demanded five seats.This appeared to be the first hint ahead of the July 3 zila panchayat chairpersons’ elections in Uttar Pradesh (UP) as to where smaller caste-based parties fit into the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) or for that matter Opposition’s scheme of things in the 2022 UP assembly polls. “The BJP has left out two seats – in Jaunpur and Sonbhadra – for Apna Dal (S),” party spokesman Rajesh Patel confirmed. The Dal has representation in the UP government with a minister of state, two leaders accommodated in commissions with minister of state status, and an MLC. Since 2014, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi decided to contest Lok Sabha polls from Varanasi, the BJP has continued its alliance with Apna Dal (S), giving representation to Dal leader Anupriya Patel in Modi’s first government, though she did not find a place in his second ministry. The BJP’s move came barely a day after its other ally, the Nishad party, played hardball. Nishad party leader Sanjay Nishad, while aiming for a berth in Yogi Adityanath government, is also hoping that the BJP would leave some zila panchayat chairpersons’ seats for his party. The Nishad party commands loyalty of riverine community of boatmen and fishermen and has influence in a few east UP regions.In 2018, the SP had fielded Sanjay Nishad’s son Praveen as its candidate from Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat and stunned the BJP in 2018 by-polls after Yogi Adityanath, a five-term MP from the seat vacated it on becoming an MLC in keeping with the constitutional obligation after being named the chief minister. Subsequently, the BJP won the Nishad party over to its side in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, fielding Praveen on its symbol from Sant Kabir Nagar. He won and is currently a BJP MP. “During my meeting with CM Yogi Adityanathji, I also spoke of how our community has always served the gods,” Sanjay Nishad said. Nishad’s reference was to a passage that finds mention in the Ramayana about how Lord Ram, after being sentenced to 14 years in exile, had taken the help of Kewat, a member of the boatmen community, to cross the Ganga.“The chief minister has assured us that we would soon hear good news and we believe him. We told him our community has helped the gods too, but is still neglected,” Nishad said. Yogi Adityanath on Thursday also attended a programme in memory of Raja Suheldev, who is held in high esteem by Rajbhars, the other key OBC community in the state. With Rajbhar voters in mind, the BJP had stitched up an alliance with the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party (SBSP) in 2017 UP polls. Its chief Om Prakash Rajbhar was even made a minister in the government. Having fallen out with the BJP since, Rajbhar is now busy setting up an anti-BJP front though BJP leaders said they have kept talks with him alive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/district-panchayat-chief-s-polls-bjp-leaves-two-seats-for-ally-apna-dal-s-in-uttar-pradesh-101624559331746.html
24-06-2021||Noida||Noida journalist robbed, case filed||Noida: Taking suo motu cognisance of the matter, the Noida police filed a case on Wednesday at the Bisrakh police station against five unknown suspects for allegedly robbing a TV journalist at gunpoint. The incident took place in the early hours of Monday near the Hindon Bridge when Atul Agrawal, editor-in-chief of Hindi Khabar news channel, was returning from office. He had shared the incident on social media but hadn’t filed a police complaint, police said.The complaint was filed by sub-inspector Kartar Singh. In the complaint, he stated that Agrawal was travelling in a car through the Faridabad-Noida-Ghaziabad (FNG) Expressway to Supertech Eco 1 village in Greater Noida west.“Near the Hindon river bridge around 1am, he stopped the car and plugged in a pen drive to play music when five suspects reached the spot on two motorcycles and held him at gunpoint. They robbed him of some money ( ₹5,000-6,000) and fled the spot,” it said.In his post on social media platform Facebook, Agrawal had narrated that the five suspects held him at gunpoint and one of them took over his car’s driving seat.“One of them was using abusive language while another one was saying to shoot me. I pleaded that I have a young child and to please let me go,” he wrote. The five suspects finally released him and fled with only the cash. His mobile phone and car were not snatched. The sub-inspector said that the police team reached the spot for investigation after they received information through social media. The police called Agrawal to come to the spot the same night to assist them with the probe but he refused. Next day, however, Agrawal reached the Bisrakh police station and narrated the sequence of events but did not file a complaint, officers said.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida central, said the case was filed against unknown suspects under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. “We are scanning CCTV cameras of nearby areas to identify and arrest the suspects. We have increased patrolling. We have also put up lights at different places for the safety of commuters,” he said.When asked, Agrawal said, “The law will take its course. May God guide those boys to the right path.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-journalist-robbed-case-filed-101624559093156.html
24-06-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Land freed for dedicated freight corridor project||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority has freed up 8,000 square metres of land worth ₹24 crore in Gulistanpur village required for the dedicated freight corridor (DFC) project, officials said on Thursday.Some people had encroached upon this land on khasra (land record) numbers 176, 177 and 178, the officials said.“Around 50 staff of the authority, accompanied by a police team, on Wednesday evening removed the structures illegally built by the locals on this government land in Gulistanpur village. We used seven earthmoving machines and as many dumpers to raze the structures. Now, the work on the freight corridor project will be expedited,” said KR Verma, deputy general manager of the Greater Noida authority.The Indian Railways is laying a 140km rail track from Greater Noida’s Bodaki to Rewari in Haryana. The stretch is part of the 1,400km rail route being laid from Greater Noida to Mumbai port for the DFC project.“As the land has been freed up, the work on this project will get a boost,” said a railway official, not authorised to speak to media.In 2006, the Indian Railways had formed a special purpose vehicle -- the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation of India (DFCCI) -- to build, maintain and operate the DFC project to boost the economy. Once the project gets complete, goods can be transported from Greater Noida to Mumbai in 20 hours through the new route. At present, it takes almost five days for a container to travel the same distance, the railway official said. The DFCCI will build residential facilities and corporate offices for the corridor project on about 23 hectares in Greater Noida. The Greater Noida authority has allotted 36 hectares for the corridor project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-land-freed-for-dedicated-freight-corridor-project-101624558730472.html
24-06-2021||Noida||Okhla Bird Sanctuary: Birders complain of poor infrastructure, demand repairs||Noida: Nearly a week after the Okhla Bird Sanctuary (OBS) reopened for visitors, a number of birders have complained of poor state of infrastructure that poses a threat to their safety which “should have been fixed long back”.Birders alleged that the damaged bamboo bridge, rickety watch tower, reet (tall grass) and bushes blocking the pathways, among other issues, have blocked the sanctuary at various points, and urged the forest department to repair them at the earliest. Over 20 years old, the bridge connects a major part of the sanctuary near the lake and the watchtowers with the rest of the sanctuary. The facility was reopened on June 16. The bird sanctuary and Surajpur reserve forest and wetland were closed for visitors and birders on April 17 — second time due to the Covid-19 since March last year. The OBS and Surajpur forests were earlier closed from March 2020 to September 15, 2020 after the city experienced first Covid-19 wave and a nationwide lockdown was imposed. “The condition of the bamboo bridge is very bad and it is risky to cross it. The watchtower that offers a great view of the lake is already inaccessible, with a sign board cautioning people from climbing it. The path for the second watch tower is almost blocked due to very dense reet. I recently visited the sanctuary and went towards the watchtower as well but I think many would avoid going there. The forest department must fix these issues,” Noida-based birder Narendra Singh said.Experts pointed out that while the forest department is building Infrastructure to promote night camping at the sanctuary, their prime concern should be fixing the infrastructure already installed that helps with birding. “Over time, the bird sanctuary is becoming more a place for entertainment of people rather than birding. The forest department must place its concerns towards preserving the habitat and welfare of the birding community before installing leisure facilities like camping. The least they could do is to provide clear pathways, proper watch towers and safe bridges,” said city-based birder Anand Arya.Birders said it must have been a long while before the towers and bridges were last fixed.“The watchtower was in a poor state even before the lockdown. The bamboo bridge is already in shambles. I would urge the forest department to fix these issues on priority to make birding safe,” said Delhi-based birder Zeba Khair.Officials, meanwhile, said the contract to build a new bridge and tower has been done but that the work was stalled due to Covid-19.“We understand the inconvenience being caused to the birding community. These issues will be resolved very soon. We are building a new wooden bridge and getting new towers. The work will be initiated very soon,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/okhla-bird-sanctuary-birders-complain-of-poor-infrastructure-demand-repairs-101624558671132.html
24-06-2021||Noida||With 3rd Covid wave on the horizon, officials worry about ‘public negligence’||Noida With most restrictions during the partial coronavirus-imposed curfew being withdrawn across the district, Noida police officials are concerned about public negligence and complacency even as the third wave of Covid-19 is on the horizon. Following the ‘unlock’, there has been a 34% spike in violations during the weekends.During the second wave of Covid-19, Gautam Budh Nagar saw a partial curfew starting May 6. Majority curbs were relaxed from June 7, when markets were allowed to open. However, night curfew and weekend lockdown remained in place. The guidelines were further eased from June 21, and malls were allowed to open, and the night curfew was also reduced by two hours.According to police data from May 24 to June 20 (two weeks before and after the ‘unlock’ on June 7), more than 45,000 people have been challaned for Covid-related violations, and nearly ₹50 lakh collected in fines. On an average, 1,663 challans have been issued per day before the imposition of partial curfew, and 1,596 per day following the ‘unlock’. Last week, as many as 10,955 people were challaned for violating Covid-19 protocols, and nearly ₹11.1 was collected in fines.While the average is still nearly the same, a major spike was seen in the weekend following the easing of curbs, according to the officials. The average number of violations on the weekends before June 7 were 1,531, which increased to 2,335 (nearly 34%) afterwards.At present, officials are, however, concerned that as the unlock progresses, the people might become more negligent and stop following Covid-19 norms and precautions. “Our biggest challenge has been the implementation of social distancing in public places. While people wear masks and follow curfew timings, they usually don’t maintain social distancing norms. The ‘unlock’ process, in no manner, means that the pandemic is over. This is especially scary with the third wave of Covid-19 on the horizon,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (zone 1).“When week-long lockdowns are imposed, people tend to follow curbs even on weekends. However, with relaxations during weekdays, people usually don’t follow Covid-19 protocols on Saturdays and Sundays, too. As there’s a possibility of a third wave of Covid-19, the situation will get scary if this trend continues. People need to understand that Covid-19 norms are in place not for challans, but for their safety. They should adhere to the guidelines,” said Love Kumar, joint commissioner of police, law and order.Officials have urged the people to take the situation seriously, to avoid the distress that the second wave of Covid-19 followed. Police said they will take strict action against the violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-3rd-covid-wave-on-the-horizon-officials-worry-about-public-negligence-101624558670479.html
24-06-2021||Noida||Gym owners, trainers in GB Nagar resort to online training, selling equipment||Noida: With gyms and fitness centres across Gautam Budh Nagar remaining shut for nearly two months, several gym owners and trainers said they are struggling to survive as their savings have dried up. They are now resorting to online training and selling their equipment to earn money.Rahul Negi shut his gym in Greater Noida West and put up the equipment for sale online. “Last year, my landlord had waived rent for the first two months of the lockdown and I somehow made it through the year on my savings. But this year, things were different. So, I have decided to shut the gym and sell the equipment which will help me meet my family expenses and pay off a few debts,” said Negi.Negi has now turned to online fitness training. “While there are not many takers for online training, I’m grabbing any such opportunity coming my way,” he said.The gyms and wellness centres have been closed since April 30 when the partial Covid curfew was imposed in the district in view of the second wave of Covid-19. Though the curfew restrictions were eased on June 7, gyms were asked to remain closed until further orders.Yogesh Parweha, who runs a gym in Noida’s Sector 51, has started taking up personal training assignments. “I have taken two to three personal training sessions since the curfew restrictions were eased. I have received the first dose of the vaccine and I follow all Covid protocols during training sessions,” he said.After reopening in the last week of August 2020, after the lockdown imposed in view of the first Covid wave, gym owners said business only picked up in January and just when it was getting better by March, the second wave put paid to their earnings.Chirag Sethi, vice-president of Delhi-NCR Gyms Association, said, “Every day, we are getting at least three requests from Noida regarding resale of gym equipment. That means a number of small-scale gyms are shutting in the district.”Owners of big gyms are also finding it difficult to pay staff salaries, rents, and other fixed charges, Sethi said. “A large-scale gym in Gautam Budh Nagar, with an investment of over ₹2 crore, has to pay at least ₹3 lakh a month in rent. Besides, we have to shell out at least ₹30,000 on fixed charges and 18% GST as well. In the past 14 months, gyms have been allowed to open only for six months and gym owners are getting buried under debts,” he said.While several small-scale gyms have shut down, corporate gym owners say their staff are looking at other career options. Ankur Arora, owner of La-Fitnesse in Sector 18, said the fitness industry has been badly hit. “The staff at our gym are looking an uncertain future -- we are not sure when they can return to work after we reopen. They are now looking for jobs in sales and marketing,” said Arora.He also said keeping gyms closed is unfair. “Liquor shops, restaurants and shopping malls have opened, then why not gyms? Exercise and workout is the best way to maintain immunity and fitness,” he saidNikhil Kakkar, chief operating officer at Gold’s Gym India, said gym owners are also facing uncertainty due to fear of a third wave of Covid-19. “Though there is a possibility of a third wave, people are positive about visiting the gym in cities where they are open -- like Gurugram, Faridabad and Mumbai,” he said.Pinning hopes on July 1 Gaurav Sharma, who runs the branches of Anytime Fitness in Noida’s sectors 30 and 108, said they have vaccinated all of their staff so that clients feel safe when gyms reopen. “Not just our staff, we will also encourage clients to get themselves vaccinated,” he said.Umesh Kansal, who runs the sector 30 and 104 branches of Gold’s Gym, said their staff have also been vaccinated. “We hope that from July 1, gyms will be allowed to reopen. From the security guards to cleaners to personal trainers, all have been vaccinated and we hope that people will trust our gym enough to consider it a safe space,” he said.Meanwhile, the UP Fitness Center and Gyms Association has written to the chief minister regarding the opening of gyms in the upcoming unlock phase.“We request the CM to please consider our request and please allow the gyms in the upcoming unlock phase,” said Chirag Sethi who is also a member of the association.Caution is key, say experts Medical experts said while gyms do promote a healthy lifestyle, they can also be breeding ground for infection. Dr NK Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association (Noida chapter), said, “The government has been gradually opening up establishments as it is necessary to exercise caution, especially since the possibility of a third wave is there. Gyms are considered hot spots of Covid-19 infection as a large number of people use the same machines. No matter how many times the gym administration sanitises the place, the chances of an infection are higher in closed spaces.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gym-owners-trainers-in-gb-nagar-resort-to-online-training-selling-equipment-101624558550460.html
24-06-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad, GB Nagar achieve single-day highest vaccination coverage||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts on Thursday recorded their single-day highest vaccination coverage and also stood at second and third spot, respectively, for the highest number of doses administered across all 75 districts in the state. Officials, however, said they are facing hiccups in procuring doses which could bring down the per-day vaccination coverage for the next two days.According to the Cowin portal, Uttar Pradesh administered 818,727 doses till 9.30pm on Thursday and the top three spots were occupied by Gorakhpur (31,944 doses) Ghaziabad (29,690 doses) and GB Nagar (27,251 doses). “The 29,690 administered Thursday is one day highest number of jabs administered in the district. What is more encouraging is that about 95% of these doses were given at government centres. Our vaccination coverage has picked up ever since we started the ‘near to home’ project at six centres under the cluster vaccination scheme,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad. Under the cluster vaccination scheme, several residential wards or villages have been identified in the form of a cluster and teams will take up vaccination of beneficiaries at a central location accessible to residents. One of the major paid, private vaccination-centres at Cambridge School, set up by Max Hospital, in Ghaziabad’s Vaishali, has closed down due to low footfall after the on-spot registration was allowed at ‘near to home’ vaccination centres. “We closed down as the footfall dipped to about 200-300 per day and it was not feasible for us to maintain the huge operating expenses. However, our other centre at the hospital site is still in operation,” said an official from the hospital, on condition of anonymity.Short supplyOfficials familiar with the matter said that Ghaziabad also faces the issue of short supply for the next two days as they have about 21,000 doses for Friday and about 11,000 for Saturday. This, they added, will bring down their daily vaccination coverage. “We are trying to ensure that sufficient vaccine stock is made available to us on a regular basis to keep up the momentum,” Dr Gupta added. The six centres under the cluster scheme contributed 11,612 doses out of the total 29,690 administered in the district on Thursday. In GB Nagar there are about 17,000 doses available for Friday.“However, we will ensure that more stock arrives in due course. The figure of vaccination achieved on Thursday is the single day highest achieved by the district so far. About 25% of the coverage was seen through by the 25% private sector, while the rest was by government vaccination-centres. Starting July 1, we have planned to scale up our daily vaccinations to about 30,000 doses,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar.The UP chief minister has directed that more than 10 lakh doses per day be administered in the state from July 1. The state, on the day, will launch its cluster vaccination program in all areas of all the 75 districts in order to achieve full vaccination coverage for the state’s population by the end of this year.“Our vaccination program is running at a fast pace and our cluster vaccination model is yielding encouraging results. For June, we had set a target of ten million doses. But we achieved the target on Thursday and still we have six more days left in the month, during which we will achieve more coverage,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). He added that from June 21, when the cluster model was initiated, the state saw 700,000 to 800,000 doses being administered daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-gb-nagar-achieve-single-day-highest-vaccination-coverage-101624558490477.html
24-06-2021||Lucknow||Polytechnic colleges to hold MCQ-based online exams in July||The annual examination of students of polytechnic institutions (even semesters) will be held online in July in a truncated form based on multiple-choice questions (MCQs) due to the pandemic, said an order issued by technical education council.“It will be a multiple-choice questions (MCQs) examination of a shorter duration. Students will be required to answer 50 MCQs in 90 minutes,” an official said.They can take the examination from their home, a cyber cafe, on their smartphones, laptops and desktops, says the order intimated to principals and directors of polytechnic colleges through a letter written by Sunil Kumar Sonkar, secretary, Technical Education Council, on June 22.According to the order, the MCQ-based paper will include sections of all subjects. While final semester students will have a single paper, other semester students will have two question papers of 50 marks each.The council has advised all polytechnic institutions to hold a demo test to make students comfortable with the software.The dates for the demo (mock) test will be declared shortly. The council has warned if students fail to take the demo test and then face problems during the exam, only they will be responsible for it. An official said as students had been traditionally appearing in pen-and-paper examinations, a need was felt to facilitate all students to appear in a mock test so that they are better placed for the exams.“The exams will be held in two parts. The examination for final year polytechnic students will be held first. The examination for first and second year students will be held thereafter,” an official said.For long, polytechnic students have demanded the technical education council to hold mock tests ahead of the annual examinations as they have no previous experience of taking online examinations.Now, biggest worry for students is connectivity as many of them live in remote areas of the state. There are 141 government and 1217 private polytechnic colleges in the state in which 2.5 lakh students are enrolled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/polytechnic-colleges-to-hold-mcq-based-online-exams-in-july-101624557350406.html
24-06-2021||Lucknow||UPCET: Applications for admission in PG courses open from today||A meeting of the Central Admission Committee of Uttar Pradesh Combined Entrance Test-(UPCET) 2021 was held under the chairmanship of AKTU vice-chancellor, Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak, on Thursday. During the meeting, UPCET coordinator Dr Arun Tiwari said, “Online application is opened for admission in MTech, MPharm, MURP, MArch and MDes from June 25 (evening). Interested candidates can submit the application form available on the university website aktu.ac.in.” The last date to apply online is July 15 and the date of online entrance examination of MTech, MPharm, MURP, MArch and MDes is proposed to be August 8, he said. Tiwari said that the admissions for BTech, BArch would be done through JEE Mains while the admission in courses like B Pharm, BHMCT, BFA, BFAD, BDes, BiVac, MCA etc. would be done through UPCET-2021 conducted by NTA. He informed that soon the detailed procedure and timetable of counselling would be made available for the candidates on the website of UPCET-2021. Among others those attended the meeting were Kripa Sankar Singh, special secretary, technical education, Pro VC of AKTU, Prof Vineet Kansal, registrar Nand Lal Singh, finance officer GP Singh, coordinator Dr Arun Kumar Tiwari, deputy coordinator Dr Pushkar Tripathi and other members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/upcet-applications-for-admission-in-pg-courses-open-from-today-101624557170377.html
24-06-2021||Lucknow||Govt forms panel to promote research in colleges||The state higher education department on Thursday formed an eight-member committee to improve and promote the quality of research work being done in state colleges. State basic education minister Satish Chandra Dwivedi has been made the chairman of the committee.Other members of the committee include additional chief secretary, higher education, Monika S Garg; Lucknow University vice chancellor prof Alok Kumar Rai; director, higher education, Amit Bharadwaj (as member secretary); professor, English department, Lucknow University, Nishi Pandey; professor economics department, Lucknow University, Arvind Mohan; former director, secondary education, Krishna Mohan Tripathi and associate prof BSNV PG College, JP Singh.The members have been asked to deliberate on the issue and provide input during the next meeting of the committee. A committee member, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The state government wants to capitalise on the research potential of the state. The committee members have broadly been tasked to give a roadmap of realising this in a given timeframe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/govt-forms-panel-to-promote-research-in-colleges-101624556990422.html
24-06-2021||Other||Shop-owner loses ₹15 lakh in bulk laptop deal||PUNE A businessman repairing and selling laptops from Pune has been duped of ₹15 lakh by a person who offered to sell him laptops in bulk.A complaint in the matter was lodged by the 36-year-old shop owner living in Narayan peth.The transaction happened in March when the accused offered to source laptops at a lower than usual price, according to the complainant. A payment was made via two online transactions in March.“They both knew each other and had business relations. They both run laptop shops. The accused told the complainant that he has contacts in Mumbai who could help them get one laptop for ₹15,000 and those could be sold in Pune for ₹20,000. The complainant gave him ₹15,00,000 in order to buy 100 such laptops, but after the payment was completed, the accused has been missing and unreachable,” said sub-inspector Rakesh Sarde of Vishrambaug police station, who is investigating the case.Both the shops are located on Tilak road in Sadashiv peth. However, while the complainant’s shop has been closed due to the pandemic, the accused has failed to show up since their transaction.A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Vishrambaug police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shopowner-loses-rs-15-lakh-in-bulk-laptop-deal-101624556570397.html
24-06-2021||Other||Bizmen arrested in case involving fake receipts worth ₹130 crore||PUNE A businessman from Pune, arrested by the Goods and Services Tax (GST) department of Maharashtra, has been remanded to judicial custody till July 6 by chief judicial magistrate of Pune on Thursday.The arrested man has been identified as Omprakash Tirathdas Sachdev, who owns Sri Waheguru Global Mines, in his own name. He owns nine other companies in the name of people known to him, according to a statement issued by the GST department.“These are Traders Bhavare, Prakash Traders, Agarwal Enterprises, Kolhe Sales, Kiran Trading Company, Narayan Traders, Kaashmora Trading Pvt Ltd, Marikamba Trading Pvt Ltd, and Seosis Mines Pvt Ltd. Through these firms and companies, he had issued fake invoices of more than ₹130.05 crore and passed on the input tax credit of ₹19.79 crore without actual delivery of goods or services,” read a statement from the department.An offence under Section 132(1)(b) and (c) under the Maharashtra Goods and Services Tax Act/Central Goods and Services Tax Act has been registered.The arrest was made on Tuesday, by assistant commissioner of state tax, Babasaheb Jumbad, of the Pune unit of the GST department, Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bizmen-arrested-in-case-involving-fake-receipts-worth-rs-130-crore-101624556571124.html
24-06-2021||Other||Tenant scam costs landlord Rs1.6 lakh||PUNE A 53-year-old woman lost ₹1.6 lakh to a person who showed interest in renting a house she owns, but sent a UPI payment request link instead of the payment. The incident happened between May 27 and May 28, when the woman was in her house in Kalyaninagar. The woman had listed a house on real estate online aggregator websites in search of tenants. A person called up on the number that was listed and agreed to the cost quoted by the complainant, and offered to pay immediately through online transactions. However, the person kept on sending payment requests through QR codes on two different platforms. Unbeknownst to the complainant and her son, who was making the payments, money kept on getting deducted and a total sum of ₹1,64,797 was deducted from their bank accounts, after which the accused stopped responding. Police inspector (crime) Ajay Waghmare of Yerawada police station is investigating the case. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 66(c) and 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Yerawada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tenant-scam-costs-landlord-rs1-6-lakh-101624556510381.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi liquor store’s license suspended after Covid-19 rules flouted||Delhi’s excise department issued a show cause notice to a liquor store for not adhering to the social distancing norms imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Thursday. The state excise department also suspended the liquor store’s L-6 license with immediate effect. The L-6 licence is given to retail vendors of Indian liquor and beer and is granted only to select undertakings of the Delhi government.The Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store (DCCWS), Shop No 4058 at Roshanara on June 22 received the notice. The notice said that the deputy commissioner (excise) deemed it fit to suspend the L-6 license of the store with immediate effect.“It has come to the notice of the Excise Department that social distancing norm was not maintained at vend No. 4058 Roshanara Road, Delhi of Mis DCCWS. And whereas, the said conduct of M/s DCCWS is violative of the instruction of DDMA orders, which attracts the provisions of Section 17(c) of Delhi Excise Act 2009,” the notice said.“M/s DCCWS is directed to appear 30-06-21 at 4 pm through an authorised representative along with written submission and requisite documents failing which appropriate action, under the Delhi Excise Act 2009 and the Delhi Excise Rules 2010, shall be initiated against the licenses without further reference,” the notice further added.Delhi government earlier had directed all liquor vends in the city to deploy adequate marshals and staff to ensure that Covid-19 protocols are adhered to. It had also asked to ensure that maintaining social distance and wearing masks at the shops.“All the four Government Corporations viz. DSIIDC, DTTDC, DSCSC and DCCWS shall deploy adequate marshals at all their vends (L-6 & L-8) and private licensees (L-7, L-9 & L-10) shall deploy their staff to ensure that COVID Appropriate Behaviour viz. wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, regular use of sanitiser, no consumption of liquor, pan, gutkha, tobacco, shall be ensured in all the liquor shops/vends/licensees,” the order by the excise department said.All shops, including liquor stores, were allowed to function in the Capital between 10am to 8pm daily during the easing of restrictions announced in the ongoing lockdown by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on June 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-liquor-store-s-license-suspended-after-covid-19-rules-flouted-101624545417150.html
24-06-2021||Gurugram||Buyers in affordable housing project want work expedited||As many as 50 buyers of Mahira Homes in Sector 103 held a demonstration near the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) office in Sector 14 on Wednesday, alleging slow progress of work despite paying 60% of the project cost.Officials said the homebuyers were at the DTCP office to meet the developer and senior town planner Sanjiv Mann.The housing project, which falls in the affordable housing category, is scheduled to be completed and delivered in 2024.Manjit Pandey, a homebuyer, said that work on the ground is only at 10%, though they have paid 62% of the cost to the developer. “The pace of the project work is slow, although a majority of the buyers have already paid around ₹15 lakh each. They have also asked for the next payment. We want the DTCP to check the extent of construction work. The bank from where I took a loan is reluctant to release the next tranche of amount, given the slow pace of project work,” Pandey said.On Sunday, 70 to 80 homebuyers gathered at the project site to protest against the slow pace of work. According to the homebuyers, they were asked to complete 75% of the payment, while there was no concurrent work at the project site. They also said that a few months ago, the DTCP had said that the payment of affordable projects be made as per the construction work being done, and this should be implemented at the earliest.The developer of Mahira Homes, however, said that as per the rules, they have been given four years to develop the project. “We assure the buyers that the project will be completed by 2024, without any delay. Buyers, who don’t want to invest in this project anymore, can tell us, and we will return their money. Many homebuyers didn’t make payments in the past, and the project is in arrear of around ₹14 crore,” said Alakh Niranjan, a senior official of Mahira Developers.“We had to reschedule the construction work due to the Covid-imposed lockdown, but we will meet the project timelines,” he said.Senior town planner Sanjiv Mann asked the district town planner (DTP) to visit the site and check the project status. “We have asked the developer to speed up the pace of construction. The issue of buyers defaulting on payment was also discussed. We will ensure that the project is delivered on time,” Mann said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/buyers-in-affordable-housing-project-want-work-expedited-101624554412317.html
24-06-2021||Gurugram||30-member team to check illegal encroachment of Aravallis||The forest department constituted a 30-member team to check illegal encroachments in the Aravallis, officials said on Thursday. The team, tasked with monitoring Aravalli forests round-the-clock, comprises forest guards, villagers and members of an existing task force that was formed to protect the Aravallis. Rajeev Tejyan, the divisional forest officer for Gurugram, said, “Forest staff monitors the Aravallis regularly, but in the past few weeks, complaints of illegal encroachments increased. Recently, we had learnt about an illegal road constructed in Sohna. To reduce such cases, a 30-member team has been formed that will be patrolling the forests round-the-clock and ensure that fresh encroachments don’t come up.” The forest department has a four-member task force for visiting spots of Aravalli forests based on tip-offs received from locals and citizens. “Along with regular patrolling by forest guards in their respective beats, village locals also help us by giving information from time to time. We send our team to these areas and start the process of stopping the encroachment. It is easier to demolish fresh encroachments before a legal procedure starts, and intensive patrolling will help us with that,” Tejyan said. In the past two months of lockdown, cases of encroachments in the Aravallis of Gurugram and Faridabad have increased. Last week, the forest department closed an illegal route constructed through the forest near Damdama in the Sohna forest range. Before that, encroachments were reported from near Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Nathupur village of Gurugram earlier this month. In May, a wall was built across one acre of Aravalli land in Faridabad, in a new encroachment attempt. In March, a little over 25 acres of forest land in Ankhir village of Faridabad forest division was also found encroached. Officials said that it was difficult to stop illegal encroachments at times due to a shortage of staff, but now, the focus will be on areas near the Raisina Aravallis in the Sohna range, from where maximum complaints are being received. Meanwhile, the Sohna Municipal Council is also taking action against farmhouses constructed illegally. Last week, the authority had sent notices to 15 such farmhouse owners and nine of the structures were demolished on Wednesday. Sandeep Malik, an executive officer of the Sohna Municipal Council, said, “We had been receiving complaints of fresh encroachments, like the construction of walls, during the lockdown period. After sending notices and studying all the documents of the property owners, nine such structures were demolished. We will be further studying the details of a few more properties and decide a date for demolishing more structures next week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/30member-team-to-check-illegal-encroachment-of-aravallis-101624554411784.html
24-06-2021||Gurugram||Bus conductors strike, seek full salaries for lockdown months||Bus conductors associated with the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) went on a three-hour strike from 5.25am on Thursday at the Sector 53 bus depot, demanding payment of full salaries for April and May and timely payments. “There is no fixed date for payment of salaries and this month, we received only ₹2,000-3,000 and that too, only this week, when the month is already ending. We have demanded that full salaries should be paid even for the lockdown period,” said a bus conductor at the Sector 53 bus depot, who did not wish to be named. Officials of the GMCBL said that as per the lockdown guidelines issued by the government, the movement of buses was restricted in April and May, and employees were paid based on duty hours. “Following the government guidelines, drivers and conductors were called for work on alternative days based on a roster system as only 50% of buses were running in the past two months. The payments, which are made through a private firm, were based on the number of days they worked. We will be giving full salaries from now on as more buses are plying on all the routes,” said Arun Sharma, manager of bus depots at sectors 10 and 53. The GMCBL has over 160 buses plying on 26 different routes in Gurugram and Faridabad.The conductors submitted a list of demands to the authorities, seeking payment of full salaries for April and May, and payment of salaries by the tenth of every month. Rajneesh, a bus conductor at the Sector 10 bus depot, said, “The full salary for the month is ₹17,000, but not even half the amount has been paid this month. If the demands are not met within 15 days, as assured to us, we will go on strike again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/bus-conductors-strike-seek-full-salaries-for-lockdown-months-101624554410221.html
24-06-2021||Gurugram||Sector 14 residents oppose conversion of park into waste-to-wonder museum||Residents of sectors 14 and 17 reiterated that they are opposed to the conversion of the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Park into a waste-to-wonder museum, an initiative being undertaken by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), ahead of a hearing in the Punjab and Haryana high court on June 29.They said that concretisation work might destroy greenery and besides, thousands of residents who use this park in the morning and evening for exercise and recreation would have no other place to turn to as this is the only large park in the vicinity.Residents said that the park remained closed till June 4 this year due to the coronavirus pandemic and around 50% of the greenery was affected, with several trees cut. Residents approached the Punjab and Haryana high court for relief in the last week of May, after a complaint submitted by the residents’ welfare association (RWA) of Sector 14 at the CM Window, two months ago, failed to elicit a response from the authorities. The petition was accepted by the high court on June 4 and arguments are set to be heard on June 29.HS Nanda, a resident of Sector 14, who has served as the RWA presidents in the past, said that the park was developed by Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) and has been used by residents for the last three decades, as it is the only green area near their homes. “This park was transferred to MCG in August 2020 for maintenance and due to lockdown, the entry to park was stopped. Residents, however, were shocked when suddenly work on the waste-to-wonder museum started without even asking for suggestions from people living in the area. Large-scale construction is taking place, with metal and concrete structures that will change the character of this green space,” said Nanda. The three-decade-old park is located in the heart of the city and is one of the city’s most popular green spaces. It has areas for walking, jogging, physical exercises, yoga, karate, gymnastics, a play area for children, sandpits for athletes and badminton space, said residents.Residents said that the park was developed by HSVP from the external development charges collected from around 3,000 families living in sectors 14 and 17. “There is a large industrial area just across the road. This park saved us from the heat and pollution of the industrial units and the heavily used roads around these sectors over the years,” said Pradip Sinha, a resident of Sector 14.. Residents also took aim at the MCG for not consulting them about the project and said that officials have failed to provide a satisfactory response to their queries.When asked about the matter, Mukesh Ahuja, the newly appointed commissioner of MCG said that he would look into the grievances of the residents. “I will certainly look into it,” he said. Nanda said that the museum was being developed on the lines of a similar project in New Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan, but it was important to know that the land used in Delhi was an arid landfill while the land in Gurugram is a fully-developed park. Dinesh Agarwal, a resident of Sector 14, however, said that there should be no compromise on the greenery of the park and the project should be developed in a manner that the visitor experience does not get affected. “This could be a landmark development, provided the trees are not cut and people can use the park as before,” he said. Nanda said that residents are hopeful of getting relief from the high court on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sector-14-residents-oppose-conversion-of-park-into-waste-to-wonder-museum-101624554350799.html
24-06-2021||Gurugram||Sputnik to be administered at five govt facilities in Gurugram||The Gurugram health department has made arrangements for administering the Russian-made vaccine against Covid-19, Sputnik V, to the people at five government health centres. There is, however, no indication by the district administration and the health department as to when the vaccine will be available in the district.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav, without commenting on the roll-out date for Sputnik V, said, “Deep freezers to maintain a temperature of -20° Celsius (C) for the storage of Sputnik V have been placed at Polyclinic in Sector 31, Civil Hospital in Sector 10, Wazirabad community health centre, and sub-divisional government hospitals in Sohna and Pataudi.”Deputy commissioner Yash Garg said that the district administration was trying to arrange Sputnik V with the help of a corporate company, under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). “Arrangements have been made for storage of the vaccine, and installation of deep freezers at specific health facilities where the people will be administered with it,” he said.Gurugram has over 20 deep freezers to maintain the cold chain for vaccine storage. A team from Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has already inspected the arrangements, and expressed satisfaction, said Garg.Sputnik V is the third vaccine approved by the Centre to combat the coronavirus infection. The vaccine was developed by Gamaleya Institute in Russia in 2020, and it shows over 91.6% efficacy against Covid-19. The vaccine has to be kept at -20° C to -25° C. It has to be kept outside for 15-20 minutes, before being administered to the people. The first phase of the Sputnik V rollout by Apollo Hospitals and Dr Reddy’s Lab had started on a pilot basis in Hyderabad on May 17, 2021. Sputnik V, including GST and services charges, has been priced at ₹1,145 per dose.Earlier this week, Fortis Hospital had announced rolling out Sputnik V on a pilot basis, to inoculate the staff of the hospital and Dr Reddy’s Lab. The hospital, however, refused to share any information about the total number of doses to be administered by it.91% Gurugram police personnel vaccinatedMore than 91% of the police personnel have received the first shot of Covid-19 vaccines, while 67% have received both the doses, according to the Gurugram police commissioner, KK Rao. In a statement issued by the administration, Rao said that out of the total 6,850 police personnel deployed in the district, 6,210 have taken their first shot, and 4,585 have 0taken their second dose. The inoculation for the frontline workers started on February 4.Out of the total 1,270,194 doses administered to the people in Gurugram, 18,286 doses were given on Thursday. At least 8,510 doses were given in government facilities, and 9,776 in private facilities. Vaccination of the 18-45 age group has been higher than those above 45 years across government health centres and private facilities, said the officials. Some 14,104 in the 18-45 age group, and 4,107 above 45 years took Covaxin or Covishield doses on Thursday. Some 24 healthcare workers, and 51 frontline workers have also got the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sputnik-to-be-administered-at-five-govt-facilities-in-gurugram-101624554351314.html
24-06-2021||Ranchi||19 minors rescued from Ranchi airport, man held for involvement in child trafficking||Security personnel on Thursday arrested a man for his alleged involvement in child trafficking and rescued 19 minor boys from Ranchi airport. All of them were present at the terminal to board a Jammu-bound flight. A police official said the arrested person has been identified as Raju Ganjhu.“The accused Raju Ganjhu and the rescued boys are from Latehar district. A case was lodged against Raju with the anti-trafficking police station. All of the rescued children are minors in the age group 14-16. They were handed over to the child warfare committee, which would coordinate with the concerned authorities and take further action,” said Anand Prakash Singh, in-charge, Ranchi Airport police station. Police officials said the incident came to light as the group of all minors present at the airport and their body language made their travel suspicious. “The kind of dress they were wearing and their body language raised suspicion. When the police asked the children about their age and other relevant information, they claimed to be adults. However, they appeared to be minors. The person taking them along also could not give the correct information,” said Singh. Police said they were verifying Raju Ganjhu’s background to check if he was ever involved in such a crime, besides tracing his contacts..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/19-minors-rescued-from-ranchi-airport-man-held-for-involvement-in-child-trafficking-101624551889974.html
24-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Cong delegation to meet Soren to discuss issues raised by MLAs||A delegation of the Congress party would meet chief minister Hemant Soren soon and discuss issues raised by the party legislators in the party meeting here on Thursday.The legislature party meeting came close on the heels of certain issues raised by a section of the party legislators in the public domain in the past few weeks, including the appointment of party workers in boards, corporations and 20-point programme committees. Four MLAs, led by working president Irfan Ansari, had earlier this week also raised these issues before the central leaders. Congress legislature party leader and rural development minister Alamgir Alam said they had earlier decided to hold legislature party meeting every month, but it could not happen due to the covid restrictions. Alam said they would meet the chief minister with a resolution over the issues raised by the party legislators. “The legislators put forth their issues in the meeting. We would meet the CM and put forth their grievances in the form of a resolution. There are several issues, including 27% reservation for OBCs, besides others,” he added. When asked about clearing the merger of two former JVM (P) legislators Pradeep Yadav and Bandhu Tirkey, Alam said they would take it up with authorities concerned. The issue is pending in the court of assembly Speaker Rabindranath Mahto, who is hearing the split of JVM (P) under the anti-defection law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-cong-delegation-to-meet-soren-to-discuss-issues-raised-by-mlas-101624551829942.html
24-06-2021||Patna||Fill posts of commerce teachers in Bihar schools within 6 months: Patna HC to state govt||Amidst the ongoing agitation candidates who have qualified the secondary teachers’ eligibility test (STET) but not included in the merit list, the Patna High Court on Thursday directed the government to fill the vacant posts of commerce teachers within six months.Hearing a petition filed by Md Afroz and others, Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay ordered to fill up the sanctioned post of teachers in secondary and higher secondary schools in the stream of Commerce after conducting the STET examination.Advocate for petitioners Dinu Kumar and Ritika Rani said the bench directed the state government to determine the number of vacancy in the subject of commerce within three months and thereafter conduct the STET examination within six months to fill up the sanctioned posts lying vacant in the subject of Commerce.“After 2011 no advertisement was issued to fill up the subject of commerce after conducting STET examination though the State Government has admitted in its counter affidavit about 1308 sanctioned vacant posts in the stream of commerce,” said Ritika Rani, adding the government had decided to fill the posts in commerce stream in the secondary and senior secondary on September 25, 2019, but it did not send any requisition to the Bihar School Examination Board to conduct STET for them, though it was held for other streams in September 2020 and the results have also been announced.“The counsel for the Board informed the court that it did not conduct exams for the commerce stream as the government did not send any requisition for it,” she said, adding Commerce being a popular stream, lack of qualified teachers could hurt the students also.The petitioners had filed the application for direction to the government to fill-up the sanctioned post for the post of teachers in the secondary and senior secondary schools in the subject of Commerce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fill-posts-of-commerce-teachers-in-bihar-schools-within-6-months-patna-hc-to-state-govt-101624551769990.html
24-06-2021||Other||5 days on, missing man’s body found in Araria||Body of a 55-year-old man, who had gone missing on his way to Purnia from Patna airport in his vehicle five days ago, was found near Mahalgaon in Araria district on Thursday. Station house officer (SHO) of Mahalgaon police station, Jeevesh Thakur, said, “The deceased has been identified as Md Asraf Khan, who was driving a Scorpio when he went missing on June 20. Police have not yet recovered the vehicle.” Police said his family had been informed.“The body is decomposed. The cause of death will be known only after autopsy. Prima facie, it appears he was shot dead,” the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-days-on-missing-man-s-body-found-in-araria-101624551709910.html
24-06-2021||Patna||STET merit list row: Candidates protest for second consecutive day||Hundreds of Bihar Secondary Teachers’ Eligibility Test (STET) 2019 qualified candidates who have been put in “qualified but not in merit list” continued their protest on the second consecutive day on Thursday. Gaurav Dipanker, state president of B.Ed. Qualified Candidates Struggle Committee, said, “We have geared up to start a legal procedure for seeking justice. More than 150 petitioners will file writ soon if the state government failed to sort out the matter on their level.” Guddu Kumar, a candidate, said, “I don’t want assurance, I want a job. We have been struggling for three years for getting a job. The state education department is doing injustice with us by excluding us from the merit list.” Yuva Halla Bol (YBH), a nationwide youth movement against unemployment, also questioned the state government over transparency in the merit list. YBH’s president Anupam raised seven questions, including why the state government has not released subject-wise merit list and cut off marks, who are the new candidates included in the merit list and on what basis and how the candidates with higher score have been excluded while candidates with low score have been included in the merit list. All India Students Federation (AISF), Bihar, also came in support of teacher aspirants. Meanwhile, state education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary clarified that all candidates who have qualified STET 2019 are eligible for the 7th phase of teachers’ recruitment irrespective of their name included or excluded in the merit list.Talking about confusion in the merit list, he said, “The changes in the list have been made following the National Council for Teacher Education’s recent decision of extending the validity of TET for the lifetime. Thus, candidates who qualified STET 2011 have also become eligible for the recruitment process in the current phase. The department is working to sort out all confusions. All STET 2019 qualified candidates are eligible for recruitment in the current phase and coming phases of recruitment.”According to the state education department, altogether 30,676 candidates qualified STET 2019 exam in all 15 subjects, results of which were declared on March 12 and June 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/stet-merit-list-row-candidates-protest-for-second-consecutive-day-101624551589962.html
24-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: Recruitment pending for 1.25L teaching posts in schools to end by Aug 15||Bihar’s education department aims to complete the counselling to recruit 125,000 school teachers, held up for a long time due to legal wrangles, by August 15 following the Patna high court’s nod on June 3, sources familiar with the matter said. According to the court’s order, applications from fresh candidates from the differently-abled category, including the visually impaired, will be accepted till June 25 to give them another chance to apply and utilise the 4% quota guaranteed under the law.The appointment of primary, secondary and higher secondary school teachers had remained stuck in Bihar for nearly two years despite preparation of the merit list due to legal challenges over anomalies in the process, including allegations that appointments were being done on the basis of forged documents.As per the new schedule, in case fresh applications are not received from differently-abled candidates, the counselling will be done as per the old merit list.Advisory committees comprising Mukhiya of the gram panchayat as its chairman, Up-Mukhiya as the vice-chairman, members as member and secretary as secretary will complete the exercise, including publication of merit list, removal of objections and counselling. The appointment letters will only be issued after verification of documents, the government has specified.During counselling itself, the candidates will be required to submit all their documents for verification, unlike earlier when it remained incomplete even 15 years after appointment despite reprimands from the Patna high court.The provisional merit lists will be ready by July 2 and objections will be accepted till July 3 and dealt with by July 12. On July 15, the final merit list will be made available to start counselling. The education minister, officials said, desires that the pending appointments are made before August 15 so that the seventh phase of teachers’ appointments could be started.In the seventh phase, the number of candidates is likely to be higher due to the provision of lifetime eligibility for candidates clearing Teachers Eligibility Test (TET).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharrecruitment-pending-for-1-25l-teaching-posts-in-schools-to-end-by-aug-15-101624551530012.html
24-06-2021||Patna||JD(U) gives 33% posts to women in committees||The ruling Janata Dal (United) in Bihar has included 72 women in various committees announced by the party’s state unit president Umesh Kushwaha announced on Thursday.“JD(U) is the first party in the country in which women have been given 33 per cent of posts. Chief minister Nitish Kumar has always been talking about the rights of women. We not only make promises but implement it as well. Altogether, 72 women have been included in different committees,” Kushwaha said while releasing the list of office-bearers. The new committees will have 29 vice-presidents, 60 general secretaries, 114 secretaries, one treasurer and seven spokespersons. Several former ministers and leaders have also been given a place in the committees.The big faces for the post of vice-president include former ministers Laxmeshwar Rai, Ajit Chaudhary and Bima Bharti, besides Dr Ranju Geeta, Lalan Paswan and Ranvijay Singh.The organizational restructuring in the JD(U) was delayed in the anticipation of Kushwaha’s RLSP joining the JD(U). In the new team, many faces who came with Kushwaha have been given important responsibility.The latest move is in line with the Nitish Kumar government’s emphasis on women empowerment and girls’ education. Earlier this month, the Bihar government has ordered to give adequate representation to women, on the lines of 35% quota in government jobs for them, in promotions and postings as well. Earlier, Kumar had announced that one-third of seats in medical and engineering colleges in the state would be reserved for girl students.The state government had already increased scholarship amount for girl students under the Mukhyamantri Kanya Utthan Yojana. Girls completing graduation will now be provided ₹50,000 while those passing intermediate (class 12) would be getting a scholarship of ₹25,000. Earlier, graduate girls or those with an equivalent degree were provided ₹25,000, while intermediate girls received ₹10,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-gives-33-posts-to-women-in-committees-101624551470599.html
24-06-2021||Patna||VIP gearing up fight UP polls: Sahni||The Vikashsheel Insaan Party (VIP), a constituent in the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in Bihar, is planning to contest the Uttar Pradesh assembly polls next year and is in the process of identifying 150 seats where it could put up candidates, party chief Mukesh Sahni has said. He said his party might enter into an alliance with like-minded parties. “We have identified around 150 seats where the party could field candidates. The Nishads and other subcastes in the community in UP for 14% of the state’s population,” Sahni said, referring to the caste he belongs to. Nishads traditionally have been a fishermen and boatmen community.Sahni, who holds the portfolio of animal husbandry and fish resources department in Bihar government, said the party would be observing the death anniversary of slain former MP Phoolan Devi on July 25 across all districts in UP as a part of its focus to mobilise Nishads and other subcastes in the community that are part of other backward classes (OBC). Phoolan Devi, a bandit-turned-politician, was killed on July 25, 2001, in New Delhi. UP has a total of 403 assembly seats. Over the years, Nishads have emerged as an important electoral constituency. “Our first preference will be to fight an alliance with the BJP as I am part of the NDA. But we are keeping our options open,” said Sahni (39), a former Bollywood set designer who formed VIP in 2018. In 2019, the party fought parliamentary polls from three seats in Bihar in alliance with RJD and Congress, but drew a blank.Sahni is said to be upset over being ignored in selection of nominees for 12 MLCs from Governor’s quota in March this year and NDA leaders are of the view that he may be using the UP card to gain more clout and also seal his re-election as MLC next year.“But how far will BJP would accommodate his wishes is not clear because VIP has negligible presence organizationally in UP,” said a senior NDA leader, wishing not to be quoted. The BJP-led government in UP under Yogi Adityanath is facing challenge from Samajwadi Party, BSP and Congress. Just ahead of Bihar assembly polls last year, VIP when had walked out of the RJD-led opposition alliance over not getting adequate seats and tied up with NDA. BJP gave VIP 11 seats to contest, of which it won four seats. Sahni himself lost from Simri Bakhtiarpur and got elected as MLC in January this year. “We will be observing Shahadat diwas of Phoolan Devi on July 25 across UP. I will be attending a programme in Gorakhpur . We are also planning to invite leaders from NDA .On July 3 , we also have a programme in Lucknow to open offices in all divisions,” Sahni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vip-gearing-up-fight-up-polls-sahni-101624551469849.html
24-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: Transport official in Vigilance net for graft||Sleuths from Bihar’s Vigilance Investigation Bureau (VIB) on Thursday searched the private and official residences of Muzaffarpur’s district transport officer (DTO) who has allegedly amassed assets disproportionate to his known sources of income.Sleuths swooped on Rajnish Lal’s three flats at Kankerbagh in Patna and his official residence in Muzaffarpur and recovered over ₹50 lakh in cash, besides gold and silver ornaments, VIB officials said, adding that the officer had been detained and was being questioned.They said assets worth ₹1.24 crore had already been seized and the amount could go higher since the searches and verification of various documents of his movable and immovable property were still underway.Lal, a 1999-batch officer of Bihar Administrative Services (BAS), has been Muzaffarpur DTO since February 3, 2020. On March 9 this year, he was given additional charge of Chapra DTO. In January this year, the Muzaffarpur police led by deputy superintendent of police Ram Naresh Paswan had his office after allegations that he was helping miscreants in forging fake registration papers for stolen vehicles by changing engine and chassis numbers. During his tenure in Chapra, DTO employees allegedly collected bribes from transporters and drivers of trucks carrying illegally mined sand. “No truck could cross Saran district without paying money to Lal. If anyone tried to escape, his men would chase down the driver and beat him to extort money with the help of local police,” said a truck driver, Satyendra Kumar, who frequently plies on the route.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-transport-official-in-vigilance-net-for-graft-101624551409930.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 109 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths; positivity rate 0.14 pc||Delhi recorded eight deaths and 109 fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Thursday as the city's positivity rate dipped to 0.14 per cent, according to data shared by the Health department here.The new fatalities have pushed the death toll due to the disease in the city to 24,948.On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 111 Covid-19 cases and seven fatalities, while the positivity rate stood at 0.15 per cent.On June 14, the city had registered 131 cases and 16 deaths, while on February 22, there were 128 cases of Covid-19, according to official figures.On Monday, Delhi had reported 89 coronavirus cases with a positivity rate of 0.16 per cent, both lowest this year so far, while 11 people died, according to the data.The city's infection rate, which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, has dipped below 0.20 per cent now.Despite the recent fall in daily cases, Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has cautioned that chances of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic are quite real, asserting that his government is preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it.Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic.On April 20, the city reported over 28,000 Covid-19 cases and 277 deaths. The daily fatality count shot up to 306 on April 22. Then on May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, as per the official data.However, the number of new cases has shown a downward trend off late, and the positivity rate too has been shrinking over the last few days.The number of deaths per day has also dipped recently.The Delhi government had earlier announced reopening of restaurants with 50 per cent capacity and one weekly market per municipal zone from June 14.With close gathering of shoppers in markets and restaurants resuming business amid the phased unlock in the national capital, doctors have cautioned that Delhi could face a "worse than second wave situation" of Covid-19 if people do not adhere to safety norms.A total of 77,382 Covid-19 tests – 54,581 RT-PCR and 22,801 rapid antigen tests – were conducted on Wednesday, according to the latest health bulletin.The number of cumulative cases on Thursday stood at 14,33,475. Over 14 lakh patients have recovered from the virus in the city.The number of active cases decreased to 1,767 on Thursday from 1,797 a day before, as per the bulletin.The number of people under home-isolation has marginally increased to 523 from 522 on Wednesday, while the number of containment zones has drastically dropped to 2,277 from 4,340 a day before, it showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-109-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths-positivity-rate-0-14-pc-101624550714039.html
24-06-2021||Noida||Noida Police nabs Haryana man in remdesivir black marketing case||The Noida Police on Thursday said it has arrested a Haryana resident who was allegedly involved in black marketing of remdesivir during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.The key accused in the case, identified as Rachit Ghai, has already been arrested by the police, which has requested the Uttar Pradesh government to grant his detention under the stringent National Security Act (NSA).After the remdesivir black marketing episode came into light, an FIR was lodged on April 21 at the Noida Sector 20 police station based on a complaint by drug inspector Vaibhav Babbar, police officials said."In pursuance of the case, accused Ajay Panchal, who lives in Panchkula district of Haryana, has been arrested today (Thursday). He was held near the DPS school in Sector 30 here," a police spokesperson said.“He is accused of illegally selling remdesivir vials at exorbitant rates to people who were in dire need of Covid-19 treatment,” the official said.Panchal and Ghai were selling "remdesivir" injections for ₹15,000 to ₹40,000 per vial, according to officials.Ghai was arrested by the Crime Branch on April 21 after 105 vials of fake “remedesivir” were recovered from his possession, they said.It was not yet clear whether the vials they sold to the needy people at exorbitant rates were all genuine or fake, the officials added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-nabs-haryana-man-in-remdesivir-black-marketing-case-101624548829308.html
24-06-2021||Other||Mass religious conversion racket: Umar Gautam linked to Lucknow-based educational society||LUCKNOW Maulana Umar Gautam, 57, who was arrested here along with his accomplice Jahangir Alam, 52, for allegedly being part of a nationwide religious conversion racket, has been found to have links with a Lucknow-based educational society operating two schools on the city’s outskirts and adjoining Hardoi district, said officials of the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) in UP.More conversions of women and some minors surfaced, which are also being investigated, they said.The UP ATS launched a helpline number 97921031056 and an e-mail ID controlroom.ats-up@gov.in on which people can share details of forced conversions and any information related to Umar Gautam and Jahangir Alam.The agency would also take help of central agencies to probe the conversion racket in different states, said Prashant Kumar, ADG (law and order), UP police.Umar Gautam is found to be associated with an educational society operational in Rehmankheda locality on the outskirts of Lucknow since February 2014. Gautam is the vice-president of the society, said another senior police official. The society is running an English medium school where over 500 students are enrolled. It is also running a girls’ school in Rasoolpur locality of Hardoi for the past few years. The ATS team will soon visit the society’s office to question office bearers, he said.The official said some more religious conversions by Umar Gautam and his aides surfaced in Lucknow and Gautam Buddh Nagar. These include two women from Lucknow’s Telibagh and Aliganj areas and a 17-year-old boy of Gautam Buddh Nagar who was missing since May 2018.“The boy’s mother had filed missing report at Phase 2 police station in 2018. We found his name on a Facebook account as Mohd Rehaan Ansari and the id has been deactivated now. We are looking for him,” said Abdul Qadir, ACP-1 (Central Noida).After reports of religious conversions of children at the Noida Deaf Society, its founder Ruma Roka told local media that the society’s selfless work has been questioned. “If such allegations are made against us, nobody would want to serve the society,” she said.“I urge people not to entertain reports defaming us and wait for the truth to come out. We are cooperating with the ATS and have provided them with details of all the students,” added Roka.Umar Gautam was born as Shyam Prakash Singh Gautam in a Thakur family of UP’s Fatehpur district and embraced Islam under the influence of his Muslim friends while pursuing higher studies (BSc and MSc Agriculture) in Nainital in 1984, said police.Gautam and his accomplice Jahangir Alam, who were arrested from Lucknow on Monday, are being interrogated about the mass religious conversion racket, said an ATS official. (Inputs from agency)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mass-religious-conversion-racket-umar-gautam-linked-to-lucknow-based-educational-society-101624548769581.html
24-06-2021||Other||Heavy showers in 17 UP districts, more in store||LUCKNOW Over 17 districts in central Uttar Pradesh, including some parts of the state capital, received heavy rains on Thursday, after a three-day ‘dry phase’. The state recorded 6.8mm rainfall, which was nearly 50% more than the average normal rainfall of 4.5mm for the day, according to data by the Indian Meteorological Department. “Uttar Pradesh recorded 137.1mm rainfall this month, which is 134% more than the normal 58.7mm rainfall expected during this period,” said JP Gupta, director, state MeT department.As many as 47 of the 75 districts of UP had recorded excess rainfall. Nine districts received excess rains, 12 recorded normal rains and seven districts saw slightly deficient rainfall during the period. “The number of districts recording large excess rainfall has gone up from 32 to 47 since the start of this month. This means that the state has received ample rains so far in the current monsoon season,” informed Gupta.As per IMD’s forecast, UP is expected to receive more showers in the days to come. “The rainfall will be scattered across the state. However, districts bordering Nepal in east UP will receive above average rainfall,” said Gupta. The state government put the said districts on alert advising them to take measures to prevent damage caused by heavy showers. In districts prone to flooding after rains, teams of district and state disaster management committees had been put on standby.Acting on the warning, more than 500 flood relief outposts were set up in 14 districts of east UP bordering Nepal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/heavy-showers-in-17-up-districts-more-in-store-101624548409568.html
24-06-2021||Other||First in UP: 3-yr-old girl youngest to take Covaxin jab during vax trials in Kanpur||KANPUR In a first in Uttar Pradesh, clinical trials of the indigenous Covaxin for children in the age group of 2-6 years began in Kanpur on Thursday. Five children were given the first dose of the vaccine at Prakhar Hospital here. The youngest among the volunteers was a three-year-old girl. Two kids were from Kanpur and three from Kanpur Dehat. One child was of a doctor, one of a bank manager and three of businessmen. After immunisation, the safety profile of all these children will be checked and analysed.The second dose would be given after 28 days, said doctors. “As many as 15 more children would be included in this trial being conducted only in Kanpur in UP,” said Dr JS Kushwaha, chairman of Prakhar Hospital in Arya Nagar, where last week children in age groups 6-12 years and 12-18 years were given doses as part of this trial. Last year, the hospital had received the go-ahead from the Data and Safety Monitoring Board and Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation to commence the trials. The hospital had conducted one of the biggest trials for the adults’ vaccine in UP. According to Kushwaha, the six children were screened twice – first on Saturday and then on Monday. Their vital parameters were checked thrice before they underwent RT-PCR and antibodies test. A team of doctors conducted all the tests in the presence of their parents. Their reports were shared with the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and Bharat Biotech, he said. Following the approval by the council, the children were called with their parents to the hospital for the doses, said chief investigator of the trials Dr VN Tripathi, who is former director-general (medical education). “Our team of specialists will keep monitoring the kids for seven days. Their reports will be sent to the ICMR twice a day,” he said. The bank manager, who made his kid a volunteer for this trial, said it was his trust on the doctors and his desire to keep his child safe, which made him take the step. “It is not easy for anyone to let his or her child be a part of something like this. One has to take some action under such circumstances to keep kids safe in the possible third wave. Hope the vaccine will work and would be given emergency approval,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/first-in-up-3-yr-old-girl-youngest-to-take-covaxin-jab-101624547869516.html
24-06-2021||Kolkata||Vaccines administered did not contain anything harmful: TMC leader Mimi Chakraborty on fake vaccine racket||A day after Trinamool Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty busted a fake vaccination camp in Kolkata, the Parliamentarian took to social media to assure people that the vaccines albeit fake were not harmful. Chakraborty informed that the vials being used at the camp have been sent to the lab for testing and results are expected in the next 4-5 days.“Samples have been sent to the lab and we will know what was in the vaccines in the next 4-5 days. I’ve talked to officials and from what I gathered it can be said that there was nothing harmful in the vials but we all know they weren’t vaccines. We can say this conclusively once the lab results come back,” Chakraborty said in a video uploaded on her Instagram account.Chakraborty was invited to the vaccination camp on Wednesday by a man who claimed it was meant for inoculating transgender individuals and the disabled. She got herself vaccinated with Covishield in a bid to encourage others to do the same but grew suspicious when she did not receive a vaccination certificate."He said that he was running a special drive for transgenders and specially-abled persons and requested for my presence. I took the Covishield vaccine at the camp to motivate people for taking jabs. But I never received a confirmation message from CoWIN," she said.The police later identified and arrested a man named Debanjan Dev, who was posing as a fake IAS officer and administering free jabs. Dev was posing as a joint municipal commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC), a senior officer of Kolkata Police told PTI.“I want to tell everyone who was present with me at the camp that we all are victims and it’s now out of our hands. Since I am okay, everyone else will also be okay, please do not panic,” Chakraborty added.The TMC leader requested everyone to contact KMC or their nearest councillor in case they have been vaccinated at any camp run by Dev, and requested people not to panic.“I urge everyone to not panic and request everyone who got vaccinated at camps run by this man named Debanjan to contact KMC or their nearest councillor or MLA about the next step,”“If you are going for vaccination please check for a message and registration. Immediately after vaccination you will also be given a certificate,” Chakraborty cautioned.While urging everyone to wear masks and follow Covid-appropriate hygiene she stated that “The responsibility to ensure such incidents do not happen again falls on our shoulders too. If we are a little cautious this kind of people will not be able to get close to us,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/vaccines-administered-did-not-contain-anything-harmful-tmc-leader-mimi-chakraborty-on-fake-vaccine-racket-101624545856653.html
24-06-2021||Other||Two held for Phagwara brick kiln guard’s murder||Jalandhar Four days after robbers killed a 35-year-old guard, Des Raj, of a brick kiln in Bhagana village in the wee hours of Sunday (June 20), and made off with a New Holland 3630 tractor, Phagwara police have arrested two people for the murder. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harkamalpreet Singh Khakh said two of the accused, Mussa and Sukhwinder, were arrested during checking from canal bridge in Duggan Rawalpindi village of Phagwara, when they tried to flee after spotting a police party.Mussa, alias Bhatti, belongs to Bela village in Chamba of Himachal Pradesh and Sukhwinder Singh. alias Lucky, is son of Gurcharan Singh, of Gujratan village, Phagwara. One of their accomplices, Baljit Singh, son of Jaswant Singh, of Rampur Sunera village is on the run and would be nabbed soon, the SSP said.  He added that during preliminary interrogation, the arrested accused had revealed that Baljit Singh, of Rampur Sunera village had hatched this conspiracy and had formed a gang to target people’s houses and other establishments during the night. “The kingpin is on the run. Police teams are searching for the Alto (registration number PB36-J-7255) used in the murder,” the SSP said, adding that the stolen tractor has been recovered. Other items like bank passbooks and an Aadhaar card and the weapon used to kill Des Raj has also been recovered with the accused guiding the police to the spots where these were hidden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-for-phagwara-brick-kiln-guard-s-murder-101624544629794.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Spirited fight for hockey vs popularity of cricket||Not so long ago, we were the world champions in the game of hockey. Indeed, we retained the gold medal in the Olympics for 32 years, a time much longer than our reign as world champions of cricket. Yet, our country’s golden era in hockey seems buried deep in a dark alley of sporting history, which is, more often than not, overlooked. This contradiction was brought into focus in April when a hockey player of the bygone era, Balbir Singh Junior, passed away. The news was tucked away on one of the inside pages of almost all leading newspapers. Also read: WTC Final - Team India Report Card: A disaster at SouthamptonI have had the privilege of growing up in an era where hockey occupied a pride of place among sports lovers of our country. This was the time when the likes of Ajit Pal Singh, Surjit Singh and Leslie Claudius were the toast of a grateful nation and many a conversation in local buses and trains were centred on the dribbling skills of Mohammad Shahid or on the lightning reflexes of Pakistan’s centre forward, Hasan Sardar. The faith on the defensive skills of Surjit Singh, rock solid goal keeping of Michael Kindo would prevail over the power play of the emerging European teams, such as those from Germany or the Netherlands. This was the era of radio commentaries of the hockey matches being intently listened to by one and all. Often, the celebrated commentators such as the late Jasdev Singh would find it hard to keep pace with the rapid short passes between a Balbir Singh (Senior) and a Balbir Singh (Junior) culminating in a spectacular “gooooooal” matched by the excited high-pitched voice of the commentator, much to the excitement of everyone in the family. I distinctly remember my father taking me to watch a hockey match played between India and arch rivals Pakistan at a stadium in Jalandhar. The atmosphere was no less than a fair with a constant stream of people going towards the stadium. I had the good fortune of watching the brilliant midfield play of Mervyn Fernandes, with his trademark head band, and that of Zafar Iqbal, making a much-feared combination with the wily Mohammad Shahid. We had a roller-coaster ride watching the free-flowing hockey match with attacks and counter attacks, dazzling dribbles and diving stops. The excitement lasted a crisp 70 minutes and the match was over in a blink! Hockey continued to offer a spirited fight to the ever-increasing popularity of cricket fuelled by India’s famous victory at the Lord’s Cricket Ground in 1983 against the mighty West Indies. This was the time when we had the mercurial Dhanraj Pillay as the captain of our hockey team, who was known for his lightning speed. The versatile Pargat Singh was the toast of the nation, with his unexpected runs from the backline to the D in no time! Unfortunately, the game of hockey has slipped into oblivion. Cricket has emerged as the winner. This despite the fact that a hockey match finishes in 70 minutes as compared to a game of cricket that takes at least three hours to get over. Hockey definitely deserves a relook and a fresh lease of life. gulbaharsidhu@rediffmail.com The writer is a Jalandhar-based psychiatrist. Views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/spirited-fight-for-hockey-vs-popularity-of-cricket-101624539409293.html
24-06-2021||Other||19 boys rescued from Ranchi airport; man taking them to Jammu arrested||As many as 19 boys allegedly being trafficked were rescued from the Ranchi airport when they were brought there to board a Jammu-bound flight on Thursday, a police officer said.Anand Prakash Singh, the in-charge of the Ranchi airport police station, said they arrested one Raju Ganjhu for the alleged trafficking. “Raju Ganjhu as well as the rescued boys are from Latehar district. Raju has been arrested and a case has been filed with the anti-trafficking police station. All of them (boys) are minors in the age group of 14-16. They have been handed over to the Child Welfare Committee which would coordinate with the concerned authorities and take further action,” said Singh.Also Read | Jharkhand govt extends lockdown till July 1He said the kind of dresses the boys were wearing, and their body language raised suspicion. “When they were quizzed about their age and other relevant information, they claimed they were adults when they clearly appeared to be minors. The person taking them along also could not give the right information.”Trafficking of tribal children is rampant in Jharkhand. The children are often lured with promises of better job opportunities in other states.Police said they are verifying Ganjhu’s background to know whether he has been involved in trafficking earlier too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/19-boys-rescued-from-ranchi-airport-man-taking-them-to-jammu-arrested-101624537009971.html
24-06-2021||Other||Covid casts shadow on Kanwar Yatra for second year in row||Aslam, an artisan in Haridwar, is unsure whether he should make in bulk Kanwars the devotees of Lord Shiva carry to fetch the holy Ganga waters during an annual pilgrimage. Before the Covid-19 pandemic, Aslam and his fellow artists would make thousands of Kanwars and sell them for up to 500 per piece. The second Covid-19 wave has cast a shadow on the pilgrimage and hit people such as Aslam badly for the second year in a row.The bulk of the devotees fetch the holy waters from Haridwar, and the pilgrimage is a major source of business in the city. The Kanwar pilgrimage, which is scheduled to commence by July 22, was called off in 2020 because of the pandemic and there is no clarity yet whether it will be allowed this year.Also Read | Haridwar testing probe: 8-member team calling 98,000 phone numbersThe Char Dham pilgrimage to the four revered Hindu temples in Uttarakhand has been restricted to the pilgrims from the state.Officials said the state administration is unlikely to take any chances after the Mahakumbh experience. Haridwar district magistrate C Ravi Shankar and senior police superintendent D Senthil Aboodai Krishan Raj said the state government has to make a decision.Kumbh Mela was held in Haridwar in April even as experts warned that social distancing and adequate testing will be impossible at a time when the infections were climbing across the country. Eventually, 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27. The bulk of this — at least six million people — congregated in April, coinciding with the worst surge in the second wave.State Traders Union president Sanjeev Chaudhary said in accordance with the Covid-19 scenario, the government should take a call on the Kanwar Yatra. “With certain guidelines and Covid protocol, if possible, then it should be given a go-ahead.”Swami Harichetnanand Maharaj, the Mahamandaleshwar of Shri Bada Udasin Akhada, said Char Dham, Mahakumbh Mela, and Kanwar Mela are interlinked with faith, tradition, and the livelihoods of the people in the region. “The state government should see in what way it can ensure religious events like Kanwar Yatra amid adherence to Covid-19 guidelines.”Legislator Madan Kaushik said the second Covid-19 wave has severely affected not only religious events but normal life as well.Millions of people participate in the Kanwar Yatra annually to fetch Ganga waters. They carry the waters across the country for offerings at Shaiva temples. The Uttarakhand government makes special arrangements for the devotees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-casts-shadow-on-kanwar-yatra-for-second-year-in-row-101624536047134.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Poaching picks up during pandemic in Himachal||There has been a rise in the incidence of poaching and smuggling in Himachal Pradesh during the Covid-19 pandemic. The recent recoveries of four leopard skins, Himalayan monal bird plumes and pangolin scales in Shimla, Solan, Chamba and Hamirpur districts reveal this disturbing trend. Also read: State boards can come up with own Class 12 assessment schemes: Supreme CourtIn June alone, the state police recovered four leopard skins in Shimla and Solan districts. Acting on a tip-off, wildlife officials raided a tailor’s shop in New Shimla and found three leopard skins, two nails and five teeth of the animal. Besides arresting the tailor, they caught the owner of a paying guest accommodation who admitted that the hides, nails and teeth were brought by a resident of neighbouring Uttarakhand in a bus. Though the accused did not have a criminal background, they said they wanted to make a quick buck and got the idea of selling the hides for a profit from social media. The police recovered another leopard hide from a taxi in Solan district. Poisoning leopards to trade parts “During the pandemic, poachers moved around freely and killed animals to trade in hides, nails and plumes. They threw poison-laced meatloaves in the forest to kill leopards. A leopard skin fetches a high price in the international market. One without any injury marks fetches the highest price which is why they have begun to poison leopards,” says Rajeshwar Singh Negi, the national convener of Nature Watch India and a member of the Animal Welfare Board of India. “The animal hide trade is highly organised. A leopard skin changes many hands before it reaches the international market. In India, it can fetch between ₹5 lakh and ₹10 lakh, while it can fetch triple the amount in the international market,” he said. Leopards have been classified as vulnerable in the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and are on the red list of threatened species. Wildlife mitigation cells to be set up To keep tabs on such crimes, the Himachal Pradesh government plans to set up wildlife mitigation cells at district and state levels. People will be able to report crimes against wildlife to these cells using a toll-free number. “There has been a rise in the smuggling of wild animal articles. We are seized of the matter,” state forest minister Rakesh Pathania said. Himalayan monal an easy target The police recovered four people at Dalhousie in Chamba district after recovering six plumes suspected to be that of the Himalayan monal. The monal, which belongs to the pheasant family, is poached for its colourful plumes. It is the national bird of Nepal, where it is known as danphe, and the state bird of Uttarakhand. It was also the state bird of Himachal Pradesh until 2007. Its colourful crest is used to decorate caps. Though hunting the monal was banned in Himachal in 1982, there has been a little check on its poaching and its plumes are smuggled in the market. Wearing a cap with a monal crest is a tradition in the upper reaches of Himachal. Such caps used to be gifted on auspicious occasions, particularly weddings. The state forest department has banned wearing such caps and the offence is punishable with seven-year imprisonment or ₹10,000 fine or both. On June 22, a taxi driver headed for Una was arrested with more than 4kg of pangolin scales at Jhiralri village in Bhoranj, Hamirpur on June 22. The demand for pangolin scales is mainly in China and Vietnam, where they are used in traditional medicine. The pangolin is also a protected animal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/poaching-picks-up-during-pandemic-in-himachal-101624533886946.html
24-06-2021||Pune||Pune civic body sets up 212-bed jumbo Covid centre at Baner||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has erected a 212-bed jumbo Covid-19 centre in Baner. The city already has jumbo facilities at College Of Engineering Pune (COEP) and another in Baner.The third jumbo facility is erected on survey number 33, under R -7 reservation (the developer must hand over ready construction for the proposed reservation to the municipal corporation free of cost).By considering the third wave, PMC is gearing up its health infrastructure and erecting facilities that would remain permanent even after the pandemic. The jumbo hospital at COEP is a temporary infrastructure and will be dismantled after a certain period.Rubal Agarwal, additional municipal commissioner said, “The jumbo centre would be ready within the next few days.”Prashant Waghmare, city engineer, said, “PMC got the ground plus five-storey building free of cost under reservation. The entire five-story building has been converted into a Covid-19 hospital.”Yuvraj Deshmukh, an official of PMC building department, said, “The new hospital would have 212 beds. Among which 150 are oxygen beds and the 62 are intensive care unit (ICU) beds.”Also, PMC has erected a 13,000-litre capacity liquid oxygen plant at this hospital.Waghmare said, “PMC is erecting this hospital under corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. Many corporates and developers are coming forward and donating required medical equipment for the hospital. The remaining amount will be given by PMC from the mayor’s fund as well as some elected members fund.”Pune City Connect, on Wednesday, donated 5 BIPAP (Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure) units, five oxygen concentrators, 20 beds and 15 ICU beds to the new hospital.Agarwal, Pune City Connect’s chairman Ganesh Natrajan, and Waghmare on Wednesday visited the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-civic-body-sets-up-212-bed-jumbo-covid-centre-at-baner-101624532446665.html
24-06-2021||Pune||Taste of Life: A kitâb that opens to the era of Anglo-Indian khána||When Constance E Gordon wrote her cookbook “Anglo – Indian Cuisine (Khána Kitâb)”, she lived in Poona, somewhere near the Empress Garden. Her husband worked with the Revenue Department. The first edition of her book was published sometime around 1904 by Thacker, Spink & Co, Calcutta. When the second, revised edition appeared in 1913, she had started living in Bombay. The first edition of her cookbook was received with great enthusiasm, and that encouraged her to publish the second edition with many new recipes, she noted in the preface of the new edition. “Each recipe has been tried and found successful, either by myself or friends, by whom many have been contributed. So Khána Kitâb goes again on to the market with the desire of being useful and making new friends, while retaining the old one”, she added.The term “Anglo-Indian” in the title of the cookbook refers to the people of British descent born or residing in India. The cookbook has some wonderful recipes like Greengages in Cream, Fairy Pudding, Jam Omelet, Damson Tart with Cream, Cutlets à la Russe, Chicken à la Pendennis, Banana Charlotte, Partridge à la Raja. It also has recipes like Bhendi Toast, Boiled Surmai with Shrimp Sauce and Hilsa Sandwich. It is noteworthy that she uses native names for some ingredients and dishes. Boiled dahl, for example.Anglo-Indians came from different dietary occupational backgrounds, from the Armed forces, administration and commerce, and different classes with different dietary habits. The natives were from different castes and classes, with different dietary practices, and these influenced the food practices of Anglo-Indians. Thus, the colonial, or Anglo-Indian, cuisine was a hybrid cuisine with some elements of British foodways and components of foodways from the colonies. The cuisine that was adopted by the majority of the British in India was replete with peculiarities and idiosyncrasies that evolved over the decades and was influenced by various factors, such as the availability of European and local food, cooking facilities, inputs by domestic cooks, and traditions from the home country as well as India.Gordon’s cookbook reflects the beauty of the hybrid cuisine. She has included more than 250 recipes which have been divided into different sections. There’s Tiffin and recipes for breakfast. There’s a section for chutneys and curries. Then there are recipes for cold meat, soups, fresh and tinned fish, entrées, joints, toasts and savouries, puddings and sweets, dessert, confectionery and jam, eggs, salads, savoury sandwiches, savoury farinaceous, tinned food for camp cooking, sauces, pickles, and forcemeats. There is a separate section for vegetarian recipes and dishes for invalids. There are recipes for “Dinner in Camp”, “Tiffin in the Jungle” and “Breakfast at Home”.The cookbook has a section about Indian money. Another section educates its readers about the boiling points of fat and oil. There’s a glossary of Indian terms for provisions. There’s a “Bachelor’s store list for a month”, and there is a section about the “Indian Kitchen”. There is a chapter detailing the wages and work of the “principal servants”. “Owing to the difference in caste among the native servants of India, conditions are not the same on the Bombay and Poona side to those existing in the Bengal Presidency; as a rule more servants are required there”, Gordon notes. She then goes on to elaborate the role of “The Butler”, “The Hamal”, “Cook” and “Coolie”.“The butler should wait at the table; look after the household linen, silver, wine and servants. He is responsible for breakage, cleanliness of the servants’ quarters, and the proper working of the house. Wages for a servant, for a married couple, from Rs. 12 to 25; for a bachelor, from Rs. 10 to 20”, Gordon tells her readers. According to her, “The Hamal in Bombay and Poona is chambermaid and housemaid in one. He washes up the dishes and sees to lamps.” The cook cooks and “does the marketing”. He should be paid from Rs. 14 to 30. “The Coolie” carries the cook’s bazaar and should be paid Rs. 6 to 10 per month.Gordon tells us that a Khitmatgar, Masalchi, Bearer, Mehter were employed along with the butler, cook, and the hamal in the Bengal Presidency. “But these are not needed in Bombay and Poona”, she writes.Gordon’s cookbook is one of the thousands of cookbooks written in the nineteenth and twentieth century by European men and women to assist the colonisers living in the colonies. These publications were meant to be instruments for perpetuating the values and representations of the Empire. Publication of cookbooks and manuals gained momentum between the 1880s and 1920s and was aimed at the second generation of middle-class British women who resided in India after the uprising of 1857. The cookbooks tried to consolidate imperial domesticity and British confidence in imperial rule and its reproduction on a household scale. Raj-era cookbooks bristled with instructions on how to run a household, manage “servants” and prepare and serve food. These cookbooks prescribed codes of conduct that defined the boundaries between British rulers and natives. They also served as reference manuals on how to deal with native servants.The authors of these cookbooks took it upon themselves to educate colonial householders on the unsavoury character of the native “servants” and suggest appropriate behaviour to foil their dishonesty and unhygienic habits.They often carried lists of items with their prices in the local markets “with the hope that it will generally assist to combat the pernicious policy of the native cooks who not only overcharge in the prices of local commodities, but generally will not produce them or attempt to raise non-existent difficulties”, as author WE Kinsey noted in the preface of her cookbook “The Mem’s own cookery book”.Gordon’s cookbook too carries a list of commodities available in the markets of Bombay, Calcutta, and Poona. It tells us about the meats, vegetables, fruits, and other provisions available in the markets of Poona Camp. But the most fascinating aspect of the cookbook is that it also provides a list of commodities, along with the prices of course, available in the markets of Poona city.More about this next week.Chinmay Damle is a research scientist and food enthusiast. He writes here on Pune’s food culture. He can be contacted at chinmay.damle@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-a-kita-b-that-opens-to-the-era-of-anglo-indian-khana-101624532146635.html
24-06-2021||Dehradun||U’khand fake testing: HC grants diagnostic lab owners interim relief from arrest||The Uttarakhand high court on Thursday granted temporary protection from arbitrary arrest to the owners of Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs, which is under investigation for allegedly administering fake Covid tests during the Mahakumbh. Vikas Bahuguna, counsel of the petitioner, said Justice NS Dhanik, who heard the matter, has directed the owners of Lalchandani Labs to appear before an investigating officer on June 26 and cooperate in the ongoing probe.On Wednesday, the court had granted temporary protection from arbitrary arrest to the owners of Noida-based Max Corporate Services and Hisar-based Nalwa Labs, and directed them to appear before an investigating officer on Friday and cooperate in the probe. Also Read | U’khand fake testing: Firms get temporary reliefBahuguna said the interim relief has been granted in view of the Supreme Court judgement in the case of Arnesh Kumar vs State of Bihar. The 2014 Arnesh Kumar judgment required the police to conduct a preliminary probe before making arrests where offences were punishable with imprisonment for less than seven years. Under these guidelines, a police officer has to record reasons for an arrest in writing and it can be done only if it fulfils certain conditions.Owners of Lalchandani Labs, Nalwa Labs and private agency Max Corporate Services were booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act last week. Days later, all three firms approached the high court separately to quash the FIR. At present, there are three separate probes into the issue: one by the police, one by the district administration and one by the mela administration. On June 21, a criminal writ petition was filed by Lalchandani Labs Ltd through Anchal Gupta, one of the directors of the private lab, four days after a case was filed against it by Haridwar police. Bahuguna said, “Lalchandani Labs signed a MoU with Max Corporate Services on March 10 in which it was agreed that the lab would conduct RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests at Haridwar Kumbh Mela. It conducted only 12,000 rapid antigen tests and no RT-PCR test between April 1 and 26. The labs conducted tests at a nominal ₹206 per test and the total bill for these tests was around ₹24.74 lakh and not crores of rupees as reported by media. The Kumbh mela was curtailed this year but devotees thronged Haridwar for months despite experts saying the crowds and rampant violation of Covid protocol could spark a surge in infections. Roughly 9.1 million pilgrims took the holy dip in the Ganga from January 14 to April 27. The bulk of this -- at least six million people -- congregated in April, coinciding with the worst surge in the second wave of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ukhand-fake-testing-hc-grants-diagnostic-lab-owners-interim-relief-from-arrest-101624531546673.html
24-06-2021||Lucknow||Ahead of 2022 assembly polls, parties begin electoral activity from eastern UP||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has held over 40 meetings in Varanasi and other eastern Uttar Pradesh districts in the last 50 days even as the party has asked its workers to apprise the people about the Centre and state government’s welfare schemes. Samajwadi Party (SP), which is hoping to return to power in Uttar Pradesh, has organised around 20 meetings in Varanasi and adjoining areas alone as political parties have kicked off their electoral activities from the state’s eastern region ahead of the assembly elections early next year.The BJP won 34 seats, Apna Dal (S) four, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) three, SP 12 seats, and Bahujan Samaj Party seven of the 61 assembly seats in eastern Uttar Pradesh in 2017. With 312 seats in the 403-member House, the BJP swept to power in the state over four years back. The Congress managed to win just seven seats, BSP 19, SP 47 in the 2017 polls.Also Read | Priyanka Gandhi urges UP govt to extend date to purchase maximum wheatSP leader Ashutosh Sinha said he has held meetings with party workers in Varanasi, Jaunpur, Sonbhadra, Ghazipur, and Chandauli to mobilise them for the 2022 election. He added he has also met Zilla Parishad heads in these districts. “Several meetings have also been held in Ballia, Azamgarh, Bhadohi, and Mirzapur.”Leaders of BJP, Apna Dal, SBSP, and others smaller parties too said they have been holding meetings in the region, where Other Backward Class (OBC) and Scheduled Caste (SC) voters play a decisive role in over 50 of the seats across 10 districts. Political experts say OBCs and Dalits account for around 60% of the population in the region and every political party is trying to win their support.Satish Kumar, a political analyst, said political parties are trying to expand their base and focussing on OBCs and SCs. He added the social coalition that the BJP was able to form before the 2017 assembly election has not remained intact. Kumar said the SP, which enjoys strong support in the region, will certainly take advantage of this. He added anti-incumbency and differences between parties such as SBSP and the BJP will also benefit SP.Banaras Hindu University faculty of social sciences dean Kaushal Kishore Mishra said eastern Uttar Pradesh has always been politically crucial, but its significance has increased since Varanasi has been Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency since 2014. He added smaller parties are focussing on eastern Uttar Pradesh to increase their bargaining power even though the elections are over seven months away. Mishra said some of these smaller parties have influence in five to 10 seats due to the support from their castes. “Others have influence in 10 to 20 seats. Though these political parties cannot win elections on their own, they could spoil the chances of candidates of major political parties.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ahead-of-2022-assembly-polls-parties-begin-electoral-activity-from-eastern-up-101624530046788.html
24-06-2021||Patna||Bihar candidate’s admit card with Telugu female actor’s photo goes viral||The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) is being ridiculed on social media for issuing a male candidate a score sheet with the picture of a south Indian female actor while also battling allegations of irregularities in the Secondary Teachers’ Eligibility Test (STET) merit list.A Jehanabad based candidate Rishikesh Kumar was declared qualified in the teachers’ recruitment examination but excluded from the merit list like hundreds of other candidates, who have questioned the board’s criteria for compiling the merit list, leaving out successful candidates. The apparent irregularity in the merit list is not Kumar’s only problem, he was also issued a result sheet attached with a photograph of Telugu and Malayalam actress Anupama Parameswaran, making the social media go crazy over the state education department’s carelessness.BSEB released STET 2019 results for recruitment of 12 subjects’ teachers on March 12 and pending results for three subjects’ teachers of Urdu, Sanskrit and Social Science on June 21.Kumar said he had registered a complaint with the board last year for inserting the female actor’s photograph in his admit card and also sought photo correction in January last year, however, it was clear that it didn’t work. When approached by HT, he refused to talk on the issue.A senior BSEB official said, “We are looking into the matter. It seems the error was committed by the computer operator.”When asked how the student made through verification and frisking at the exam centre with a wrong photograph on the admit card, the official said, “The board instructs all candidates to carry their photo-attached identity proof like Aadhar card, driving licence, bank passbook, passport etc at exam centres. In case of any mistake or mismatch, we allow students to take the exam after verifying their details.”Despite several attempts, BSEB’s chairman Anand Kishor could not be reached for comment on this issue.247,000 students took the STET 2019 exam across 317 exam centres on January 28 last year after a gap of nearly eight years for recruitment to 37,000 secondary and senior secondary teachers’ posts across the state. However, the exam was declared void in May following paper leak and re-examination was conducted in September through online mode.Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Thursday took a jibe at Nitish Kumar government on twitter. “After Sunny Leone topped in the junior engineering exam, now Anupama Parameswaran has passed the state STET exam. With scam in every exam and recruitment process, Nitish ji is destroying the future of millions of youth. He takes one decade to complete one recruitment process that is too riddled with scam” he tweeted, referring to the 2019 incident when Bollywood actor Sunny Leone was incorrectly named the topper in the draft merit list for the post of junior engineers, released by Bihar Public Health Engineering Department (PHED).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-candidate-s-admit-card-with-telugu-female-actor-s-photo-goes-viral-101624529086518.html
24-06-2021||Lucknow||Priyanka Gandhi urges UP govt to extend date to purchase maximum wheat||Congress General Secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday slammed the Yogi government over less procurement of wheat from farmers and urged the government to extend the date to ensure maximum purchase.Priyanka Gandhi in a tweet in Hindi said, "In Uttar Pradesh, the last date for procuring wheat has passed and the government was unable to procure wheat from several farmers. If buying wheat from all the farmers was not rhetoric, then the BJP government should ensure maximum purchase by extending the date of procurement. Or else, during the rainy season the wheat procured from farmers will be wasted."Her remarks came two days after she wrote to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath urging a guaranteed wheat procurement from farmers in the state.She has sought the opening of all purchase centres in the state by July 15 and ensuring maximum purchase from farmers.The Congress leader claims that in states like Punjab and Haryana, the government procurement of wheat accounts for 80-85 per cent of the total production, while in Uttar Pradesh, only 14 per cent of the 378 lakh metric tonnes of wheat produced has been procured by the government centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priyanka-gandhi-urges-up-govt-to-extend-date-to-purchase-maximum-wheat-101624521474223.html
24-06-2021||Patna||Recruitment for 1.25l teaching post in Bihar schools to end by August 15||The Bihar education department aims to complete the counselling to recruit 125,000 school teachers, held up for a long time due to legal wrangles, by August 15 after Patna high court’s nod on June 3. According to the court’s order, applications from fresh candidates from the differently-abled category including the visually impaired will be accepted till June 25 to give them another chance to apply utilising the 4% quota guaranteed under the law.The appointment of primary, secondary and higher secondary school teachers had remained stuck in Bihar for nearly two years despite preparation of the merit list due to legal challenges over anomalies in the process including allegations that appointments were being done on the basis of forged documents.As per the new schedule, in case fresh applications are not received from differently-abled candidates, the counselling will be done as per the old merit list.The advisory committees comprising Mukhiya of the gram panchayat as its chairman, up-mukhiya as the vice-chairman, members as member and secretary as secretary will complete the exercise, including publication of merit list, removal of objections and counselling. The appointment letters will only be issued after verification of documents, the government has specified.During counselling itself, the candidates will be required to submit all their documents for verification, unlike earlier when it remained incomplete even 15 years after appointment despite reprimands from the Patna high court.The provisional merit lists will be ready by July 2 and objections will be accepted till July 3 and dealt with by July 12. On July 15, the final merit list will be made available to start counselling. The education minister desires that the pending appointments are made before August 15 so that the seventh phase of teachers’ appointments could be started.In the seventh phase, the number of candidates is likely to be higher due to the provision of lifetime eligibility for candidates clearing Teachers Eligibility Test (TET).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/recruitment-pending-for-1-25l-teaching-post-in-bihar-schools-to-end-by-august-15-101624526027270.html
24-06-2021||Bhopal||5 cases of Covid-19 'Delta Plus' variant in Madhya Pradesh; one dead||Five persons have so far been found infected with the 'Delta Plus' variant of coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh and one of them has died, state Medical Education Minister Vishwas Sarang said on Thursday. The other four persons, who were vaccinated against Covid-19, are fine, he told PTI. "One person from Ujjain, who died, was not inoculated,” he said. 'Delta Plus' has been declared a variant of concern by the Centre. So far, three persons from Bhopal and two from Ujjain have been found infected with the 'Delta Plus' variant in MP, the minister said. A genome sequencing machine will soon be installed in Bhopal and the state would then not have to send samples to Delhi, he added. Ujjain Collector Ashish Singh confirmed that a 59-year-old woman, who died of Covid-19 on May 23, was infected with the 'Delta Plus' variant. She tested positive for coronavirus on May 17. Later, her sample was sent for genome sequencing. On Tuesday, it was found that she was infected by the 'Delta Plus' variant, the official said. Earlier, the sample of a 65-year-old woman from Bhopal was sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) on May 23 and it came out positive for the 'Delta Plus' variant on June 16, officials said. The woman, who had received both doses of the anti-Covid-19 vaccine, recovered in home isolation, they said. The new 'Delta Plus' variant has been formed due to a mutation in the Delta or B.1.617.2 variant, first identified in India and one of the drivers of the deadly second wave. Though there is no indication yet of the severity of the disease due to the new variant, 'Delta Plus' is resistant to the monoclonal antibody cocktail treatment for Covid-19 recently authorised in India.On Wednesday, Madhya Pradesh recorded 84 new cases of coronavirus and 21 fatalities, raising the tally of infections in the state to 7,89,499 and the death toll to 8,827, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/5-cases-of-covid-19-delta-plus-variant-in-madhya-pradesh-one-dead-101624520896042.html
24-06-2021||Other||Man sentenced to 12-year imprisonment for raping minor in Bihar||A special court on Thursday awarded 12-year rigorous imprisonment to a convict under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POSCO) Act and 10-year rigorous imprisonment under Indian Penal Code’s Section 376 (rape) for raping a 15-year-old last year in Bihar’s Kaimur district .Additional district and sessions judge Sandeep Kumar Mishra also slapped a ₹20,000 fine on the convict, Manish Kumar. The fine was imposed as per the POSCO Act and Section 376.Also Read | Bihar govt vows to solve anomalies in secondary teachers’ merit list in 2 daysThe court ordered the imprisonments will run concurrently, said special public prosecutor Shashi Bhushan Pandey.The court found Kumar guilty of abducting and raping the girl while she was cutting grass in fields outside her village in March 2020. The girl and four other witnesses were examined during the trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-sentenced-to-12-year-imprisonment-for-raping-minor-in-bihar-101624520026008.html
24-06-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat committees to carry out teacher recruitments after verification||The Panchayat Raj Institutions (PRIs) in Bihar will carry out the long-pending recruitment of 125,000 school teachers after the go-ahead from Patna high court earlier this month.The term of panchayats expired on June 15 and the elections could not be held because of Covid-19 and the PRIs took charge. These will carry out the recruitment procedure, but appointment letters will be issued only after proper verification of documents. The decision comes in the wake of controversies and legal cases over appointments on allegedly forged documents.Also Read | Bihar govt vows to solve anomalies in secondary teachers’ merit list in 2 daysThe state Cabinet, on June 1, approved an ordinance to amend certain sections of the Bihar Panchayati Raj Act, 2006, to empower the state government to constitute advisory committees to run three-tier rural local bodies beyond the expiry of their five-year term until fresh elections. The PRIs comprise mukhiya of the gram panchayat as the chairman, up-mukhiya as the vice-chairman, members,and secretary and will complete the exercise, including publication of merit list, removal of objections, counselling.During counselling, the candidates will have to submit all their documents for verification for appointment letters to be issued.Earlier, verification has reportedly remained incomplete even 15 years after appointment. The provisional merit lists will be available on July 2, while objections to it will be invited till July 3 and by July 12, the objections have to be removed. The final merit list will be out on July 15 .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-committees-to-carry-out-teacher-recruitments-after-verification-101624519487413.html
24-06-2021||Patna||Bihar govt vows to solve anomalies in secondary teachers’ merit list in 2 days||Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Chaudhary has promised to resolve suspected anomalies in the result of qualifying examination to recruit secondary teachers in the state, conducted in 2020, following Wednesday protests in Patna by several candidates alleging irregularities in the merit list.“We are looking into the matter to sort out all confusions. Candidates need not worry. The department will take [a] decision in view of candidates’ welfare”, Chaudhary promised on Wednesday late evening. The Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) conducted Secondary Teachers’ Eligibility Test (STET) 2019 through online mode in September last year and results for 12 subjects were published on March 12, followed by results of three other subjects on June 21. As per the education department, 24,599 candidates qualified for 30,337 vacant seats in 12 subjects while 6,077 candidates qualified for 7,110 vacant seats for Urdu, Sanskrit and Science.However, candidates claim that around 35-45% examinees who were declared to have passed were not included in the published merit list.For instance, a candidate who obtained 86.81/150 marks in social science is left out from the merit list, but another candidate of same gender, category and subject was awarded 566th rank in the merit list despite having scored 83.26 marks.Deepankar Gaurav, state president of B.Ed. Qualified Candidates Struggle Committee, said, “The education department results show 24,598 candidates were selected for recruitment. However, hundreds of these have been thrown [out] of the merit list. We want to know who all have replaced the genuinely qualified candidates.”“As per our sample survey, around 35% to 45% qualified students have been thrown out of the merit list,” Gaurav added.He demanded that the criteria for compiling the merit list and the cut-off marks were disclosed for full transparency and said his group will likely move Patna high court against BSEB. Roopa Kumari, a protestor, said, “The state govt is playing with our future. BSEB conducted the STET exam after a gap of eight years and we waited for results for two years. Now, we have been denied jobs without any valid reason.” Sanjay Kumar, additional chief secretary of the education department, said, “A four-member committee has been constituted to look into the matter. The committee will submit a report after completion of the probe. We hope to sort out the matter in two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-vows-to-solve-anomalies-in-secondary-teachers-merit-list-in-2-days-101624510485732.html
24-06-2021||Jaipur||Cabinet expansion Rajasthan CM’s prerogative: Independent MLAs support Gehlot||Independent MLAs in Rajasthan expressed their faith in the leadership of chief minister Ashok Gehlot even as Congress MLAs loyal to Sachin Pilot questioned his governance over the past fortnight. Twelve of the 13 independent MLAs in the Rajasthan government said at a press conference after their meeting that the decision to make changes in the Cabinet and political appointments were the prerogative of the CM. Pressurising him was not in the interest of the people of the Rajasthan, they said.After holding an all independent MLAs meet at Circuit House on Wednesday, independent MLA from Sirohi, Sanyam Lodha said, “We urge the state government to fill vacant posts of patwari and gram sewak; and regularise contractual employees. We request all non-BJP parties to unite and protest against the GoI over inflation, increasing petrol-diesel prices and demand the PM fill 1.5 million vacant posts.” Also Read | 15 Raj Congress leaders flag turncoats’ influence in state unit to Sonia Gandhi“We express full faith in CM Ashok Gehlot. When the Cabinet expansion happens, who all are to be included is the prerogative of the CM - pressurising him is not in the interest of the people of the state,” said Lodha.“In and outside the assembly, we have strengthened the government. It is our primary duty to give stable government to the state, which we all Independent legislators are doing it,” he said. Asked whether he thought efforts were being made to topple the government, Lodha said, “It is an imaginary question but if this happens then we will give a befitting reply. This is not Karnataka and it is not Madhya Pradesh.” He added that all are aware how the governments were toppled in MP, Goa, and Karnataka, but it was all because of Gehlot’s leadership that the effort failed in Rajasthan. The independent MLAs’ meeting was held days after the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs who merged with the Congress in 2019 objected to any move by the Congress high command to pacify the Pilot camp, saying it was because of them the government was in a deep crisis last year. In Rajasthan, Congress leader Sachin Pilot and chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s factions have been sparring against each other for a fortnight over Cabinet expansion and political appointments. Meanwhile, 15 Congress leaders, who lost the assembly elections in 2018, have written to party president Sonia Gandhi about the undue influence of BSP-turned-Congress MLAs and independents in the state government, as the political turmoil in the Rajasthan Congress continues to intensify.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/cabinet-expansion-rajasthan-cm-s-prerogative-independent-mlas-support-gehlot-101624508505540.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||IMD predicts thunderstorm with moderate intensity rain in Delhi, parts of UP||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday predicted thunderstorm with light to moderate rains in Delhi and parts of Uttar Pradesh on Thursday."Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over Isolated places of Northeast, East Delhi, Indrapuram, Pilkhua, Chapraula, Dadri, Khurja, Khair, Jattari (U.P.) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours," IMD tweetedHowever, parts of Uttar Pradesh are likely to experience moderate to heavy intensity rainfall during the next two hours."Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over Modinagar, Pilkhua, Hapur, Khurja, Jattari, Khekra, Bagpat (U.P.) and adjoining areas during next 2 hours," the IMD said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/imd-predicts-thunderstorm-with-moderate-intensity-rain-in-delhi-parts-of-up-101624508214618.html
24-06-2021||Patna||Bihar asks Centre to help generate funds for Heritage Corridor||Bihar has sought financial support from Centre for development of heritage corridor which will connect heritage sites and monuments boosting tourism in the state.“The Heritage Corridor is virtually a plan to connect all major monuments and heritage sites, mainly those in the Buddhist circuit in the state through smooth, multiple lane roads. There’s a need for good roads to provide tourists a smooth and safe journey to the tourist destinations. For this, we need financial support,” Bihar road construction minister Nitin Navin said about his Wednesday meeting with minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Singh Thakur in Delhi.Bihar is home to a number of monuments and sites related to Lord Buddha, frequented by foreign and domestic tourists and the government aims to connect all major Buddhist sites in the state-- Stupa at Vaishali, ancient university remains at Nalanda, the Rajgir sites, Mahabodhi temple at Bodh Gaya, Kesaria Stupa and Ashokan pillars at Lauriya Nandangarh and Rampurva in Champaran--and Kapilvastu in Uttar Pradesh.The road construction minister said that department will soon be preparing a preliminary project report (PPR). “The number of sites which can be covered in this corridor and the feasibility of their road connectivity will be reviewed in the PPR. Once it will be okayed, we will get the detailed project report (DPR) prepared,” he said. The estimated cost of the project will depend on the length of the network of roads, he added. Navin said it will be better if the project gets financial aid from some foreign funding agency. “We have suggested a few names such as JICA (Japan International Cooperation Agency) in this regard,” he said and added that Thakur assured him of all possible help. “He also asked us to submit the detailed project report (DPR) of the proposal”.The Bihar minister said the state will soon also start working on development of roads at non-Buddhist heritage sites and shrines. ‘We have many sites related to Lord Buddha and Goddess Sita, covered under the Ramayan circuit and the Jain sites. We will work over these in the next phase,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-asks-centre-to-help-generate-funds-for-heritage-corridor-101624507545588.html
24-06-2021||Other||Assam criminal, who boasted of committing 42 murders, killed in police gunfight||One of Assam’s most dreaded criminals, who was responsible for several high-profile murders in the state and claimed to have killed 42 people over the years, was shot dead in a gunfight with police in Sibsagar district on Wednesday evening. Bubu Konwar, 43, was responsible for many car thefts, drug dealing, extortion, kidnapping for ransom etc., and had 50 cases registered against him in several districts of the state. “One veteran criminal, Bubu Konwar, has been grievously injured in exchange of fire with police at Geleky in Sibsagar when he targeted the police team. He has been taken to hospital. One pistol has been recovered from his possession,” special DGP GP Singh tweeted on Wednesday night. “Bubu Konwar succumbed to his injuries and was declared dead at Geleky civil hospital,” he added later. Also Read | Assam NGO files FIR against former NRC coordinator Prateek HajelaAccording to police, the incident took place when Konwar, who was on a scooter with an associate, tried to flee a police check and fired at the personnel. His associate managed to escape. Konwar was arrested in March this year at Jorhat and 35 grams of suspected brown sugar was recovered from him but he managed to get out on bail. He was earlier arrested in November, 2016 in connection with a car theft. That’s when he admitted in front of TV cameras that he was a contract killer and had killed 42 people in exchange for money. Konwar, who began with petty thefts and robberies when he was 16, took to stealing cars, murders, kidnappings and extortion. He was arrested on several occasions but managed to get bail. Murders of prominent doctor Mridul Baruah (2006), Congress leader Hemanta Baruah (2008), businessman KL Ginoria (2012) and school headmaster DN Gogoi (2014) were all allegedly committed by Kunwor. Konwar also lost three fingers of his right hand while trying to make a crude bomb at home 13 years ago. On police records, there were seven murder cases, 16 under provisions of Arms Act, and 27 cases of car theft registered against Kunwor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assam-criminal-who-boasted-of-committing-42-murders-killed-in-police-gunfight-101624507185404.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh eases Covid-19 night curfew: All you need to know||The Chandigarh administration on Wednesday eased Covid-19 restrictions that were in place in the Union Territory to check the spread of the deadly virus. The administration on Wednesday eased the imposed night curfew by 30 minutes. The notification issued by the authorities on Wednesday said that the timing of the corona curfew has been changed to 11pm to 5am on all days. Earlier, the night curfew was imposed between 10.30pm and 5am.As per the order, there will no prohibition on the movement of individual or travellers for all non-essential activities from 11pm to 5am in Chandigarh. No person is allowed to roam around, set foot, travel by vehicle, leave their home or stand in any public pace or road during the above-mentioned hours.Also read: Noida: Markets, malls see decent footfall as curbs easedThe relaxations:There will be no restriction on inter-state movement of essential and non-essential goods. "All persons/vehicles in bonafide transit inter-state shall be allowed to pass, but only after due verification of point of origin and destination," the order stated.The manufacturing industries are allowed to remain open and the movement of vehicles carrying the employees of the industry is also permitted. However, the concerned unit or industry needs to issue the employees required identity cards for the purpose and details of the same needs to shared with the director, industries, Chandigarh.All essential service providers are exempt from the night curfew in place in Chandigarh. The order said those tasked with law and order/emergency and municipal services duties including executive magistrates, police personnel, military, CAPF personnel, uniform, health, fire electricity are exempt from the curfew on the production of the valid ID.Media persons with accreditation, telecom services including internet, government postal services, banking and government machinery tasked with Covid-related duties are also exempt during the curfew hours on the production of valid ID.Further, ATMs, hospitals, veterinary hospitals, all related medical establishments including their manufacturing and distribution units both in the private and public sector will continue to remain functional, the order said. Transportation for the medical staff is also permitted.Pregnant women and patients with medical emergencies are also exempt from the curfew.Also read: New Chandigarh adviser calls for stepping up vaccination driveThe order comes a day after the administration eased the curbs following a decline in cases. On Tuesday, the authorities said all shops will now remain open from 10am to 8pm and all restaurants and bars are allowed to function with 50 per cent capacity from 10am to 10.30pm, according to ANI.Chandigarh registered 43 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the infection tally to 61,520, according to the medical bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-eases-covid-19-night-curfew-all-you-need-to-know-101624502515764.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Partly cloudy sky likely today, says IMD||The national capital is likely to witness a partly cloudy sky on Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast that has also predicted that the maximum temperature is expected to remain around 40 degrees Celsius.The Met department has predicted that the minimum temperature is likely to be 28 degrees Celsius, nearly the same as recorded on Wednesday by the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official weather marker for the city. According to IMD, the minimum temperature on Wednesday was 28 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature was 40.5 degrees Celsius.Also Read | IMD’s string of wrong monsoon forecasts for DelhiDelhi’s air quality remained in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 182, which is in the higher-end of the moderate category. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 218, which means it was in the poor category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality has deteriorated to moderate category, due to transport of coarse dust particles from dry arid regions. Surface winds are moderate and westerly. Although ventilation is favourable for dispersion, an increase in dust long range transport is expected for the next three days. AQI is likely to deteriorate and stay in the moderate category with PM10 as the lead pollutant for the next three days. AQI may touch poor category for a shorter period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-partly-cloudy-sky-likely-today-says-imd-101624502925148.html
24-06-2021||Noida||Noida: FIR lodged after cop's complaint in alleged robbery with scribe||The Uttar Pradesh Police has lodged an FIR over the alleged robbery with a television journalist on a road stretch in Greater Noida earlier this week, officials said on Wednesday.The alleged incident took place around 1 am on June 20 when some unidentified persons on two motorcycles waylaid him and robbed ₹5,000 to ₹6,000 cash, the journalist, Atul Agrawal, who works with a Hindi news channel, said in a Facebook post.Taking suo motu cognisance of social media posts, the Noida Police had launched a probe into the incident, with a senior police official on Tuesday saying they had not received any complaint from the journalist over the matter.However, an FIR was lodged around 10.30 pm on Tuesday after a complaint by a sub-inspector, Kartar Singh, who is also part of a team probing the matter."The FIR was lodged against unidentified accused at the Bisrakh police station on Tuesday night following a complaint by a local sub-inspector who was also part of a team probing the case," a police official said."The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code section 392 (robbery)," the official added.The police maintained no cooperation by the journalist, adding further probe is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-fir-lodged-after-cop-s-complaint-in-alleged-robbery-with-scribe-101624497592588.html
24-06-2021||Lucknow||BJP trying to grab posts of zila, kshetra panchayat chairpersons, says Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday accused the ruling BJP of using fear and greed to grab the posts of chairpersons of the zila and kshetra panchayats.In a statement issued here, Yadav said, "BJP is hell bent on insulting the public and democracy. The public has defeated the BJP in the panchayat elections, and so the BJP now is indulging in 'dhaandli' (fraud) to regain its lost dignity.”“It is using fear and greed, and dreaming to grab the posts of zila panchayat chairpersons and kshetra panchayat chairpersons," it added.Yadav also alleged that the BJP is using the administration in every district to register fake cases against SP candidates and threatening them.He also urged Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel to intervene in this regard, and give directions for free and impartial elections, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-trying-to-grab-posts-of-zila-kshetra-panchayat-chairpersons-says-akhilesh-101624497624621.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A migrant in the city||Young people get restless in villages as soon as they realise life is elsewhere. They leave their homes, move to big cities full of rumoured possibilities, and build a new life.This is the way of the world.Shivnath Verma, too, moved to Delhi three years ago from his village in Pratapgarh, UP. But his hair is grey, his forehead is creased with lines, his figure frail. This afternoon he’s selling channas from a small plastic tub, here in a central Delhi lane.What might his age be?Mr Verma moves to the side of the lane crowded with pedestrians. He takes out a purple cloth pouch tucked in a hidden pocket of his track pants, and shows a laminated card. That’s his government-issued identity, his Aadhaar card, which says he was born in 1956.“You can calculate my age from this card,” he says solemnly.Usually, 65-year-old men prefer to stay at or near their home, wherever that may be. Mr Verma not only left his village—for the first time—but he left on his own too. “I live alone near the dhobhi ghat, in Kalyan Puri.”He eats in the dhabas and sleeps on the footpath, he says.“I helped raise my two brothers. They live with their families in the village. I never married.”Mr Verma willingly explains his reasons for leaving the house at such an advanced age, but feels that the details are too private, and requests them not be shared with the world.At one point during this tête-à-tête, a passerby stops and purchases a sachet of channa for ₹10. Each packet carries a fistful of these snacks. Every morning Mr Verma buys dozens of sachets from a shopkeeper, which he hawks in the city lanes. Each new day he walks in a different locality. “I make about ₹200 daily.”Mr Verma hasn’t made any friend in the city. “I don’t know anybody well.” Tucking back into his pants the pouch he sewed himself, he mutters in a low voice that “Dilli doesn’t have a shortage of thieves.”He now walks away, his arms holding the tub as if he were carrying a tray of finger food in a banquet. It is actually hanging from his neck by an elastic string. Mr Verma starts his workday in the afternoon, and returns to his footpath by 7 in the evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-migrant-in-the-city-101624488521512.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Man gets bail, asked to maintain peace in area||A Delhi court on Wednesday granted bail to an accused in a murder case related to the north-east Delhi riots and, as a condition, directed him to maintain peace and harmony in the locality.Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav allowed the bail plea of Irshad, accused of killing 24-year-old Salman during the communal riots last year.Salman suffered a gunshot injury on February 24 during the riots in Shiv Vihar. According to the police, Irshad was present at crime scene and was seen leading a riotous mob, a claim refuted by the accused.Granting relief to Irshad, the judge noted that the prosecution prima facie failed to establish that his role was not similar to that of co-accused Mohd Furkan who was granted bail on June 15, 2021.The judge granted bail on a personal bond of ₹10,000 and surety of like amount. The court also directed Irshad not to tamper with the evidence or influence any witness, maintain peace and harmony in the locality and appear before it to attend proceedings.Prior to this, two bail applications of Irshad were dismissed on November 19, 2020, and April 8, 2021.Irshad, who is also facing charges of conspiracy and rioting besides murder, was in judicial custody since April 2 last year.Special public prosecutor Manoj Chaudhary, representing police, told the court that Salman was attacked by a riotous mob solely on the premise that “he happened to be from a different community”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-gets-bail-asked-to-maintain-peace-in-area-101624488347310.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Vehicle dealers to issue registration certificates||The Delhi government has empowered self-registered vehicle dealers in Delhi to issue temporary registration certificates to owners who buy a new car or two-wheelers from their outlets but live outside the national capital.Senior transport officials said the plan in the coming months is to completely decentralise the process of issuing registration certificates so that vehicle owners do not have to visit a regional transport office (RTO) to get them.In an order passed on Tuesday night, the state transport department said the temporary registration certificates to be issued by the dealers will be valid for a month. “Self-registration dealers in Delhi can now issue temporary registration certificate for vehicles sold from their outlet, along with a unique registration mark listed under Rule 34 of Delhi Motor Vehicles Rules (DMVR). The dealers will be allocated blocks of registration marks for issuing registration certificates,” said transport minister Kailash Gahlot.The order, seen by HT, stated that the temporary registration mark in red letters and figure on yellow background will be displayed on the vehicle in a prescribed manner. The designation and address of the dealer will be also cited on the registration plate, it said.Currently, those who buy a new vehicle need to simultaneously visit an RTO to get a temporary registration certificate issued by the motor licensing officer (MLO).The state transport department is running a pilot project in three RTOs — New Delhi, Sarai Kale Khan, and Mall Road — to decentralise issuing registration certificate. “The next step will be to issue permanent registration cards directly from the dealers. So, there will be no need to visit an RTO,” said Gahlot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vehicle-dealers-to-issue-registration-certificates-101624488142829.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Cut short by fourth wave, Delhi’s latest sero study offers few clues||Over 56% of those sampled during Delhi’s truncated sixth serological survey, in April, were found to have antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus, a proportion nearly identical to the study conducted in January, said senior state government officials.The report, submitted to the government last Monday, hasn’t officially been released and holds little epidemiological value since less than half of the planned sampling actually took place, and the serological prevalence triggered by the fourth wave would only be detectable much later.The survey was conducted from April 12 and only 13,000 of the 28,000 planned samples were taken. The Capital entered its fourth wave of infections in late March, and the surge peaked around a month later. These people are likely to develop detectable IgG antibodies only weeks after their infection.The report, by researchers from Maulana Azad Medical College, also suggests that the next sero survey be conducted in end-June or early-July to capture the fourth wave exposure. At its peak, Delhi recorded 28,000 cases in the third week of April.During the April round, samples were collected from only 141 of Delhi’s 272 wards. “The survey had to be stopped midway because cases started rising and a lockdown was implemented. Now, the samples that were collected during the five or six days that the survey was carried out are being analysed,” a Delhi government official told HT earlier.The reports of the antibody testing are yet to be shared with the study participants.“The dates for the next round of sero survey haven’t been confirmed yet,” said an official from Delhi’s health department.“The seroprevalence remained the same because there were hardly any Covid-19 cases in January and February. The cases started going up in April, while the survey was being conducted. Even if those who had the infection then were samples, they would not have developed the antibodies,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine.When the first sero survey was conduced in June-end last year, 22.6% of the 21,000 people sampled had antibodies. This rose to 29.1% of the 15,000 people sampled in August, and then dropped to 25.1% among the 17,000 sampled in September (due to a change in methodology and dropping antibody levels in the population, the researchers said). In October, it went up to 25.5% in a sample size of 15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cut-short-by-fourth-wave-delhi-s-latest-sero-study-offers-few-clues-101624486972183.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Only 4% reserved beds occupied as active cases drop||Amid a sharp fall in the Covid-19 caseload, only 4% of hospital beds in the national capital reserved for the treatment of Covid-19 patients were occupied as on Wednesday evening, in stark contrast to the situation in early May, when facilities were packed, and medical equipment was in short supply as Delhi battled a fourth wave of infections.However, several of these hospitals, said they have started admitting patients facing post-Covid complications, as well as those whose non-Covid procedures were delayed.The state government’s Delhi Corona app at 8pm on Wednesday showed that nearly all isolation, oxygen, and intensive care unit (ICU) beds reserved in city hospitals are empty. Of the 27,246 total beds across hospitals and makeshift facilities, only 1,193 were in use on Wednesday evening, showed the portal.“There are several non-Covid patients whose surgeries were delayed when cases began surging in April. These are not emergency procedures, but they are urgent. Some planned surgeries have also started,” said an official from one of Delhi’s major private hospitals who asked not to be named. The official, however, said the allocated number of beds would be made available for Covid-19 patients if cases start rising again.“We just have seven Covid-19 patients at the moment and there are so many others who need attention. So, we are admitting other patients except for one ward,” said an official at another private hospital.An official at a third hospital said, “Once the Covid-19 cases subsided, there were several people who started coming in with complications arising from the disease, such as lung problems or secondary infections. These patients were also admitted on the Covid-19 beds. Barring some wards, the rest are being used to treat non-Covid patients now.”As cases in April began to gallop amid the city’s fourth wave of infections, the Delhi government reserved close to 80% beds across hospitals in city, with some government hospitals being converted entirely to Covid-19 treatment centres. There has been no de-escalation order since.At its peak, Delhi saw over 20,000 hospital admissions at a time, with the city completely running out of ICU beds towards the end of April, even as medical oxygen supplies fell short. More beds were added, while some were set up in temporary structures, after oxygen shortages eased in May.“There has been no order of de-escalation of facilities. Hospitals do have some beds to treat non-Covid patients and can take in some extra patients as well in cases of emergency. So if non-Covid patients are taking up 22% of the beds instead of the allocated 20%, then it’s alright. But, if they are deliberately taking in patients on reserved beds, that shouldn’t be done,” said a senior Delhi government official.Delhi government-run hospitals continue to keep beds reserved for Covid-19 patients as the government prepares for another potential wave of infections, and is getting facilities ready to handle 37,000 to 45,000 new cases a day.As for makeshift facilities, such as the one at the Ramlila Maidan attached to Lok Nayak hospital, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said, “We are de-escalating, but everything will be kept on standby in case the cases start increasing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-4-reserved-beds-occupied-as-active-cases-drop-101624485379680.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Congress councillor from Kishan Ganj joins AAP||Congress councillor Usha Sharma on Wednesday joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the presence of Delhi minister and AAP state convener Gopal Rai.“Inspired by the work done by the Arvind Kejriwal government in Delhi, Usha Sharma from the Congress party who is the current councillor of the ward no 81 -N of Kishan Ganj is joining the AAP. Due to the corruption by the Bharatiya Janata Party, the situation has become such that the civic bodies have to sell the property of MCD,” Rai said.Currently, the BJP rules all three municipal bodies. MCD polls are due next year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/congress-councillor-from-kishan-ganj-joins-aap-101624484114497.html
24-06-2021||Other||1 dead, 50 infected with Covid-19 in Ludhiana in 24 hours||A 60-year-old male patient from Aitiana village died while 50 others tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana in the last 24 hours, health officials said on Wednesday. In good news, however, no new mucormycosis (black fungus) case or casualty has come to the fore in the last 24 hours.The fresh Covid cases include 21 patients with influenza-like symptoms and 16 patients from the outpatient departments of different hospitals.The cumulative count of Covid cases since the outbreak has reached 86,741, out of which 2,080 have succumbed to the disease so far. While 84,185 patients have recovered, there were 476 active cases in the district on Wednesday. The recovery rate on the day stood at 97%.Till date, the district has reported 138 black fungus cases, out of which 19 patients have succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-dead-50-infected-with-covid-19-in-ludhiana-in-24-hours-101624482224529.html
24-06-2021||Other||Out for a walk, Ludhiana teen forcibly taken to a flat, gangraped; 3 booked||Three persons have been booked for allegedly raping a 19-year-old girl after forcibly taking her to a flat in Rajiv Gandhi Colony on Tuesday.The incident took place when the victim was out for a walk with her friend. As per information, the girl was waiting for her friend, who had gone to attend the nature’s call, when three men reached there on an Activa scooter and forcibly took her to an apartment and gangraped her.They fled the spot after threatening her against revealing the incident to anyone.After they left, the teen rang up her friend, who took her back home.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Darshan Singh, the investigating officer, said the victim has identified one of the accused— Sunny of Rajiv Gandhi Colony — while the other two are yet to be identified.A case under Sections 376-D (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Focal Point police station. “Raids are being conducted to arrest Sunny, but he is still absconding. After Sunny’s arrest, the other two accused will be identified,” said the ASI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/out-for-a-walk-ludhiana-teen-forcibly-taken-to-a-flat-gangraped-3-booked-101624482104349.html
24-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Fire at main dump on Tajpur road||Fire broke out at the main garbage dump on Tajpur road on Wednesday morning, leaving the nearby areas choked with foul smell and smoke.Area councillor Kanchan Malhotra said, “Fire tenders were rushed to the spot as soon as we came to know about the incident. The firefighting operations continued for around four hours.”The Tajpur road dumpsite has accumulated around 16 lakh tonnes of legacy waste over the years, and fire incidents have become a commonplace. The municipal corporation has been facing flak for failing to start the work of disposing the legacy waste even though it is part of the Smart City Mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-fire-at-main-dump-on-tajpur-road-101624481984274.html
24-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Armed assailants rob scrap dealer of ₹2 lakh||In a broad daylight robbery, two armed assailants entered a scrap shop in Millar Ganj on Wednesday morning and took away cash to the tune of ₹2 lakh after threatening the dealer with sharp-edged weapons. Scrap dealer, Jatinder Nagpal, said he had arrived at his shop around 10am when two turbaned men, with their faces covered, barged in. Sensing trouble, Nagpal threw his bag, containing ₹2 lakh, under a table but one of the men spotted it and forced him to it handover after threatening to kill him.Following this, the two men sped away on a motorcycle. Nagpal told the police that the duo managed to escape the crowded area easily even though he had raised the alarm. Division Number 6 station house officer (SHO) Amandeep Singh Brar said a police party was rushed to the spot soon after getting information about the robbery. Brar added that the police are scanning closed-circuit television cameras in the area to identify the culprits.Joint commissioner (rural) Sachin Gupta said all angles are being probed. “The manner in which the robbery was carried out indicates that the assailants were aware that the victim was carrying a large amount of cash. It could be an insider’s job or that the robbers had carried out a recce before executing the crime,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-armed-assailants-rob-scrap-dealer-of-rs-2-lakh-101624481564197.html
24-06-2021||Other||2 dead, 3 injured as bus rams into stationary truck on NH-44 near Khanna||Two people were killed and three others injured after a private bus rammed into a stationary truck on National Highway 44, passing through Khanna town, in the wee hours of Wednesday. The bus driver is among those dead in the mishap.As per information, the bus was ferrying passengers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Police suspect the bus driver may not have noticed the truck laden with iron rods, and thus rammed into it. “The impact of the collision was so strong that the rods pierced through the windshield of the bus, killing the driver on the spot,” investigating officer (IO) Sarjung Singh said.Another body, suspected to be of the truck driver, was found at the site. Police say prima facie it appears he was sleeping under the truck and was killed as a result of the collision. The injured include a couple, identified as Vishwanath and Kalavati, from Bagga Khurd of Ludhiana, and Mohammad Yasin, a resident of Shivpuri of Ludhiana.The couple was referred to Ludhiana civil hospital for treatment and their condition is said to be critical. The bodies have been kept at the civil hospital for identification.IO Sarjung Singh said police are trying to ascertain the identities of the deceased and the bodies have been kept at the civil hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-dead-3-injured-as-bus-rams-into-stationary-truck-on-nh-44-near-khanna-101624481444345.html
24-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Days before exam, students of PU-affiliated colleges dash to deposit fee||With just five days to go before final exams commence at Panjab University (PU) and its affiliated colleges, students, instead of preparing for exams, are making a last-minute dash to their institutes to deposit the examination fee. Reason: Students who have not deposited the fee will not be allowed to appear in the exams, starting June 28.Though the university had set May 25 as the last date for depositing the fee, the deadline was extended till June 1, without late fee, for the benefit of such students.A majority of the students, who have not paid their fee until now, said that there are financial constraints at home due to the pandemic. There were also a few students who said that they were unaware that they had to pay the college examination fee as the same was not communicated them during online classes.At Satish Chander Dhawan Government College, over 200 students of different classes have not deposited the examination fee. College authorities stated that they had sent several reminders to the students to deposit the fee and then displayed the list of students who had not paid the examination fee on the notice board of the college. For the last one week, many students have been making rounds of the college to get the late fee charges waived. The college principal has stated that this can be done by the university and they have given enough time to students to deposit the examination fee.Over 20 students of Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Commerce, BSc first and second year visited the college and were guided to visit the university to get the late fee charges waived off. After depositing the examination fee and getting approval from the varsity, the students can appear in the online exam.Gurjant Singh, a BA second semester student, said, “My father drives a school bus and is out of work for the last year and a half. Besides, the college has been closed since then. I was not aware of the last date of fee deposit and my father was trying to arrange the fee amount. But with the late payment charges, I now have to pay ₹22,000. I will visit the university tomorrow to request them to waive the late payment charges.” Amandeep Singh, a BSc second semester student, said, “Due to financial issues at home, I was unable to deposit the fee and now I have been asked to pay the fee with late payment charges which will cost ₹24,000. Due to Covid-19 crisis, my parents were unable to deposit ₹1,500 earlier and now it is not possible to pay the fee with late payment charges. I will not be allowed to sit in the final exam.”College principal Gurpreet Kaur, said, “We had informed the students to deposit the examination fee. Repeated reminders were sent but despite that, many of them have not deposited the fee. We have sent a letter to the varsity and recommended the names of the students for fee waiver.” At Government College for Girls, over 55 to 60 students have not deposited the examination fee. As per the college authorities, messages were sent to students every week to deposit the examination fee. Sukhwinder Kaur, principal, said, “We have given enough time to students to deposit the fee and several reminders were also given. This shows the students’ non-serious attitude.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-days-before-exam-students-of-pu-affiliated-colleges-dash-to-deposit-fee-101624481324651.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||HP allows visually impaired students to rope in scribe if exam agency fails to provide one||Himachal Pradesh government has given a big relief to visually impaired and other candidates who can’t write in their examination papers due to disability. Now, they can engage a scribe with higher qualification if the examination conducting agency fails to provide one. Ajai Srivastava, expert member of HP State Advisory Board on disability and chairperson of Umang Foundation had raised this issue with the chief minister Jai Ram Thakur. He had urged him to ensure the compliance with a judgment of Delhi High Court and the directions of central ministry of social justice and empowerment, besides the UGC.He said that the department of social justice and empowerment had notified the old set of guidelines issued by the central government for the conduct of examinations for the visually impaired and other candidates who cannot write due to disability. In these guidelines it was made mandatory for the eligible examinees to bring a scribe “one step junior” in qualification. But the Delhi High Court had directed the union ministry for social justice and empowerment, and UGC that if the examination conducting agency fails to provide the scribe, the candidates may bring their own scribe and no criteria of educational qualification of such scribes shall be fixed. This direction was to be complied with across the country through union ministry of social justice and empowerment, UGC and other ministries in all academic and competitive examinations, including for jobs. The state government had issued the guidelines by ignoring the directions of the court and central government. When this matter was raised before the chief minister by Umang Foundation, the additional chief secretary (SJ&E) Sanjay Gupta immediately issued the new guidelines as per the directions of the central government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hp-allows-visually-impaired-students-to-rope-in-scribe-if-exam-agency-fails-to-provide-one-101624481024268.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||It’s an opportunity to present our viewpoint: MY Tarigami||We don’t know what Prime Minister Narendra Modi is going to offer us in the all-party meeting, says PAGD spokesperson and CPI(M) leader MY Tarigami as he talks to HT’s Mir Ehsan about how it is an opportunity to present their point of view. After PAGD accepted invitation, should the alliance have got some guarantees before the meeting?We (the leaders) are not going to attend the meeting with the PM for personal benefits or gains. We haven’t been even told about the agenda of this meeting. We will listen to the Prime Minister and also talk about our issues. We don’t know what he (Modi) is going to offer us. What is going to be the line adopted by the PAGD in the meeting?We will put our point of view in the meeting. The biggest thing that has been taken away should be given back to us. We will convey everything, including the provisions that had been granted to us in the Constitution of India, everything regarding Articles 35 A and 370, and how the historic state was divided in an act of injustice to the people of J&K. We want that back and the same will be conveyed to the PM.Do you think more parties of alliance should have been invited?It wasn’t our choice. We would have wanted all constituents of the PAGD in the meeting. Even other political groups like that of Hakeem Yaseen and others, which aren’t part of the PAGD, should have been invited. All those from the alliance who got an invitation will go and forcefully talk about issues. For us, it’s an opportunity to put our point of view at the highest level.Are you optimistic about the meeting with PM?I don’t know. We all have kept our fingers crossed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/its-an-opportunity-to-present-our-viewpoint-my-tarigami-101624480245194.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man axes father to death in Kangra||A 45-year-old man killed his father with an axe in Machhiyal village of Shahpur subdivision in Kangra district, police said on Wednesday. The crime took place on Tuesday evening. Accused Sunil Kumar has been arrested and booked for murder. The victim, 75-year-old Khushal Singh, was a retired soldier. Kangra superintendent of police (SP) Vimukt Ranjan said the accused often used to pick fights with his father for money. On Tuesday also, he had a tiff with his father, he added. After Khushal refused to give him more money, Sunil hit his father on his back with an axe. The family members rushed the grievously injured victim to the Shahpur civil hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival. The body has been handed over to the kin after conducting autopsy, Ranjan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-axes-father-to-death-in-kangra-101624480244197.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||First suspected case of delta+ variant detected in J&K||The first case of suspected delta-plus variant of Covid has been detected in Jammu and Kashmir. The patient, a 39-year-old employee of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board has been kept in isolation at home with mild symptoms. “The employee was posted at Himkoti enroute the cave shrine. He was on leave. Before resuming his duties, he was tested for Covid. His reports showed him positive for the suspected Delta Plus variant. The employee has been sent back home,” said a shrine board official. The principal and dean of the government medical college and hospital in Jammu, Dr Shashi Sudhan Sharma, said, “It appears to be a suspected case of Delta Plus variant. I can confirm it on Thursday.” India has reported a total of 40 cases of this variant till now. 444 people test +ve for Covid in UTJammu and Kashmir recorded 444 fresh Covid infections and four deaths on Wednesday.The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 839 with active positive cases dropping to 6,782 from the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13.The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,01,973 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 96.46%. The overall cases in J&K have reached 3,13,028 and the death toll has hit 4,273.Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole, while chairing a meeting to review pandemic situation, stressed on enhancing the capacity of oxygen generation and bed facility at all hospitals. Virus claims 8 lives in HimachalHimachal Pradesh recorded 258 fresh Covid infections on Wednesday taking the state’s tally to 2,01,049 while the death toll mounted to 3,445 after eight more people succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 74 were reported in Shimla, 30 in Bilaspur, 39 in Mandi, 26 in Sirmaur, 21 in Kangra, 19 in Chamba, 18 in Hamirpur, 17 in Una, 14 in Kullu, seven in Solan, two in Kinnaur and one in Lahaul-Spiti. Recoveries have reach 1,95,289 after 234 people recuperated while the active cases have come down to 2,287.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-suspected-case-of-delta-variant-detected-in-jk-101624479885421.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Delimitation exercise: Poll panel holds meeting with deputy magistrates of J&K||Amid heightened political activity in Jammu and Kashmir ahead of PM’s all-party meet on Thursday, the election commission on Wednesday held deliberations with all 20 deputy magistrates of the UT via videoconferencing. “It asked basic statistics like population, number of constituencies, patwar and halqas, geographical boundaries and topography,” said one of the deputy magistrates. Political analysts feel that the exercise could be a precursor to the much-awaited resumption of political activities leading to the maiden assembly elections ever since the state of J&K was divested of its special status on August 5, 2019 and bifurcated into two UTs. Professor Rekha Choudhary, former head of political sciences department at Jammu University, said, “Holding the all-party meet is a very good decision. I see it as a precursor to revival of political activity leading to the maiden assembly elections. Secondly, the forum could also be used to discuss restoration of statehood, an emotional issue for both Jammu and Kashmir regions, to which BJP government has also given its commitment. Thirdly and most importantly, Kashmir-centric parties are still reluctant on delimitation exercise. Though of late there were ample feelers from them to be a part of the delimitation exercise, the consensus still eludes the panel. I think the issue may figure at the forum.” She, however, said that she didn’t see any remote possibility of all-party meet discussing Article 370 and 35-A because “they were the core ideological issues for the BJP.” In July last year, the delimitation panel had sought substantial information from J&K administration in various formats like maps, statistics, Census 2011 figures, new tehsils, patwars and halqas. Union law ministry has constituted a delimitation commission headed by former Supreme Court judge Ranjana Prakash Desai to redraw Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of the UT of Jammu and Kashmir. Election commissioner Sushil Chandra and election commissioners of J&K besides four states are ex-officio members of the panel. All five Lok Sabha MPs from Jammu and Kashmir – Farooq Abdullah, Hasnain Masoodi and Muhammad Akbar Lone from the National Conference and Jitendra Singh and Jugal Kishore from the BJP – have been nominated as ‘associate members’ of the commission to assist it in redrawing parliamentary and assembly constituencies. According to Section 60 of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, the number of seats in the legislative assembly of the UT of Jammu and Kashmir will be increased from 107 to 114. Out of these, 24 seats are in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. The constituencies in the erstwhile state were last delimited in 1995 and the state assembly had then unanimously agreed upon putting freeze on any such exercise till 2026. As per Census 2011, Jammu and Kashmir had a population of 12,541,302. The erstwhile state of J&K that comprised Kashmir, Jammu and Ladakh regions had six Lok Sabha seats — one in Ladakh, two in Jammu and three in Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delimitation-exercise-poll-panel-holds-meeting-with-deputy-magistrates-of-jk-101624479884212.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Congress veteran, six-time Himachal CM Virbhadra Singh turns 88||The grand old man of Himachal’s politics and six-time chief minister Virbhadra Singh turned 88 on Wednesday. Virbhadra, who tested positive for Covid for the second time on June 9, is undergoing treatment at Indira Gandhi Medical College in Shimla. Virbhadra was shifted from the Covid-19 isolation facility to a special ward two days ago after he tested negative. His supporters kept the birthday celebration a low-key affair. Virbhadra’s son Vikramaditya, a legislator from Shimla (Rural), celebrated his birthday at his private residence - Holy Lodge. On the occasion, Vikramaditya flagged off two ambulances for his constituency besides oxygen concentrators. District president of Congress Yashwant Chajta and leaders Harisha Janartha were also present. The Congress also organised blood donation camps. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur also wished Virbhadra Singh. Born on June 23, 1934, in the royal family of princely state of Bushahar at its capital Sarahan, now in Rampur subdivision of Shimla, Virbhadra studied at Colonel Brown Cambridge School, Dehradun, St Edward’s School, Shimla, and Bishop Cotton School, Shimla, before earning a BA (Honours) degree from St Stephen’s College in Delhi. He was married to Ratna Kumari in 1954 and had four daughters. He got remarried in 1986 to Pratibha Singh and has one daughter and a son. Virbhadra entered the national politics at a young age of 27 when he was elected to the Lok Sabha in 1962, becoming the youngest MP at that time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/congress-veteran-six-time-himachal-cm-virbhadra-singh-turns-88-101624478564155.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||NIA takes over probe into dera follower’s murder in Bathinda, firing on priest at Phillaur||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the ongoing probe into the murder of a Dera Sacha Sauda follower at Bhagta Bhai Ka village in Bathinda last year and firing on a priest at Phillaur in Jalandhar district, said officials familiar with development on Wednesday. The agency took over the probe after the Moga police found involvement of Khalistan Tiger Force (KTF) in the two incidents and arrested many of its activists. Moga senior Superintendent Harmanbir Singh Gill said, “The further probe will be conducted by the central agency.” The Moga police have already arrested Lovepreet Singh, alias Ravi, Ram Singh, alias Sonu, Kamaldeep Sharma, alias Kamal, who allegedly acted on the direction of KTF’s Canada-based chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar. Also, the police on Sunday had arrested gangster Hardeep Singh, alias Suraj Raunta, an accomplice of the KTF’s operative. According to the police, besides Nijjar, three other KTF operatives, identified as Arshdeep Singh of Dala village in Moga, Ramandeep Singh, alias Raman Judge of Ferozepur and Charanjeet, alias Rinku Bihla of Barnala, are hiding in Surrey, Canada. On November 20 last year, Ram Singh, alias Sonu and Kamal allegedly killed Manohar Lal, a dera follower, at Bhagta Bhaika village. Sonu and Kamal had fired multiple shots at him. Besides, they were also involved in murder of a trader and gangster Sukha Lamme in Moga, said police. Agency rounds up co-conspirator’s father A NIA team on Wednesday also rounded up Charanjeet Singh, father of co-conspirator Arshdeep Singh. SSP Harmanbir Singh Gill said, “Charanjeet was involved in the targeted killing carried out by his son Arshdeep. He has been supporting his son’s activities. The central investigation agency nabbed him but he got injured when the team was chasing him. He was admitted to a hospital and the NIA will officially arrest him when the doctors declare him fit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nia-takes-over-probe-into-dera-follower-s-murder-in-bathinda-firing-on-priest-at-phillaur-101624478507580.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Jai Ram’s security officer, SP engage in scuffle in Kullu||Union minister for road transport and highways, micro, small and medium enterprises Nitin Gadkari’s visit to Kullu witnessed unruly scenes outside the airport as chief minister’s security personnel engaged in a scuffle with district police chief Gaurav Singh. The video of the incident has gone viral wherein Gaurav Singh is seen slapping CM’s security officer Brijesh Sood after an argument over the protests staged by farmers affected by expansion of a highway. In retaliation, Brijesh, along with other security personnel, kicked the district police chief. Director Sanjay Kundu has left for Kullu from Shimla to ascertain the veracity of the facts that led to the unruly situation. All the drama happened in front of chief minister’s car. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur and Union minister stepped out of the vehicle to talk to the farmers, who were demanding higher compensation. Gadkari was, meanwhile, accorded rousing reception on his arrival at Bhuntar airport in Kullu on Wednesday by CM Jai Ram Thakur. The Union minister would virtually inaugurate and lay foundation stones of road projects worth ₹6,155 crore from Manali on Thursday. All three officials to remain on compulsory leaveMeanwhile, under Section 63 of the HP Police Act, the duties of Kullu SP Gaurav Singh, IPS, will be performed by the DIG CR Madhusudan, IPS; and the duties of additional SP, CM security, Brijesh Sood, HPS, will be performed by additional SP, 3rd Bn Pandoh, Puneet Raghu, HPS. IG Intelligence will immediately depute someone to perform the duties of Balwant, HPP, PSO to CM of HP with immediate effect.Till the conclusion of the preliminary inquiry into the incident that took place at Bhuntar, Gaurav Singh, Brijesh Sood and Balwant will remain on compulsory leave. Their headquarters have been fixed to Range Office Mandi and PHQ Shimla. Foundation stones of projects worth ₹64 crore laid in KulluWith an eye on by-election to Mandi parliamentary seat, Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects worth about ₹64 crore in Manali, Banjar and Kullu assembly constituencies virtually on Wednesday. He also laid foundation stones of projects worth ₹1.81 crore in Manali area, besides Kullu and Banjar. Jai Ram said all 15 development projects would ensure better facilities to the people of the state as well as the tourists visiting the district.Education minister Govind Singh Thakur said the people of Kullu and Manali would remain grateful to the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jai-ram-s-security-officer-sp-engage-in-scuffle-in-kullu-101624478506648.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Prime accused wanted for shooting Tarn Taran farmer to death held||Police on Wednesday arrested the prime accused wanted in the case in which a farmer was shot dead following a dispute over tilling of land at Gehri village in Tarn Taran district on June 18. The arrested accused, Kuldeep Singh, alias Sonu of the same village, had gunned down Resham Singh with his .12 bore rifle. Besides Kuldeep, 10 more accused were booked in the case. A video of the incident had surfaced on social media. Two of the accused were arrested soon after the incident. Victim Resham’s brother Jaswant Singh had said that Kuldeep and his aides fired on Resham Singh and his other family members besides assaulting them with sharp-edged weapons. Jaswant and one Manjinder Singh were injured in the attack. The accused had allegedly tilled the victim’s land with an intention of grabbing it, the family alleged. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said, “Raids are on to nab rest of the accused.”A case under sections 302 (murder), 148 (rioting with deadly weapons) of the Indian Penal Code and sections 24, 54and 59 of the Arms Act was registered at the Sara-E-Amanat Khan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prime-accused-wanted-for-shooting-tarn-taran-farmer-to-death-held-101624478505357.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL buys power from grid as Talwandi Sabo plant unit shut down||A unit of the Talwandi Sabo thermal power plant in Bathinda district has gone out of operation, forcing the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to purchase electricity from the grid. Corporation chairman and managing director (CMD) A Venu Prasad said the power utility has purchased 879 megawatt (MW) electricity from the power grid at the rate of ₹3.85 per unit to meet the increased demand in the state due to hot summers and the ongoing paddy sowing season. The PSPCL has made arrangements to meet the demand up to 13,700 MW, it s learnt. The out-of-operation unit of the Talwandi Sabo plant has a capacity of generating 615 MW power. “Presently, the power generation from interstate stations is about 600-700 MW less when compared to the last year due to low hydro potential and non-supply of 400MW power from four thermal units of the Coastal Gujarat Power Ltd (CGPL), Mundra. This deficit is being arranged by procuring power on a day-to-day basis from the exchange,” Prasad said. The PSPCL catered to the current paddy season’s highest power demand of 12,805 MW and recorded consumption of 2,901 lakh units on June 22. Prasad said the demand is expected to rise further in the coming week.“Last year, the maximum demand and consumption were at 12,683 MW and 2,822 lakh units in June. However, the highest ever consumption of 3,018 lakh units was recorded in July 2020. The highest ever demand of 13,606 MW was recorded in July 2019,” he added. The PSPCL has operationalised all the four units of the Lehra Mohabbat plant, three units of the Ropar plant and all the units of private plant. Nearly 850 MW power is being contributed by hydel power stations of PSPCL.A power engineer said during most of the season PSPCL pay fixed costs to the Talwani Sabo plants but when power is needed, it develops snags. “Earlier also, the plant had remained out of operation due to technical problems. This needs to be checked,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-buys-power-from-grid-as-talwandi-sabo-plant-unit-shut-down-101624478504382.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Domestic help’s sister held for strangulating elderly woman to death||Police on Wednesday arrested a 28-year-old woman for allegedly strangulating an elderly woman to death before looting cash and jewellery from her house in Guru Nanak Wara locality of Amritsar city on Monday. The accused, Mandeep Kaur, a resident of Baba Deep Singh Colony in the city, is the sister of a domestic help who worked in the house of Surjit Kaur (73), the victim.  ₹75,000 and some gold jewellery were found missing from the house. Surjit Kaur’s husband Sukhmohinder Singh runs a cycle store opposite the railway station in Amritsar. The couple’s son lives in Canada. On Monday, the woman was alone at home. The police said Mandeep used to visit their house along with her sister Jyoti. Deputy commissioner of police (investigation) Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar said Mandeep was seen entering the house on Monday afternoon in a CCTV (closed-circuit television) footage. “During questioning, Mandeep confessed to have strangulated the elderly woman to death with an intention of loot. She has been living separately from her husband for a few years,” he said. A case under sections 302 (murder), 452 (house trespass), 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused at the Cantonment police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/domestic-help-s-sister-held-for-strangulating-elderly-woman-to-death-101624478448103.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sonia Gandhi to take call on Punjab Cong rejig by July 10||A three-member Congress committee set up to resolve infighting in Punjab has set deadlines for chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to deliver on 18 pending poll promises, including Bargari sacrilege, drug cases and annulment of power purchase agreements, party’s Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat said on Wednesday. Rawat, while giving details of the panel’s discussions with the CM a day earlier, said that Congress president Sonia Gandhi would take a decision on the government and organizational set-ups in Punjab by July 8-10. The three-member panel headed by leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge with Rawat and former Delhi MP Jai Prakash Agarwal as members, had held a series of meetings with 150-odd leaders of the faction-ridden state unit and submitted a report to Sonia. Rawat said the panel discussed the progress on the poll manifesto with the chief minister and asked him to act on pending promises within the set timeframe. “Bargari is an emotional issue in Punjab. We respect the emotions of people. The CM has been asked to take action in accordance with the public sentiment and within the perimeters of law. On the drug issue, the government has taken action and will act in pending matters soon,” Rawat told the media after his meeting with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi. The AICC general secretary listed 200 units of free power for urban households, Scheduled Caste scholarships, and tightening the screws on sand and transport mafia among the 18 election promises on which the chief minister has been asked to take prompt action. “A lot of promises were made in our manifesto and many have been fulfilled. The committee has given clear deadlines on the remaining issues and sought time-bound implementation in consultation with the chief minister. Barring the Bargari sacrilege case, all other require executive decisions. You will see considerable action within next 15-20 days,” said the former Uttarakhand chief minister. He said the chief minister would brief the media on these in the next two-three days. On Sidhu’s statements targeting the chief minister, Rawat said he is studying all the comments made by Sidhu. “I will give him advice wherever needed. In case there is need for a direction, I will do the needful,” he said. On whether the party was considering any role for Sidhu in the government or oganisation, Rawat said he had not spoken to Sidhu regarding this and would call him for a meeting within next 2-3 days. While Amarinder returned to Chandigarh without an audience with the top leadership. Rahul continued his meetings with senior party leaders and met Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, Rajya Sabha member Partap Singh Bajwa and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Wednesday. After meeting, Jakhar said they discussed the steps needed to strengthen the party and resolve differences of opinion between various leaders. “The seriousness with which Rahul is looking at everything gives him confidence that the revival of the Congress will start from Punjab,” he said. Asked about Sidhu’s blistering attacks, Jakhar said he (former minister) was one of the 80 party MLAs and both Rawat and Kharge had already stated that he should air his grievances before the committee. The state chief blamed the chief minister’s so-called advisers for decisions such as government jobs for two party MLAs’ sons which were putting the chief minister’s office in a spot. Bajwa said that he discussed the current political situation in the state and the ground reality where the party and the government stood. “I told him (Rahul) about my assessment and how genuine the grievances of some leaders are,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonia-gandhi-to-take-call-on-punjab-cong-rejig-by-july-10-101624478446985.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Museum: Portraits of Hindus killed during terrorism days on display at Durgiana Temple||A museum displaying portraits of Hindu political leaders, activists and civilians killed by militants besides prominent persons from the community who played an important role in the history of the undivided Punjab was inaugurated at the Durgiana Temple in Amritsar on Wednesday. Dugiana Temple committee president Ramesh Sharma said the unique museum named ‘Punjab Da Gaurav’ is a blend of all colours of the undivided Punjab. “The museum depicts many historic events with which our young generation is not familiar. It tells tales of the 1947 Partition. It also has portraits and brief life sketches of the great Hindus who attained martyrdom while fighting the cruel Mughal rulers. Our young generation knows only a few freedom fighters who hailed from the undivided Punjab. This museum is an effort to make people aware of many little-known freedom fighters”, said Ramesh Sharma.Committee general secretary Arun Khanna said, “The museum also showcases the historic Hindu shrines situated in Pakistan. Scientists, film artists and sportsmen have also found a place in it. People should know about Punjabi Hindus who sacrificed everything for service of the country.” The gallery is in the vicinity of the Harbans Lal Khanna Samarak, the BJP’s district-level office. The memorial was built in the memory of Harbans Lal Khanna, the Amritsar BJP chief and former MLA, who was killed by suspected militants before Operation Bluestar in 1984. Khanna’s portrait has also been put up in the gallery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/museum-portraits-of-hindus-killed-during-terrorism-days-on-display-at-durgiana-temple-101624478445579.html
24-06-2021||Bangalore||Couple found murdered in K’taka district, police suspect hate crime||Bengaluru: A Dalit man and a Muslim woman were found murdered in north Karnataka’s Vijayapura district on Tuesday. Police who are investigating the case said that it is suspected that the murder was committed by the family of the girl, who didn’t agree to her relationship with a Dalit. The murder took place in Saladahalli village in Devara Hipparagi taluk on Tuesday afternoon. The police identified the victims as Basavaraj Madivalapaa Badiger, 19 and Davalbi Bandagisab Tambad, 18. Basavaraj, an autorickshaw driver at Saladahalli village, belonged to the Madar community, while Tambad was from the neighbouring Khanapur. Anupam Agarwal, superintendent of police Vijayapura said that as per the information available to the police, both victims were in a relationship. “We are investigating the allegation that the family was not in favour of the relationship and when they found them in a field, they killed them using a stone. We will get further information on the case once we secure the suspects. Prima facie, it looks like a case of honour killing.” said Agarwal. During the investigation, police have found that the couple knew each other for more than six months and there were instances in the past when the girl’s family had opposed her meeting Basavaraj. In October 2020, a 19-year-old woman was killed allegedly by her father and two other relatives, including a minor, who were opposed to her reported love affair with a man belonging to another community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/couple-found-murdered-in-k-taka-district-police-suspect-hate-crime-101624478023567.html
24-06-2021||Other||Nine with roots in Punjab among 20 held in largest drug bust in Canada||Toronto Police have undertaken the largest “drug takedown” in its history, as it busted a ring that spanned three nations, leading to the seizure of drugs worth almost 61 million Canadian dollars (approximately ₹370 crore). While 20 people were arrested in the operation, nearly half of them were of Indian-origin.The operation, called Project Brisa (Spanish for breeze), lasted almost six months, after investigations commenced in November last year. Over a 1,000kg of illegal drugs were seized, including 444kg of cocaine, 182kg of crystal meth, 427kg of marijuana, and 300 oxycodone pills. Police also seized 21 vehicles, including five tractor-trailers, 966,020 Canadian dollars in cash and a firearm.The tractor-trailers were being used to transport drugs between Mexico, the United States and Canada. Multiple law enforcement agencies participated in the operation, including the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, Ontario Provincial Police, York Regional Police, Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA), Windsor Police Service, Montreal Police, the Financial Transactions and Reports Analysis Centre of Canada, while Canadian police collaborated with the United States Department of Homeland Security and the United States Drug Enforcement Administration.Of those arrested, nine are of Indian-origin: Gurbakhash Singh Grewal, 37, of Brampton, Amarbir Singh Sarkaria, 25, of Caledon, Harbaljit Singh Toor, 46, of Caledon, Harwinder Bhullar, 43, of Caledon, Sarjant Singh Dhaliwal, 37, of Kitchener, Gurveer Dhaliwal, 26, of Kitchener, Gurmanpreet Grewal, 26, of Kitchener, Sukhwant Brar, 37, of Brampton and Parminder Gill, 33, of Brampton.“The removal of this quantity of drugs destined for the streets of our respective communities has without question prevented countless overdoses, acts of drug-related violence like shootings, and other occurrences that diminish the quality of life for our citizens,” Toronto Police chief James Ramer said.“When such networks are operating across three countries, Canada, the US and Mexico, ongoing collaboration between agencies, including CBSA is vital,” York Regional Police chief Jim MacSween said.The name for the operation was derived from the first seizure, when Toronto police’s drug squad raided a tractor-trailer carrying a consignment of hair dryers.This follows another major bust announced in April this year. In an operation dubbed Project Cheetah, law enforcement led by the York Regional Police arrested and charged over two dozen people and seized about 2.3 million Canadian dollars ($1.86 million) worth of drugs which included 10kg of cocaine, 8kg of ketamine, 3kg of heroin and 2.5kg of opium. Investigators also seized 48 firearms and 730,000 in Canadian currency ($592,588). Of the 27 arrested, 23 had roots in Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nine-with-roots-in-punjab-among-20-held-in-largest-drug-bust-in-canada-101624477964177.html
24-06-2021||Bangalore||40-yr-old man held for searing three children||Bengaluru: Police on Tuesday arrested a 40-year-old man for searing his three young children using an iron rod. Deputy commissioner of police, south, Harish Pandey told reporters that police were informed about the violence by an NGO who shared photos with the police and the suspect was identified. According to the police, the accused has been identified as Selvan, a worker at a construction site and a resident of JP Nagar in southern Bengaluru. He had seared the children beneath the foot, shoulder, back and buttocks and didn’t even spare his four-year-old girl child, said police. The police said the children sustained injuries on their feet and shoulders and they were undergoing treatment at the Mahabodhi Burns Centre at Victoria Hospital, which is one of the only two specialised burns units in the state that are equipped to deal with third-degree burns.“He married a woman named Satya around two years ago after his first wife died. Selvam has children from his first marriage — two boys aged around eight and six and a girl aged four years,” said a Jayanagar police official. Since his first wife’s death, Selvan has been negligent towards the three children and would often hurt them, the police said. “Residents of the locality have said that there were several instances in the past where Selvan had attacked his children,” the police added. Selvan has been booked under Section 307 (Attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code, said the police. He will be presented before the Magistrate on June 23. His wife, the children’s stepmother, is also being treated as an accused in the case, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/40yrold-man-held-for-searing-three-children-101624477903537.html
24-06-2021||Other||Uneven rain in K’taka adds to farmers’ woes||Bengaluru: Karnataka received 363 millimetre rainfall between June 1 and 19, a 54% increase over the normal mark, and the meteorological department forecasts wide-spread rains between June 23 and 27, raising apprehensions of the farmers who are hoping to have a better harvest this year to recoup the losses due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bengaluru shows that the rainfall has been heavy over some areas and scarce over others, leaving an unequal distribution pattern. Farmers and union members said they are left with little hope with inconsistent monsoon conditions and the government not extending enough support, apart from exploitation by middlemen and agents who take away the lion’s share of the retail price. Ramkrishne Gowda, a small farmer in Pandavapura in Mandya district, is wary of what the future holds for him and his family as the region has received deficit rainfall and he has already lost one set of crops this year. “Just when beans and tomato were ripe for plucking, we got Covid-19. And no one came to our fields to work and almost the entire produce was lost. Even to clean the fields now, we need ₹1 lakh,” Gowda said. Though the farming community was allowed to operate during the lockdown, the closure of markets meant a sharp dip in prices, forcing many to sell their produce on the streets at throwaway prices. He said that the entire family of four was hospitalised after contracting Covid-19 and had expenses of around ₹2 lakh to procure life-saving medicines. His pending expenses include ₹50,000 to pay his sister’s engineering college fees, and ₹1 lakh to clean the 3-acre land parcel, getting more seeds, fertilizers. He hopes that there is some consistency in rainfall. “For the last two years we have only taken loans but are yet to see any profits. Last year we took loans of ₹1.5 lakh for sowing tomato and other crops. But we didn’t even get ₹5000 profit. We are now borrowing more money to pay off interests,” Gowda said. His family sold the three cows they had for ₹30,000 each. “We are still unable to make ends meet.”The Covid-19 induced lockdown also saw a reverse migration of sorts when those who left to cities for better employment and education opportunities, were seen heading back to their home-towns and villages due to the uncertainty, adding to the pressure on already small land holdings.Farmers’ unions in the state said that the payment for crops covered under minimum support price (MSP) has not been made. “We are yet to release all the funds for MSP. The chief minister released around ₹200 crore last week and we will be releasing more in the coming days,” said BC Patil, Karnataka’s minister for agriculture. Patil said that last year was hard due to the lockdown but this time around there was provision between 6-10 am for people to sell their produce, which farmers said did not help as the cost of diesel, transport, seeds, fertilisers and other input costs have gone up in recent days, making the trip almost unviable for producers. “In Punjab there is a rule that anyone buying or selling below MSP can be jailed. We in Karnataka also need similar laws to protect our farmers at least to help get minimum income. We are still not talking about profits,” said Kodihalli Chandrashekar, president of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) or state farmers’ union. “There is rain now, but if it intensifies, it could destroy crops.” In May, chief minister BS Yediyurappa announced a ₹1250-crore financial package, aimed to provide relief to unorganised workers and the farming community. The financial package involves a one-time payment of ₹10,000 for about 20,000 flower growers and 69,000 farmers who produce fruits and vegetables, costing the exchequer around ₹81.73 crore. The package also included the extension of the period of loans availed by around 425,000 farmers and others by three months. Farmers’ unions said that they are yet to receive the money and even when they do, it would do little to alleviate their suffering. “On one hand prices for essential commodities are skyrocketing and on the other, farmers are not even getting the cost of production. This is a perfect example of market failure,” said Prakash Kammardi, farm expert and former chairman of the Karnataka Agricultural Price Commission. “An imperfect market structure where middlemen can exhibit their overplay is becoming very dominant,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uneven-rain-in-k-taka-adds-to-farmers-woes-101624477844872.html
24-06-2021||Other||Kotkapura firing: SIT summons Sukhbir for questioning on June 26||A day after questioning Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) patriarch and former chief minister (CM) Parkash Singh Badal, the Punjab Police newly formed special investigation team (SIT) has summoned former deputy CM and party president Sukhbir Singh Badal on June 26 in connection with the 2015 Kotkapura firing case.Sukhbir, who was the home minister when the Kotkapura firing took place, has been asked to appear with record, if any, before the SIT on June 26 at 11am at Punjab Police Officers’ Institute, Sector 32, Chandigarh, in connection with two first information reports (FIRs) registered at the Kotkapura city police station on October 14, 2015, and August 7, 2018. Summon was issued under Section 160 (police officer’s power to require attendance of witnesses) of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).Apart from Badal Senior, the SIT led by additional director general of police (ADGP) LK Yadav has recently questioned a number of senior police officials, including former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended inspector general of police (IGP) Paramraj Singh Umranangal. This is the second time during the Congress regime that Sukhbir will be quizzed in connection with Kotkapura firing incident. Earlier, the SIT led by former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh had questioned the SAD chief in November 2018.A chargesheet filed in the court by Kunwar in May 2019 has said that incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib were “a pre-planned handiwork of then deputy CM Sukhbir Badal, then DGP Saini and Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda”. The Kunwar-led SIT had claimed that the post-sacrilege firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan were part of a conspiracy and directions came from the top.On April 9, questioning the impartiality of Kunwar Vijay, the Punjab and Haryana high court had quashed all the chargesheets filed by the SIT in Kotkapura firing case. The court also directed the state government to reconstitute a new SIT without him. Upset over the HC verdict, Kunwar took voluntary retirement in April.“Surprising thing is that even after making effort to find out and establish the allegation of conspiracy against Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir and despite mentioning their names in the chargesheet and recording therein that their conspiracy is established, Kunwar Vijay did not array them as accused by filing any chargesheet against them in these two FIRs so far. This is despite the fact that the chargesheet in which the alleged role of Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir has been mentioned by Kunwar Vijay, was prepared way back on May 23, 2019,” the HC stated in the quashing order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kotkapura-firing-sit-summons-sukhbir-for-questioning-on-june-26-101624477844265.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||ED summons three top fashion designers in PMLA case against Khaira||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned three top fashion designers of the country -- Ritu Kumar, Sabyasachi Mukherjee and Manish Malhotra -- in connection with a money laundering case against Bholath legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira, official sources said on Wednesday.They said the fashion designers have been sent notices to appear for questioning before the central probe agency in Delhi later this week. The three could not be reached for a comment.The summonses are related to a money laundering case against Khaira and his family members. The agency had conducted searches against the accused in March.Khaira was a rebel Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA when the raids were carried out. He has recently re-joined the Congress. He won the election on an AAP ticket in 2017. However, he resigned from the primary membership of the Arvind Kejriwal-led party in January 2019 and floated his own outfit, the Punjab Ekta Party.The ED has alleged that Khaira is an “associate” of drug case convicts and fake passport racketeers.The 56-year-old politician has denied any wrongdoing and said he is being targeted by central agencies as he has been vocal against the Centre’s three new farm laws.The case against him pertains to the probe in a 2015 Fazilka drugs smuggling incident in which 1,800 gms of heroin, 24 gold biscuits, two weapons, 26 live cartridges and two Pakistani SIM cards were seized by security agencies from a gang of international drug smugglers.The sources said the ED has found that certain payments, including in cash, were allegedly made to the three designers and hence, the agency wants to know their version of the transactions and record their statements.The payments, purportedly made during 2018-19, run into a few lakhs of rupees and are linked to Khaira, they said.The ED had filed the case under criminal sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against Khaira and others after studying a Punjab Police FIR.“The drugs were smuggled through the India-Pakistan border and one of the kingpins of the syndicate is in the UK.“Khaira was actively aiding and supporting the gang of international smugglers and enjoying the proceeds of crime,” the agency has alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ed-summons-three-top-fashion-designers-in-pmla-case-against-khaira-101624477364053.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Make arrangements for smooth paddy procurement: Punjab CM||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday directed the secretary, food and civil supplies department, to ensure elaborate arrangements for smooth paddy procurement during the kharif marketing season 2021-22. The agriculture department has fixed the target of 197.47 LMT of paddy production during current season with sowing of crop over 30 lakh hectares across the state. The department procured 202.83 LMT Paddy in the kharif marketing season 2020-21 and 132.10 LMT wheat in the rabi marketing season 2021-22. Chairing a high-level meeting to review the functioning of the department through video conferencing, the CM also asked the officials to tie up with Centre in advance for timely procurement of gunny bags (bardana), besides ensuring requisite logistics, including transportation and labour, for un-interrupted lifting of paddy so that the farmers could get payment of their produce within the stipulated timeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/make-arrangements-for-smooth-paddy-procurement-punjab-cm-101624477124112.html
24-06-2021||Other||Experts rule out locust threat this season||A year after swarms of desert locusts invaded several Indian states causing widespread damage to crops, the central government said the chances of invasion this season are bleak.Dr N Sathyanarayana, joint director of the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), a subsidiary of the central ministry, said the latest feedback this week from UN’s Food and Agriculture Organisation says the entire southwest Asian region is calm.Experts say nearly half a billion population of the locust had invaded India from Pakistan from October 2019 onwards. But locust has not been spotted in Iran and Pakistan till last week and this is good news for India, said the official.“A detailed analysis was done by the LWO on Tuesday after FAO’s sent its field and aerial studies being conducted in the locust hotbeds in African, Middle East region and Asian countries. Unlike last year, there is no potential threat of locust in India,” said Sathyanarayana, the national coordinator on mitigating locust attacks.He, however, said the breeding and movement pattern of swarms in other parts of the world suggest a stray swarm may hit the desert areas of Gujarat alone. But there is no need to panic and FAO or LWO is not issuing any forewarning, he said.“Locust may arrive only for breeding and we do not see any threat to vegetation. But chances are remote. The LWO is constantly coordinating with FAO for locust movement,” said the official.Experts say locusts move with the wind and follow a definite cycle from the Sahara desert in North Africa, into East Africa – Ethiopia, Kenya, Eritrea and parts of Chad. They then move to the Arabian Peninsula and Iran. When they finish the food there, they move to Pakistan and India.According to the FAO bulletin issued on June 21, swarms persist in Kenya and Ethiopia but other areas in Asia, including Afghanistan and Pakistan, are calm.“Intensive ground and aerial operations are underway in eastern Ethiopia and northern Somalia to reduce swarm formation by detecting and treating hopper bands and new swarms,” it reads.It was after about three decades that India experienced a massive locust attack in 2019-20 when the insect moved from Rajasthan to various states, including Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and parts of Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/experts-rule-out-locust-threat-this-season-101624476944966.html
24-06-2021||Other||Cop held in Tamil Nadu on charges of beating man to death||A 45-year-old man in Tamil Nadu’s Salem district died after being beaten by a cop with a lathi. A murder case has been registered against the cop, who was arrested later on Wednesday.The victim, identified as Murugesan, is a farmer, the police said. Family members of the victim have filed a complaint against the cop, identified as R Periasamy, a special sub-inspector at Ethapur police station in Salem, the police added. The incident occurred on Tuesday after Murugesan and two of his friends went to Kallakuruchi district to consume alcohol, as liquor shops were closed due to the ongoing lockdown. While the trio was returning on a two-wheeler, the police intercepted them in Ethapur.“The police found them inebriated, so the cop asked them to leave the two-wheeler and walk,” said a senior police official of Salem, who did not want to be named. “Murugesan then began quarrelling.”When the verbal exchanges escalated, the cop allegedly started thrashing Murugesan on the road. A video of the incident, filmed by one of Murugesan’s friends, showed him collapsing on the road and his friends pleading to the cop to not to hit him.Murugesan’s friends then rushed him in an ambulance to a local hospital in Attur, from where he was sent to Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College on Wednesday. “He was declared brought dead,” a senior official said. “A post-mortem has been completed. Only after the report findings come can we ascertain the cause of death. His treatment, however, records that he was in an inebriated state and had some lacerations and aberrations, the official added.Chief minister MK Stalin announced a ₹10 lakh solatium for the family. The incident is another case of police brutality in the city after a man and his son died in police custody in Thoothukudi district June last year, triggering a countrywide outrage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cop-held-in-tamil-nadu-on-charges-of-beating-man-to-death-101624476943542.html
24-06-2021||Other||Puducherry CM submits list of ministers to L-G||Puducherry chief minister N Rangasamy on Wednesday submitted the list of his Cabinet ministers to Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, months after the election results were announced on May 2.The All Indian NR Congress (AINRC)-led alliance, in which the BJP is a key constituent, won the elections in the Union Territory following the collapse of the then Congress-led regime earlier this year in February.The delay in Cabinet formation was caused by multiple factors and more recently, by infighting in the BJP as supporters of all the six elected MLAs were lobbying for Cabinet posts. “The list has five ministers--three from AINRC and two from the BJP,” said a senior AINRC leader not wishing to be quoted.Former Congress heavyweight, A Namassivayam who moved to the BJP, is likely to be one of the ministers. His exit had led to a spate of resignations from the Congress. Though the BJP drew a blank in the 2016 assembly elections, it was the Congress turncoats who aided the party in winning six out of the nine seats they contested this time.Besides Namassivayam, senior BJP leader Sai Saravanan Kumar, who was elected from Oussudu, a reserved constituency for scheduled castes, is also likely to be inducted in the Cabinet.Initially the process was delayed as chief minister N Rangaswamy was down with Covid-19, a day after he took oath on May 7. The newly elected MLAs were sworn in almost three weeks later, on May 26. Later, negotiations were hard between the AINRC and BJP over the number of Cabinet berths. BJP MLA ‘Embalam’ R Selvam was elected unopposed to the Speaker’s post on June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/puducherry-cm-submits-list-of-ministers-to-lg-101624476523474.html
24-06-2021||Lucknow||One dead as two-storey building collapses||One person died and another was injured when a two-storey building collapsed, in River Bank Colony, on Wednesday morning. UP law minister Brijesh Pathak rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation and directed officials to give all possible help to family members.The incident was reported at around 7am, when the two-storey building came down with a shattering noise. “Initially, we failed to sense the situation. We just heard a loud sound, followed by the thick cloud of dust. It was then we realised that the building had collapsed. We informed the police at once,” a local said.On getting information, district magistrate and police from Wazirganj police station and SDRF rushed to the spot and carried out rescue operations. According to the police, the building was in a dilapidated condition and its condition further deteriorated following recent rain. In the incident, the house owner Gyani Trivedi, who was staying along with his nephew, Gaurav Trivedi, got badly injured. The duo was rushed to the trauma centre where Gaurav succumbed and Gyani’s condition was stated to be critical.Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, who reached the spot, said that the building was in a dilapidated condition. He directed the officials concerned to carry out the rescue operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/one-dead-as-two-storey-building-collapses-101624476524020.html
24-06-2021||Other||Employees on 5-day pen-down strike over pay commission report||Chandigarh Punjab government employees went on a five-day pen-down strike from Wednesday against the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission, while the opposition SAD also attacked the Congress regime for allegedly “committing fraud” on its employees. The protesting employees are objecting to the formulae used in calculation of the increase in pay.“Government employees, including superintendents and clerical staff, across the state will be on the pen-down strike till June 27,” said Sukhchain Khera, convener, Joint Action Committee of state government employees, adding that the pay commission recommendations were not acceptable to them. They also raised slogans against the government. Last week, the Punjab government had decided to implement a majority of the recommendations of its Sixth Pay Commission with effect from January 1, 2016, a move that will benefit over five lakh serving and retired employees. The disbursal of salaries and pensions under the new structure will begin from July 1. The implementation would entail 2.59-time increase in salaries and pensions over the previous pay commission recommendations, with an annual increment rate of 3 per cent. “We are demanding the pay should be hiked by a multiple of 2.74,” said Khera, adding the pay hike, otherwise, was negligible. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has demanded that the Punjab government must convene a special session of the Vidhan Sabha, immediately, to explain the fraud meted out to state government employees in the name of the Sixth Pay Commission. “Employee associations are pointing out anomalies and instances of injustice. All these must be resolved within a month,” the SAD added. SAD senior leader Bikram Singh Majithia said chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh should explain why allowances of some categories of employees had been stopped altogether. “Why has the state created different categories of employees by enforcing the Central Pay Commission on new recruits. The chief minister should also tell why thousands of contract employees, whom he had committed to regularise five years ago, still continue to be on contract,” Majithia added. He also sought immediate dismissal of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal. “Employees across the State have expressed their no-confidence in the finance minister by holding a pen-down strike followed by a walkout from government offices. The CM should sack Manpreet immediately so that talks with employees can begin.”“It seems that not only employees, but even the government has been deceived, as the pay commission report which is being sold as a bonanza for employees, in fact is discriminatory towards them,” Majithia claimed, adding that Non Practicing Allowance (NPA) of doctors must also be fully restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/employees-on-5-day-pen-down-strike-over-pay-commission-report-101624476408041.html
24-06-2021||Other||FIR lodged against woman for killing puppies||The Atarsuiya police on Tuesday lodged an FIR against a woman for allegedly killing two puppies brutally. CCTV footage showed that the accused woman assaulted the puppies with an iron rod, resulting in the death of one of them on the spot. Investigations were on into the incident, police said. In her complaint, Sushmita Jaiswal of the organization Raksha Make a Difference said that the resident of an apartment in Nehru Nagar Meerapur, Madhu Mehrotra assaulted three puppies outside her flat with an iron rod on June 15. One of them died immediately while two others were injured and were undergoing treatment. However, one of them also died on June 18. Sushmita also gave the video footage of the incident as an evidence to the police. SHO Atarsuiya Deepak Kumar said an FIR had been lodged under section 429 IPC on the complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-lodged-against-woman-for-killing-puppies-101624476343547.html
24-06-2021||Other||UP sees 55 more Covid fatalities, including 15 in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh reported 55 more Covid fatalities, including 15 in Lucknow, pushing the cumulative death toll to 22,336 while the infection count in the state climbed to 17,04,790 with 208 fresh cases. Of the 208 fresh cases, Lucknow reported 14 cases and Prayagraj 13, according to data from the state health department. “The recovery rate in Lucknow is 98.79%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The active Covid case count in the state stands at 3,666. “Of the total active cases, 2,208 are in home isolation. The recovery rate in the state is 98.5%,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. So far, over 5.59 crore Covid samples have been tested in UP. Black fungus patient diesOne patient of black fungus died while a fresh case was admitted to the KGMU on Wednesday. “The patient who died was a 70-year-old woman. Till now, 452 patients of black fungus have been admitted her,” said Dr Sudhir Singh, spokesperson, KGMU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-sees-55-more-covid-fatalities-including-15-in-lucknow-101624475683470.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||OBC reservation: State to request state poll panel to postpone bypolls||The Maharashtra government will write to the state election commission to postpone the bypolls declared for zilla parishad and panchayat samiti recently. State chief secretary Sitaram Kunte will ask the election panel not to hold polls as it is not the right time considering Covid-19 pandemic and alert over Delta plus variant cases found in the state. The state will also inform the commission that they will not be able to provide manpower for the polls as the state machinery is busy with Covid management.The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday.The state election commission on Tuesday declared to hold bypolls in five zilla parishads — Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim, and Nagpur and 33 other panchayat samitis — on the seats got vacated following a Supreme Court on political reservation for Other Backward Classes. The by-election is going to be held on July 19 and votes will be counted on July 20.“Many ministers objected to the poll panel’s decisions of holding by-election. Since the election commission is an autonomous body, the state government cannot direct them to postpone the polls. However, it was decided to inform it that it is not an appropriate time to hold polls considering Delta plus variant cases found in the state. The state will also point out that the courts have slammed the Election Commission of India (ECI) for holding assembly polls in many states which has resulted in rise in Covid cases,” said a senior minister, wishing not to be named.During the day, senior NCP minister Chhagan Bhujbal demanded that the by-elections be postponed. “We have decided to field all candidates only from the OBC community for the bypolls,” said Devendra Fadnavis, leader of opposition and former chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/obc-reservation-state-to-request-state-poll-panel-to-postpone-bypolls-101624475024890.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s ‘ ₹1 clinic’ founder attempts suicide||Dr Rahul Ghule, the founder of One Rupee Clinic, was reportedly admitted to the hospital after allegedly consuming 30 sleeping pills, said police. The doctor, who was discharged following treatment, through his tweets, had claimed that he had taken the extreme step due to the pressure he was facing from a “nexus” of political leaders, Thane Municipal Corporation officials and certain journalists. In a series of tweets posted earlier this month, which he later deleted, Dr Ghule had stated that the TMC had not paid his bills for the past six months. He also claimed that a “nexus of political agents” had taken ₹29 lakh from him and further insisted that he invest ₹1 crore in TMC’s Aapla Davakhana project. “No bills from TMC since 6 months, time to suicide for common man in such situation. Thane supremo knows everything..there is no justice to me..i have small family I request don’t harass them..keep our hard earned money to you all (sic),” Dr Ghule tweeted, followed by another tweet saying that he was admitted to the hospital after taking 30 pills. In response to a question asked to him by another Twitter user, Dr Ghule later said that he had deleted the tweets for the sake of his family. When contacted, TMC spokesperson Sandeep Malvi said, “We will investigate the claims made by Ghule and take appropriate action.” “Dr Ghule came to meet me on Wednesday morning. He had undertaken some work for the Aapla Davakhana project with a partner and has some dispute with him, which caused him stress. I have assured him of all help, as we do not want anyone to suffer. I am also instructing the TMC Commissioner to look into the matter and take action,” Shinde told Hindustan Times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-1-clinic-founder-attempts-suicide-101624474963375.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man booked for hurling acid at wife acquitted||A sessions court earlier this week acquitted a 34-year-old man booked for throwing acid on his wife, as he doubted her character. The man was let off as the victim refused to testify against him with the hope of saving her marriage and resuming cohabitation with the accused. A sole eyewitness to the incident - one of their neighbours - too refused to testify before the court. Apart from a non-supportive witnesses, the prosecution could not prove before the court that the substance allegedly thrown on the informant was actually some acid or anything else. The court said there was no evidence against the accused to prove that he flung acid on his wife, the court noted. The incident took place on October 11, 2019 on the Eastern Express Highway. The complainant who worked at Wadala was on her way back home with her friend. It is claimed that when she reached near Shivaji Nagar Dargah, she saw her husband - Nitin Sonkhamble, a Chembur resident, already waiting for her. The prosecution claimed the accused approached the complainant, claiming he wanted to talk to her. However, he took out a bottle from his pocket pretending it to be a bottle containing liquor which he wanted to drink. However, the accused opened the bottle and flung the liquid on her face. The accused left the spot and ran away only to be arrested later. Meanwhile the woman was taken to hospital by her friend. The accused was booked under section 326 of the Indian Penal Code for voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means and was arrested by RCF police station in 2019 after his wife had registered a complaint him. When the case came up for trial, the prosecution could only examine two witnesses – the complainant and investigating officer. The wife refused to depose saying she wanted to resume the relationship with the accused. Further, her friend who was present at the spot also did not turn up before the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-booked-for-hurling-acid-at-wife-acquitted-101624474904587.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC exploring option of multiple small waste plants||The municipal corporation is exploring the option of multiple small sized waste processing plants to process the city’s solid and dry garbage, rather than one big plant.Such plants, if set up, will use the plasma arch gasification technology, which employs a combination of electricity and high temperatures to turn municipal waste into usable by-products, without burning it.Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma said, “Plasma arc gasification (PAG) is the latest technology for municipal solid waste processing. But, as per the presentations made to us by the firm which expressed interest in setting up a plant in Chandigarh, capacity of such a plant is only 25 MT per day.” Chandigarh produces around 450 MT of solid waste per day. Of this, more than 250 MT is solid dry waste. For this, the MC is exploring different technologies which can be used to upgrade the existing waste processing plant in Sector 25.“One such plant requires only around 400 square yards of area. So, instead of a big plant, we can have around 10 smaller sized ones. These can be located even in facilities like material recovery facility (MRF),” added Sharma.A team of councillor and MC officials have visited three waste processing plants – two in Delhi and one in Ambala so far. “We are yet to first-hand see the operation of the plasma technology. We are also exploring if greater capacity plants can be constructed with plasma technology,” the mayor added. Earlier, 13 companies had come forward to run and upgrade the city’s sole waste processing plant in Sector 25. One of them had offered the plasma technology for processing waste.A committee comprising experts from Punjab Engineering College, MC officials and councillors had examined proposals of the 11 companies, which made the presentations. After the committee’s report was tabled before the MC general House, it was decided that these companies will also make presentations before the councillors. After the presentations were made to councillors, it was decided that they will visit some of the plants using this technology.Existing plant working at 10%-30% capacityIn the meantime, the city has been struggling with processing solid waste. The existing plant in Sector 25 is working at 10% to 30% of its capacity of the 450 MT. Consequently, most of the city’s solid waste is being dumped in Dadumajra without being processed. As per MC officials, more than 1 lakh MT of waste has been dumped at the eight-acre landfill site in Dadumajra, threatening not only local population, but also posing serious environmental danger. The sites have repeatedly witnessed major and minor fires in the last one year.On the final choice of technology, Sharma said, “We don’t want to repeat the Congress’ mistake and setup a plant in a hurry. So, we are exploring all options, including the latest plasma technology.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-exploring-option-of-multiple-small-waste-plants-101624474904034.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||New Chandigarh adviser calls for stepping up vaccination drive||Chandigarh adviser Dharam Pal on his first day in office on Wednesday took stock of Covid management in the city and emphasised on the need for preventive measures and maximising vaccine coverage.The administration will intensify the vaccination drive to cover the entire eligible population, so that the city is prepared before the third Covid wave, said Pal.“I have directed the health department to keep vaccination centres open on weekends and holidays too. So, people who can’t come on working days, can also get inoculated,” said Pal. On preparations for the third wave, Pal reviewed the status of oxygen supply and availability of beds, among other aspects.Earlier in the day, he was given a guard of honour. He also met UT administrator VP Singh Badnore and outgoing adviser Manoj Parida.Later, he had an introductory meeting with IAS and IFS officers. They were given 10 minutes each to brief him on issues related to their departments. “I was informed about the different issues concerning Chandigarh. I will be examining issues related to different departments in further details in the coming days,” said Dharam Pal. Thereafter, he held a meeting on Covid-19 management in the city, wherein different aspects of the pandemic situation were discussed.Dharam Pal, a 1988-batch Indian Administrative Services officer belonging to the Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram-Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre was appointed UT adviser on Monday. He replaced Parida, who was transferred to Delhi on June 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-chandigarh-adviser-calls-for-stepping-up-vaccination-drive-101624474845386.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||CBI was bound to seek state’s consent before registering FIR: Anil Deshmukh to HC||Former home minister Anil Deshmukh, while arguing against the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) first information report (FIR), wherein he has been accused for corruption, submitted before the Bombay High Court that the CBI had gone beyond the mandate of the HC ordered preliminary enquiry (PE) on April 5 by registering the FIR. The hearing will continue on July 2.Deshmukh’s counsel referred to various past judgments and stressed that while the CBI was duty-bound to follow the HC mandate, it could not claim a right to investigate beyond it and was supposed to seek the state’s consent for registering the FIR after concluding the PE therefore the FIR be quashed and set aside. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar while hearing the petition filed by Deshmukh was informed by senior advocate Amit Desai and advocate Kamlesh Ghumre that while he was not averse to investigations by CBI against him, the investigating agency had gone beyond the mandate of the entire preliminary probe ordered by the HC on April 5. Desai further submitted that the subsequent FIR filed by the CBI on April 21 booking Deshmukh under the Prevention of Corruption Act and IPC on charges of bribery, corruption and criminal conspiracy were based on allegations made by Singh that could be heresay or whispers in the corridors of the commissioner’s office and hence the FIR on should be quashed.“The letter can at most be some suspicion or whisper that may be heard in the corridors of the commissioner office. Not a single person has come before the court to say the money was taken. There is no victim. No one has come forward to complain that money was taken from them,” submitted Desai. He added that Deshmukh has been shamed and declared a devil based on the FIR though the probe did not disclose any substantial evidence and added that CBI was getting into the issue of transfers and postings which are a matter of policy. He submitted that as a result of these allegations the entire police force has been demoralized. Deshmukh also submitted that though he was the central figure in the petitions filed before HC based on the March 20 letter of former Mumbai CP Param Bir Singh, he was not given an opportunity to defend himself before the PE order was passed, the bench however clarified that it would not review the April 5 order but would decide on the FIR. Desai also submitted that the court should also consider the fact that the concept of PE was brought in along with other safeguards to protect public servants as making accusations against them was very easy. With regards to seeking consent of the state before registering the FIR, Desai said that the CBI Director should have followed the process as laid down in the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act. “The investigating agency has a duty to conduct the probe, but cannot claim a right to do so,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-was-bound-to-seek-state-s-consent-before-registering-fir-anil-deshmukh-to-hc-101624474845934.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Cancellation of reservation in promotion as per law: State to HC||The Maharashtra government, through an affidavit, opposed the petitions challenging the May 7 government resolution (GR) which cancelled the 33% reservation in promotions for those employed through quotas in SC, ST, VJNT and SBC categories and sought dismissal of the petitions. The state informed the Bombay high court (HC) that the decision was as per the law prevailing in the state and was subject to further orders of the Supreme Court, which is hearing special leave petitions filed after the Bombay HC struck down the 2004 GR which introduced reservation in promotion. The state said that since the apex court was already seized of the matters challenging May 7 GR, the HC should not interfere in the petitions which are devoid of merit. On Tuesday, a division bench of justice KK Tated and justice RI Chagla which is hearing a clutch of petitions challenging the May 7 GR was informed by senior counsel Mihir Desai representing the government stated that an affidavit in reply to the petitions had been filed. The affidavit stated that the decision to scrap the nearly two-decade-old policy came two days after the Supreme Court quashed the Maratha reservation which was allowed by HC. Senior counsel Indira Jaising and other counsels who have challenged the May 7 GR on behalf of the numerous petitioners said that the decision would affect the rights of those belonging to reserved categories. Jaising submitted that while the reservations of 33 per cent existed since 1974, in a single stroke, the state de-reserved all the seats.The affidavit filed through Sumant Bhange, secretary, general administration department stated that the alleged claims and contentions of the petitioners were not true and correct and that the petitioners are not entitled to any relief as sought for in the petitions. The affidavit further adds that on March 22, this year, a committee under the chairmanship of the state chief secretary was formed to collect data of inadequacy of representation and effect on overall efficiency in administration due to reservation and was to submit the report within a month. The affidavit added that work of data collection was in progress as the report could not be submitted within stipulated time due to the second wave of Covid-19 and a proposal to extend the period for submission was being considered. The government further said that it does not want to face contempt proceedings by granting reservations in promotion on ad-hoc basis as the HC order which struck down the 2004 GR is still not stayed by the Apex Court and hence sought dismissal of the pleas. The HC is likely to hear the petition in July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cancellation-of-reservation-in-promotion-as-per-law-state-to-hc-101624474843391.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh case: Bombay HC reserves judgment on state’s petition||Permitting the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe into the two unnumbered paragraphs of its April 21 first information report (FIR) against former home minister Anil Deshmukh would demoralise the entire police force, the state claimed before the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday. The HC has reserved its judgment on the petition. On Wednesday, a bench of justice SS Shinde and justice NJ Jamadar conducted final hearing of the petition filed by the state, seeking removal of the two unnumbered paragraphs from the FIR filed by CBI on April 21 after hearing the petition for more than five days. Solicitor general of India Tushar Mehta and additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the bench that the state’s claim that as it was probing the Rashmi Shukla case, CBI should not interfere was not valid as the state was not probing the allegations made by Shukla to her superior of the undue political influence in postings and transfers, but only the alleged leaking of her report and phone tapping case. Mehta submitted that similarly the allegations pertaining to reinstatement of Vaze were also serious and if both the charges went uninvestigated, the CBI would be guilty of non-compliance of the mandate of the April 5 HC order. On April 5, the HC had directed the CBI to conduct a PE on charges of corruption made by Singh against Deshmukh after hearing the petition of advocate Dr Jaishri Patil. Patil had approached the court as the Malabar Hill police station had failed to take cognizance of her complaint against Deshmukh based on the contents of Singh’s letter to the chief minister. After concluding the PE, on April 21, the CBI had registered an FIR against Deshmukh and two others and sought documents pertaining to the reinstatement of Vaze and the complaint of Shukla from the state as both issues had been included in the FIR. Aggrieved by the demand by CBI, the state approached the HC seeking removal of the paragraphs which dealt with the two issues on the grounds that the April 5 HC order did not mandate it. The state government’s counsel, senior advocate Rafiq Dada, had reiterated that it was not against the central agency investigating into the allegations of corruption made by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh in his March 20 letter to the chief minister but by conducting inquiry into the two issues CBI was attempting to mutilate pending investigations in Shukla and Vaze reinstatement matters.Dada had argued that if CBI was allowed to carry out ‘pillage’ of investigation into transfers and postings being ‘super machinery’ without mandate of the court, same will result in defeating morale of police administration having excellent record and same is irresponsible.The CBI while responding to the claims had argued that by not cooperating and refusing access to certain documents sought by the agency with regard to the FIR against Deshmukh the state government was in contempt of court and scared of the investigation into two issues that were intrinsically linked to allegations of corruption against Deshmukh.In response, Dada submitted that Vaze was reinstated by the committee headed by Singh and CBI was trying to help someone by saying that the home minister had knowledge about Vaze’s reinstatement. Dada gad said that Vaze’s reinstatement, Rashmi Shukla’s allegation on transfers and postings were not part of the same transaction as the allegation of extortion from restaurants and even the HC had taken the view.“We are not only fighting for federal structure, but the morale of police will be down if such pillage is allowed. We are also fighting for the sanctity of our (state) investigations. The CBI cannot by backdoor entry initiate a probe into these issues saying that they are intrinsically connected with FIR. If the CBI is talking about corruption, the state is also fighting it and dealing with Shukla and Vaze matters. Anyone cannot assume that the state does not have power to probe it,” said Dada. After all arguments were concluded, the CBI continued its earlier statement that it would not seek documents including Shukla’s letter and minutes of the police board meeting from the state. The court reserved its judgement which will be pronounced in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-case-bombay-hc-reserves-judgment-on-state-s-petition-101624474784096.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai youth nominated with Yo-Yo Ma, McCartney at LA Shorts International Film Festival||And the nominees are… Yo-Yo Ma, Paul McCartney, and a Mumbai boy named Saahil Bhargava. An animated music video by Bhargava, a 26-year-old singer-songwriter currently based in Los Angeles, for a song written and sung by him, has been selected at the LA Shorts International Film Festival, alongside projects by music greats Ma and McCartney. The video, for the song Kohima, will compete in the Best Animation and the Best Music Video categories at the festival. He and his Mumbai-based co-director Harmeet Rahal, 25, also the film’s animator, are over the moon. Their passion project was inspired by the massive battle of Kohima in present-day Nagaland, which occurred in 1944, towards the end of World War 2. “It was a turning point in the war, but it’s a forgotten battle that rarely gets talked about,” Bhargava says. Rather than focus on the victory of the Allied forces (Indian soldiers were fighting Japan in this arena, on behalf of colonial Britain), the song is written from the perspective of the embattled soldier fighting physical and emotional trauma and trying to survive it all so he can return home to his family. “When Saahil came to me, he had finished writing the song. It was such a great challenge to bring those emotions to the screen,” Rahal says. “It’s an honour to be nominated alongside such amazing work, and I hope this helps more people learn about this hidden piece of Indian history.” Incidentally, the McCartney work nominated alongside in both categories is When Winter Comes. It is the final track on McCartney III, the former Beatle’s 18th solo album. The Ma work nominated for Best Music Video is See Me: A Global Concert, a 23-minute pandemic-era production that was filmed remotely and features collaborations between acclaimed musicians, orchestras and choirs playing from around the world. The LA festival is in its 25th year and will be held virtually for the first time this year, starting July 1. “It is such a high honor for the LA Shorts International Film Festival to welcome Kohima into competition this year. Only a handful of films were accepted into the brand-new Music/Dance category. In fact, we created the special Music/Dance program due to high quality content from exceptional artists such as Paul McCartney, Yo-Yo Ma and India’s own Saahil Bhargava,” festival founder and director Robert Arentz said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-youth-nominated-with-yo-yo-ma-mccartney-at-la-shorts-international-film-festival-101624474725672.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra mulls stricter curbs amid Delta Plus Covid cases||Taking serious note of the Delta Plus variant Covid-19 cases found in the state, Maharashtra is mulling stricter restrictions as the transmissibility and virulence of the strain is more than the other variants. The matter was discussed in the cabinet meeting on Wednesday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will also be holding a discussion with the state task force before reaching a decision.State health minister Rajesh Tope said they have decided to isolate all 21 Delta Plus cases. It has also decided to start contact-tracing and testing of high-risk and low-risk contacts of index cases and will also conduct genome sequencing of all those found Covid positive. The state is also sending a detailed report sought by the Centre.The state has found 21 cases, covering six districts. Of them, nine cases are in Ratnagiri, seven in Jalgaon, two in Mumbai and one case each in Thane, Palghar and Sindhudurg.“Delta Plus variant is found to be the common cause behind the places where the third wave is coming. This is a matter of concern for Maharashtra as well as the state has also found cases of Delta Plus. A few ministers opined that the state should reconsider its decision of a five-level relaxation plan. Chief minister will be discussing it with the task force members before taking any decision,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity.The health minister said, “The daily cases have hit a plateau as they are not going down, which is a cause for concern for us. They have been stagnant between 8,000 and 10,000 for the past 10-12 days.”A senior official privy to the development said the daily testing has also been reduced in the state. “If the daily testing increased to around 300,000 a day then daily cases will come anywhere between 10,000 and 15,000 cases,” he said.Tope also informed that the Delta Plus, formed by mutation in the Delta (B.1.617.2) variant, has been classified as a “variant of concern” from the current “variant of interest” by the Union health ministry.“With the help of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB), the state government has taken up a project of genome sequencing of positive patients and found 21 Delta Plus variants in 3,400 samples. The percentage is too less (0.005%), which indicates that the Delta Plus, has not replaced the Delta variant, but its behaviour and effects are not good,” the health minister said.“The state government has kept all the 21 patients in isolation. They will be monitored round the clock. For further studies, we will be checking their travel history, if they are re-infected or got infected even after getting vaccinated as the Delta Plus is capable of escaping antibodies that are developed with the help of Covid-19 vaccine,” Tope said.He said that the positive side is that the state has reported not a single death among the 21 Delta Plus variant cases and a few patients found to have recovered.“The Centre on Wednesday has informed Maharashtra that they have put the Delta Plus virus from ‘variant of interest’ (VOI) to ‘variant of concern’ (VOC), because of its transmissibility and virulence, which is more than the Delta Plus variant. It also has the ability to escape the antibodies,” Tope said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mulls-stricter-curbs-amid-delta-plus-covid-cases-101624474726139.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Meet the fearless female faces of Covid fight in Chandigarh tricity||When a pandemic hit us unannounced and waged a war against humanity, these three women didn’t shy away from taking on the invisible enemy from the frontline. Heading the health departments in the tricity, doctors Amandeep Kang (Chandigarh), Adarshpal Kaur (Mohali) and Jasjeet Kaur (Panchkula) worked day and night, took timely decisions and bolstered infrastructure and Covid response in a matter of months. Due to their tireless efforts, the tricity is better prepared to face further waves.Made crucial additions to infrastructure In February last year, a month before Covid would make entry into Panchkula, Dr Jasjeet Kaur took charge as the civil surgeon. She had no intensive care units (ICU), molecular laboratories or oxygen plants at her disposal — all these would become essential in the days to come. “When I joined, nobody had the slightest idea that a pandemic was coming. But once cases started emerging, there was no looking back. The most challenging months were April to May, when there was complete lockdown and I had to put in place crucial infrastructure.”In April 2020, Dr Kaur set up a 15-bed ICU, subsequently increasing the capacity to 24. From none to 18 ventilators and 40 Bipap machines were installed.When PGIMER “refused” to take critical patients from Panchkula, she took the call to go self-dependent, roped in private hospitals and got more staff hired and trained. “There were days when I and Dr Sarita, then principal medical officer, used to work 14-16 hours a day, without any breaks,” says Dr Kaur, who also tested positive for Covid in November. She says for one year now she has not had a full night of sleep.Cut to present, her timely decisions, 24X7 availability and tireless efforts have earned her credit for Panchkula’s preparedness against the deadly virus.Ramped up RT-PCR tests to 87% in three daysA renowned gynaecologist, Dr Amandeep Kang took charge as Chandigarh health services director in October 2020, when the first wave was on a decline. “As the first measure against the virus, I enhanced the city’s testing centres from three to over 30, increasing the daily screening capacity to 3,000 persons.” She also got ICU beds increased to eight at GMSH-16 to facilitate mild to moderate Covid cases, easing the burden on PGIMER and GMCH-32 and reserving them for critical patients.Ensuring ventilators to all when the cases shot up was the most challenging task, says Dr Kang. “There was a time when the ICU and oxygen-support beds were fully occupied. This situation persisted for 15 days in April-May. The administration then started biomarker tests at the hospital, a kind of investigation needed by doctors to treat the virus. MRI and CT scans were also made available for free.”Recalling a time when the UT ramped up Covid testing in three days, she says, “We got orders to increase RT-PCR testing up to 80%. We immediately roped in private labs on the Haryana pattern, fixed the rates and within three days, the testing was increased to 87%.”Despite her demanding profession, Dr Kang says nothing brings more contentment than doing one’s job with honesty.Sensitised villages, augmented vaccinationMohali has achieved excellent success in vaccinating its populace, kudos to civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur’s tireless efforts. She took the reins against Covid in January this year, a time when the guard had to be upped for the second wave, but would not be easy, given the lack of infrastructure at government facilities.“In first wave, critical patients were being sent to Gian Sagar Medical College. However, no such hospital was assigned to us in the second Covid onslaught.” Taking on the challenge, the Mohali district hospital was converted into a 120 bed Covid facility and routine OPDs were shifted to ESI Hospital. “There was no ICU at the government hospital, so we tied up with private hospitals and managed to ready 370 Covid beds.”Medical in-charge of a district having a huge rural population, spreading awareness and getting people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour was a big test for Dr Kaur. Even so, her colleagues say, she went from village to village, held video campaigns and vaccination camps to ensure that villagers got the jabs and virus spread was contained. “My job sometimes requires 24-hour attention, but I try to take out time for my mother, who is a cancer patient and has advanced stage Parkinson’s disease.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-chandigarh-tricity-faces-of-covid-fight-are-female-and-fearless-101624474724102.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Jitendra Awhad moves temporary accommodation of cancer patients to Bombay Dyeing Mills||A day after chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray stayed a decision of providing 100 Mhada (Maharashtra Housing Development Authority) flats at a redeveloped building near Currey Road to Tata Memorial Hospital for temporary accommodation of cancer patients, the state housing department has decided to provide the same at Bombay Dyeing Mills premises at Wadala. State housing minister Jitendra Awhad made the announcement on Wednesday.The housing department had decided to provide 100 Mhada flats to Tata Memorial Hospital for providing temporary accommodation to cancer patients who have come from other states at a nominal rate of ₹1. However, following objection from local Shiv Sena MLA Ajay Chaudhary, the CM stayed its implementation. Chaudhary had said the people in the surrounding buildings were opposing the facility there. The keys of the flats were handed over to the hospital authorities in May by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar. Awhad on Wednesday tried to downplay the issue and said the CM asked him to find a suitable place. “There was some kind of misunderstanding among locals, to which the CM said he has no objection to the project and asked me to identify a suitable place at the earliest. We have decided to provide temporary accommodation to cancer patients in Mhada flats developed at Bombay Dyeing Mills premises,” Awhad told reporters.Chaudhary, an MLA from Sewri constituency, said over 1,000 families living in the vicinity objected to it. He added that he had requested the housing minister to move it to another place but grievances were unheard, following which he requested the chief minister to intervene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jitendra-awhad-moves-temporary-accommodation-of-cancer-patients-to-bombay-dyeing-mills-101624474543426.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch busts 2 fake call centres, arrests owners||Unit 11 of Mumbai Police’s crime branch busted two bogus call centres in Malad and arrested the owners for allegedly duping people in the country as well as people from gulf countries under the pretext of investment schemes in the share market.During raid, police found 75 people working in the call centres who were using voice over internet protocol (VoIP) to contact people.The owners of the two centres have been identified as Giriraj Navratan Damani, 39, and Aditya Vikram Maheshwari, 40.Acting on tip-off about illegal fake call centres being operated in Malad (West), a police team of unit 11 raided the two call centres, one at GoldLine Business centre and the other at Eureka Tower, Chincholi Bunder Road, on Tuesday. During interrogation, the employees and owners said they allegedly called Indian citizens as well as people in gulf countries through VoIP, claiming to be calling from Singapore. The employees then convinced the people to invest money Indian and international share market through their company, said a crime branch officer.The accused would then ask the victims to deposit at least USD 200 in their company’s account to be invested further for high returns, said inspector Vinayak Chavan of unit 11. Police are now probing how many people the accused have duped so far and how they got the contact details.Both the owners have been arrested under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information technology act. They were produced in the court and remanded in police custody till June 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-busts-2-fake-call-centres-arrests-owners-101624474484187.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai airport naming: 1 lakh set to protest, 8,000 cops on duty||Navi Mumbai police department has stationed 8,000 personnel on duty at various locations in the city to maintain law and order during the planned protest at City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) Bhavan on Thursday to demand naming of Navi Mumbai international airport after Project Affected Persons (PAP) leader DB Patil. Protestors, despite being denied permission by the police, have threatened to come out in large numbers on Thursday.The controversy has already turned into a BJP versus MVA issue with Shiv Sena chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray insisting on naming the airport after Sena founder Balasaheb Thackeray. Different organisers claimed that more than one lakh protesters from among the sons of the soil, PAPs, locals, action committees, social organisations and also various political parties in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region are expected to attend. A public meeting has been planned off Palm Beach Road at some distance from Cidco Bhavan.Suresh Mengde, DCP zone 1, who briefed the police force at Rajiv Gandhi Sports Complex in CBD Belapur, said, “We are taking all measures to protect lives and property and have called additional forces from Nashik, Pune and Mumbai for bandobast. We are also getting eight companies from SRPF. There will be around 8,000 personnel on bandobast duty.” Prashant Thakur, Panvel BJP MLA, said, “The CM has refused to accept our demand. We are going ahead with the planned protest on DB Patil’s death anniversary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-airport-naming-1-lakh-set-to-protest-8-000-cops-on-duty-101624474483408.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Unqualified doctor arrested for performing surgeries||Matunga police arrested a doctor from a Dadar-based private piles hospital and rectal centre for allegedly endangering life of a patient by performing surgery on him despite not being qualified to perform the surgery.The accused, Dr Mukesh Kota, practices at Gopal Rao’s Piles and Ano-Rectal Centre and was arrested based on the complaint of a 43-year-old Goregaon resident. Preliminary police probe revealed that the accused doctor has performed 1,000 surgeries in past three years. The complainant, Khaliluddin Khatib, 43, was suffering from piles since three years and learnt about the clinic from his friends. The hospital website allegedly claimed it was the first clinic in Mumbai to introduce non-operative or non-surgical treatment for piles, fissure ad fistula. Khatib then visited the hospital and met Dr Kota. After three sessions, Dr Kota told him a small surgery was required. After taking a consent form signed, Dr Kota performed the surgery on February 21 for ₹25,000. He was allowed to go home after four hours, the police said.“He later experienced excessive bleeding from his anal region, leading to unconsciousness. His wife took him to KEM Hospital in Parel where doctors informed him that the surgery performed on him was done in wrongful and negligent manner,” a police officer said.“Because of the faulty surgery, I cannot work as a driver. I had joined a private company, but due to my piles related complications, they sacked me in three days,” the complainant said.The Goregaon resident then filed a complaint with Matunga police in March, following which the police wrote to the Maharashtra Medical Council and Dean of JJ hospital for the expert report.The expert panel found that Dr Kota negligently performed the surgery and stated that an MBBS doctor cannot perform surgery related to piles. After getting the report form the expert panel the Matunga police on Monday filed a first information report (FIR) in the matter. “During preliminary probe, we learnt that Kota has performed around 1,000 such surgeries in past three years,” said a police officer.Dr Kota has been arrested under sections 337 (causing hurt by rash or negligent act) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. He was sent to police custody till June 27 by a local court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-unqualified-doctor-arrested-for-performing-surgeries-101624474303448.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||NCB secures warrant for arresting Dawood’s brother Iqbal Kaskar in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has secured production warrant for arresting Iqbal Kaskar, brother of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar, in connection with seizure of a large quantity of hashish which originated from Jammu and Kashmir.NCB will take Iqbal’s custody from Thane central jail, where he is lodged currently, on Thursday, said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede.The agency had on June 15 arrested seven persons from Mumbai and Thane and seized 17.3 kilograms of charas worth ₹9 crore from them. Preliminary probe revealed that two of the arrested accused had travelled from Punjab to Mumbai on bikes, carrying the contraband in backpacks.NCB officials said, during the course of investigation, they found out the role played by Kaskar and some other gangsters in the drug trafficking racket. They are also investigating terror angle in the drug supply, as hashish generally comes from Kashmir and lands in bulk in Punjab, from where it is sent mostly to Mumbai, Pune. other metro cities, and Goa.Kaskar, deported from the United Arab Emirates in 2003, was said to be operating Dawood’s real estate business in Mumbai and surrounding areas, the police said. On September 18, the Thane anti-extortion cell had arrested him along with two of his accomplices — Mumtaz Shaikh and Israel Sayyed — for allegedly extorting ₹30 lakh from a Thane-based builder.One more accused Pankaj Hangar, 54, a gambling den owner, was arrested in the case subsequently, as police found he was in touch with Kaskar and Shakeel, a Dawood henchman.On October 11, Thane police slapped stringent provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) on the seven accused, including the four arrested and three wanted — Chotta Shakeel and two Dawood gang shooters, Shammi and Guddu.Thane police later found that Kaskar, Sayyed and Shaikh had allegedly extorted gold from a jewellery shop owner. Eventually, Thane police registered two more cases against the gang and Kaskar has been named in all. His brother Dawood has also been named as a prime accused in one of three cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-secures-warrant-for-arresting-dawood-s-brother-iqbal-kaskar-in-drugs-case-101624474243934.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: 18-year-old drowns at Pandavkada waterfall, body fished out||An 18-year-old student from Govandi drowned at Pandavkada waterfall in Kharghar on Tuesday evening. His body was fished out of the water on Wednesday morning. The forest department had banned entry to the waterfall last month. Yet, a large number of people from across Mumbai go there for enjoyment.According to the police, Mausam Rambahadur Gharti had visited the waterfall with five other friends at around 3.30pm. Three of them entered the water and started swimming when he drowned. Three other boys from the group were good swimmers and searched for him in the water for a long time, but to no avail. They later went to the police station and narrated the incident.The police and fire brigade officials reached the spot and searched for him till 9.30pm, but they could not trace him. On Wednesday, at around 9.30am, they managed to fish out his body that was stuck under a boulder.Shatrughna Mali, senior inspector of Kharghar police station, said, “The boys in the group were friends since school days and are residents of Mankhurd and Govandi. On Tuesday, they boarded a Panvel-bound train from Mankhurd station and alighted at Kharghar. From there, they hired an auto rickshaw to go to the waterfall. We sent the deceased’s body to a civic hospital in Panvel and later handed it over to his family.”Another police officer said, “The deceased was the only son of his mother. His father too passed away a few years ago. He had cleared his Class 12 exam this year. We have registered an accidental death case,” another police officer said.Shivraj Patil, deputy commissioner of police (zone II), said, “Since the water level changes frequently at the catchment area of the waterfall, no one can judge it accurately. Despite knowing about the ban, people come to that site for enjoyment due to their negligence and carelessness, and thus meet with such accidents. We appeal to the revellers to avoid such places.”Earlier, in August 2019, four girls including three college students were washed away by the strong current of a stream while they were trying to cross it near the waterfall. Several other similar accidents have also taken place at the site.Mali said, “Apart from deploying officials, we have also put banners at several places asking people not to enter the waterfall. But the area is huge and there are several routes to go to the waterfall. Therefore, it is very difficult to prevent people from going.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-18-year-old-drowns-at-pandavkada-waterfall-body-fished-out-101624474243364.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Apex steering body to oversee implementation of new EV policy||Maharashtra’s new Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy 2021 will be governed by a seven-member steering committee headed by the chief secretary who will serve as the chairman. The additional chief secretary of the transport department will serve as its member secretary. The policy is likely to get cabinet nod soon. Other members of the committee will include two principal secretaries from the urban development department and principal secretaries of environment, energy and industries departments along with industry representatives and experts who may be nominated by the state government from time to time.“The steering committee will monitor policy progress, address major impediments to policy implementation and make amendments to the policy, as may be required,” stated an official presentation on the draft EV Policy, which was reviewed by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last Monday.The presentation, a copy of which was presented by transport department during a webinar on May 27, stated, “Steering Committee shall be supported by a dedicated team, or a secretariat called the Maharashtra State EV Secretariat. The secretariat will comprise of a team of professionals who be responsible for day-to-day operations of the EV Policy. The secretariat will be housed in the transport department of Maharashtra.”“The CM has reviewed the draft policy and instructed that it be brought before the cabinet at the earliest. We are expecting the nod any day now,” said an official requesting anonymity. “The main function of the apex committee will be to ensure that every department is doing its job, and to ensure accountability. The EV secretariat will keep an eye on daily operations and report the same to the committee, who will step in when required,” said an official with the transport department, seeking anonymity.Education and skill developmentThe new EV Policy 2021 also proposes to amend existing educational programmes and to create new ones including vocational programmes that will cater specifically to electrical vehicle ecosystem. These courses will be offered by state Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and aim to create a skilled pool of talent that can be employed across the industry. The government also plans to rope in manufacturers and research organisations to establish skill enhancement, which will retrain the existing engineering and mechanics workforce in the repairing and servicing of EVs and charging stations, said officials involved in the drafting of the policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-apex-steering-body-to-oversee-implementation-of-new-ev-policy-101624474183973.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: New e-vehicles policy to bring cut in prices, road tax||Maharashtra’s new draft Electric Vehicle (EV) Policy 2021 aims to bring at least 1,46,000 new battery-operated electric vehicles (BEVs) on state roads by 2025, estimated to comprise about 10% of all new vehicle registrations by that time. The policy is likely to be cleared by the cabinet soon, said officials in the know. The draft policy has proposed a range of sops for those purchasing EVs. These include subsidised vehicle costs, discounts for early adopters, exemption from road tax and registration fees, and providing rebates on property tax to residential establishments that invest in charging stations, among others. The cost of EVs in the state is set to become cheaper as buyers will be able to avail incentives under the state policy as well as the Centre’s Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and EV (FAME) II scheme, officials familiar with the development said. The draft policy was reviewed by chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray last week. The policy aims to incentivise purchase of 100,000 electric two-wheelers, 15,000 e-autos, 10,000 cars, 20,000 goods carriers (both three and four-wheeler) and 1,000 e-buses. For each of these vehicle segments, incentives are likely to be funded from the green tax levied on polluting vehicles, said officials from the transport department. There will also be an “early bird discount of ₹2,500/kWh of the vehicle battery capacity in addition to aforesaid incentives for EV purchased before December 31, 2021,” stated an official presentation made to the CM last week, by the policy’s drafting committee.The cost of electric vehicles sold with extended battery warranty of at least five years and buyback options are proposed to be reduced even further. The cost of a single EV sold with an assured buyback guarantee stands to come down by 6% of the retail price, capped at ₹10,000, while the price of those sold with extended battery warranties of at least five years stands to reduce by 4% up to ₹6,000. Other incentives proposed to boost consumer demand include exemption of road tax and registration charges for EVs till the year 2025 and scrappage incentives starting at ₹7,000 for e-two wheelers up to ₹25,000 for e-four wheelers. “Operational guidelines laying down the process of incentive disbursement under the policy shall be notified within 60 days from the date of notification of the policy. The incentive disbursement process will be designed to ensure transfer of incentives to the beneficiaries within 30 days from the date of incentive application. The incentives disbursement mechanism... shall be made digital to ensure timely transfer to beneficiaries,” stated the presentation reviewed by the CM. On the supply side, the state proposed to incentivise as many as 15,500 public and semi-public EV charging stations, though these incentives will not be available for stations already availing of benefits under FAME-II scheme. For slow charging stations up to 3.3kW, incentives will cover up to 60% of the cost of the unit — excluding cost of land — with a maximum incentive of ₹10,000 each. For moderate and fast charging stations above 3.3kW, incentives will cover up to 50% of the cost, at a maximum of ₹500,000 each. The tariff applicable for all EV charging stations and battery swapping stations in the state has been fixed at between ₹4 and ₹6.6 per unit, as per a March 2020 order issued by the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory commission (MERC). The government will also create a single-window process for installing EV connections that offer EV-specific tariffs. The EV Policy 2021 also recommends that amenity spaces for EV charging stations be earmarked in development plans of various cities, and that all cities under the National Clean Air Programme prepare a charging infrastructure plan to identify potential locations that can be harnessed to set up EV charging infrastructure. “There will be a particular focus on setting up these stations in already existing petrol pumps,” said a transport department official. Meanwhile, state industries, energy and labour departments will provide manufacturers of vehicles, batteries and other ancillary products with all benefits under the ‘D+’ category of mega projects under Maharashtra’s New Industrial Policy (2019), regardless of whether these manufacturing units will be set up. This means the state will refund 60% of total capital investment in the entity, over a period of 10 years. Officials said the state will not be directly investing in the EV policy, but will rely on strategic, personal investments made by global players in electric mobility to boost infrastructure development. Speaking at a webinar last month, Ashish Singh, ACS transport, had said, “The state is not going to directly invest in the EV policy. Instead, we will incentivise investment from bigger players in terms of tax concessions, land availability, and so on. Till date, we have not invested any money in producing cars or internal combustion engines either.”Importantly, urban local bodies will also provide rebates on property tax to residential establishments that set up EV charging infrastructure on their premises. In fact, the policy targets that all upcoming residential complexes should have 20% of their parking spots dedicated for EVs by 2025. Specific policy measures, details of which are not yet publicly available, have also been drafted to encourage fleet aggregators such as cab services, last-mile delivery providers and logistics companies to transition to EVs. The policy also aims to substitute all government vehicles in major cities with EVs, starting April 2022, officials privy to the developments had confirmed last month. HT had reported the development on May 28. Other goals of the policy include converting around 25% of the existing public transport infrastructure and last-mile delivery vehicles in five major cities to fully electric mode and conversion of 15% of Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s existing bus fleet of 18,000 vehicles to electric mode by 2025. This is not the first EV transportation policy of the state. Maharashtra had earlier adopted an EV policy in February 2018 which was drafted by the state department of industries. However, that policy had focused largely on attracting investment and providing incentives to end users which, officials said, was not enough for manufacturers to enter the market. The current draft policy aims to remedy that by incentivising infrastructure creation, which will spur demand. Avinash Dhakne, transport commissioner, could not be reached for comment. Ashish Singh, additional chief secretary, transport department, confirmed that the EV Policy 2021 is likely to receive the cabinet’s assent “very soon,” but declined to comment further. Independent experts have viewed the draft policy favourably thus far. “Overall, demand side incentives have been made more comprehensive, with a few good practices adopted from other state EV policies (specifically Delhi’s) but also, with a few unique policies such as the early bird discount and the extended battery warranty and buyback agreement for EVs,” said Madhav Pai, executive director of the WRI India Ross Center. Purchase subsidies are now based on battery capacity rather than base price of vehicle, allowing subsidies to be more effectively deployed. On the supply side, incentives have been provided in line with the Maharashtra Industrial Policy, with EV industries able to avail the most favourable category of incentives, experts pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtranew-e-vehicles-policy-to-bring-cut-in-prices-road-tax-101624474183383.html
24-06-2021||Lucknow||Nishad party chief wants BJP to project him as deputy CM in 2022 UP assembly polls||Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (Nishad) party chief Sanjay Nishad on Wednesday demanded that the Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) should project him as deputy chief minister in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections to win the support of the backward communities.Along with a berth in the Union council of ministers, the Nishad party should also be given representation in the state cabinet before the elections, he said.By doing so, the BJP should send a message to the Majhwar, Kewat, Mallah, Nishad and Bind communities that they would get a share in power, he said. The votes of these communities were decisive in around 160 assembly constituencies in east and central UP, he added.Sanjay Nishad was in Lucknow on Wednesday to meet chief minister Yogi Adityanath and other senior BJP leaders.Earlier, on June 10, he met Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP national president JP Nadda in Delhi to discuss the alliance for the 2022 assembly election. He landed in Lucknow after BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, along with the party’s UP in-charge Radha Mohan Singh, completed two days’ meetings to discuss the election strategy.Nishad said when his party joined hands with the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP leaders had promised that Majhwar, Kewat and Mallah communities would be included in the list of Scheduled Castes.Besides, the BJP had promised that fake cases will be withdrawn from the community members, he said.Even after over two years, the promises had not been fulfilled yet, Nishad said.The BJP had got a taste of the discontent among the backward communities in the three-tier panchayat elections held in April, he said.The independents and Opposition parties won the maximum zila panchayat ward seats, he added.The BJP was aware that it won the 2017 UP assembly election with the support of the backward and Scheduled Caste communities.Now, the BJP must fulfil its promises to win the confidence of the backward classes, he said.Launched in 2016, the Nishad party joined an alliance with the BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha election.Sanjay Nishad’s son Praveen Kumar Nishad was elected to the Lok Sabha from Sant Kabir Nagar in eastern Uttar Pradesh. In the 2018 Lok Sabha by-poll, the Nishad party had been in the Opposition camp and it gave a jolt to the BJP by winning the Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat. The SP and the BSP had supported the Nishad party in the contest for the prestigious seat vacated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nishad-party-chief-wants-bjp-to-project-him-as-deputy-cm-in-2022-up-assembly-polls-101624474064085.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||PU should have explored other options to invigilate online exams, say experts||For the third time since last year, Panjab University (PU) has decided to conduct the semester exams in online mode without any kind of invigilation.However, experts say that the varsity could have explored other options even if it had to conduct the exams online. The upcoming semester exams are to be held from June 28 with no mechanism to curb mass cheating. The varsity was considering using image proctoring this time but could not finalise the same.Before their term ended on December 31, the syndicate members of the university had also urged vice-chancellor Raj Kumar that semester exams should be held offline.PU’s former controller of exams, Parvinder Singh, who is vice-chancellor of a private university, said, “A few models could have been explored by the university. They could have changed the question paper structure and introduced objectivity to minimise the use of unfair means.”“Proctoring could have been an option and the university should have spent on it or they could have outsourced the exams,” he said.A former senator said, “The open book exam is certainly a better option. That gives better results. We can have multiple sets of question papers as well, where students of the same college have to solve different papers.”What other universities are doingAn official at Kurukshetra University said they have been conducting the semester exams in online mode since last year with proctoring. “A group of students is assigned to a teacher for supervision during the exams through Google Meet,” he said.Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU), Amritsar, has conducted odd semester exams in offline mode and they are yet to take a final call on how to conduct the even semester exams.Like Delhi University and Jamia Millia Islamia, PU university could have held an open-book exam in the absence of real-time surveillance. It would mean students have the option of consulting their study material while attempting the paper. But the questions would be framed in a manner that would require them to put their analytical skills to use. This would require them to prepare well beforehand to be able to finish the exam in time.PU should prepare for future, says former V-CFormer PU vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover said, “At present, the university can do very little regarding this, but they should prepare for the future, be it online teaching, exams or research.”Controller of examinations Jagat Bhushan said, “We were planning to conduct exams offline, but due to the second Covid wave, online mode was chosen. We tried to introduce proctoring in exams, but due to procedural limitations that was not finalised. We are an affiliating university, and we have students in far-flung areas with poor internet connectivity and international students facing travelling restrictions. We had to consider everything before taking a decision.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-should-have-explored-other-options-to-invigilate-online-exams-say-experts-101624473833107.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Convicted in 40 cases, snatcher caught again in Panchkula||A 36-year-old snatcher who has been active in the tricity for two decades and convicted in around 40 cases was nabbed for yet another crime, the Panchkula police said on Wednesday.Identified as Devendra Singh, alias Vikki, he along with an accomplice had fled with a woman’s gold chain in Sector 16, Panchkula, on June 4. The duo was arrested from Dera Bassi, following a tip-off on Tuesday. The aide has been identified as Sumit Kumar, alias Shagun, 24, of Karnal, who joined Vikki only recently, said police. They were produced in court on Wednesday, which sent them to two-day police remand.“Vikki was active in the tricity between 2004 and 2016. He was arrested in at least 100 snatching cases, and found guilty in around 40 of them. He was in jail between 2016 and 2020, and once again became active on being released,” said inspector Aman Kumar, in-charge, crime branch, Panchkula police. The snatcher also carries a reward of ₹5,000 on him.Modus operandiInspector Kumar said that Vikki used to roam around on a bike and target women who were wearing jewellery and walking alone. To evade cops, he used leave the city after each incident. “He had rented rooms in Zirakpur and Panchkula. He belongs to Delhi and had a hideout in Noida too. After committing a snatching in the tricity, he would move to Delhi. After targeting someone there, he used to return to the tricity,” said the crime branch in-charge.Recently, he was involved in some snatching incidents in Mohali as well, said police. No recoveries have been made yet, and police will be taking him to his house in Delhi on Thursday, where some seizures are expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/convicted-in-40-cases-snatcher-caught-again-in-panchkula-101624473764530.html
24-06-2021||Lucknow||Now, Lucknow University to offer course in Karm-Kand||Lucknow University will provide vocational training in Karm-Kand, the Hindu rituals of last rites, to students from the upcoming academic session.“We will be offering course in Karm-Kand to be run by the Prachya Sanskrit Department,” said LU spokesperson Durgesh Srivastav.“This course shall provide a proper scriptural account of how to perform rites and rituals in various sanskars, thus providing a wider opportunity to people for learning which was only confined to convention bound people. There shall be teaching of Sandhyopasan Vidhi, Tarpan and Balvishwadev Vidhi amongst others,” he added.The course is part of an array of vocational courses proposed by the university as it introduces four-year undergraduate program (FYUP) from upcoming session.A list of vocational courses for undergraduate program includes state of the art modern courses on operating system, internet technology and web design.Vocational courses will include English, French, German, Sanskrit, Persian languages, courses on hotel management, tourism, philosophical counselling, mushroom cultivation, remote sensing, academic writing, foreign trade, GST concept and practice.The vocational courses will be taken by students in the first and second year of undergraduate program.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-lucknow-university-to-offer-course-in-karmkand-101624473704293.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra vaccinates 607,407 citizens, highest till date||Maharashtra on Wednesday inoculated 607,407 citizens, which is the highest single-day vaccination number since the drive began in January this year. The state had carried out 552,921 vaccinations on Tuesday, which is now the second-highest tally to date.Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, state health department attributed the achievement to the district teams. “Today we have bettered the performance of yesterday, and have administered the highest ever number of Covid vaccination doses in a single day in the state,” said Vyas.Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded 10,066 new Covid-19 cases, while Mumbai recorded 864 cases. The state case tally now stands at 5,997,587. Mumbai reported 23 deaths with its toll reaching 15,338.There were 241,801 tests done on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries clocked 11,032.There are currently 121,859 active patients across the state of which Mumbai tops with 18,711 patients followed by Pune with 17,378 active patients.The death toll has now reached 119,303 with Pune leading with 16,379 deaths followed by Mumbai with 15,338 patients.Dr Amin Kaba, who works in several private hospitals in Mumbai said it was inevitable to fasten the vaccination process. “We will be able to contain this virus by vaccinating the majority of the population,” said Dr Kaba.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vaccinates-607-407-citizens-highest-till-date-101624473584625.html
24-06-2021||Bhopal||MP couple abandons newborn with clubfoot, returns after hospital reaches out: Doc||BHOPAL: A couple in Madhya Pradesh’s Harda district abandoned their baby soon after birth because she has a clubfoot, a treatable condition in which the feet are twisted down and inward, but eventually came back for her after the hospital reached out to them, a government doctor said.The infant’s parents left after getting her admitted to the hospital’s special newborn care unit, said a doctor at the district hospital, 150 km from state capital Bhopal. “The hospital administration has taken care of the baby for the past 36 hours,” the doctor said on condition of anonymity.Harda district civil surgeon Dr Shirish Raghuvanshi said: “Due to superstition, parents abandoned the baby girl, who was born with congenital deformities, and returned to their village but we counselled them. We also informed them about the law as they can’t leave a baby like that and will have to face criminal action.” They understood and came back, he added. On Wednesday, the hospital and district administration brought the parents back to the hospital.The infant’s mother denied that they abandoned her, insisting that they had gone back to the village to discuss the child’s medical condition. “We didn’t leave the girl… We went to our village to discuss the condition of the baby with the elders,” she said.“The baby was born 6 years after marriage… We will not leave her,” he said. Dr Raghuvanshi said the baby was under treatment because she weighs less than 2 kg. “Once she gets stable, we will refer the baby to Hamidia Hospital, Bhopal… orthopedic doctors will treat her.”Clubfoot is estimated to afflict nearly 50,000 babies in the country every year and can often be treated by use of miniature plaster casts. If it is not treated, it can make it hard for a child to walk without a limp.(With inputs from Ram Parashar from Harda)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-couple-abandons-newborn-with-clubfoot-returns-after-hospital-reaches-outdoc-101624473584048.html
24-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19 cases see uptick in Chandigarh tricity||After falling to 25 on Monday, the daily Covid-19 cases in the tricity climbed to 84 on Wednesday, prompting the authorities to urge people to keep exercising caution. Chandigarh recorded 43 fresh cases, followed by 33 in Mohali and eight in Panchkula. The three jurisdictions had logged 22, 29 and four cases, respectively, on Tuesday. The active caseload stands at 267, 369 and 74, respectively.The tricity has been reporting three deaths for the past three days. On Wednesday, Mohali recorded two, followed by one in Chandigarh and none in Panchkula. “Since restrictions are being eased, Covid-19 cases are increasing gradually for the past two days. People must adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and wear masks at public places to avoid getting infected. If people take the virus lightly, a third wave may hit the city in the next few months,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, Chandigarh health services, while urging people to get vaccinated at the earliest.In Panchkula district, deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh has issued orders making “all able-bodied male inhabitants of villages” liable to perform patrol duties round-the-clock to keep a watch on people entering the villages without valid passes and ensuring that residents maintain social distancing. Selection for patrolling will be on rotation basis or draw of lots or any other such method, states the order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-cases-see-uptick-in-chandigarh-tricity-101624473524998.html
24-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express Special to feature Vistadome coach; bookings open||Passengers on the rail route between Pune and Mumbai can now avail of seats in a special “Vistadome” coach, on the Deccan Express Special. the Deccan Express will resume its Pune to Mumbai service on June 26, bookings for which will open on June 24.As per the Central Railways, only passengers with confirmed tickets will be permitted on board the train, adhering to all norms and standard operating procedures (SOPs) related to Covid-19.This is the first time a Vistadome coach will be deployed on the Mumbai-Pune route, railway officials said.“Passengers can enjoy unhindered views of rivers, valleys, waterfalls, on the Mumbai-Pune route. At present, the Vistadome coach is running from Mumbai-Madgaon on the Jan Shadabdi Special train. Now, passengers on the Mumbai-Pune route can also enjoy the scenic beauty while passing near Matheran hill (near Neral), Songir hill (near Palasdhari), Ulhas river (near Jambrung), Ulhas Valley, areas of Khandala, and Lonavala, and waterfalls, tunnels on the south-east ghat section,” said railway officials.Mumbai-Pune-Mumbai via Vistadome: Enjoy the scenic beauty of the Western Ghats with the first ever Vistadome coach on this route. The Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express Special Train having the Vistadome coach is all set to be restored on this route from 26th June 2021. pic.twitter.com/mNTjSZ2lozSpecial features of the Vistadome coach include wide window panes, a glass rooftop, rotatable seats and pushback chairs.“The 01007 Deccan Express special will leave Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 07.00 hrs daily with effect from June 26 and arrive Pune in at 11.05 hrs same day. 01008 Deccan Express special will leave Pune at 15.15 hrs daily with effect from June 26, and arrive at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus at 19.05 hrs same day,” said railway officials.The train will halt at Dadar, Thane, Kalyan, Neral (for 01007 only), Lonavla, Talegaon, Khadki and Shivajinagar.Along with the one Vistadome coach, there will be three AC Chair cars, 10 bogies of second-class seating and one second class-seating-cum guard’s brake van. Bookings can be done at all passenger reservation system (PRS) centres and on the website www.irctc.co.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumpune-deccan-express-special-to-feature-vistadome-coach-bookings-open-101624473284640.html
24-06-2021||Other||Sangeet Natak veteran Nirmala Gogte wins Balgandharva Award for 2020||PUNE Nirmala Gogte, a veteran actor/singer of the Sangeet Natak form of drama has been awarded the Balgandharva Award for the year 2020.The 2021 awards were also announced on Wednesday, with singer Reva Natu, violinist Rama Chobhe, Sameer Hampi, playwright Prasad Vanarase, producer- director Pravin Vaidya, and Ganesh Malvadkar, being named as recipients.This annual award, given by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), has been delayed due to the Covid-19 epidemic. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, on the eve of Bal Gandharva’s birth anniversary on June 26, made the announcement on Wednesday. Besides Gogte, awards will be given to Kiran Yadnopavit for writing for cinema and theatre; to Praveen Barve for theatre/play management; to Sandeep Deshmukh for backstage artistes; to senior musician Ravindra Kulkarni; and to Anuradha Rajhans for preservation of Balgandharva’s plays through drama conventions.Kiran Yadnopavit was elated. “The association with name of this award gives me a high. I believe in his ideology of encompassing the commoner as the central idea of any play. I am glad that people in my city found me worthy of this award.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sangeet-natak-veteran-nirmala-gogte-wins-balgandharva-award-for-2020-101624473284074.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Every 10-unit rise in PM levels leads to 7 hospital admissions in Delhi||New Delhi: Every 10-unit increase in ultra-fine particulate matter (PM 2.5) leads to at least seven respiratory distress-related hospital admissions in Delhi every week, a study conducted by Maulana Azad Medical College shows.The study that was commissioned by Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) was carried out over a span of 15 months, starting April 2019. The researchers studied admission records of six big government hospitals—Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, Lok Nayak Hospital, Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital and Madan Mohan Malviya Hospital, according to a press note released on Wednesday. The DPCC did not share the detailed report.According to the study, increase in cases of bronchitis, bronchial asthma is directly proportional to the increase in the air quality index (AQI) in Delhi.The study , led by Dr Nandini Sharma, former dean and the head of the department of community medicine (MAMC), also collected community-based data on activity levels of people (if people are more exposed to outdoor activity), perceived stress, awareness about the causes of pollution, and perceived interventions required for improving air quality from 1,879 people across 11 districts in the national capital.It was found that 96.5% of respondents of the survey believed that vehicular emissions was a major contributor to air pollution in Delhi, while 77% said it was industrial pollution.Around 65% of respondents attributed poor air quality to waste burning, 46% said it was due to construction activities, and 28% of Delhiites blamed stubble burning and firecrackers for air pollution.Another air quality analysis conducted by climate communications initiative, Climate Trends, showed that pollution levels in Delhi dropped significantly during the 2020 Covid-19 lockdown (March, April and May), but the 2021 lockdown was not as effective in improving air quality.The analysis showed that Delhi’s average PM 2.5 concentration in the months March, April and May dipped from 95.6 ug/m3 in 2019 to 69 ug/m3 in 2020. However, in 2021 in the same period, the levels bounced back to 95ug/m3. The safe limits for PM 2.5 levels in India according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) was 40ug/m3.Along with Delhi, the analysis also showed the fluctuation in pollution levels in Kolkata, Lucknow and Mumbai during the same period.Mumbai’s average concentration of PM 2.5 between March and May in 2019 was 21.6 ug/m3, which increased to 31.3 ug/m3 in 2020, and then to 40.3 ug/m3. The analysis showed that in Kolkata’s PM 2.5 concentration swayed from 41.8ug/m3 in 2019 to 27.9 ug/m3 in 2020 and 37.3 ug/m3 in 2021.In Lucknow, PM 2.5 concentration in the three months decrease consistently from 2019, but it still remained above permissible limits. Its average PM 2.5 concentration in 2019 for the months of March, April and May was 103 ug/m3 which dipped to 92 ug/m3 in 2020 during lockdown and further to 79.6 ug/m3 in 2021.“Lockdown has provided an opportunity to examine the background pollution in the atmosphere when everything was shut down in 2020; atmosphere was fairly clean. However, we did not meet the condition of 40ug/m3 prescribed by the CPCB. We need to redefine the natural conditions in India, for which particulate matter concentrations are more than 50-60ug/m3 even in the clean atmosphere in north India,” said professor SK Dhaka, from Rajdhani College, Delhi University.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment said, “Air pollution is known to cause irreparable damage to residents’ health, and it is seen through several analysis that long term exposure leads to some serious repercussions. The government and the public will have to come together to implement long term, holistic measures to ensure that our future generations can lead healthy lives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/every-10-unit-rise-in-pm-levels-leads-to-7-hospital-admissions-in-delhi-dpccstudy-101624472444345.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||In separate cases, two women stabbed by their husbands; Murder cases filed||Two women were murdered by their husbands in two separate incidents. Police have pressed murder charges on the suspects in both the cases.In the first case reported from north east Delhi’s New Usmanpur, 71-year-old Abdul Hakim stabbed his wife to death. Hakim’s daughter-in-law Heena informed police that he and his wife Zainab (70) had a fight over some issue some weeks ago, following which they were living separately in two different floors of their house. In her police statement, Heena said that on Tuesday afternoon, while she was talking to her mother-in-law, Hakim came to their room on the first floor and stabbed Zainab.“I tried to save her but he stabbed me on the shoulder. I also sustained stab wounds. I shouted for help after which locals came and restrained him,” Heena told police.A police team reached the spot and rushed the two women to Jag Pravesh Chand hospital, where the elderly woman was declared brought dead. Police said they have registered a case of murder and arrested Hakim.In the second incident reported from Hari Nagar on Saturday afternoon, a 41-year-old man stabbed his 36-year-old- wife because he suspected that she was having an affair. Police said the man’s brother called the police control room (112) and said the man claimed to have murdered his wife.The brother also told police that the man told him he was in the room with his wife’s body. When police visited the house, they broke open the door and found the man lying unconscious next to his wife’s mutilated body. The couple’s two children were at not at home at the time of the murder.A police officer, who asked not to be named, said the man had tied his wife’s hands and stabbed her 10-12 times. “He also slashed his own neck in an attempt to kill himself. Our team rushed them to the hospital where the woman was declared brought dead. The man is admitted at the hospital. We have registered a case of murder,” said deputy commissioner of police(west) Urvija Goel.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Help is just a call away: Snehi: 011-65978181; Sumaitri: 011-23389090)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-separate-cases-two-women-stabbed-by-their-husbands-murder-cases-filed-101624472384790.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||All vaccination centres to open for 18+, Delhi administers 109,000 doses||Age will be no bar at vaccination centres in Delhi from Wednesday, health minister Satyendar Jain said, adding that government centres will vaccinate all beneficiaries aged above 18 years, and also allow walk-in registrations.On Wednesday, Delhi administered 109,646 doses, according to the Co-WIN dashboard. On Tuesday, 84,539 doses were administered.“Today (Wednesday) onwards, there will only be one vaccination category that is 18+. Now all the centres will be common and anyone can go to any of the centres to get the shot. Walk-ins have also been allowed, so people can come without booking a slot,” Jain said at briefing on Wednesday.“Now that the Centre is procuring and supplying free doses for everyone over the age of 18 years, there is only one category. All vaccines will be used to immunise everyone. Since there is a shortage of Covaxin, it is being administered only at a few centres,” said Jain.With the government providing Covaxin to only those whose second shot is due, Jain did not say when the government will start administering Covaxin for the first dose.Earlier this month, the state government directed all centres – public and private – to stop administering Covaxin as the first dose to those between the ages of 18 and 45 years to conserve the doses for those who need the second shot.When asked about the allegations of the “slow” progress of the vaccination drive by the state BJP, Jain said: “We are not doing what Madhya Pradesh is doing. We are not vaccinating people for a photo-op or an event. We are giving 75,000 to 80,000 shots daily. We have immunised more people yesterday than day before and today more than yesterday, unlike MP, which couldn’t even vaccinate 1% of the number they did on Day 1. Vaccination drive is not meant for just a day.”With walk-ins being allowed, residents who were struggling to book online slots thronged centres across the city on Wednesday. At many places, the beneficiaries said the process was hassle-free and better than trying for days to get a slot on the CoWin app.At Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Kalkaji, people could avail of the walk-in facility until noon. “We live in the neighbourhood and decided to walk in after we got to know about the vaccination drive from the news. The experience has been smooth so far,” said Yashika Kanoija (18), who came to the centre along with her family.At a government school in Pooth Kalan, Rohini, people were able to get vaccinated without any hassle. Shashank, who goes by his first name, tweeted that the centre had excellent arrangements for people who were walking in without registration.But there were some who ended up visiting multiple sites because they were unaware of sites where the walk-in registration was facilitated. People were seen enquiring about vaccination for 18+ category both at Shyama Prasad Mukharjee Sarvodaya Vidyalaya, Chittaranjan Park, and School of Excellence, Kalkaji.“We saw on TV that one could simply walk in and get the vaccine. But here, they are only vaccinating people in the 45+ category. They are asking us to visit other centres now,” said Manav Kapur, who visited the School of Excellence centre in Kalkaji but was turned away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-vaccination-centres-to-open-for-18-delhi-administers-109-000-doses-101624472383467.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt gives ₹10,000 each to 1,825 construction workers as Covid relief||The Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board has granted Covid-19 relief disbursement of ₹10,000 each to 1,825 construction workers, the city administration said in a statement on Wednesday.The Delhi government has already disbursed ₹5,000 each to 217,039 construction workers as Covid relief this year. The ₹10,000 aid comes as an additional benefit for construction workers who are hit hardest due to the lockdown in Delhi.“I urge all construction workers who were member of the board before 30th September, 2018 to renew their membership with construction board so that they are able to receive disbursement benefits,” said deputy chief minister and labour minister Manish Sisodia.More than 10,000 construction workers will receive the amount in the coming weeks. “When the first lockdown was imposed due to the pandemic last year, the Delhi government was one of the first governments in the country to grant relief disbursement to all the 39,600 workers who were registered with the board in March 2020. After I took charge of the labour department in November 2020, inspections and mass registration drives were conducted in Delhi’s labour offices. As a result of this, within six months, the number of construction workers registered with the board has increased to 2.38 lakh,” Sisodia said.The registration process of construction workers has been made online, Sisodia said. “Earlier, a worker had to stand in long queues for hours to submit his/her application, but since the entire process is online it will help every worker to easily apply to the government and get his/her daily wage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-gives-10-000-each-to-1-825-construction-workers-as-covid-relief-101624472263897.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Admissions to entry level classes in Delhi govt schools will start on June 28||Admissions to entry-level classes in Delhi government schools will begin from June 28 and the last date of submission of applications is July 12. Parents of those wishing to admit their wards in nursery, kindergarten, and Class 1 of Delhi government’s Sarvodaya Vidyalayas may collect the forms from schools.“During school timings, application forms must be available with the security guard at the entrance of the school, so that parents don’t have to wait to obtain the application form,” the Delhi government’s Directorate of Education said on Wednesday, while notifying the admission process.Parents of applicants will have to drop the duly filled forms in a drop box at the school and they may also seek help from teachers and school management committee members to fill up the forms. The age limit for nursery, KG, and Class 1 is 3, 4, and 5 years, respectively.“Older children are to be given admission in age-appropriate class…Further, the age relaxation of up to 30 days may be granted at the level of Heads of Schools in the maximum as well as minimum age limit for Nursery and KG/Class 1,” the circular added.“The list of children selected through a draw of lots shall be displayed on the school notice board on July 23 at 11am; it will be put up at 3pm in evening shift schools. Admission procedure will start from July 26 and will be completed by August 4. If any seat is vacant post that date, children in the waiting list will be allotted seats from August 5 to 7,” the notice said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/admissions-to-entry-level-classes-in-delhi-govt-schools-will-start-on-june-28-101624472263269.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s bulletin adds 740 backlog cases from Safdarjung hospital in 2 days||The Capital added 477 backlog cases of Covid-19, or old infections that went unreported on previous days, to its tally on Wednesday — the second day in a row that such cases were added to the city’s records. On Tuesday, 263 infections from “earlier weeks” were added to the city’s Covid tally, said the government’s health bulletin.The 740 backlog infections reported on these two days are originally from “May-end” in Vardhman Mahavir Medical College and the associated Safdarjung Hospital (both of which are run by the central government) that had not been updated in the national Covid-19 database due to “confusion” that stemmed from a senior official at the hospital having to quarantine, said senior hospital personnel who asked not to be named.A Delhi government spokesperson said, “The hospitals in question are run by the central government. They directly upload Covid-19 data on the centralised portal. We have nothing to comment on this.”As per the Delhi government’s health bulletin, Delhi on Tuesday and Wednesday added 111 and 134 new cases respectively. The total number of confirmed cases in the city, after accounting for the corrections, stands at 1,433,366 as on Wednesday.Officials familiar with the matter said Vardhaman Mahavir Medical College and Safdarjung Hospital did not report these cases to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) due to “some confusion” when their microbiologist was under quarantine in May-end.“The patients as well as the doctors were informed about their reports, but somehow the cases were not added to the ICMR portal,” the senior hospital personnel quoted above said. Once the data discrepancy was noted in the records, hospital officials said they informed the Union health ministry, ICMR and the Delhi government.Officials, however, were unable to confirm whether more such cases will be added in the future.Calls and messages from HT to Safdarjung Hospital spokesperson Poonam Dhanda on Wednesday enquiring about the discrepancy went unanswered.Such statistical corrections are not uncommon in the country, particularly pertaining to infections during the brutal second wave where several states such as Maharashtra, Bihar, Uttarakhand and Punjab have been adding backlog cases and deaths in recent weeks that previously went unreported. However, the exercise generally implies that the numbers reported during the peak of the outbreak in these regions were under-reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-bulletin-adds-740-backlog-cases-from-safdarjung-hospital-in-2-days-101624472145402.html
24-06-2021||Delhi||India’s first woman Olympic medallist named V-C of Delhi Sports University||The state government on Wednesday named weightlifting champion Karnam Malleswari, the first woman to win a medal for India at the Olympics, the vice-chancellor of the upcoming Delhi Sports University.The announcement came after a meeting between chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia and Malleswari on Wednesday, which was celebrated as International Olympics Day.“Our purpose to establish the Delhi Sports University is to build and create athletes in our country who will make our nation proud,” said Sisodia as he announced Malleswari’s appointment.The state cabinet in October 2019 passed an order setting up the university in Mundka. Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal at the time, said the university will offer field-specific degrees to interested students that will be at par with those offered in other courses at the graduate, post-graduate and doctoral levels.Construction work on the university has been disrupted because of the pandemic, and has not started yet. Sisodia inspected the proposed construction site in October last year.Sisodia, who is also the state education minister, on Wednesday said the government will focus on “providing a space for individuals to build their athletic talent”, with the aim of nurturing at least “50 Olympians”.After winning a weightlifting bronze at the 2000 Sydney Olympics, Malleswari was conferred the Padma Shri, Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna, and Arjuna award.Sharing her vision for the university, Malleswari said university officials will start visiting schools as soon as they reopen, to scout for talent. The university plans to use existing infrastructure and coaches to identify athletic acumen in students.“Many have a keen interest in sports, but are unable to pursue their athletic dream due to a lack of infrastructure. We will identify students and match their athletic skills to the sports they are apt for,” she said.The University plans to confer degrees up to the PhD level, and students will be conferred degrees based on their sporting performance. The varsity will also streamline sports facilities and bring talented sportspersons under their ambit to prepare them for national and international competitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/indias-first-woman-olympian-named-v-c-of-delhi-sports-university-101624472143947.html
24-06-2021||Lucknow||After unity efforts, BJP launches booth connect, rural-centric initiatives in Uttar Pradesh||A day after the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) brokered truce between chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya, the Bharatiya Janata Party got down to work, rolling out a series of booth-connect and rural centric initiatives on Wednesday. The party had also invited all former state BJP chiefs to an important party meeting on Tuesday.The party workers began work on the party’s “booth jeeta, sab jeeta (win booth, win everything)” plan on Wednesday, as did the leaders, each tasked with specific roles. The initiatives were taken with an eye on the 2022 UP assembly polls as well as making an impression in the forthcoming zila (district) panchayat chairpersons’ elections on July 3. Plantation drives till the booth level were launched on Wednesday, Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s death anniversary. Now onwards, party workers would head to villages on the last Sunday of each month to listen to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s radio talk, Mann ki Baat, at the booth level. As many as 299 of UP’s 403 assembly constituencies have a rural or semi-rural character. The BJP had lost out to the Samajwadi Party (SP) in the first leg of the panchayat elections for zila panchayat ward members. It is now looking to make amends in the zila chairpersons’ elections. The party leadership rushed national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh twice to UP over the last 20 days to write the “unity” script in the ruling party at the state level. It was as part of this script that chief minister Yogi Adityanath drove from his 5-Kalidas Marg residence to his deputy Keshav Prasad Maurya’s 7-Kalidas Marg residence on Tuesday. He had lunch there in the presence of RSS top leaders Dattatreya Hosbale and veteran Krishna Gopal, as well as the other deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma.The CM’s lunch meet was portrayed as a visit to bless Maurya’s son and daughter-in-law, who married at a simple ceremony in Rae Bareli in May due to Covid restrictions. But, political observers were quick to see beyond it. Maurya, an OBC face of his party who was the state unit chief in 2017 UP assembly polls, played down the visit. On Wednesday, he was more active than before and was part of the efforts to placate a recalcitrant, but important ally, Sanjay Nishad of the Nishad party, who is engaged in some hard pre-poll bargaining. “Politics is all about symbolism. If the chief minister’s first visit to his deputy’s place on Tuesday was powerful symbolism, his deputy’s gesture of meeting an important ally and his willingness to play the role of a troubleshooter by helping placate an ally is good news for BJP ahead of elections,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran journalist and political observer.Other leaders, too, were on the job. UP ministers have been asked to visit districts of which they are in charge, while Jitin Prasada, the former Congress leader who recently joined the BJP, set out on Wednesday to connect with the key upper caste Brahmin community. In his meetings with ministers, Santhosh reportedly praised Adityanath’s governance. He said that unlike in the 2017 UP polls when the party had only the Modi government’s achievements to talk about, this time the cadres should also market the achievements of the Adityanath government. In his last two visits, Santhosh has praised Adityanath through his tweets at least four times. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, has tweeted in Adityanath’s support once in this period. It was as part of the unity script that all former UP BJP chiefs, including Vinay Katiyar and Laxmikant Bajpai, were called to the UP BJP office for joint consultations by Santhosh before he left for Delhi. During Santhosh’s visit, former IAS officer- turned BJP MLC AK Sharma, a former aide of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, also publicly announced he was “happy” with his new role as UP BJP vice- president. “The government has begun accommodating cadres in commissions and boards while the party is filling up all pending party positions. The government and the party are one, we are in election mode now,” a BJP minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-unity-efforts-bjp-launches-grassroots-initiatives-in-up-101624470463905.html
24-06-2021||Other||UPRTOU to adopt 24 villages across Uttar Pradesh||As part of its efforts to ensure rural development in a big way, Uttar Pradesh Rajarshi Tandon Open University (UPRTOU)-- UP’s lone open state varsity — has adopted five more villages in Prayagraj and will be adopting 24 villages across the state, said vice-chancellor Prof Seema Singh.The varsity has already adopted two villages-- Chak Kriparam village in Chaka development block in trans-Yamuna area and Bari village, located on Soraon development block in trans-Ganga area of Prayagraj.The university undertakes various educational and developmental initiatives from time to time in these villages, said Singh.“The five new villages adopted by us include Matadeen-ka-Purva in Phaphamau, Gohri, Lehra and Jaitvardeeh villages in Soraon development block besides Chandi village in Naini,” the VC said. Prof Singh said the varsity has also asked all of its 12 regional centres at Gorakhpur, Bareilly, Lucknow, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Agra, Jhansi, Kanpur, Azamgarh and Agra besides Prayagraj to also adopt two villages each near them. “The UPRTOU team will work to better health, sanitation and education among the residents of these villages and also strive to increase the green cover with local support. Our team will also motivate all over 18 years of age to take Covid-19 vaccination jabs on priority. Women and child health would also be a key focus area,” Singh said. The teams would work for the empowerment of the rural women and senstise people regarding women rights and help fight social evils like dowry system and sexual harassment, she said. “We would also undertake massive plantation drive of Peepal saplings in these two villages with the help of locals,” she said. To note, the Uttar Pradesh government plans to plant 30 crore (300 million) saplings during the Van Mahotsav (Afforestation festival) beginning first week of July this year and for it had sought support from all people, including the universities, of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uprtou-to-adopt-5-more-villages-in-prayagraj-101624470404483.html
24-06-2021||Pune||Vehicle thefts in Pune on the rise after lockdown||After the lifting of the lockdown in the city, as many as 37 vehicles have been stolen from different parts of the city during the past one week.On Monday, five two wheelers were stolen on a single day along with a four-wheeler. On an average four vehicles are being stolen from city on a daily basis during the month of June.During last June as many as 342 vehicles comprising of two and four wheelers were stolen from different parts of the city until June 20, 2020. In comparison with the previous year, as many as 611 vehicles have been stolen until June 20. In May, as many as 530 vehicles were reported stolen by the city police.During the last 21 days, as many as 81 vehicles were stolen from different places in Pune. During last year, there were strict restrictions in place due to lockdown and police presence and yet 975 vehicles were stolen. Of them 870 were two wheelers, 77 four wheelers and 28 three wheelers. Of them, 330 vehicles have been traced and seized.The past police commissioner K Venkatesham had disbanded some anti vehicle theft units while the incumbent CP has recommissioned two units for tackling robberies and vehicle thefts. Despite the dedicated units, there has been increase in the number of vehicle thefts.Last Friday, three masked broke open the shutter locks of a two-wheeler showroom at Lullanagar and stole cash ₹2 lakh, four helmets and a new high-end motorcycle, collectively worth ₹4.93lakh.The showroom owner, Chirag Mutha (28) from Salisbury Park had registered an FIR with the Wanowrie police and stated that he had locked the showroom on Thursday at around 7pm. The images of three accused wearing face covers breaking open the shutter locks have been recorded in the CCTV camera and the investigation is on in the case.In Feb, the crime branch had nabbed a a wrestler and three others for ‘bike thefts. They had been accused of stealing 20 two-wheelers of one particular as they have found its lock easy to break and had become used to the easy theft.According to the crime branch, the special squad called ‘Anti- Vehicle Theft Squad’ to solve the cases of vehicle theft is regularly detecting the cases. The Anti-vehicle theft squad had uncovered a number of complex crimes before and even stolen vehicles which came from other states. The Anti-vehicle theft squad was required again due to the increase in vehicle theft cases.The vehicle anti-theft department was instituted in 2015 the objective to curb the rising number of vehicle thefts, but it was defunct from 2019- 2020. Currently, Pune witnesses vehicle thefts averaging from 1,000 to 1,500 annually and of which half of them are recovered by the crime branch during the year as a standard practice.Police officials in their submissions before their seniors had expressed the need for a team with the necessary expertise and know-how about the vehicle theft cases which will help to detect more cases and bring down the vehicle theft crime in the city. Accordingly, dedicates units of anti-vehicle thefts were commissioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vehicle-thefts-in-pune-on-the-rise-after-lockdown-101624462422974.html
24-06-2021||Pune||Man arrested for trying to sell sand boa in Pune||A 21-year-old man was arrested for being in possession of a sand boa snake in Bhosari area of Pimpri-Chinchwad The man was identified as Yogesh Morappa Mhetre (21), a resident of Anandnagar in Moreai temple in Chinchwad. Mhetre had no permit for sale or transport of animals. The reptile is estimated to fetch ₹15,00,000 in the black market. The man was found near the ward office of Indrayaninagar area of Bhosari around 7:30pm. The police believe that he was attempting to sell the reptile. The police have mentioned in the FIR that sand boa is mentioned in schedule 3 of Protection of Wildlife Act, 1972. The police informed the forest department which provided an official for verification. The reptile was verified by Suresh Kashinath Barle (30), a resident of Forest colony in Bhamburda, Pune The forest department official also lodged a complaint in the matter. A case under Sections 2(16), 9, 44, 50, 52 of Wildlife Protection Act was registered at Bhosari police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-trying-to-sell-sand-boa-in-bhosari-101624461942903.html
