25-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh Cabinet decides to set up two pilgrimage development boards||The Uttar Pradesh Cabinet on Friday decided to set up two separate pilgrimage development boards — the Uttar Pradesh Shri Chitrakoot Dham Teerth Vikas Parishad and the Uttar Pradesh Vindhya Dham Teerth Vikas Parishad — for conservation of the cultural heritage and development of Chitrakoot and the Vindhyachal region of Mirzapur as pilgrimage centres of international importance.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath presided over a meeting of the state cabinet that approved the Uttar Pradesh Shri Chitrakoot Dham Teerth Vikas Parishad Bill 2021 and the Uttar Pradesh Vindhya Dham Teerth Vikas Parishad Bill 2021 to be tabled in the state legislature to enact a law in this regard. It decided to authorise the chief minister to take any other appropriate decision about both the projects.The state cabinet’s decision is being considered an apparent bid to give a push to the BJP government’s Hindutva agenda ahead of the 2022 UP assembly elections.An official press release said the two boards would work out an action plan for the conservation of the cultural heritage, ecosystem, development, boost tourism and lead to creation of jobs there. The boards will also work out policies and oversee implementation of the action plan. The state government proposes to provide high-level tourism infrastructure, conserve cultural heritage and ecosystem in the Vindhya region as an important centre in the Puranas.Four-lane road from Yamuna Expressway to VrindavanThe state cabinet approved an estimated cost of ₹251 crore for construction of a four-lane road from Yamuna Expressway to Vrindavan and a two-lane bridge on the Yamuna river. It also approved another proposal for construction of a four-lane bypass in Saharanpur to connect NH-709-B and Delhi-Yamunotri road (NH 57) up to Devla there. It also approved an estimated cost of ₹200.22 crore for the project that is considered important for easing the traffic congestion in Saharanpur and the pilgrims going to the Shakambhari Devi temple there (in Saharanpur).Advanced ophthalmic centre at SGPGIMSThe state cabinet approved a proposal for using high specifications in construction of advanced ophthalmic centre and service block at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS), Lucknow. The centre will have super specialty in corneal transplant. The project involves a cost of ₹61.39 crore.New campus of RMLIMSA proposal for construction of the first phase of the new campus of the Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medicla Sciences (RMLIMS) in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar Extension scheme was also approved. The project has an estimated cost of ₹204.50 crore. MD, MS, DM and MCH courses are being run at the institute in addition to the MBBS course. Construction of both men’s and women’s hostels for students, nurses’ hostels, faculty residence, basement parking and electricity connection works will be carried out in the first phase of the new campus.Free saplingsThe state cabinet approved a proposal to provide saplings of the forest and wildlife department (barring saplings of eucalyptus and poplar) free of cost to different departments, court complexes, farmers, persons, local bodies and educational institutions for the state to achieve its target of planting 30 crore saplings in 2021-2022. The Covid-19 protocol will be followed during the plantation drive.Modernisation of tubewellsA proposal for the modernisation of 6600 government tubewells set up in different districts and replacement of equipment has been approved with an estimated project cost of ₹285.79 crore. The project, scheduled to start in 2021-2022, is expected to be completed in 2022-2023 and recreate the capacity for irrigation of 76082 hectare land benefitting 70,000 farmers.Transfer of landA proposal to transfer nazul (government) land in front of Aishbagh Eidgah to the state culture department for setting up of the Dr Ambedkar Culture Centre in Lucknow was also approved. It will have an auditorium with the capacity to seat 750 persons, library and a research centre. A statue of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar will be installed, and a dormitory and cafeteria will come up there. It was decided that no building of religious or historical importance should be there on the nazul land to be transferred. The initial cost of the project is estimated to be about ₹45.04 crore.Stamp duty, registration fee exemption for Noida airport land leaseThe state cabinet on Friday decided to grant exemption from stamp duty and registration fee to be levied on giving 1334-hectare land of the civil aviation department on lease to the joint venture company Noida International Airport Ltd (NIAL) for the development of Noida International Airport. It authorised the chief minister to take any other appropriate decision on the issue.[PTI adds: “For development of the Noida International Airport, the state cabinet has approved a proposal to waive the stamp duty and registration fees on the 1,334 hectare land acquired in the name of the civil aviation department,” an official statement said.It stated that 1,334 hectare land has been acquired for the first phase of the Noida International Airport in Jewar, Gautam Buddh Nagar in the name of the civil aviation department, UP government. This land has to be leased out to NIAL. Noida airport’s nodal officer Shailendra Bhatia said that when leasing a land, the lessee is required to pay 1 per cent of the total circle rate of the land in registration fees and 7 per cent in stamp duty.“It was important to lease the land for NIAL in order to go ahead with development work on the project. NIAL has selected a concessionaire for a 40-year-period for carrying out the work, which could proceed only if NIAL has the land on lease,” he said.NIAL, which has the UP government also as one of its four members, had selected Zurich International Airport AG as the concessionaire for development of the project.The Swiss-headquartered firm has floated a special purpose vehicle Yamuna International Airport Private Limited (YIAPL) in India for the job, according to officials.]||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-cabinet-decides-to-set-up-two-pilgrimage-development-boards-101624645556089.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Khar murder: Victim’s friend gets bail||The sessions court on Friday granted bail to Diya Padalkar, arrested in connection with the murder of 19-year-old Janhvi Kukreja. The court, however, rejected the bail plea of Kukreja’s boyfriend Shree Jogdhankar.The prosecution has sought a stay on the order granting bail to Padalkar. The court, however, refused, observing that ‘considering that the prosecution case against Padalkar is based on circumstantial evidence, it is not desirable to stay the order.’Kukreja was found dead on the staircase of a building in Khar on December 31, 2020 She was accompanied by Padalkar and Jogdhankar at a New Year’s Eve party.Padalkar’s lawyer had argued that she was not involved in the murder. It was also argued that there was no eye-witness nor any evidence against her.Jogdhankar’s lawyer Mahesh Vaswani had contended that his client was falsely implicated in the case. He also alleged that the police had suppressed CCTV footage of the building where the incident took place. He claimed that they would soon approach the high court for bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/khar-murder-victim-s-friend-gets-bail-101624645495514.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai university sanctions ₹2.94 crore for minor research projects submitted by teachers||To boost research work among teachers from affiliated colleges, the University of Mumbai (MU) disbursed ₹2.94 crore to fund nearly 1,179 minor research project proposals submitted by teachers in 2019-20. In a statement released on Thursday, a spokesperson for MU said this is only 70% of the sanctioned amount, the remaining amount will be disbursed later.“Applications were invited online and based on scrutiny by members of respective faculties, 1,179 applications were approved for this funding,” said a spokesperson for the varsity and added that the approved projects include 174 anthropology projects, 245 commerce, 399 science and 361 engineering projects. “The fund will reach teachers in the form of cheques,” he added.In 2018-19, nearly 629 projects were approved and the first instalment of ₹83 lakh (40% of the actual amount) was disbursed by the varsity. “Despite the education system going online for the last year and a half, we don’t want research projects to be affected. All affiliated colleges have been encouraging their staff to apply to us and we too are trying to disburse sanctioned amount in time,” added the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-university-sanctions-2-94-crore-for-minor-research-projects-submitted-by-teachers-101624645435484.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Post second wave: Mumbai airport sees slight increase in passenger traffic in June||As the impact of the second wave has decreased across the country, Mumbai airport has seen a slight uptick in passenger traffic. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), in the first 20 days of June surged past the total passenger volume of May. According to data sourced from CSMIA, total passenger traffic from June 1 to June 22 crossed 4.65 lakhs as compared to 4.34 lakhs in May. Passenger footfall had started declining after the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 was largely seen in the country. According to booking.com, Mumbai is the second city to see more travellers after Delhi in June. Thomas Cook and SOTC too said that a large number of Indians have resumed travel in June, resulting in more passenger traffic across the country.A Mumbai airport official said, “We are happy to see more footfalls this month as compared to May when the passenger traffic drastically fell.” As lockdown restrictions have begun to ease, data from Booking.com reflected consumer travel optimism with Indian travellers searching for destinations that can be safely explored during the monsoon months. CSMIA spokesperson confirmed the rise in passenger traffic and said, “The number of passenger traffic had fallen down from 1,041,110 in April to 434,680 in May. However, until June 22, the passenger traffic was noted to be 465,470. As a result of the increasing passenger footfall, air traffic at CSMIA too has risen from around 200 flights per day to around 350 flight movements per day.”Booking.com said their research was conducted among a sample of adults (28,042 respondents across 28 countries, including India) who are planning to travel in the next 12 months. “Respondents completed an online survey in January 2021, “Around 72% of Indian travellers say that travel is more important to them now than it was before the pandemic. New Delhi emerged as the top destination booked by Indian travellers travelling domestically, followed by Lonavala and Mumbai,” said Ritu Mehrotra, regional manager, South Asia at Booking.com Recent ‘Back to Travel’ research by Booking.com found 68% Indian travellers stated that not being able to travel extensively in 2020 has made them yearn for travel even more in 2021. The research also mentions that 70% Indian travellers have used the increased time at home to plan future travel while 64% have banked more vacation days, so are excited about the potential of taking longer vacations in 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/post-second-wave-mumbai-airport-sees-slight-increase-in-passenger-traffic-in-june-101624645375475.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Cross country study finds link between air pollution and Covid-19||Areas with poor air quality and higher emissions of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 are more likely to have Covid-19 infections and related deaths, according to a joint study by four institutes across the country. This is the first time that a pan-India study has found a direct correlation between air pollution and Covid-19. Statistical analysis established that there was a significant correlation between Covid-19 cases and PM2.5 concentrations in all states in India, with a correlation coefficient of 0.66. The correlation coefficient for PM2.5 concentrations and deaths resulting from Covid-19 was 0.61. In statistics, a correlation coefficient above 0.5 means the two data sets have a compelling correlation to each other. The study titled ‘Establishing a link between fine particulate matter (PM2.5) zones and Covid-19 over India’ based on anthropogenic emission sources and air quality data was published in the peer-reviewed journal Urban Climate on June 10. The study was conducted by scientists from Utkal University, Bhubaneswar; Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), Pune, Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, National Institute of Technology Rourkela; School of Earth, Ocean and Climate Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneswar. It was partially funded by the Ministry of Earth Sciences, the Government of India. “We have done a statistical analysis to see if there is any correlation between district-level air pollution data and Covid-19 cases. While there are some studies in Europe to find a correlation between the two data sets, in India there have been no prior studies to understand these correlations. Our findings suggest a significant correlation between the district level air pollution data and Covid-19 cases. We found that regions with huge amounts of fossil fuel such as petrol, diesel, and coal etc. combustion in transport and industrial activities, also experiences a lot more Covid-19 cases,” said Saroj Kumar Sahu, lead author of the study and assistant professor at Utkal University. The study involves three kinds of data sets—National Emission Inventory (NEI) of PM2.5 for 2019, developed by the scientists; a number of Covid-19 positive case and corresponding death as of November 5, 2020, adopted from the government of India website and air quality index data (in-situ observations) collected for 16 stations across the country. The scientists divided specific areas into different hotspot zones across India. From 36 states, 16 districts were picked for the study, including Mumbai and Pune. Maharashtra recorded the second-highest emission load- 828.3 Gigagram per year (Gg/Yr) of PM2.5, after Uttar Pradesh which recorded 1138.08 Gg/year, according to the National Emission Inventory developed by the scientists. ‘Between March and November 2020, Maharashtra recorded 17.19 lakhCovid-19 cases, which was the highest in the country. “However it is important to note that in terms of PM2.5 emission per person, Maharashtra is ahead of Uttar Pradesh,” said Sahu. Among the 16 cities captured in the study, Mumbai and Pune recorded the third and fourth highest ‘bad air quality days’ respectively. For Mumbai, out of a total of 165 bad air quality days, 22 were very poor. Pune recorded a total of 117 bad air quality days. Parallelly, Mumbai recorded 2.64 lakh Covid-19 cases and 10,445 deaths during the period studied, which was the highest in the country while Pune recorded 3.38 lakh Covid-19 cases and 7,060 deaths. The transport and industrial sector was the major PM2.5 contributor in Maharashtra and correlated with a rise in Covid-19 cases. “What is worrying is that there is evidence that the novel coronavirus sticks to fine particles like PM2.5 allowing them to move from one part to another by making the airborne transmission of Covid-19 more effective. Through our analysis, it has become clear that rising pollution load is becoming more of a catalyst to aggravate the Covid-19 cases,” said Sahu, adding that polluted hotspots are also triggering long-term effects and more studies are needed to understand this. Apart from Mumbai and Pune, the study also found that two other hotspots -Nagpur and Chandrapur - in Maharashtra witnessed high pollution as well as higher Covid-19 cases and casualties. Gufran Beig, senior scientist and founder project director, System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) and co-author of the paper said that at hotspots within Maharashtra exposure to daily air pollution can make a person’s lungs weak. “When human-induced emissions are added combined with the double impact of the Covid-19 virus, the damage to lungs will be much faster and worsen health conditions,” said Beig. The study found that all the districts where cases of Covid-19 crossed 20,000 recorded emissions more than 200 Gg/yr of PM2.5. “It confirms that sources of the tiny particle are fossil fuel and mostly dominated in developed and urban places,” said the study. Sahu said the study results will help slow down the spread of the virus by providing more preventive steps and resources in areas with high pollution levels for present situations as well as for future possibilities. Among solutions, the study highlighted that there was a need to adopt cleaner technology, better transport emission norms like Bharat Stage (BS) VI at the earliest, and ensure better coal technology like ultra-supercritical power plants to reduce particulate emissions. Ashok A Shingare, member secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board, who was not a part of the study said, “By and large we are aware that if there are more pollutants in the air, there is a predominance of more pneumatic diseases in those regions. Considering the Covid-19 impacts the pulmonary system, there has to be and is a clear correlation for health ailments emerging out of both air pollution and Covid-19. Keeping the transport sector as the major source of air pollution in Mumbai and Pune, we have leapfrogged from BS-4 to BS-6 but implementation and adoption of these new vehicles are lacking. There is a need for building more awareness and to keep economics in mind for faster adoption of BS 6.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cross-country-study-finds-link-between-air-pollution-and-covid19-101624645315485.html
25-06-2021||Other||Langah seeks pardon again from Akal Takht||Amritsar Former Akali minister Sucha Singh Langah on Friday paid obeisance at the Akal Takht on the Parkash Gurpurb (birth anniversary) of its founder and sixth Sikh Master Guru Hargobind Ji. He repeated his appeal before Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh to pardon him in a case of immoral act, for which he was excommunicated from the Panth in 2017.Langah, who served as an SGPC member, was excommunicated after a video allegedly showing him in an objectionable position with a woman was circulated on social media. “I have been visiting the highest Sikh temporal seat for the past 75 days in a row, with naked feet and recite the ‘Paath’ for atonement. My elderly parents have also made requests to the jathedar. Today, I again request the jathedar to consider my plea and grant me pardon for my mistake.”Acting on the complaint of the woman, who is a Punjab Police constable, a case was registered against Langah under Sections 376 (rape), 384 (extortion), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC. In 2018, a Gurdaspur court acquitted Langah, after the woman said that she had filed the complaint under pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/langah-seeks-pardon-again-from-akal-takht-101624645136055.html
25-06-2021||Other||Haryana to introduce law to check fee hike in pvt schools: Kanwar Pal||Haryana education minister Kanwar Pal on Friday said that a law for monitoring the continuous fee hike by private schools will be enacted by the state government. This, he said, will ensure that schools do not overcharge.The minister said fee hike of more than 8-10% in a year cannot be justified in any way. Private schools will not be allowed to charge arbitrarily, he said. Sanskriti Model Schools have been set up on the lines of private schools in Haryana wherein children are being given quality education, he added.FACES FARMERS’ PROTEST IN KARNALAmid farmers’ protest, Kanwar Pal reached Karnal to attend a meeting of the district grievances redressal committee at Panchayat Bhawan, Karnal on Friday.Heavy police deployment and barricading was made by the police following a call of protest by the farmers.When the farmers tried to reach near the venue of the meeting and chanted anti-BJP slogans, police detained some protesting farmers. They were released later. During the meeting, 12 complaints related to various departments were heard and disposed of on the spot.The protesting farmers said that they will continue to oppose the visit of BJP and JJP leaders till the Centre’s three farm laws are revoked.Due to barricading, residents of Karnal had to face a lot of trouble. Kanwar Pal along with Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia attended a programme of the BJP organised to observe the anniversary of Emergency imposed in the country in 1975, as Black Day.He accused the protesting farmers of murdering democracy by not joining talks over the issue of farm laws.A similar protest was held in Kaithal against the visit of Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini and police had detained some farmers protesting under the banner of BKU (Charuni).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-to-introduce-law-to-check-fee-hike-in-pvt-schools-kanwar-pal-101624645017202.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||80-yr-old is Maharashtra’s first Delta plus victim||An 80-year-old woman from Ratnagiri became the first Covid-19 patient with Delta plus variant (AY.1) to succumb to the infection in the state. The senior citizen died on June 13 and her genome sequencing report, which identified her as infected with AY.1, was submitted to the state health department on June 20. Health experts have raised concerns over the delay in submission of genome sequencing reports, which is critical for early detection of Covid-19 variants. The Delta plus variant is a mutation of the highly transmissible Delta variant (B.1.617.2) of Sars-CoV-2 that was detected in Maharashtra during the second wave. The union health ministry on Tuesday categorised the Delta-plus variant of Covid-19, as a ‘variant of concern’. The octogenarian patient along with her son contracted Covid-19 in the last week of May. She was admitted to the district civil hospital on May 31 on testing positive. The deceased individual was a psychiatry patient who was also undergoing treatment at the civil hospital at Ratnagiri. Later, she was referred to a dedicated care hospital, where she was undergoing treatment for Covid-19 treatment in a separate psychiatric department. “The patient died before we could get her genome sequencing report. She was declared dead on June 13 and her report that confirmed the presence of Delta-plus was submitted on June 20,” said Dr Sanghamitra Gawde, civil surgeon of Ratnagiri. Dr Archana Patil, Maharashtra director of health service said that they are still collecting information about the deceased patient including if she had Covid-19 vaccines. Following this, the state health department has instructed district officials to keep an eye on the remaining 20 recovered patients. As per the state health ministry, a total 21 number of Delta-plus variant cases have been found in the state. At Ratnagiri, nine samples were identified with the Delta-plus variant— the highest in the state, followed by Jalgaon, Mumbai, Palghar, Thane and Sindhudurg districts. Concerns This is not the first case where the genome sequencing reports of a Covid-19 positive patient have been submitted late. A 78-year-old female from the eastern suburb of Mumbai contracted Covid-19 along with her eight family members in April. Her blood samples were collected in the third week of April for genome sequencing. But the report was submitted to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) only on June 22. She was the first Covid-19 patient diagnosed with the Delta-plus variant in the city. “The patient and her family members have recovered completely. But considering the samples were sent in April when the pandemic curve was at its peak, it was essential to submit the report at the earliest. It would have helped us to understand how transmissible the Delta-plus is and how much it contributed in the second wave,” said a senior officer from BMC’s health department. Public health experts and doctors said sequencing and early detection of new variants are needed. It could provide essential information that can help in better planning of anti-Covid containment plans. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, had raised a similar issue. That’s when they decided to start genome sequencing in the civic-run Kasturba Hospital. “On a daily basis, we sent samples for genome sequencing through random selections. But often, the reports come after 20-30 days. So, to avoid such delays, we sought permission from the central government to start genome sequencing at Kasturba Hospital which will help us in getting the reports within days,” he said. In view of the rise in infections across the state in March-April, the state in April signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) to undertake genome sequencing of 4,000 positive swab samples. Some private laboratories said they should also be allowed to do genome sequencing that may help in producing data in bulk which would help in providing information about mutation of the virus, possibly adaptation to the available vaccines, and the epidemiological characteristics of the new variants that are travelling across geographies. “We have known how the Delta variant of Sars-Cov-2 was more transmissible that contributed to the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases across the country. So we need to generate data in bulk and share in real time to understand how it is influencing the spread of the virus among the population,” said a senior officer from a private laboratory in Mumbai. As per the report submitted by the central government on Friday, a total of 45,000 samples have been sequenced in India. Of these, 48 of them have been found positive of Delta-Plus variant, 20 of them are from Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/80yrold-is-maharashtra-s-first-delta-plus-victim-101624645016086.html
25-06-2021||Other||CET admissions for Class 11 welcomed by Class 10 students across all boards||PUNE Students eligible for State board’s Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exam, are happy regarding the decision on a common entrance test (CET) for Class 11 admissions, taken on Thursday. The Maharashtra government decided that a common entrance test (CET) will be conducted for admission to first year junior college (FYJC), or Class 11. The Class 10 board examination was cancelled due to a surge in Covid cases. According to officials, the syllabus for the CET will be from the Maharashtra State board. Questions will be asked on Mathematics, English, Science and Social Science. The SET will be conducted offline and will have Multiple Choice Questions in the optical mark recognition (OMR) format.Nisha Channe, a student of Class 10, said that the process is fair.“I am happy with the CET. Students can apply and attempt if they are not happy with their final marks. Also, since the CET will be just for 100 marks the students have to spend a lot less time while attempting the examination. As of now, Covid cases have reduced, so students will be safe,” said Channe.Students who attempt the CET will be given a preference for admissions for Class 11. The remaining vacant seats will be allotted to students who have not taken the CET. The CET is likely to be held July-end or August first week, as per the education department. Students can choose to fill the form after their results are declared. Prathmesh Kulkarni, a student of class 10, said that as the CET is based on the state board syllabus, it may affect the score of CBSE students.“As preference for admission will be for students who attempt CET, it will be important for those who want a good college to attempt the paper,” said Kulkarni.While there is no examination fee for SSC students, CBSE and CISCE students attempting the SET will have to pay an enrolment fee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cet-admissions-for-class-11-welcomed-by-class-10-students-across-all-boards-101624644955487.html
25-06-2021||Other||No immediate revival of the monsoon: IMD||PUNE With little or no rain in the city for the past few days, monsoon activity over the state has been subdued. Shivajinagar on Friday reported no rainfall, while Lohegaon reported 0.8 mm of rainfall.The maximum temperature in the city was 27.6 degrees Celsius, with the minimum temperature at 22.2 degrees Celsius. Till Friday, June 25, Pune reported a total of 129.7 mm of rainfall since June 1, 19.1 mm more than normal, as per IMD.IMD officials noted that rainfall in Pune city will continue to be light with cloudy skies till June 28. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, India Meteorological Department (IMD) Pune, said “There is no immediate revival of the monsoon. From June 25 to July 1, Konkan and Goa will receive less than normal rainfall. Other subdivisions will get normal rainfall.” He added that monsoon progress has halted. The Northern Limit of the Southwest Monsoon (NLM) continues to remain the same since Wednesday.Further advance of Southwest Monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and Punjab is likely to be slow as large scale features are not favourable and the forecast wind pattern by the numerical models do not indicate any favourable condition for sustained rainfall over the region during the forecast period, said IMD Officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-immediate-revival-of-the-monsoon-imd-101624644955973.html
25-06-2021||Other||Fadnavis takes dig at Sena in lecture on Emergency||PUNE: Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis attacked the Shiv Sena on Friday. Speaking at a lecture organised by the Pune BJP youth wing, on the Emergency introduced on June 25, 1975, Fadnavis said, “When Congress tried to end democracy during emergency, Shiv Sena supported it.”Fadnavis asked, “Now some people are saying that democracy is in danger, but when democracy was really in danger during the emergency, what were you doing at that time?”Fadnavis said, “Emergency was a black time in the history of Indian democracy. Congress tried to end democracy, but RSS workers and others fought for 21 months and forced Indira Gandhi to take back her decision. BJP workers must be aware about the Emergency.”Fadnavis said that now Maharashtra is moving towards emergency. “In the name of Covid-19, restrictions were placed on the assembly elections and question hour in the Assembly is not allowed,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fadnavis-takes-dig-at-sena-in-lecture-on-emergency-101624644896640.html
25-06-2021||Other||Last date for SC students applying for govt scholarship to study abroad is now June 20||PUNE Schedule Cast (SC) students applying for the Rajarshi Shahu Maharaj Pardesh Scholarship to travel abroad for further studies, have been given an extension to submit applications. Dhananjay Munde, minister of social justice and special assistance, made the announcement on Friday extending the deadline of June 18 till June 30. Munde said, “After we received lots of requests from students who were entitled for this scheme, to extend the deadline, the decision was taken for students to be selected for the academic year 2021-22, under the Rajarshi Shahu Maharaj Pardesh Scholarship scheme. The las date is now June 30.” Students wanting to apply should visit the official website of the government – www.maharashtra.gov.in. The complete application must be sent to – swfs.applications.2122@gmail.com with a hard copy submitted, along with required documents, to Social Welfare Commissionerate 3, Church road, Pune – 411001, addressed to Social Welfare Commissioner Dr Prashant Narnaware.Meanwhile, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) has decided to vaccinate all foreign students attached to the university. This vaccination drive is a joint venture between SPPU’s International students’ centre and the Indian Cultural Association, Pune, in collaboration with the World Organisation of Students and Youth.A circular has been to colleges and institutions in this regard. The link to the google form is now available and all foreign students are requested to register for the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/last-date-for-sc-students-applying-for-govt-scholarship-to-study-abroad-is-now-june-20-101624644895453.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 3 crore vaccine mark, first in India||Maharashtra on Friday became the first state to administer over three crore vaccine doses.There were 486,937 vaccine doses administered on Friday, thus bringing the tally to 30,271,506 doses in the state.“Maharashtra becomes the first state in the country to administer more than three crore Covid vaccine doses,” said Dr Pradip Vyas, additional chief secretary, state health department.The state on Friday recorded 9,677 new Covid-19 cases, of which, 693 were from Mumbai.The state tally has now reached 6,017,035, while the death toll has now reached 120,370, with Pune leading with 16,495 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,368 deaths. Mumbai on Friday recorded 20 deaths.There were 236,034 tests done on Friday, while the number of recoveries was 10,138.There are currently 120,715 active patients across the state of which Pune tops with 17,562 patients followed by Thane with 16,466 active patients.Dr Satyendra Nath Mehra, medical director, Masina Hospital, Byculla, said that pace of vaccination should be increased. “They should vaccinate maximum of the population at the earliest. The government should work out campaigns and also make it compulsory for all to get vaccinated,” said Dr Mehra.Dr Mehra cautioned that vaccination does not guarantee that the person will not get Covid-19. “We have seen that such people get mild symptoms and are manageable,” said Dr Mehra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-crosses-3-crore-vaccine-mark-first-in-india-101624644896017.html
25-06-2021||Other||Lucknow’s SGPGI to start liver transplantation services after two and a half years||LUCKNOW The SGPGI is all set to start liver transplantation services again after a gap of two and a half years. Due to Covid, organ transplants were halted at the institute for some time. The aim is to resume these services after things normalise, said Prof RK Dhiman, director, PGI.“Organ transplant will now get a major boost in Uttar Pradesh. We have set up a State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO) for the purpose. People can easily donate organs and get organ transplant after contacting the hospital administration. They will also be able to donate organs of brain-dead patients,” he added.Despite having the best of faculty and facilities, the PGI has a dismal record when it comes to liver transplant. The last such procedure was done on January 24, 2019. The transplant was of a nine-year-old boy Suhail, a resident of Bahraich, who didn’t survive. In all, 16 out of 19 patients who went to the PGI for liver transplant didn’t survive.However, things changed when Professor RK Dhiman joined the institute as director. A hepatologist, Dr Dhiman is known for his role in starting liver transplant at PGI Chandigarh. And he did exactly the same in Lucknow. He formulated a plan to start liver transplant at the institute. He made a team of surgeons and sent them for training to the ILBS. Four surgeons, one hepatologist, a radiologist, two anaesthesia experts and a pathologist completed training at the ILBS.He said, “Lucknowites have to travel to Delhi or other places for getting a liver transplant. But soon, Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) will start liver transplantation services.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknows-sgpgi-to-start-liver-transplantation-services-after-two-and-a-half-years-101624644775949.html
25-06-2021||Other||UP emerges 4th largest wheat procuring state in country||LUCKNOW Continuing with aggressive procurement from farmers under the minimum support price (MSP) regime, Uttar Pradesh has emerged as one of the top four wheat procuring states in the country, dislodging Rajasthan from the fourth highest position during the current marketing season. UP is the highest wheat producing state that alone contributes around one-fourth of the country’s total wheat production. But the state still lags far behind Punjab, MP and Haryana – the top three wheat buyers. As per the data released by the central government on Wednesday, the country’s total wheat procurement, as on June 22, stood at 432.19 lakh metric tonnes (LMT), which is claimed to be the highest ever. With its share of 56.21 LMT wheat in the total procurement, UP is the fourth-highest procurer in the country after Punjab, MP and Haryana. Uttar Pradesh is said to have broken its own wheat procurement records this year. According to the same data, Punjab and Haryana, where farmers have been most vocal against the Centre’s three agriculture laws, alleging that the central government might eliminate the MSP system, have purchased as much as 132.1 LMT and 84.93 LMT of wheat from farmers on the MSP, emerging as the top and the third procurers, respectively. Madhya Pradesh (MP), which has given neck-to-neck competition to Punjab, has come on the second position by buying 128.08 LMT of wheat from farmers during 2021-22 marketing season that has now almost come to a close in all the states. Rajasthan’s share in the total wheat procurement has been recorded to be 22.85 LMT, which is the fifth highest, but more than 33 LMT less than that of UP and this is being seen as a big change in the recent years. “Before the Yogi Adityanath government came to power four years ago, Rajasthan remained the top fourth wheat procurer in the country for several years. But it has now ceded that position to UP as the government started aggressive wheat and paddy purchase in keeping with its 2017 manifesto,” said a senior bureaucrat. According to a report available with the state’s food and civil supplies department, the average wheat purchase in UP between 2011-12 and 2015-16 was only 24.20 LMT. It indicated that wheat procurement was as low as 6.83 LMT in 2013-14, 6.28 LMT in 2014-15 and 22.67 LMT in 2015-16. “The total wheat purchase was recorded to be 221.07 LMT in 10 years between 2007 and 2017. Against this, the Yogi Adityanath government bought 218.86 lakh MT of wheat worth ₹39037.01 crore benefitting a record 46,34,828 farmers in just four years,” said Surya Pratap Shahi, agriculture minister, during a press conference on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-emerges-4th-largest-wheat-procuring-state-in-country-101624644475468.html
25-06-2021||Other||Illegal adoption case: Karnal police recover baby, Meerut couple held||More than a week after registration of FIR of illegal adoption, the Karnal police have arrested the Meerut-based couple for illegally adopting a four-days-old baby in September last year and the baby was rescued from them.Police said the baby was recovered on Friday, hours after the couple from Meerut was detained for illegally adopting the baby.Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said the baby was handed over to the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) and the Meerut couple was arrested on kidnapping and illegal adoption charges.About the arrest of the Meerut-based doctor and his wife who have also been booked by the police in the case, the SP said that the decision about their arrest will be taken after they join the probe.Karnal CWC chairman Umesh Chanana said the baby has been sent to Bal Bhawan and now the mother will have to move court for custody of the child. The baby will be handed over to her only after tests confirm that she is the real mother.On the other hand, the mother of the child, Jyoti (28), has demanded that her baby be handed over to her without further delay.“My baby is just nine-months-old, who will have to live in the orphanage as my application for his custody was not accepted,” Jyoti said.THE CASEOn February 2, Jyoti had filed a complaint with the Karnal police accusing a Meerut-based doctor and his wife of not returning her baby and allegedly taking him away on pretext of treatment on September 18, last year.The Karnal SP handed over the investigation to protection officer Rajni Gupta and as per findings of the investigation, on June 15, the Karnal police had booked the Meerut-based doctor couple under Sections 363, 368, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 34 of the IPC and Sections 80 and 81 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015.In the investigation, it was found that the baby was taken by Vishal Shrivastav and his wife Neha. An affidavit was also provided by the accused claiming that Jyoti had allegedly handed over her baby to the couple.The protection officer said repeated attempts were made to contact the doctor for his statement but he did not join the investigation. Later, Vishal had appeared before her and handed over the documents, including an affidavit claiming that Jyoti had given consent.But the allegations were denied by Jyoti and she had requested the police to bring her baby back from the couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegal-adoption-case-karnal-police-recover-baby-meerut-couple-held-101624644356084.html
25-06-2021||Other||HSPCB told to recover penalty of ₹4.13 cr penalty from Panipat sugar mill||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Haryana State Pollution Control Board to immediately recover ₹4.13 crore penalty imposed on Panipat Cooperative Sugar Mill for illegal extraction of groundwater in April this year.The bench headed by the NGT chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel observed that no step has been taken for recovery by using coercive powers of closure and disconnecting electricity, after giving reasonable opportunity for compliance.“The HSPCB may take further remedial action by preventing violations of law and recovering compensation assessed by using coercive powers available. The compensation recovered may be utilised for restoration of environment by preparing an action plan,” read the order.Following a complaint by a local councillor last year, the NGT had formed a joint committee under the HSPCB to look into the matter. Based on the ground inspections, the HSPCB, in its report, stated that the sugar mill was located in an “over-exploited area” but it had been extracting groundwater using a borewell, to meet its water requirements. This was done without the permission of the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA) and was hence illegal.The illegal extraction had taken place from April 15, 2015 to December 12, 2020.HSPCB member secretary S Narayanan told HT that they will comply with the directions of the NGT and initiate actions for recovery of compensation and restoration of the environment as per its directions.In August last year, taking a serious note of environmental violations by the sugar mill, the NGT had ordered closure of sugar and distillery units at Panipat Cooperative Sugar Mill until remedial measures are taken.As per the previous orders of the NGT, “the norms under the Water Act, the Air Act and the Environment Protection Act are also not being followed, which amounts to criminal offences. Groundwater is being illegally extracted which may seriously and irreversibly affect the environment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hspcb-told-to-recover-penalty-of-rs-4-13-cr-penalty-from-panipat-sugar-mill-101624644296146.html
25-06-2021||Other||BSEH not to follow CBSE pattern in evaluating Class 12 results||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) has decided not to follow the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) pattern for evaluating marks of Class 12 students.The BSEH will announce Class 12 results by using the 30:10:60 formulae, which will be based on their Class 10, 11 and 12 results, respectively.According to the formula, theory marks of each subject will be calculated using 60% of the marks they got in the practicals and internal assessment this year which were submitted by the school authorities before the boards, 30% from their Class 10 board exam results and 10% from their Class 11 final year exams. Over 2.70 lakh students are enrolled in Class 12 in BSEH.BSEH secretary Rajiv Prasad said they have decided not to follow the CBSE pattern as they could not hold pre-board exams and unit tests for Class 12 students and the final exams were cancelled for Class 11 students last year due to the pandemic.“We will follow the 30:10:60 formulae in announcing the Class 12 results. We are expecting to announce the Class 12 results before July 31,” the board secretary added.The Supreme Court had directed all boards to announce Class 12 results by July 31 and the top court has accepted the CBSE formulae to evaluate Class 12 results. The state government and the board faced criticism from various stakeholders after at least 15% students got perfect 500/500 marks in Class 10 results, “making a mockery of the education system”.The board of school education had announced Class 10 results on the basis of marks obtained by students in the internal assessment and practicals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bseh-not-to-follow-cbse-pattern-in-evaluating-class-12-results-101624644175865.html
25-06-2021||Other||Chautala’s release will strengthen farm stir: Abhay||Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) general secretary Abhay Singh Chautala on Friday said the release of his father and former Haryana chief minister OP Chautala from Delhi’s Tihar jail will strengthen the farm agitation against Centre’s three farm laws.After addressing party workers’ for the first time since the Delhi government gave six months remission to OP Chautala, Abhay said his father is undergoing treatment at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram.“Once he is discharged from the hospital, he will go to Tikri and Singhu border to boost the morale of farmers fighting against Centre’s farm laws. The government has adopted many methods to defame the protesters but it failed to do so. Our party has always raised its voice for farmers and labourers and Chautala sahab’s release will give new momentum to the agitation,” he added.Reacting over Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) alliance in Punjab, the ex-Ellenabad MLA alleged that BSP supremo Mayawati is dual faced and is working as per BJP’s directions.“I have good relations with Sukhbir Singh Badal and whenever he meets me, I will ask him to be wary of Mayawati. She had forged an alliance with our party ahead of the 2019 parliamentary polls but had snapped all ties when the elections were round the corner. She can give a jolt to SAD as well before the assembly polls in Punjab which are due next year,” he added.Chautala said he is hoping for NCP leader Sarad Pawar to form a third front to fight against the BJP and Congress at the national level.While interacting with party workers in Jhajjar, Abhay said, “Time has come for Bhupinder Singh Hooda to go behind the bars for his involvement in many corruption activities during his tenure as the Haryana CM.”“Hooda had been taking digs at me by asking us to look for a competent lawyer to ensure the release of my father. If Hooda goes to jail, I will provide him a long list of advocates,” he added.Slamming his estranged nephews Dushyant and Digvijay, Abhay said the two has no concern for their grandfather OP Chautala and both did not even visit him in the hospital after he met with an accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chautalas-release-will-strengthen-farm-stir-abhay-101624644055902.html
25-06-2021||Other||Jobs to sons of MLAs: More families claim right to government compassion||Amritsar With Captain Amarinder Singh-led state government offering government jobs to sons of two MLAs from terrorism-hit families on compassionate grounds, a number of other families have claimed that they are also entitled to a government job or equivalent compensation on the same grounds.“My father Jogindar Pal was just 50 when militants shot him dead at his sweetmeat shop in a Tarn Taran market. I was a Class-11 student then. After his death, we faced extreme financial hardship and even left Punjab to save the rest of the family. We returned to Tarn Taran in 1992, under the Beant Singh government,” said Sumut Sondhi, secretary, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee.He added, “I have been working in the Congress for long. The party has formed the government in Punjab thrice after that, yet my family has not been granted any relief. Despite several pleas, we were never compensated. If the state government has started compensating terrorism-hit families, it should not discriminate.” Amritsar-based Gurpreet Singh said, “My father Abnashi Singh was kidnapped in 1980s and it is widely believed that militants killed him. He had served as the personal secretary of the then Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gurcharan Singh Tohra. Despite this, the government never thought of giving us anything on compassionate grounds. Both my sons, Kunwar Partap Singh and Tej Partap Singh, are educated but jobless.”In 1987, the world of two kid brothers was turned upside down when militants eliminated their parents, Darshan Singh and Gurmeet Kaur, “While my mother was killed, my father was taken to an unknown place to never return,” said Baljit, 36, of Muglani village near Khadoor Sahib in Tarn Taran district. His brother Kanwanjit Singh, 40, adds, “Militancy was at its peak. We understood the meaning of orphan then.” Baljit added, “As we were children, we could not lodge a First-Information Report (FIR), nor secure death certificates of our parents. My maternal grandfather dropped us to a nearby religious dera that raised us. We are still living there and struggling to make ends meet. Over the years, we have submitted a number of applications to the government, seeking compensation or relief. We have been ignored.”“It is people like us who actually deserve government jobs that are today being provided to sons of rich families of MLAs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jobs-to-sons-of-mlas-more-families-claim-right-to-government-compassion-101624642498114.html
25-06-2021||Jaipur||RLP leader Hanuman Beniwal slams BJP's Rajasthan in-charge Arun Singh||Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) leader Hanuman Beniwal on Thursday hit out at BJP state in-charge and party's national general secretary Arun Singh for reportedly saying that the RLP did not have credibility.In a series of tweets, Hanuman Beniwal said that Arun Singh had no mass base and he could not even fight the election of sarpanch and challenged him to contest the Lok Sabha elections and see who has the power."If you want to see the mass base of RLP, then accept a challenge. Get a resignation letter from some BJP MPs in Rajasthan and after that, I also contest Lok Sabha elections from RLP by resigning from the post of MP, after that you can send those BJP MPs to seek election again," he tweeted.Beniwal took a dig at Arun Singh by tweeting that becoming a Rajya Sabha MP and being in charge of a state is a part of kindness."@ArunSinghbjp ji becoming a Rajya Sabha MP and being in charge of a state is a part of kindness, you do not have any mass base of your own because if you would have been elected as sarpanch," he said.He further alleged that Arun Singh has come to the Rajya Sabha only by the grace of Rajnath Singh and has been made in-charge of Rajasthan."Gehlot-Vasundhara alliance is well known and you also know this thing @ArunSinghbjp ji, as far as credibility is concerned, people have made me MLA three times and MP once because of trust and you have come to the Rajya Sabha only by the grace of Rajnath Singh ji that you have been made in-charge of Rajasthan," Beniwal added said in a tweet.Beniwal further stated that Arun Singh should not forget that RLP MLAs in Rajasthan had voted in favor of BJP candidates without any conditions when the floor test was going on in the Rajasthan assembly."He should remember that when the Gehlot government was in crisis and when the floor test was going on in the Rajasthan assembly, the MLAs of @RLPINDIAorg @ stood unconditionally with BJP4Rajasthan," he said.In another tweet, he said, "@ArunSinghbjp ji when Gehlot government came into trouble, Vasundhara Raje made 8 BJP MLAs absent in the house during the floor test so that Gehlot government could be saved while the MLAs of @RLPINDIAorg stood against the ruling party in the house and became a partner in the crisis of BJP."He slammed Arun Singh and said that he does not have any mass base of his own, nor does he have any knowledge in the context of Rajasthan.Talking about the alliance of RLP and BJP, Hanuman Beniwal said that BJP had benefited from the alliance in the Lok Sabha elections."@ArunSinghbjp ji should not forget that when the alliance of @RLPINDIAorg and @BJP4India was formed before the Lok Sabha elections, not only in Rajasthan but also in other states, BJP had benefited and in Rajya Sabha elections also 3 MLAs of @RLPINDIAorg unconditionally joined BJP and supported the candidates," Beniwal added.RLP had contested the 2019-Lok Sabha elections in alliance with the BJP but later in December last year, Beniwal quit the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance over the issue of farm laws.On December 19, 2021, Beniwal resigned from three parliamentary committees- Standing Committee on Industries, Petition Committee and Petroleum and Natural Gas Ministry's Consultative Committee - to register his protest against the government over the farmers' agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rlp-leader-hanuman-beniwal-slams-bjp-s-rajasthan-in-charge-arun-singh-101624642200841.html
25-06-2021||Other||SC notice to Lalu, others in contempt case filed by ex-JD(U) MLA||PATNAThe Supreme Court has issued notice to Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad, along with Dhoraiya legislator Bhudeo Chaudhary and chief electoral officer HR Srinivas in a contempt case filed by Janata Dal (United) leader and former legislator Manish Kumar.Kumar, who unsuccessfully contested the assembly election as JD (U) candidate from Dhoraiya assembly constituency last year, had filed a contempt case against Chaudhary, alleging that the latter did not disclose about a criminal case pending against him in his nomination papers.Kumar, a three-time legislator, had filed the case in the apex court in March this year. Citing the order, the petitioner claimed that all the contemnors had been directed to file reply in the case by July 1, as the case was slated to come up for hearing on July 21.The bench comprising Justices Rohinton Fali Nariman, BR Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy has also appointed KV Vishwanathan as amicus curiae in the case and the registry has been directed to provide all relevant papers to him.In the order issued on May 4, the court has exempted the respondents from personal appearances “for the time being”. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, district magistrate of Banka Suharsh Bhagat and deputy collector-cum-returning officer of Dhoraiya constituency, Parul Priya, have also been named as other contemnors in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sc-notice-to-lalu-others-in-contempt-case-filed-by-ex-jd-u-mla-101624639677814.html
25-06-2021||Patna||17 children ‘rescued’ from Delhi-bound buses||Seventeen children were rescued on Friday from two Delhi-bound luxury buses in Gaya district, officials said. They were being taken there to be engaged in bangle factories, they said.On June 21 also, two boys were rescued from a Jaipur-bound luxury bus in Gaya.“On Friday, there were children among passengers in Delhi bound luxury buses . The anti-human trafficking team already had a tip-off about this, and with the support of local police, it intercepted the buses as soon as it came out of Gaya city and the children were rescued,” said Suresh, a member of the anti- trafficking cell who runs an NGO to fight against child trafficking at Gaya.All the 17 children were later produced before child welfare committee with the permission of local police. They would be sent to Bal Griha after formalities, Suresh said.“Local administration and police have been directed to keep a watch on interstate luxury buses for potential child labourers,” Anil Kishore Yadav, additional director general (weaker section), said.Rajkumar, state’s social welfare director, his department has created anti-trafficking cells in different districts of the state. “It works in collaboration with the local police,” he said.In March this year, the department in collaboration with the UNICEF, Childline and the Railway Protection Force (RPF), had launched a scheme for identification of potential victims of child trafficking and their rescue. Under the scheme, known as Surakshit Safar, teams have been deployed at 11 railway stations of the state, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/17-children-rescued-from-delhi-bound-buses-101624639677072.html
25-06-2021||Patna||MeT issues orange alert for north-east Bihar till June 27||Southern parts of the state experienced high intensity rain coupled with lightning and thunderstorm, while northern parts saw light to moderate rain during past 24 hours till Friday evening. The Patna Meteorological Centre has also issued an orange alert for north-east districts till June 27 following heavy rain and thunderstorm forecast.According to a five-day weather forecast, the state is likely to receive fairly widespread rain accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning till June 28, officials of Patna Meteorological Centre said on Friday.As per daily bulletin, Valmikinagar recorded 82mm rain, Chenari 70mm, Birpur 60mm, Indrapuri 50mm, Bagha and Bhimnagar 40 mm each during past 24 hours. Patna recorded 19mm rain from 8.30am to 5.30pm on Friday.Officials have alerted the north-east districts of Supaul, Araria and Kishanganj, cautioning heavy rain and thunderstorm at one or two places.Weather scientist SK Patel said, “As per current numerical model, a cyclonic circulation is lying over Jharkhand which is likely to trigger rain activities in Bihar as well. Under the influence, widespread rain is likely over the state for next three days. Intensity of rain would be higher at northwest districts in comparison to southwest districts.”As per India Meteorological Department (IMD), Bihar subdivision has received 193.3mm actual rain against 72.4mm normal rain in June so far. Of the 38 districts, only Purnia has recorded deficient rain. Bhabhua has recorded the highest surplus rain exceeding 340% of normal rain, followed by Saran and West Champaran, which recorded surplus rain of 297% and 288%, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/met-issues-orange-alert-for-north-east-bihar-till-june-27-101624639676482.html
25-06-2021||Other||Haryana ex-minister says his Aadhaar misused in Bihar, files complaint||ChandigarhSenior Congress leader and former Haryana minister Ajay Singh Yadav lodged a police complaint in Rewari alleging misuse of his Aadhaar card number by someone in Bihar to make purchases of urea fertiliser.He said he has been receiving messages on his mobile phone regarding the purchase.Yadav told reporters in Rewari that he recently received three messages on his mobile phone about making a purchase of neem-coated urea from a dealer in Saharsa in Bihar.The recent message received was for a purchase made for ₹2,394.“I received messages on my mobile number, saying the subsidy on the urea purchase made will be borne by the Government of India on behalf of the farmer,” the Congress leader said.He said after receiving the first message, he had alerted the Rewari deputy commissioner and an agriculture officer.Yadav said after preliminary investigation, he was told that someone in Bihar could be misusing his Aadhaar card number.“Thinking this may be part of some scam and someone may be cheating the real beneficiary farmers in Bihar, I lodged a police complaint on Thursday with the cyber crime police here,” he said.“I am an ex-minister from Haryana and a former six-time MLA. If my Aadhaar card is misused like this, what will be the fate of a common man? I urge the Centre and Nitish Kumar (Bihar CM) to take immediate cognizance of the matter as this may be some sort of a fertilizer scam, which needs to be probed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-ex-minister-says-his-aadhaar-misused-in-bihar-files-complaint-101624639675808.html
25-06-2021||Other||Six cops booked in Kaimur||BHABUASix police officers have been booked in Kaimur district for failing to hand over case files to their successor investigating officers even after being transferred to other districts, Kaimur’s superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Kumar said.During a review, the SP found that 20 cases registered with Bhabua, Chand and Chainpur police stations were pending for long as the investigating officers concerned had not given charge of the cases even after being transferred from the district and despite several oral and written reminders.Cases have been lodged for obstruction in government duty against sub-inspectors Suryavansh Kumar, Prabhu Dayal Sah and Rajiv Ranjan and assistant sub-inspectors Chandranath Oraon, Ranjan Kumar Ranjan and Rajiv Ranjan, probationer deputy SP and Chainpur police station house officer Ajay Kumar Chaudhary said on Friday.Three critical after stuck by lightningThree people, including a woman, were critically injured when lightning struck a Shiva temple at Dharhar village of Kaimur district late Thursday evening. The temple also was damaged.They had taken shelter inside the temple amid heavy downpour and thundering in the area. They are being treated at a local private hospital, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-cops-booked-in-kaimur-101624639675186.html
25-06-2021||Other||STET candidate with actress pic in admit card faces action||PATNAThe Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB) has decided to take stern action against the candidate whose Secondary Teachers’ Eligibility Test (STET) result sheet attached with actress Anupama Parameswaran’s picture went viral on social media. BSEB has alleged the candidate, Rishikesh Kumar from Jehanabad, uploaded the wrong photograph in his admit card and deliberately did not rectify the same despite several opportunities given for corrections through notices published in the Board’s portal and in newspapers.BSEB issued a press release late Thursday evening stating that a show cause notice will be served to Kumar, seeking his clarification on this matter.Ruling out the possibility of photo mismatch during result publication, board officials said candidates themselves filled the examination form and the board played no role in it.“The board provides opportunity to all candidates for making corrections in their documents like admit card and result sheets if they contain any mistake or error. However, Rishikesh Kumar didn’t apply for rectification of his photograph, which indicates his intention to malign the board’s reputation,” read the press statement.A BSEB official privy to the matter said, “The result sheet contains the same personal details as filled by examinee in admit card. There is no interference or change in students’ details at the board level.”“The board has decided to take strict action against Kumar as he released pictures of his admit card and result sheet on various social media platforms and deliberately ridiculed the board. His candidature for STET 2019 might be cancelled as punishment,” said the official.When contacted, Rishikesh Kumar refused to comment.Asked how Kumar gained entry into the examination hall despite the fact that his admit card did not carry his picture, the official said the candidates are just required to show a photo identity card such as Aadhar card or driving licence after which they are allowed in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stet-candidate-with-actress-pic-in-admit-card-faces-action-101624639618329.html
25-06-2021||Other||Chief secy gets extension for three months||PATNAThe state government on Friday extended the service of chief secretary Tripurari Sharan, who was set to retire on June 30, by three months. A notification to this effect was issued in the evening by the general administration department (GAD). Sharan is a 1985-batch Indian Administrative Services (IAS) officer.Sources said the state government had got the concurrence for extending the tenure of the chief secretary from the Centre as per norms. In last few years, two former chief secretaries have got extension. While former chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh got extension for three months after his superannuation on February 28, 2018, his successor Deepak Kumar got extension twice for six months each last year before he retired on February 28, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chief-secy-gets-extension-for-three-months-101624639617725.html
25-06-2021||Patna||4 dead as truck hits bus in Muzaffarpur||Four of a wedding party died and 15 others were injured when a truck collided into a parked bus on National Highway-28 under Panapur police outpost of Muzaffarpur district early on Friday, police said.Another truck on the highway overturned while trying to avoid collision with the other two vehicles.The cause of the accident could not be immediately ascertained. However, police suspect that the truck driver fell asleep and lost control over the vehicle.Both the truck driver and clear managed to escape after the accident, police said.The accident occurred around 4am, when the bus carrying members of a wedding party was returning from Motihari to Gaighat in Muzaffapur, Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant said. “The bus broke down near an over-bridge and some passengers alighted,” said the SSP, adding that the stranded bus was hit by the speeding truck coming from the same direction.One Dr Gaurav Verma, who was on his way back from Motihari, informed the administration about the accident. He rushed five of the injured passengers to a hospital, Dr Verma said.Some passengers were stuck inside the mangled bus and police and locals had a tough time extricating them from the vehicle, the SSP said.On getting information, chief minister Nitish Kumar and leader of opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav extended their condolences. The state government has also directed Muzaffarpur officials to ensure financial assistance to the families of the deceased and the injured as per rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/4-dead-as-truck-hits-bus-in-muzaffarpur-101624639617035.html
25-06-2021||Patna||Youth given jab minus vaccine, nurse suspended||The Bihar government has suspended a nurse after a video of her administering Covid-19 shot to a youth without vaccine in the syringe went viral, officials said on Friday. The incident took place at Urdu Middle School temporary vaccination centre in Barhampur village of Saran district recently on June 21. “Chanda Kumari, the auxiliary nursing midwife (ANM) who committed the lapse, has been placed under suspension and departmental proceedings will be initiated against her,” said Dr JP Sukumar, Saran civil surgeon. He, however, ruled out any foul play. According to Azhar Hussain, the youth who was given the jab, he noticed the nurse’s blunder the same evening in a video his friends shot of him on his cellphone. Hussain’s friend Aman Khan, who shot the video, said it was a case of oversight on the part of the nurse, who was chatting while administering the shot to his friend. “I was shooting the video just to capture my friend’s reaction at the time of vaccination. We noticed in the evening while checking our (vaccination) status on the cellphone that the nurse did not load any vaccine in the syringe before administering the shot to my friend,” Khan claimed in the viral video. The nurse has admitted her mistake, the Saran civil surgeon said. “There was a lot of rush at the vaccination session that day and many people had crowded around her. It was in the melee that she forgot to load the vaccine in the syringe, as claimed by the ANM in her show cause notice,” said Dr Sukumar. The ANM was posted at Ekma Nagar panchayat but was on deputation to Chapra urban area for the vaccination drive, the civil surgeon added.District immunisation officer Dr (Major) Ajay Kumar Sharma said the ANM was taken off the vaccination drive. The youth has also been contacted to be given his first dose of vaccine, he added. “Using empty syringe in case of intramuscular injection, as in case of Covid-19 vaccination, is absolutely harmless if the air injected is in moderate quantity. In worst case, it may cause mild to moderate pain around the injected area. Air embolism is caused in case of intravenous injections when the volume of air injected is over 20-50 ml,” said Dr Umesh Bhadani, dean, AIIMS-Patna.In another case of vaccination blunder, on June 16, a woman in her 60s was given a shot each of Covaxin and Covishied at an interval of around five minutes at a rural vaccination camp in Beldarichak village under Patna district. Similar instances of vaccine mix-up have also been reported from Bihar’s Samastipur and Purnia districts. One Ankit Sharma (32) claimed his provisional vaccination certificate, after the first jab, mentioned Covaxin even though he was administered Covishield at a rural centre in Samastipur on May 16. Another Madan Lal Modi (50) claimed he was given Covaxin instead of Covishield in the second shot at a community health centre in Purnia on May 11. The medical officer in-charge Dr Ashok Kumar Singh had attributed the incident to “human error”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/youth-given-jab-minus-vaccine-nurse-suspended-101624639616376.html
25-06-2021||Other||Darbhanga blast: Two held in UP, NIA team visits site||DARBHANGA/PATNA A team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday reached Darbhanga in connection with the June 17 blast at the railway station here even as the Uttar Pradesh police arrested two persons from Kairana in Shamli district in the case, officials familiar with the case said.No one was injured in the blast that took place in a consignment of clothes, which was booked from Secunderabad on June 15. The two arrested have been identified as Mohammad Haji Salim Kashim and his son Mohammad Kafil.Ashok Kumar Singh, superintendent Government Railway Police (GRP) at Muzaffarpur, which has been probing the case, said the parcel caught fire after the explosion but no casualty or damage to property was reported. The parcel did not contain name and details of the sender while the addressee was named as Mohammed Sufiyan. Police have been treating Sufiyan as a suspect in the case since he did not show up to collect the parcel, which contained clothes and a sealed vial that is now believed to have triggered the explosion. Sources in Bihar’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which has since joined the probe, said at least four suspects had been detained from different locations, but declined to share details saying it could hamper the investigation.“There is a hint of terror connection in the case. A joint report of Bihar and Telangana ATS is expected to be sent to the Union Home ministry today. We believe the case will soon be transferred to NIA,” said an official of Bihar home department, requesting anonymity. Earlier, the GRP team had gone to Secunderabad and examined CCTV footages from railway station there, which reportedly showed four men getting down from a vehicle carrying a packet which looked quite similar to the one that exploded at Darbhanga railway station.Meanwhile, the NIA team led by a superintendent of police met senior police officers to review the probe. They also inspected the blast site. A senior GRP official said that NIA team will also meet investigating officer in the case and Darbhanga GRP officer-in-charge Harun Rashid, who returned from Secunderabad on Friday.“The probe will now be formally handed over to the NIA and the railway police will provide assistance to them,” said a senior GRP official.A few years ago, a Darbhanga native was arrested for his alleged links with the proscribed outfit Indian Mujahideen (IM)..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/darbhanga-blast-two-held-in-up-nia-team-visits-site-101624639615869.html
25-06-2021||Other||BPCC reshuffle: Will Rajesh Ram emerge as dark horse for top post?||PATNAWill Rajesh Ram, MLA from Kutumba in Aurangabad, emerge as a dark horse in the race for new president of Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC)?Party insiders say All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, after his recent visit to Patna, has recommended Ram, who is also chairman of the BPCC’s SC/ST cell, as replacement to Madan Mohan Jha. Jha, who has been appointed as the BPCC chief in 2017 in place of Ashok Choudhary, had put in his papers shortly after the 2020 assembly polls in Bihar in which Congress fared poorly.Senior BPCC leaders claimed that apart from proposing Ram’s name, Das has also recommended names of seven leaders, Kumar Ashish, Pravin Singh Kushwaha, former Riga MLA Amit Kumar Tunna, former MLA Manoj Kumar Singh, former MLA and state Mahila Congress president Amita Bhushan, AICC secretary Chandan Yadav and Shakillur Rahman as working presidents in the new committee, which is likely to be announced shortly.Irked by the recommendations, senior BPCC leader Kishore Kumar Jha said Das lacked maturity needed to understand Bihar politics. He said he had spoken to Das and AICC general secretary KC Venugopal and urged them to be politically practical for constitution of the new committee in Bihar if the party wanted to regain its glory ahead of 2024 elections. “It is do or die like situation the party in Bihar and the party high command should take the decision after proper thinking,” said Jha, adding that he would try to meet Rahul Gandhi soon.Meanwhile, former BPCC chief Anil Kumar Sharma took to Twitter to draw the party high command’s attention towards proposed reconstitution of the AICC and sought judicious representation as per caste combination and regional balance. In a tweet, Sharma said that of the six nominated members in the AICC from Bihar, are four Muslims and two Yadavs. Of the four Muslims, three hail from Katihar. Only Seemanchal and Kosi regions were represented, while core of the party’s base has been marginalized, he said.Das could not be contacted despite several attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bpcc-reshuffle-will-rajesh-ram-emerge-as-dark-horse-for-top-post-101624639615137.html
25-06-2021||Pune||BJP-led chakka jam protest at Katraj today||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has planned chakka jam agitations at Katraj chowk on Saturday to demand political reservation for OBC. BJP leader Pankaja Munde is going to lead the agitation at Katraj chowk, the party has also sent out a message to its cadre to remain present for the agitation planned from 10am onwards. The Marathas have already begun agitations for getting reservation after the Supreme Court scrapped it, and immediately after the Maratha protests, the OBCs have begun agitations in the state. OBCs are on the verge of losing their political reservation in local bodies across Maharashtra as it was quashed by the Supreme Court last month. Katraj chowk is one of the main chowks in the city. With a chakka jam at the chowk, it would disturb the traffic coming from the old Katraj ghat mainly from Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli towards Pune city. Even chances are that traffic might be disturbed in Katraj and Ambegaon areas. Bharatiya Janta Party has decided to hold state-wide protests for the same demands, and also announced support for Maratha reservation in the state. After BJP, it is expected that OBC leaders from all parties will undertake similar protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjpled-chakka-jam-protest-at-katraj-today-101624638715203.html
25-06-2021||Pune||Not worried about ED raids at Deshmukh’s residence: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar on Friday said, “We are not worried about ED raids at former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s residence. The Central government is misusing CBI and ED for political agenda and it’s not new for Maharashtra and other states.” Pawar interacted with the media at the NCP’s party office. ED on Friday raided former Maharashtra home minister Deshmukh’s residence at Nagpur. While asking about the raids, Pawar replied, “Nothing new about ED raids, such raids have happened previously also. I am sure that they did not receive anything. As ED did not getting anything, out of frustration they are arresting someone.” Pawar said, “I am in political life for a long tenure but never seen that any political party passed any resolution to start CBI inquiry against opposition party leader. BJP state president Chandrakant Patil passed such resolution in its state level meeting and demanded to start CBI inquiry of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.” Pawar said, “Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) is ruling in the centre. CBI is coming under central government. As it is they are misusing it. They should start such inquiry.” Pawar also welcomed the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with Kashmir leaders. He said, “It is good that Central government realised that they did nothing in Kashmir whatever promised by them. Let’s hope that Prime Minister would keep his promises given to all party leaders in Kashmir.”BOXPawar bats for common leadership during 2024 Lok Sabha pollsNationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Sharad Pawar batted for common leadership in the upcoming Lok Sabha polls instead of giving a single face from opposition parties. While asking that considering the previous elections experience, instead of Rahul Gandhi, opposition parties thinking for any other face? Pawar said, “I expressed my opinion very clear that the opposition parties should do alliance along with Congress party. There is need to have a common leadership.” While asking that whether Sharad Pawar would lead the opposition party’s alliance and became the face? He said, “I did such things for last many years but now will guide and help to bring all together.” When media asked the details about opposition party meeting at his residence in Delhi, Pawar said, “It was not a political meeting. It was mainly to discuss farmers’ agitation issue which are going for the last six months in Delhi.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/not-worried-about-ed-raids-at-deshmukh-s-residence-pawar-101624638595099.html
25-06-2021||Pune||Former union minister Subodh Mohite joins NCP||Former union minister Subodh Mohite on Friday joined the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in the present of party national president Sharad Pawar in Pune. Mohite was with Shiv Sena, Congress and lastly with the Swabhiman Shetkari Sanghata (SSS). Pawar said, “Mohite worked effectively as a union minister. He looked promising in the parliament as we worked together. Mohite would help to strengthen NCP in the Vidharba region and party would give him all the support.” Mohite was union minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, he was MP from Ramtek constituency and defeated congress leader and scholar Shrikant Jachkar. During former chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh’s tenure, he got the candidature for legislative council but on the last day of filing the nomination form, he was not able to reach Mumbai as his helicopter was not able to land. Mohite’s helicopter ride is one among famous political memories. It is believed by some that Congress made a plan to keep Mohite away from filing the nomination form in stipulated time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-union-minister-subodh-mohite-joins-ncp-101624638475131.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 9,677 new Covid-19 cases while daily deaths drop to 156; fresh infections in Mumbai fall to 693||Maharashtra recorded 9,677 number of fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the state's total tally of cases to 60,17,035. In the last 24 hours 156 fatalities were also recorded, the death toll now stands at 1,20,370. 10,138 number of people have made a full recovery and the total number of recoveries now stands at 57,72,799.The state has been witnessing an upward swing of cases in the last few days which experts opine might have been caused by the emergence of the delta plus variant. Friday's tally marks a decrease from the number of cases recorded just a day before. After recording 10,107 cases on June 16 the state had started to witness a reduction in the number of cases, reporting below 10,000 cases for a number of days straight.2,36,034 number of tests were conducted in the previous 24 hours, marking an increase from the 2,32,576 tests conducted a day before.The Maharashtra government imposed stricter Covid-19 norms on Friday by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three. The first two levels containing maximum relaxations have been removed till further order. The districts or municipal corporations with a weekly positivity rate between 5-10% or with oxygen bed occupancy of over 40% will be classified under level 3, the state said in a notification.So far 21 cases of the delta plus variant have been recorded in the districts of Ratnagiri, seven in Jalgaon, Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, and Sindhudurg. Authorities have been asked to not let their guard down and expedite the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-9-677-new-covid-19-cases-while-daily-deaths-drop-to-156-fresh-infections-in-mumbai-fall-to-693-101624633791774.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Amazing Grace||For a girl from Bandra, Asha Puthli’s success in the international music scene of the Seventies was nothing short of extraordinary. From being described as a “genius” by legendary New York-based record producer John Hammond — the man credited with discovering musicians like Bruce Springsteen and Bob Dylan; to winning the prestigious Downbeat critics poll award for her vocals on Ornette Coleman’s path breaking 1973 album Science Fiction; to having the New York Times describe her album The Devil is Loose as an instant classic — Puthli’s international musical career had scaled exceptional heights. What’s more, her astonishing four-octave range was matched by her effortless segueing between genres as varied as the blues, pop, rock, soul, funk, disco, and techno. Puthli’s achievements are even more remarkable when you consider that at a time when the West was only just beginning to discover Indian music through The Beatles and Ravi Shankar, here was an Indian girl, singing the blues like she’d been dyed in them. To be sure, there was a time when Puthli had been the toast of New York’s avant garde; photographed by Andy Warhol and Richard Avedon, styled by Manolo Blahnik and immortalised by writer Ved Mehta in his book Portrait of India. ****************************As the convent educated daughter of an upper middle-class family which featured stalwarts of the Indian Independence Movement such as cultural doyenne Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay and poet Harindranath Chattopadhyay, brother of Sarojini Naidu, Puthli had studied Indian classical music as well as opera. But it was not only music that had consumed the teenager. A voracious reader, who devoured authors like Dostoevsky, Andre Gide and Kessler, Puthli had been attracted to all things cultural. “I used to hang out at the Samovar which was such a hub for artists, writers, filmmakers and intellectuals,” she says, on a call from Florida where she lives for part of the year with her filmmaker son Jannu Goldschimdt. “Then there were institutions like the Alliance Francaise and Goethe Institute and personalities like Gerson da Cunha and Pearl and Alyque Padamsee. I looked up to them all.” Like a sponge, Puthli says, she soaked up the heady mix of intellectual and cultural stimuli, the city an oyster for her insatiable appetite; but whereas it turned her into one of the frontline personalities of her generation, her name a constant fixture in youth magazine Junior Statesman, it also rendered her woefully unfit for a conventional life of domesticity and marriage. Fortunately, her breakthrough came in the form of a year’s stint as an airhostess for BOAC and a subsequent scholarship to study dance with Martha Graham in New York. Soon, Puthli found herself winging her way to New York on a student visa, to seek her fortune in the Big Apple. ****************************It was no surprise that she hit the ground running, navigating her way with a combination of her characteristic, chutzpah, unique sense of style and generosity of spirit. “I think the fact that I had nothing made things easier, because it made me more creative,” she recalls. “For instance, instead of buying clothes, I invented my own look; I would turn an Indian mirror work pillowcase into a skirt, combine it with a traditional Saurashtra blouse and voila, it became a fabulous outfit for which I’d get complimented by strangers on New York’s streets.” To understand the sensation the lithe, dark-haired Puthli with her large kohl-lined eyes, full sensuous mouth and provocative one-liners created is not hard. New York’s smartest set opened their hearts and homes to the exotic Indian rose with enthusiasm. “As far back as I can recall, Asha Puthli was always a star,” says former NYT journalist Pranay Gupte, another Indian who’d breached the hallowed barriers of American media. “I saw her several times at Studio 54, in the company of people like Françoise Gilot, Picasso’s former partner, and Woody Allen and Zubin Mehta. Her songs frequently graced radio stations and she was a sought-after guest,” he says, adding, “But her fame never went to her head. When my son Jaidev was a little kid, enamoured of long limousines, one day Asha hired a spectacular limousine to ferry him around for the entire day! On another occasion, she threw a lavish, surprise birthday party for a schoolteacher friend. What’s more, she never expected anything from those on whom she lavished her largesse.” ****************************But though she’d become a darling of NYC’s smart set, Puthli eventually found her head knocking against the hard ceiling of the racism and cultural imperialism of the era. “Corporate America and record executives did not think I was marketable,” she says, adding, “According to them, blacks would not accept me and whites would not accept me. And Indians were not interested in buying western music.” Fortunately, Europe had been more accepting. Here, she found the backing of record companies and appreciative audiences who turned her albums into chartbusters. However, decades later the memory of rebuff from America, the mecca for jazz can rankle. When CBS was looking for an international star to put their formidable marketing muscle behind and the choice had been narrowed to Julio Iglesias and Puthli, Iglesias had been chosen because of the big Latin contingency in America, and millions of dollars were spent on promoting him, Puthli says, recounting how each time she’d see her rival’s face on a bus, it had felt like a kick in the stomach. This cognitive dissonance of being Indian and singing Western proved to be Puthli’s stumbling block. Though she continued to reap accolades from music critics and icons, serious money and international fame eluded her. “I cannot describe how I felt when overnight Donna Summers began looking, singing, dressing and dancing like me,” she says of the Disco Queen of the era, who went on to rake millions and attract a global following. ****************************But it is a tribute to Puthli’s upbringing and grace that she has made peace with pain. “If success equals happiness, I am truly blessed,” she says. Today, in her mid-seventies, she says she is spending what she describes as the happiest days of her life, with her beloved son and their pet pooch, and later this year there is a plan to release a much-cherished album of classic jazz covers titled All My Life, as a tribute to her many mentors and collaborators. Meanwhile, thanks to the internet, her status as a cult icon keeps growing, with her original records becoming collector’s items on E-bay. What’s more, her snakey, sensuous, futuristic music continues to win new fans through sampling in songs by iconic rappers like P. Diddy, The Notorious B.I.G., Dilated Peoples, Governor featuring 50 Cent, and Redman. And finally, there are plans for a book or a film documenting her life. “I think age has mellowed me, has taught me a lot. And I am always open to life’s magical possibilities,” says Puthli, looking back with grace and gratitude at her extraordinary journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-amazing-grace-101624634095966.html
25-06-2021||Pune||Pune builder Amit Paranjpe claims father and uncle were not arrested by police||Pune: A day after the news of the alleged arrest of prominent builders Srikant Paranjpe and Shashank Paranjpe by the Mumbai police on Thursday night went viral on the social media, their relative, Amit Paranjape, claimed that no arrests were made in connection with any forgery and cheating case lodged by the Vile Parle police. Amit is director at Paranjape Schemes (Construction) Ltd. A statement issued by Amit reads, “The complaint was filed by one of our family members due to a misunderstanding about the share in our ancestral property. My father Shashank and uncle Shrikant were called at the Vile Parle police station to explain their side of the story along with a few more members of the Paranjape family, especially their cousins. It may be noted that all the members of the Paranjape family are together except the complainant”. The Vile Parle police station has clarified that there were no arrests in this regard. “The entire matter is nothing but an internal family dispute about the share in the ancestral property and it has nothing to do with our real estate development business and our firm Paranjape Schemes (Construction) Limited. Both my father and uncle have returned to Pune,” the statement clarified. The duo was detained at 8.15 pm from their residence in Deccan Gymkhana area and taken to Mumbai in connection with an FIR lodged against them by their sister Vasundhara Dongare (69) for allegedly denying her natural property rights under the Hindu Undivided Family (HUF). Shrikant is the chairman and Shashank is the managing director of Pune-based Paranjape Schemes (Construction) Ltd. EOW complaint filed against Amit Lunkad Thirty-eight people have approached the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Pune city police crime branch against builder Amit Lunkad alleging cheating and misappropriation of investments made with Lunkad Realty. The victims have claimed ₹48 crore from Lunkad who is currently lodged at Yerawada Central Prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-builder-amit-paranjpe-claims-father-and-uncle-were-not-arrested-by-police-101624631334739.html
25-06-2021||Bhopal||IMD issues 'orange' alert for several MP districts, predicts heavy to very heavy rainfall||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued an`orange' alert of heavy to very heavy rainfall for several districts in Madhya Pradesh and also a `yellow' alert of heavy rain in some other areas. The forecasts are valid till Saturday morning, senior meteorologist P K Saha told PTI. The state has so far received nearly 80 per cent above normal rainfall in June, he said. An orange alert forecasting likely heavy to very heavy rainfall has been issued for isolated places in the Rewa division (which comprises the districts of Rewa, Satna, Sidhi, and Singrauli) and the districts of Anuppur, Dindori, Chhindwara, Seoni and Balaghat, he said. When an orange alert is issued, authorities are expected to “be prepared”. `Yellow' alert which means likely heavy rainfall was issued for isolated places in Hoshangabad division and Jhabua district. Another yellow alert forecast said that thunderstorms with lightning and lightning strike may occur in various districts across ten divisions including Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Gwalior and Chambal. Monsoon remained active in the state in 24 hours ending Friday 8.30 am, Saha said, adding that almost all areas in Bhopal, Jabalpur, Hoshangabad and Rewa divisions received rains. Many places in Ujjain, Gwalior and Chambal divisions and isolated places in Indore division and a few places in Sagar and Shahdol divisions also had rainfall in this period, the senior meteorologist said. Bankhedi area in Hoshangabad district received the highest 150.6 mm rain in western Madhya Pradesh during this period. Hanumana area in Rewa district received the highest 140.6 mm rain in eastern Madhya Pradesh. Overall, the state has received 79 per cent above normal rainfall since June 1, Saha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/imd-issues-orange-alert-for-several-mp-districts-predicts-heavy-to-very-heavy-rainfall-101624627226476.html
25-06-2021||Kolkata||Fake vaccination drive: TMC MP Sen clarifies after photos with accused surface||Trinamool Congress MP Dr Santanu Sen said strict action will be taken against Debanjan Deb, the man recently arrested for holding a fake vaccination drive in Kolkata where another Trinamool Congress MP and actor Mimi Chakraborty also got vaccinated. Sen’s comments come after people pointed out that Sen was seen in a few photos with Debanjan Deb.Sen who is also the Indian Medical Association’s West Bengal secretary said that the incident was part of an organised crime and Kolkata Police is investigating the matter. He also said that the Kolkata civic body is reaching out to people who had received the jabs at the fake vaccination drive.“When we realised that Debanjan Deb is a fraud and his ill-intentions without wasting time we lodged an FIR with the Muchipara police station and asked them to take stringent measures. This is an organised crime and the police are taking their own course. I believe that the Kolkata Municipal Corporation has taken a significant step to reach out to beneficiaries to gather information regarding any side-effects,” Sen was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Sen also wrote a letter to the Muchipara police regarding the photos where he was seen with Debanjan Deb. He said that Debanjan was being accompanied by others and it was hard to question his genuinity.Debanjan Deb was arrested after TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty busted his fake vaccination drive in the New Market area in Kolkata on Wednesday. Mimi while speaking to Hindustan Times Bangla said that her suspicions arose after she did not receive a vaccination certificate from the people arranging the vaccination drive. She said that the man posed as an IAS officer and was with the Kolkata civic body. He was also using a fake ID card and masks and sanitizers labelled with Kolkata civic body logos. Deb was arrested after Mimi informed the police.The police later said that beneficiaries may have been injected with Amikacin, an antibiotic, according to another report by HT. The report said that after raiding Debanjan Deb’s office in south Kolkata the cops found a large number of Amikacin vials alongside fake labels of Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/fake-vaccination-drive-tmc-mp-sen-clarifies-after-photos-with-accused-surface-101624624918823.html
25-06-2021||Kolkata||BJP attacks TMC over fake Covid vaccination, demands probe by central agency||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has attacked the Trinamool Congress (TMC) over the vaccination camps in Kolkata where fake Covid-19 vaccines were allegedly administered, saying the fraud could not have taken place without the support of the ruling party and the state administration.Subhas Sarkar, a BJP Member of Parliament (MP), said Debanjan Deb, who is accused of organising the camps, has been spotted with multiple TMC leaders. He added people, who were administered the fake vaccines, should be kept under observation. “If they develop any illness, the state should take responsibility. If the accused has close links with the chief minister, then the case file would be suppressed.”Saumitra Khan, another BJP MP, tweeted: “How the vaccine is available in the open market? Trinamool MP and MLA are involved in this case. This is being done in their presence. If this case is investigated by the central agency, the correct information will come out.” The BJP has circulated pictures that show Deb purportedly posing with TMC ministers and lawmakers including Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee, Debashis Kumar, and Santanu Sen. Deb apparently shared the photos on his social media platform in 2020. In February, when a bust of Rabindranath Tagore was unveiled in Kolkata, Deb’s name was engraved in a stone there along with names of ministers and lawmakers. Deb was referred to as a top government official. People aware of the matter said police were investigating how Deb’s name figured on the stone.Hakim said public figures do not check the background of every person they come across while attending public programmes. “If I have to check each and every person’s credential at every public programme, then I would not be able to mix with and attend to the people. There could be one fraud person among 100 good citizens. If he stands beside me and takes a picture, what can I do?”Also Read | SC gives fresh chance to Mamata Banerjee, minister to respond to CBI chargesMukherjee echoed Hakim. “We often go to public functions. Many people come there. It is not my responsibility to check each and every person’s background.”TMC Member of Parliament Mimi Chakraborty was among those who were vaccinated at one of Deb’s camps.Kunal Ghosh, a TMC spokesperson, said the entire operation was camouflaged and that mistakes and a crime has been committed. “Police are probing it. Chakraborty...suspected something was wrong when she did not receive any (confirmatory) message... after getting the vaccine. This took the lid off. It would be wrong to say TMC leaders are involved. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi was seen in pictures with some persons who have been accused of economic offences and are now wanted by the Central Bureau of Investigation. Does that mean Modi is involved?”Meanwhile, KMC member of the board of administrators, Atin Ghosh, said, “It (unveiling of the Tagore’s statue) was not a government programme. Neither was any permission taken from the civic body. None of the ministers and TMC leaders, who names were engraved, was present there. Sometimes a local club or NGO unveils a statue without informing the KMC. So it won’t be right to say that TMC ministers and leaders were present at the occasion along with Deb.” He said that the stone slab would be removed. TMC MLA Nayana Banerjee has lodged a police complaint as her name and that of other party leaders were included even though they were not present at the programme. TMC MP Santanu Sen, TMC MP, who can be seen in one of the photos, and is also the state secretary of the Indian Medical Association, has lodged a police complaint against Deb. The Kolkata Police on Wednesday busted the fake vaccination racket. They say Deb, 28, who was masquerading as the joint commissioner of the city’s civic body, allegedly organised several such camps, where hundreds of people were vaccinated. Police suspect amikacin, an antibiotic, was administered at the camps. Police found a large number of Amikacin vials and fake labels of Covishield when they raided Deb’s office on Thursday.A police officer, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the people who took the fake jabs in south Kolkata were told that they were getting Covishield. “...while those who got the fake jabs in a similar camp in north Kolkata were told they had got Sputnik. His office employees were also given fake injections and were told they were getting the Pfizer vaccine. Such a camp was also organised at Sonarpur.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-attacks-tmc-over-fake-covid-vaccination-demands-probe-by-central-agency-101624625215108.html
25-06-2021||Pune||What’s the buzz in Pune: June 25 - July 1, 2021||Mr Little and the Kanban MusketeersJoin this webinar to explore how you can capitalise on Little’s law to build stable and predictable systems. The webinar will look what affects our world of work within teams and organisations.To register go to: https://bit.ly/2O4mYsO or contact 9739022490When: June 25, 8.30 pm to 9.30 pmWhere: OnlineCopperplate calligraphy Copperplate is a form of calligraphy done with a pointed, metal calligraphy nib. The style is primarily used in English and American calligraphic traditions. The style originated in the 16th and 17th centuries as a quill-written, cursive script, often called roundhand. The application of script is now wider, for example, titles of movies and book covers. Take your calligraphy master stroke with @avinash_calligraphy.To register call contact -9552522019When: June 25-27; 10am to 1pmWhere: OnlineOnline children’s theatre festivalProverbs are an integral part of culture, history and folklife. They are a mirror to society and make everyday conversation interesting. Eleven plays, including two solos will be a part if this online festival. A cast of 41 child actors and 20 mentors have worked together for two months to bring these lovely performances. Written and designed by Dhanashree Heblikar. When: June 26-30; 7.30 pm onwardsWhere: Swatantra Theatre’s YouTube channelHarmonium workshopHarmonium maestro Aditya Oke will teach various movements (bandish) from the genres of Ghazal and Natya Sangeet, apart from various scales on the harmounium.For details and registration contact 9867528991When: June 26, 27; 8pm to 10pmWhere: OnlineWebinar: Types of Comedy A three-hour webinar on understanding 38 types of comedy. It includes the popular types like Standup, Improv, Sketch, and many interesting types like Conundrum, Blendword, and Buffoon. Amit Khuva, founder of ‘Cafe Comedy’ will be hosting the webinar.To register call +91 9512182874When: June 27; 2pm to 5pm Where: OnlineArt workshoRelease your stress and meditate using materials like a 12”x16” white ivory sheet, pencil, eraser, ruler, sketch pens/fine liners to create effects like hyperspace and mandala art. Register for ₹180 per head. Open the all above the age of 10 years.For details call +91 7043881177When: June 27; 12 pm to 1:30pmWhere: online||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/whats-the-buzz-in-pune-june-25-july-1-2021-101624623418310.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||11 Punjabi women stuck in Iraq seek help to reach India||Eleven Punjabi women, who had gone to Iraq in search of work, have alleged economic exploitation and sought help to return to India. The women, one of who belongs to Sangrur district, shared a video with Sangrur Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP Bhagwant Mann on June 23, saying their employers had kept their passports and urged him to facilitate their return. Also read: Patients left high and dry as doctors go on strike in PunjabMann said that the women were stuck in Erbil city of Iraq and he had talked to the officials concerned at the Indian Embassy in Baghdad, who had traced the women. “I received a video from the women two days ago and sent it to the ministry of external affairs on Thursday evening. I met officials of the ministry on Friday and submitted all documents that I got from the women’s families. The officials arranged my phone call with the Indian embassy in Baghdad. Though the women don’t have their passports, the Indian embassy will take them into custody and they will be back in India in a couple of days,” Mann said. Apart from the one from Sangrur district, the rest of the victims are from Hoshiarpur and Jalandhar districts. In the video, the women can be seen sharing their plight with faces covered. They said they had gone to Iraq for jobs as helps in households and companies but their passports were taken away and they were not given food and adequate rest. “We faced exploitation in households and from company owners. We had problems of food and sleep. We were not allowed to call up our families and did not have mobile phones,” a woman said in the video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11-punjabi-women-stuck-in-iraq-seek-help-to-reach-india-101624623294772.html
25-06-2021||Lucknow||Cleric in UP castrated, beaten to death for planning another marriage||In a bizarre incident, the first wife of an imam in UP's Muzaffarnagar on Friday castrated him and beat him to death for planning another marriage, police officials told news agency PTI.The incident took place in Shikarpur village on Thursday evening when Hazra injured Maulvi Vakil Ahmad, the imam at a mosque in Bhora Khurd village.Hazra told the cops that Maulvi Vakil Ahmad was planning to marry another woman following which an argument started between the two which soon became violent and led to his death.The police have registered a case against her at Bhorakla police station. The Station House Officer (SHO) Nitendra Singh said that the victim’s body has been sent for postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cleric-in-up-castrated-beaten-to-death-for-planning-another-marriage-101624620277838.html
25-06-2021||Pune||NGT levies ₹2 crore penalty on PMC for violating order on garbage||PUNE The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) to pay ₹2 crore for not completely complying with the tribunal order from 2018, related to a garbage dumping ground in Uruli Devachi and Phursungi. The order was passed by the principal bench of NGT comprising of chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel; judicial members Justices Sudhir Agarwal, M Sathyanarayanan, and Brijesh Sethi; and expert member Nagin Nanda.The amount will be used to enforce an action plan to restore the environment in the area which will have to be prepared by PMC, as originally directed, and submitted to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB). The Maharashtra Environment Secretary will monitor the compliance by PMC. MPCB and state environment department will assess continued violation of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and levy a compensatory amount that PMC will have to pay along with the ₹2 crore, according to the order.In an order passed on July 19, 2018, the NGT had issued a showcause notice to PMC asking why an order from December 2017 had not been complied with. The 2017 order had directed PMC to come up with an action plan to clean up the garbage that had piled up in the dumping ground for the past several years. Additionally, the 2018 order, after the showcause notice, had directed PMC to submit an amount of ₹2 crore to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) in the form of a bank guarantee to ensure compliance. The 2018 order has mentioned that upon failure of compliance of any part of the order, the bank guarantee of ₹2 crore should be encashed.Expert member Nagin Nanda was part of the bench which passed the 2017 and 2018 orders, and was part of the bench that passed the order of June 21, 2021 too.An oversight committee was appointed with a validity of two years to ensure that the order is complied with.However, the oversight committee has passed its validity and the waste still remains on the site. The money that PMC was supposed to furnish as guarantee in 2018 to MPCB has not been submitted.Additionally, residents of the area who are the original applicants, claimed that not only has PMC and MPCB failed to clear the garbage, but they have also proposed a new garbage processing plant in the area. This claim, however, was denied by advocate Rahul Garg representing PMC.“However, waste processing facility is proposed for 1550 MTD waste so that no waste is left to be landfilled. No fresh dumping of waste is taking place at the said site since January, 2020. A part of the site has already been bio-mined and the remaining site will also be soon cleared. However, learned counsel is not clear about the quantum of waste which remains to be cleared,” read a part of the order that described the PMC response.There are three parties involved in the case - the residents, the PMC, and the MPCB.When the court asked about how much waste still remains on the site, the PMC counsel had no answer and the MPCB counsel requested more time to come up with an answer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ngt-levies-rs-2-crore-penalty-on-pmc-for-violating-order-on-garbage-101624620776402.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra imposes stricter norms after cases of Delta plus variant emerge||The Maharashtra government has decided to impose stricter norms by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three. The first two levels having maximum relaxations have been removed till further order, according to a notification issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Friday. “Given that the virus causing Covid019 is undergoing mutations in various geographies, and that these mutations are displaying more transmissibility and potential reductions in monoclonal antibody response, a state-level trigger mandating all the administrative units, irrespective of values of the indices of weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy percentage, to remain at a level not below 3 is to be in operation till withdrawn by specific order of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA),” the notification issued by Kunte stated. The decision has been taken considering emerging cases of Delta plus variant in the state, officials said. The state task force and the ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW) has directed the state not to let its guard down, following which it was decided to cut down the relaxations, said Aseem Gupta, secretary, relief and rehabilitation department.Also read: ‘Delta plus’ variant evades vaccines? Experts flag major concernsThere won’t be any changes for Mumbai as the city already comes under the level-3 category of restrictions, the officials said.“It simply means that of the five-level relaxation plan, we have removed the first two levels having maximum relaxations. It also means all the districts and cities will get maximum relaxations that are provided under the level 3 plan,” Gupta said.The state has found 21 cases of Delta plus variant covering six districts. Of them, nine cases are in Ratnagiri, seven in Jalgaon, two in Mumbai and one case each in Thane, Palghar and Sindhudurg.“Before the second wave hit the state, cases started rising in Amravati and then it spread across the state. This time we have decided to be more careful considering the Delta plus variant cases have been found in a few districts. We cannot be at peace when there is a threat of a possible third wave looming large,” the relief and rehabilitation secretary said.What is level 3The districts or municipal corporations with a weekly positivity rate of between 5-10% or oxygen bed occupancy over 40% will be classified under level 3.In this category, shops selling essentials can stay open till 4 pm on all days and those selling non-essentials are allowed to operate only on weekdays. Malls and theatres will remain shut. Section 144 will be applicable and not more than five people can gather at a public place while movements post 5 pm should be minimal. Public transport will be allowed without standees. Gyms, saloons will be open only till 4 pm, with appointments and air-conditioners will not be allowed to run inside the premises.Restaurants can stay open till 4 pm only on weekdays, afterwards, only takeaways will be allowed. Sports activities will be allowed only between 5 am to 9 am for morning walks and 9 am-9 pm for outdoors. Construction activities will be allowed with 50% staff. Private offices can stay open till 4 pm on weekdays with 50% attendance.Local trains can be used by essential and medical workers and women only. Parks and gardens can open from 5 am to 9 am every day. Weddings are allowed with maximum 50 people, cultural activities allowed at 50% capacity. Manufacturing of essential goods is allowed at 100% capacity, manufacturing units engaged in non-essential goods can work with 50% capacity and a dedicated transport facility for its employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-imposes-stricter-norms-after-cases-of-delta-plus-variant-emerge-101624619395188.html
25-06-2021||Other||PMC court stays Ambil odha anti-encroachment drive; residents clash with police||A Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) court, on Thursday, stayed the civic body’s anti-encroachment on the banks and in the vicinity of Ambil odha (stream). A Pune citizen Hanumant Phadke challenged the PMC’s drive in the court, located in the municipal corporation’s headquarters at Shivanjinagar and managed to get a stay order issued.This came as the PMC’s anti-encroachment drive was about to begin in the Ambil odha area, near Dandekar bridge, under police protection. The drive is targeting illegal constructions and obstructions on the banks of the stream as well as on the water bed itself.Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “It is necessary to remove encroachments on nallahs, but the administration acted in a hurry. They should have given residents some more time to make necessary arrangements. The drive needs to be carried out before, or after, the monsoon season.”Many homes and shanties are in the flood line and the PMC had issued notices to residents asking them to vacate the illegal premises.On Thursday morning, there was much tension in the area as residents clashed verbally with PMC officials and the police.Residents alleged that the police was using force to keep them away from their homes and some even claimed that they had not received the PMC notices. Meanwhile, the opposition parties in the city blamed the ruling BJP for the chaos. Congress leader Arvind Shinde and the NCP’s Nitin Kadam claimed that the PMC was looking to develp the Ambil odha area under a slum rehabilitation area (SRA) scheme. “The administration was going to conduct the anti-encroadhment drive at the very spot discussed in the PMC meeting,” Shinde alleged.The Aam Adami Party’s (AAP) Mukund Kirdat also opposed the drive. He said, “The corporation carried out the drive during rainy season which is wrong.”Municipal administration officials decline a comment officially, but of the record administration officials were quoted as saying, “Houses are in the water body. If there is heavy rain, same political parties will blame the administration for not removing the encroachments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-court-stays-ambil-odha-anti-encroachment-drive-residents-clash-with-police-101624618376918.html
25-06-2021||Pune||Step up Covid testing, genome sequencing to detect delta variant: Experts||The health experts in the city suggest that Covid-19 testing and genome sequencing in the district should be increased if the delta variant has to be detected to avoid the early onset of the third wave.Dr Sanjay Patil, former vice-president, IMA, and chairman of the Hospital Board of India, Pune chapter, said that testing is vital and should be done.“However, contact tracing is less. There is laxity in contact tracing. After every positive patient there should be at least 10 to 12 contacts that should be tested,” said Dr Patil.He added that genome sequencing in suspected cases should be done.“The samples used for genome testing should be area wise. If a doctor feels that a particular case is different from usual Covid-19 cases, such cases should be referred for genome sequencing. The central government has given directives that at least 100 samples should undergo genome sequencing,” said Patil.He added that samples from containment zones should undergo genome testing.Testing for Covid-19 in the Pune district has increased marginally from 16,356 on June 1 to 18,509 on June 24, according to data provided by the district health officer.Dr Kapil Zirpe, member of the city and district Covid-19 task force and head of department, critical care at Ruby Hall Clinic, said that as of now there is not enough evidence of how dangerous the delta variant is.“We need to do random testing in the city. Testing vendors and customers who frequent the market is important as they can turn into superspreaders. Increased random testing is crucial if we have to stay prepared for the third wave,” said Dr Zirpe.He added that no matter where people are, they must follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.“Also, many students travel from one place to another and they frequently meet others. In such a scenario, along with vendors, students are also crucial as more random testing can help avoid any superspreaders,” said Dr Zirpe.He further noted that random testing intends to avoid the increase in the number of cases in the next wave.“We should be prepared for the next wave. By more vaccination and testing, we can keep more patients away from being critical,” added Dr Zirpe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/step-up-covid-testing-genome-sequencing-to-detect-delta-variant-experts-101624618074864.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||‘Allegations of scam in Ram Temple land purchase a fit for CBI, ED probe': Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Friday said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) would find a ‘fit case’ in the alleged financial irregularities in the purchase of land by the Ram Temple trust. Raut also said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national executive should pass a resolution to demand for an investigation by these agencies into the alleged irregularities.Raut’s allegations come after the Maharashtra unit of the BJP passed a resolution in its executive demanding the CBI and the ED carry out a probe against the deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab. This is also the second time Raut has asked for an investigation into the allegations.“Are the CBI and the ED your party workers or members of the IT cell?” Raut asked the BJP while accusing them of lowering the stature of these central investigating agencies by targeting political rivals.“It is unfair to misuse these central investigating agencies. This needs to stop. It is understandable when these agencies are probing cases associated with national security, loss to national treasury or cases related to money laundering. Why are you maligning the image of these agencies,” Raut was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.He also expressed confidence that the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government will complete two years in office this year and said that it will also complete its full tenure. “These tactics to destabilize the government will not work,” Raut further added. Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil said he found it strange that the ED searched Deshmukh’s residence after the state BJP passed a resolution demanding the probe against Ajit Pawar and Anil Parab.“It is time to focus on the pandemic but the BJP is doing the wrong things at the wrong time,” Patil said.Workers of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) protested against the ED by holding a demonstration outside Deshmukh's residence. The NCP workers were led by the party’s city unit chief Duneshwar Pethe. They raised slogans against the central government, calling it ‘autocratic’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allegations-of-scam-in-ram-temple-land-purchase-a-fit-for-cbi-ed-probe-raut-101624617494420.html
25-06-2021||Pune||Global village idiot: One from LHLB community files... conform not at cost of individuality||I feel kind of stupid talking to people who talk about leadership skills, especially leadership skills in children. Which means I feel stupid talking to almost everybody, because right now, almost everybody seems to be busy grooming leaders and entrepreneurs and innovators and critical thinkers, and they have all realised it’s better to start young. It seems we require many such professionals in the future. Now, I have grown up with images and stereotypes and unwritten expectations of what a good manager, charismatic leader, successful engineer or generally great achiever is supposed to look like: crisp, well dressed in formals (or studied casuals, which are really designer), firm, but nice, intelligent but caring, commanding, but nurturing, agreeable, and of course: short-haired. Which of course rules out people who are long-haired and/or ask too many questions, and/or generally have difficulty being a predictable type. I am ruled out on all counts. Thankfully.My children seem to prefer wearing their hair long as well. For now, anyways. And they are quite amused with people who tell them to cut their hair. Here are the typical comments our boys get:“You look like a girl.”“Why do you have such long hair like a girl?”“When are you going to cut your hair short and neat like regular boys?”“If you don’t cut your hair by next week, I will tie it in a pony like a girl’s!”“The rules don’t allow boys to have long hair!”What is it about boys in long hair that raises insecurity within men and women? Renders them incoherent, forcing them to abandon reasoning abilities and eventually be forced into a corner from where they clutch at the straw of archaic rules and societal propriety?The irony is not lost on the children, especially since the remarks come from adults and educators who are otherwise desperately trying to get them to look at “gender equality” and to “express” themselves and to “think” for themselves.I remember a conversation couple of years ago with Mr D, our 9-year-old (he was seven then). “Baba, one of my teachers asked me the dumbest question today – “Why do you like long hair? Why does she like asking me to cut my hair every month? Why doesn’t she cut her own hair first?” The last 12 months have been fantastic - the kids don’t have to cut their hair and they are happier on that count. There was a brief turbulence in that paradise a couple of months ago when talks started about schools reopening. The boys told me quite seriously then, “You have to talk to the school Baba. We don’t want to cut our hair when we go back to the classroom. Okay?”As a parent and a member of the very, very, very, minority LHLB community, I intend to talk and keep talking to schools and teachers and adults and the world at large, because it is important to my children. (LHLB = Long Hair Long Beard). If I had a daughter, I would also be part of the MASFM community (Makeup & Accessories in School Freedom Movement). If kids can’t make their own choices about how they look, what they wear, don’t expect them to grow up all sorted and feeling good about themselves. A child’s person is their own space and they have a right to self-expression - in fact, it’s a core part of how they feel about themselves. The more years adults repress that expression, the deeper the self-doubt in the future. If we are lucky, it’ll explode in rebellion when adults will have to listen to them. But, very often, kids grow up into adolescents who go into a shell, giving up the fight against conformity, and then grow into brooding young adults who spend their 20s following cool young singers and artistes and like-minded friends, but never finding peace; and then the 30s are spent affirming to themselves a self-image that is cobbled together from fragments of images impaled into their psyche by society; and then the 40s come and thereafter, they start from rock bottom, finding themselves in therapy and career changes and an endless cycle of ruing a wasted life and looking for people and places to allocate the blame.I want my kids to be whoever they want to be every day of their lives. Because that’s what an education is supposed to do in the first place - help them find and understand themselves. The world comes later. For that to happen, I have to first strive every day to not tell them what they should wear or eat or like or not like; and to not tell them how they should feel or not feel in any given situation. And after I have checked myself, I have to also respond when they come and ask me to stand up for them against the world’s arbitrary and illogical norms and expectations. And that’s why I feel kind of stupid talking to people who talk about leadership skills in children. Far as I am concerned, I will be happy if they learn to lead themselves.Mukherjee, author, learning-tech designer and management consultant, is founder of Mountain Walker and chief strategy advisor, Peak Pacific. He can be reached @ thebengali@icloud.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/global-village-idiot-one-from-lhlb-community-files-conform-not-at-cost-of-individuality-101624617716376.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||'Those who lost loved ones...': Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal responds to task force report on oxygen||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday that those who lost their loved ones due to shortage of medical oxygen in the Capital "should not be called liars." Kejriwal posted this on Twitter in an apparent response to a report that his government "exaggerated" the city's oxygen needs by four times during the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read: Delhi govt, BJP spar over SC-appointed panel’s report on oxygen utilisation"My crime is that I fought for the breath of the 20 million people of Delhi," a rough translation of Kejriwal's tweet posted in Hindi, read. "When you were addressing election rallies, i was awake all night arranging for oxygen. I fought and pleaded to arrange oxygen for people," he added, referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's election rallies in West Bengal during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, which triggered fierce criticism."People have lost their loved ones due to shortage of oxygen. Please don't call them liars. They're feeling very bad," Kejriwal's tweet read further.The report, which was submitted to the Supreme Court, was prepared by a panel constituted by it in May when the Capital was facing an acute shortage of liquid medical oxygen. Though preliminary for now, it has triggered a war of words between the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/those-who-lost-loved-ones-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-responds-to-task-force-report-on-oxygen-101624613560429.html
25-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan gets genome sequencing lab to monitor, detect Covid-19 variants||Genome sequencing facility will now be available at the SMS hospital in Jaipur, Rajasthan. State health minister Dr Raghu Sharma said, in the fight against Covid-19, the facility of genome sequencing has been made available in the state. “Around 100 samples of Covid-19 have been used for genome sequencing. According to the investigation report, about 90% of these have been found to be delta variants. The remaining 10% came positive for Covid-19’s B1.1 variant,” Sharma said, expressing confidence that with the availability of the genome sequencing facility in the state, effective monitoring of the changing variants of Covid-19 will be possible. The technique of genome sequencing will help in getting information about the new variants of the virus. A sum of ₹1 crore has been spent for the facility at SMS Medical College. Sharma said, till now, samples from the state for genome sequencing were being sent by the Indian Council of Medical Research to the IGIB lab in Delhi. Every day, at least ten samples were sent from the state but their reports were not received on time. The health minister said the sampling work on the machine installed at SMS Medical College started on June 15. The machine can test up to 20 samples per day and soon its capacity will be increased to 80 samples daily. The test report of the samples can be received within 3 to 4 days. Sharma informed that the state is also leading in vaccination management. So far, 2,23,00,076 people have been inoculated against Covid-19. The vaccine wastage in the age group of 18-44 years is almost negligible, while in the age group of 45 years and above, the vaccine wastage is 0.7%, against the permissible wastage by the Government of India, which is 10%. “If the Central government provides vaccine doses in sufficient quantities then the department can administer vaccine doses to about 15 lakh people daily,” the minister added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-gets-genome-sequencing-lab-to-monitor-detect-covid-19-variants-101624612675739.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||BJP slams Delhi government for ‘exaggerating’ oxygen requirement||The Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday cited a Supreme Court-appointed audit panel report and slammed the Delhi government for “exaggerating by over four times” the oxygen requirement during the surge of Covid-19 cases between April 25 and May 10. It accused the Delhi government of politicising the oxygen demand even as Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) called the audit report fabricated.“How can someone politicise oxygen? How can someone play with life like this? This is criminal negligence. This is a conspiracy,” said BJP leader Sambit Patra. He accused chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of creating a “false alarm and spreading panic across the country”. Patra blamed Kejriwal and his government for the lives lost in Delhi due to the oxygen shortage. “He should feel guilty of ruining lives.” Patra said Kejriwal will be held accountable and punished for “his criminal negligence and conspiracy”.Also Read | Work on oxygen plants may stretch to mid-August in GhaziabadPatra claimed Delhi had surplus oxygen. He added if excess oxygen continued to be supplied to Delhi, it would result in a national crisis.Patra accused the Delhi government of “fraud” and said 12 states including Uttar Pradesh and Haryana as a result did not get their share of oxygen. He said the Delhi government completely failed in managing the crisis. “His (Kejriwal)’s Covid mantra has been 100% advertisement and 0% Covid management. They have completely failed and all they have done is blaming (Prime Minister) Modi and the Centre,” he said.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia hit back saying no such audit report exists and accused the BJP of lying. He accused the BJP of sharing a fake report and asked Modi to control his party.“There is no such report. We have spoken to the members of the Oxygen Audit Committee formed by the Supreme Court. They said they have not signed or approved any such report.”AAP lawmaker Somnath Bharti said the Centre has proved to be incompetent and that is why they are “throwing dirt at us”. He added the Centre should be held accountable for allowing super spreader events like Kumbh Mela and election rallies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-slams-delhi-government-for-exaggerating-oxygen-requirement-101624611534339.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Baba Ka Dhaba owner released from hospital, levels allegations against YouTubers||Baba ka Dhaba owner, Kanta Prasad, has been discharged from Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital after his condition improved, a report said on Friday. Kanta Prasad was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital on June 18 after police said he overdosed on alcohol and sleeping pills. They said they were trying to find out whether the incident was an accident or the Baba ka Dhaba owner tried to take his life.The Indian Express cited Atul Kumar Thakur, the deputy commissioner of police of South District, as saying that the condition of the 81-year-old is stable and that he is back home. The newspaper reported that the Baba ka Dhaba owner has recorded his statement before the police, alleging that several YouTubers called him to pressure him to apologise to Gaurav Wasan and he fell into depression after that. The newspaper said that no FIR has been filed so far in the matter and that the police are probing the role of the alleged YouTubers.Also read | 'Baba ka Dhaba' row ends, YouTuber Gaurav Wasan says 'all is well'Last week, the police said his family found Prasad unconscious at the eatery and took him to a nearby private hospital, which referred him to Safdarjung Hospital. Prasad’s son Karan alleged that his father was depressed because some people, including a few YouTubers, were “pressuring him to withdraw the cheating case and reach a compromise with Wasan.”“My father was being constantly asked to withdraw the case and patch up with Wasan. It was the main reason behind my father’s depression. He was not telling us anything about it, but we could see he was under pressure,” Karan said but did not specify whom he was speaking about.Also read | Baba ka Dhaba row: Case of cheating filed against YouTube ‘influencer’Prasad and his dhaba shot to fame overnight in October last year after YouTuber, Gaurav Wasan, shared a video showing Prasad in tears. The Baba Ka Dhaba owner told him he was struggling to make ends meet as business dried up during the coronavirus pandemic. The video went viral and led to thousands of people making a beeline to his eatery in south Delhi's Malviya Nagar and many even donated money. He later opened a new restaurant, which was shut in February due to a shortage of business.The octogenarian also filed a cheating case against Gaurav Wasan after accusing him of allegedly siphoning off donations, a charge that the YouTuber later refuted. Last week, the two posed for photographs at his dhaba and claimed all was well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/baba-ka-dhaba-owner-released-from-hospital-levels-allegations-against-youtubers-101624610062479.html
25-06-2021||Other||Young innovators develop system to avoid mishaps at tabletop airports||Four engineering students of the Hindustan Engineering College in Coimbatore, under the guidance of Dr KR Kaimal, director of Sarabhai Institute of Science and Technology in Thiruvananthapuram, have developed a new technology that they claim can help avert accidents at tabletop airports, HT has learnt.With the help of artificial intelligence and specially prepared gadgets, they said, such accidents can be avoided.“If the touchdown is a little in front of the exact line, the pilot may not be able to stop the flight at the end by applying the permissible deceleration. If the deceleration is more, there is a possibility of slipping away from the track. In such a situation, the pilot may go beyond the endpoint,” explained Dr KR Kaimal who retired from the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) after 33 years of service. At ISRO, he worked under former President late APJ Abdul Kalam and owns five other patents. Tabletop airports are a nightmare for pilots and many accidents occurred in the country, including the last year’s mishap in Kozhikode international airport that claimed 22 lives.Innovators said many airports and pilots have expressed interest and they applied for a patent. One of the young scientists has already joined the French aircraft giant Airbus Industrie. They said several reasons usually attribute to accidents in tabletop airports, such as climate conditions, lighting arrangements, carelessness on the part of the pilot and misjudgement. Dr KR Kaimal said the newly-developed programme gives a warning to the pilot so that he can increase the speed and take off again and land in a nearby airport or the same airport after obtaining permission. He said the process has been demonstrated at the Hindustan Aeronautical Limited and Kozhikode airport and many pilots have shown keen interest in it.“Accident statistics indicate that descent, approach and landing are most dangerous phases of flight and often lead to 61% of accidents. We studied all existing and upcoming landing guidance system and came to a conclusion that even with the existing instrument of landing system installed on runways, pilots continue to make errors during approach and landing that lead to many accidents,” explained Keerthi K Radhakrishan, one of the innovators.She said their product consists of an integrated system indicating safe landing on the runway. The system includes an array of transmitters emitting unique frequency signals installed on both sides of the runway touchdown zone. The rays emitted are sensed by the corresponding sensors set up on the aircraft. She said this process clearly defines the runway to the pilot. “If the airplane makes a proper landing on the touchdown zone, the sensors installed on the flight are activated and the system will indicate to the pilot that a safe landing has been made. If the landing was incorrect, the sensors will not be activated and the system would alert the pilot with an audio and a visual warning. This includes triggering the pilot’s attention to abort the landing and initiate a go-around,” she said.Kaimal said the second part of the innovation is more important. “In critical situations, lakhs of neurons which are developed from fear and anxiety of pilots are picked up by brain jelly sensor and then amplified electro-magnetically. Thus, flight mode can be changed to autopiloting,” he said, adding that because of the unavailability of the jelly sensor and its high cost, the second part of the experiment was lagging. He said the new project can help pilots get a good assessment of the landing and automatic takeoff using brain jelly sensors in critical conditions. He said after the patent is received, the technology will be transferred to firms and airports that show an interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/young-innovators-develop-system-to-avoid-mishaps-at-tabletop-airports-101624608657363.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||When BJP was busy with polls, I was fighting for oxygen for Delhi: Kejriwal||Delhi’s chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to not call the residents of the national capital liars, and said that when the party was busy with election campaigns, he was fighting and begging to arrange oxygen for them. Kejriwal tweeted, “My fault that I fought for 2 crore Delhi residents. When you [BJP leaders] were busy with election campaigns, I was awake all night arranging medical oxygen. I fought, I begged to ensure oxygen for people of Delhi. People have lost their dear ones for oxygen shortage. At least don’t call them liars, they will feel terrible about it.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday also accused the BJP of misleading people and said that findings of the Supreme Court-appointed audit committee that Delhi’s medical oxygen demand during the worst Covid-19 surge was exaggerated, and did not exist.“We have heard of a so-called report that claims oxygen demand in Delhi was exaggerated. BJP leaders have been citing such a report against the AAP government. The truth is: There is no such report. The BJP is misleading people. No such report exists. The BJP is lying,” said Sisodia in a video press briefing on Friday.Also Read | Man killed, wife critically injured in suspected hate crime in DelhiLater, Sambit Patra, national spokesperson for the BJP, tweeted a screenshot of an email sent on July 22 signed by GS Makker, deputy government advocate, and said, “Dear @msisodia ji here’s the fact about the SC appointed panels report on Oxygen usage in Delhi. Closing your eyes to truth doesn’t alter the truth.”Sisodia asked him to show the signed report of the members and said that this report had been prepared at BJP office and submitted by Central government in the Supreme Court.“Show me the signed report of the members. This report has been prepared at BJP office and submitted by central govt in SC. We will take it up in SC,” he tweeted.Sisodia said at the press conference, “The Supreme Court set up an oxygen audit committee. We spoke to members of the committee. They said that they have not approved or signed any report till now. Then what report is it? Where has it come from? I challenge the BJP to get a report which has been signed and approved by the oxygen audit committee.”“Such misleading statements and conspiracies are not okay in matters that are subjudice. We are all aware of the oxygen crisis in Delhi and the Central government’s failure in oxygen management across the country. Instead of taking responsibility, the BJP is citing reports that do not exist. The BJP created this report in its headquarters and called it the report of the oxygen audit committee.“It is an insult to people who lost their loved ones because of BJP’s oxygen mismanagement. Were the patients, doctors, and hospitals lying? So many parties went to the court – were they all lying? BJP leaders are lying,” said Sisodia.“BJP’s lies are unrelenting and heinous, should be called Bhartiya Jhagdaalu Party for shirking responsibilities, Modi ji needs to manage his party,” Sisodia added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/scappointed-oxygen-audit-panel-hasn-t-okayed-any-report-dy-cm-manish-sisodia-101624605893850.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Dawood’s brother Iqbal Kaskar remanded to NCB custody in drugs trafficking case||A magistrate court at Bhiwandi on Friday remanded Iqbal Kaskar, brother of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) custody for a day, in connection with seizure of a large quantity of hashish which originated from Jammu and Kashmir.Advocate Advait Sethna, who represented the agency, had applied for Kaskar’s NCB custody for two days -- till June 27, on the ground that Kaskar’s investigation in the drugs trafficking case was imperative and necessary.Earlier in the day, a team of NCB officials had taken Kaskar in their custody from Thane Central Jail where he has been lodged since 2017 after being arrested in a string of extortion cases by the Anti Extortion Cell, which booked him under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The current investigation pertains to June 15 arrests of seven persons from Mumbai and Thane and seizure of 17.3 kilograms of hashish from them. Preliminary probe revealed that two of the arrested accused -- Rajvinder Singh and Gurmit Singh -- had travelled from Punjab to Mumbai on bikes, purportedly carrying the contraband in their backpacks, said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. Also Read | NCB nabs Pak-linked drug dealer from HoshiarpurInvestigation revealed that Kaskar was the main supplier of the contraband material, said another official. The agency is also investigating the terror angle in the drug supply, as high quality hashish generally comes from Kashmir and lands in bulk in Punjab, from where it is sent mostly to Mumbai, Pune, and Goa, the officer added.Kaskar, deported from the United Arab Emirates in 2003, was said to be operating Dawood’s real estate business in Mumbai and surrounding areas, the police said. On September 18,2017, the Thane anti-extortion cell arrested him along with two of his accomplices — Mumtaz Shaikh and Israel Sayyed — for allegedly extorting ₹30 lakh from a Thane-based builder.One more accused Pankaj Hangar, 54, a gambling den owner, was arrested in the case subsequently, as police found he was in touch with Kaskar and Shakeel, a Dawood henchman.On October 11 the same year,Thane police slapped stringent provisions of the MCOCA on the seven accused: four arrested and three wanted — Chhota Shakeel and two Dawood gang shooters, Shammi and Guddu. Thane police later found that Kaskar, Sayyed and Shaikh had allegedly extorted gold from a jewellery shop owner. Eventually, Thane police registered two more cases against the gang and Kaskar was named in all. His brother Dawood has also been named as a prime accused in one of three cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-takes-dawood-s-brother-iqbal-kaskar-in-custody-in-drugs-trafficking-case-101624604754064.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia lashes out at BJP for 'false report' on oxygen demand||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday lashed out at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said it was lying about a report which has said the Arvind Kejriwal-led state government exaggerated the city's oxygen demand during the devastating second wave of coronavirus pandemic in April-May. The senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader also challenged the BJP leaders to present the report on the oxygen audit in Delhi that has been approved and signed by the Supreme Court's oxygen audit panel."Oxygen Audit Report DOES NOT EXIST. SC Oxygen Audit Committee has not signed any such report. BJP is sharing a Fake Report made in their party headquarters. I challenge BJP to produce the report signed by SC Oxygen audit committee," the deputy chief minister said in a tweet.Also read: BJP, AAP spar over SC audit team report over oxygen needIf the report by the Supreme Court panel exists, Sisodia asked Union ministers to produce it and show who has signed and approved it. He said there is a limit to lies and deceit and the BJP has crossed all such limits.He said by creating such a report the BJP is not only abusing chief minister Arvind Kejriwal but also abusing those who lost their lives due to oxygen shortage when the city was suffering due to the Centre's mismanagement of the supply of the life-saving gas."Are all those hospitals lying who sent out SOS calls for oxygen? Are all the relatives of those who died due to oxygen shortage lying? Or are those lying who are there in the court claiming shortage of oxygen?" Sisodia asked.Sisodia claimed that the state government talked to the members of the SC panel and they said they have not signed or approved any such report. He asked about the origin of the report if the members have not approved or signed any such report.Hitting out at the party he said the BJP is now the "Bharatiya Jhagadu Party", which instead of taking responsibility for the mismanagement of oxygen supply, is coming up with false charges to fight with everyone.HT has not seen the report as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-lashes-out-at-bjp-for-false-report-on-oxygen-demand-101624603174617.html
25-06-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal student credit card to be launched soon, cabinet approves scheme||The West Bengal cabinet on Thursday approved the student credit card scheme, which the Trinamool Congress had promised in its election manifesto, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said.A student can get a soft loan of up to ₹10 lakh to pursue higher studies with the help of a credit card."Today, the cabinet gave its nod to the student Credit Card scheme. Anyone who has spent 10 years in West Bengal can avail of the benefits of it. The loan will be available for undergraduate, postgraduate, doctoral, and post-doctoral study in India or abroad," Banerjee told reporters.She added that one person is eligible for the scheme till 40 years of age."Fifteen years will be given to a student to repay the loan after getting a job," the chief minister said.The programme will be launched on June 30, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-student-credit-card-to-be-launched-soon-cabinet-approves-scheme-101624602664443.html
25-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM asks officials to prepare plan for developing industrial corridor; reviews highway projects||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Thursday asked officials to expedite various road projects in the state and also prepare a plan to develop Govindpur- Jamtara-Dumka-Sahebganj road as an industrial corridor. The directions were given during a review meeting with the Road Construction Department officials, chaired by the chief minister. "Pending road projects should be completed expeditiously. Special care should be taken of its usefulness in the construction of the new roads. The chief minister also asked the departmental officers to prepare an action plan for the construction of a dedicated road in the Mines area, a statement from the state government said. In construction of such roads, special care should be taken that it does not affect the dense population or villages, the CM said. "There is a lot of potential for development of the industrial corridor on Govindpur-Jamtara-Dumka-Sahebganj road. "Select some areas in this road and prepare an action plan to develop warehouses, logistics centers or industries.This road can become the lifeline of Santhal Parganas area," he said. The chief minister said that the problems related to forest clearance and land acquisition for road projects should be resolved at the earliest. He asked the department to review the matters related to land acquisition every 15 days and coordinate with the concerned departments for this. The officials said that toll plazas are proposed on some roads in the state and toll tax will be charged from goods vehicles. A survey of 425 roads length of 4,856 km has been done. Apart from this Soren said that plans should also be made to build helipads around important tourist places and mines areas of the state. This will also help in curbing Naxal activities, he said. Officials said some 612.65 km road plan has been approved for the national highways in the state in the last four years. These projects entail an expenditure of about ₹3,160 crore. At the same time, 17 road projects have been sent for approval under the State Road Construction Department and 10 projects are to be decided at the level of State Empowered Committee. The meeting was attended by Chief Secretary Sukhdev Singh, Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Rajiv Arun Ekka, Secretary to Chief Minister Vinay Kumar Choubey and Secretary of Road Construction Department Sunil Kumar among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-cm-asks-officials-to-prepare-plan-for-developing-industrial-corridor-reviews-highway-projects-101624602551303.html
25-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Congress leader calls Union minister fugitive, triggers a war of words||Mahesh Joshi, the chief whip of the ruling Congress in the Rajasthan assembly, on Thursday called Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat a fugitive and triggered a war of words with the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has avoided giving his voice sample to the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of Rajasthan in connection with the audiotapes,” he said.The Rajasthan Police last year registered First Information Reports (FIRs) alleging a conspiracy to topple the Congress government in the state after Joshi lodged a complaint citing three audiotapes, including allegedly of Shekhawat, purportedly of conversations detailing the plot. Shekhawat has denied his voice was on the audio clips, which were uploaded on social media. Also Read | Cabinet expansion Rajasthan CM’s prerogative: Independent MLAs support GehlotJoshi said if Shekhawat is clean, then why is he running away. “He is a fugitive on moral grounds. He should appear before the ACB and give a voice sample,” Joshi said as Congress workers shouted slogans calling Shekhawat a fugitive.Joshi accused Shekhawat of making baseless allegations of phone tapping. “You have no faith in the Rajasthan Police and are not giving your statement or voice sample. What should be understood by this? He should cooperate with the Rajasthan Police or else people will call him a fugitive.”Joshi said the FIR Shekhawat lodged in Delhi in March over alleged phone tapping has no grounds. His comments came as he refused to appear before the Delhi Police for questioning in the phone tapping case. Joshi said he has not been named in the FIR against Lokesh Sharma, an officer on special duty in chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s office. Sharma is accused of circulating the audio clips purportedly about a conversation about toppling the Congress government in Rajasthan.Sharma has rejected the allegations and moved the Delhi high court seeking quashing of the FIR against him.BJP state chief Satish Poonia cited the slogans raised against Shekhawat and said that Congressmen may have been remembering “their ancestors and hence raised them”. He said Rajasthan is known for politics of harmony and ideological struggles. Poonia added Gehlot and his loyalists have started politics of animosity. “The country is watching how Congress leaders are speaking against the Prime Minister and home minister...now such words against Union ministers are condemnable.”Poonia said no one becomes a fugitive if some people raise slogans. “It is their frustration and guilt that is coming to the fore. Earlier, there used to be ideological fights in politics in the state but now Congress has hit a new low. The Congressmen know that they are not going to retain power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-congress-leader-calls-union-minister-fugitive-triggers-a-war-of-words-101624602293836.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Patients left high and dry as doctors go on strike in Punjab||Patients were at the receiving end as doctors at government hospitals in Punjab boycotted work on Friday and held demonstrations against the recommendation of the sixth pay commission of delinking non-practising allowance (NPA) from basic pay. Outpatient department (OPD) services remained non-functional in most government hospitals as protesting doctors refused to attend to patients. Also read: India’s vaccination not fast enough to foil Covid-19 3rd wave: ReportThe call for the day-long strike was given by the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee, which has members from the Punjab Civil Medical Services Association and is supported by the Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, Punjab Medical Teachers Association, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab Dental Medical Officers Association and Punjab Ayurveda Officers Association. Black badge protest at medical college in Faridkot All OPDs in civil hospitals in Faridkot, Moga, Bathinda, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Fazilka districts remained closed. Patients unaware of the strike reached hospitals only to return after waiting to be attended. The OPD services at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital in Faridkot was, however, functional. A few doctors of the medical college did not join the protest, while others registered their protest by wearing black badges on duty. Dr Shilekh Mittal, the medical superintendent of the medical college and hospital, said: “There has been some impact on OPD services due to the strike but we are providing treatment to all patients. We have medical students on duty along with doctors, so patients are not facing any problem.” Dr Chander Shekhar Kakkar, a senior vice-president of the PCMS Association, Punjab, said that all OPDs have been closed in the state to protest against the pay commission recommendations. “If the state government does not accept our demands, a decision will be taken after consulting association members to scale up the protest by closing more services on Monday. Our main demands are the restoration of NPA, 5% house rent to doctors and higher education allowance to all doctors equally,” he said. “The medical college is providing OPD services despite the strike call. All medical college doctors do not directly come under the state health department and they also have interns. But we are going to ask them to close the OPD in support of the strike as this is a joint protest of doctors,” he said. Emergency, Covid services unaffected The OPD services besides academic and administrative work remained suspended at Government Rajindra Hospital and dental college in Patiala. Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association general secretary Dr DS Bhullar said emergency and Covid-19 related services are on and these will not be affected due to the strike. Rupinder Kaur, a patient’s attendant, said: “We have come for follow-up checks as my mother underwent surgery recently. Since the OPD services are unavailable, we have been told to visit some other day next week,” she said. Patients caught unawares in LudhianaHealth services in Ludhiana remained suspended in response to the PCMS Association’s strike call. Members of the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee, which includes PCMS doctors, rural medical officers, homoeopathy and ayurveda practitioners, held a protest and raised slogans against the state government.Besides OPD and IPD services, elective surgeries were also not conducted.Puja Rana of Field Gunj, who came to the civil hospital for skin treatment, said that the department was closed and she was asked to visit on Monday. Durgesh Kumar, a migrant who had come from Guru Arjan Dev Nagar near Samrala Chowk, said that he was suffering from stomach pain but on reaching the civil hospital, he was told that OPD services were suspended. “I work in a factory and can’t afford to take leave every day. Why should patients pay for this? Doctors should stop treating government officials instead.”Rohit Rampal, a member of Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) Doctors Association, said: “Instead of giving extra allowance to Covid warriors, the government has decided to reduce the salaries of doctors.”He said that the NPA used to be 25% of the basic salary and the sixth pay commission, which aims to better the pay scales, has proposed to reduce this to 20% and also delink non-practising allowance from the basic salary.Doctors threaten indefinite strikeAmritsar: OPD services were disrupted in government hospitals in Amritsar district due to the strike by doctors. However, Covid-19 and emergency services remained normal. The doctors threatened an indefinite strike if their demand was not met. Other government employees’ associations also supported the doctors’ strike. “Doctors risk their lives to save Covid-19 patients and instead of rewarding them, the government is punishing them,” said Rakesh Kumar of the Employees Welfare Association.With inputs by Navrajdeep Singh in Patiala, Mohit Khanna in Ludhiana and Surjit Singh in Amritsar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patients-left-high-and-dry-as-doctors-go-on-strike-in-punjab-101624602114181.html
25-06-2021||Noida||Noida police attaches gangsters' properties worth over ₹6 crore||The Noida Police commissionerate on Thursday said it has attached ill-gotten properties of gangsters worth over ₹6 crore as a crackdown on regional mafia is underway in western Uttar Pradesh.The action is in line with instructions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath chiefly under section 14(1) of the Gangsters Act, officials said.The properties attached include flats and land plots in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad belonging to Naveen Kumar Bhati, Seema Devi, and Rekha Nagar, wife of gangster Bablee Nagar, all of whom were booked under the Gangsters Act, a police spokesperson said.“Altogether, ill-gotten properties worth ₹6.10 crore belonging to gangsters were attached by the Gautam Buddh Nagar police today (Thursday),” the spokesperson said.The police have warned of continued action against gangsters and mafia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-attaches-gangsters-properties-worth-over-rs-6-crore-101624600064441.html
25-06-2021||Dehradun||Dehradun DM orders Covid tests for passengers, especially coming from states with cases of Delta Plus variant||In view of the detection of new variants of the coronavirus in many states of the country, the District Magistrate (DM) of Dehradun, Dr Ashish Srivastav on Friday issued strict instructions for Covid-19 testing of air passengers, especially those coming from Maharashtra, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh.The Medical Superintendent has been instructed to conduct Covid tests for all the passengers who land at Jollygrant Airport of the district.Keeping the possibility of the third wave of the pandemic in mind, the DM has also instructed the Deputy Collectors to inoculate employees as well as fruit-vegetable vendors and other workers in their respective areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/dehradun-dm-orders-covid-tests-for-passengers-especially-from-states-with-cases-of-delta-plus-variant-101624601626785.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Man killed, wife critically injured in suspected hate crime in Delhi||A 23-year-old man was killed while his wife was critically injured as half a dozen assailants barged into the couple’s home at Ambarhai village near Dwarka in southwest Delhi and fired on them late on Thursday, police said. Police said the couple, from Haryana’s Sonepat, eloped a year ago and they suspect the involvement of the families of the two in the attack.Also Read | 1 killed, 4 injured after cluster bus rams into traffic police booth in DelhiDeputy police commissioner (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said Vinay Dahiya, the husband who was shot four times, died on the spot. He added his 19-year-old wife, Kiran, was admitted to a hospital in a critical condition with five gunshot wounds.Meena said they were informed about the shooting incident around 9pm and around six or seven assailants were involved. A case of murder and attempt to murder has been registered. “We have learnt that Vinay and Kiran eloped...one year ago. They got married against the wishes of their families. Legal action is being taken,” said Meena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-killed-wife-critically-injured-in-suspected-hate-crime-in-delhi-101624601273709.html
25-06-2021||Patna||4 dead, 15 injured as truck hits bus in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur||Four of a wedding party died and 15 others were injured when their stationary bus was hit by a truck on NH-28 falling under Panapur police outpost of Muzaffarpur district of Bihar early on Friday. The accident occurred around 4am on the Muzaffarpur-Motihari highway. Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant said a bus carrying members of a wedding party was returning from Motihari to Gaighat in Muzaffapur. “The bus broke down near an overbridge and some passengers alighted to relieve themselves,” said the SSP, adding that the stranded bus was hit by a speeding truck coming from the same direction. Also Read | 1 killed, 4 injured after cluster bus rams into traffic police booth in DelhiThe driver and cleaner of the truck managed to escape and another truck on the highway overturned while trying to avoid collision with the other two vehicles. A doctor on his way back from Motihari, Dr Gaurav Verma, informed the administration about the accident. He said he rushed five of the injured passengers to Maa Jaanki Hospital, Bairiya. The SSP said passengers were stuck inside the mangled bus and the police and villagers had a tough time extricating them from the vehicle. The deceased have been identified as Ramesh Tiwari, Abhinav Kumar alias Shanu, Mukund Kumar, and Dharmendra Kumar. Although the cause of the accident has not yet been ascertained, it is believed that the driver of the truck fell asleep at the wheel and lost control over the vehicle. Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and Opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav have extended their condolences. The CM’s secretariat has directed Muzaffarpur officials to ensure financial assistance to the families of the deceased and the injured as per rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/4-dead-15-injured-as-truck-hits-bus-in-bihar-s-muzaffarpur-101624600914914.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||ED raids former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s house in Nagpur||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday raided former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s residence in Nagpur. This is the latest in a series of raids at Deshmukh’s premises in Mumbai and Nagpur.Around eight ED officials arrived at Deshmukh’s residence at 7.30pm along with a team of Central Reserve Police Force personnel and began the search. No one was allowed to enter the house and the search continued till the filing of this report.People aware of the matter said the ED team was questioning Deshmukh’s sons, Sahil, Rishi, and his wife, Aarti, on their transactions. Deshmukh, who is in Delhi, could not be contacted for his comments.Also Read | Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra see upward trend amid third wave concernsThe ED, which last month raided the premises of some businessmen known to be close to Deshmukh in Nagpur, is investigating allegations of money laundering against him. The probe was ordered after former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh accused Deshmukh of ordering some policemen to collect ₹100 crore from businesses.Deshmukh was forced to resign as the state home minister after the allegations surfaced.The Central Bureau of Investigation, which also raided Deshmukh’s residence in Nagpur in April, has filed a First Information Report against Deshmukh under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code’s Section 120 B (criminal conspiracy). On May 11, ED filed a criminal case under the anti-money laundering law against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/edraids-former-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-s-house-in-nagpur-101624600493614.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Doctor couple held for supplying leftover vaccines to unofficial camps in Mumbai||Kandivali police has arrested the doctor couple that runs Shivam Hospital at Charkop for allegedly supplying “unutilised” or “leftover” vials of Covid-19 vaccines for unauthorised camps organised at Hiranandani Heritage housing society in Kandivali and other places.The arrested couple, 62-year-old Shivraj Pataria and his wife Nita, conducted authorised vaccination camps from March 14 to April 30 at Shivam Hospital. They also allegedly supplied the “leftover” stock to one Mahendra Singh and Dr Manish Tripathi, who held unauthorised vaccination camps at various places across Mumbai. Around 150,000 people were vaccinated with “unused” or “leftover” Covishield vaccines, police said. The state government on Thursday informed the Bombay high court that beneficiaries were given leftover doses in at least nine camps held by the group.Also Read | Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra see upward trend amid third wave concernsPolice suspect that the leftover vaccines were not returned to BMC by Shivam Hospital and instead supplied to the Singh and Tripathi.According to the Kandivali police officers during the vaccination camp, Shivam Hospital authorities did not give the prescribed amount of dose to the people and saved a portion of the dose. The remaining dose was then stored separately. Tripathi, who is wanted in the case and has applied for anticipatory bail in Dindoshi session court, had accused the doctors of Shivam Hospital of perpetrating the scam in his application. Tripathi’s lawyer had said that on June 15, Tripathi recorded his statement with the Kandivali police naming the Pataria couple.Till Thursday, the Mumbai Police had registered seven FIRs in the vaccination scam.Bhoiwada police on Wednesday night registered the fifth first information report (FIR), while late Thursday evening, the Bangur Nagar and Borivli police stations filed the sixth and seventh FIRs respectively, in connection with the vaccination scam. The Bhoiwada police have booked six people, who posed as doctors and held an unauthorised vaccination camp, in May at a private educational institute Poddar Centre in Parel. Mumbai Police have, for the first time, charged members of the bogus vaccination camp group with a section of attempt to commit culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the Bhoiwada police FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doctor-couple-held-for-supplying-leftover-vaccines-to-unofficial-camps-in-mumbai-101624599773883.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Engineering students in Maharashtra’s govt colleges to get ₹16k fee discount for 2021-22||State minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant on Thursday announced a rebate of ₹16,250 to engineering students from government-aided institutes for not using the library, gymkhana and other facilities on campus as students have not attended physical classes in over a year, as per a press statement.“Students admitted to government and government-aided autonomous engineering institutes have to pay fees other than tuition fees. These students did not use the library, gymkhana and other educational facilities as they were not present in the college due to Covid lockdown, so they should not be charged for the same,” Samant said in the press statement.“Considering the problems of students and parents in the backdrop of the ongoing pandemic, it has been decided to give a discount of ₹16,250 to students,” he said.The amount will be deducted from fees that students will be charged for the 2021-22 academic year. This decision will benefit nearly 20,000 students across the state, the minister announced.Announced late Thursday evening, the decision came after a meeting between Samant, the principal secretary of the department of higher and technical education, the director of the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) and college professors.For the past year, several student groups have made similar demands from the University of Mumbai as well, asking the varsity to direct all affiliated institutes to not charge fees for facilities not used by students in over a year. The University instructed colleges to follow this rule in 2020-21 but for the new academic year, no such statement has been released by the authorities yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/engineering-students-in-maharashtra-s-govt-colleges-to-get-rs-16k-fee-discount-for-202122-101624598093473.html
25-06-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru boy loses arm after friend injects drugs at birthday party||A 17-year-old Bengaluru boy’s arm had to be amputated days after he attended a birthday party, where his mother has alleged her son was injected with a poisonous substance, reports have said. Reports added that the boy's mother claimed her son attended the party of a volleyball coach in the Chamarajpet area of Bengaluru on May 31, when the incident occurred. According to a police complaint by the mother, which was filed last week, the host of the party allegedly dissolved unidentified tablets in water and injected the solution into her son’s forearm.Based on the complaint from the teenager’s mother, police registered a case against the youth under section 328 (causing hurt by means of poison with intent to commit offence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).“My son discontinued studies after class 10. On May 31, the coach invited my son for his birthday. He went to his house in Chamarajpet around 9pm and returned at 11 pm. About four days later, his right elbow was swollen. We went to Sanjay Gandhi hospital and doctors said there was a poisonous substance in the elbow and the forearm had to be amputated. When asked how it had happened, my son said at the party, the coach powdered some tablets, dissolved them in water and injected the same into his right arm,” the boy's mother said in her complaint, according to the Indian Express.Bengaluru Police have requested doctors at the hospital to submit a report on the poisonous substance found in the boy’s body. They will approach a court after the report is submitted, seeking permission to question the accused, who is in jail on charges of vehicle theft, regarding the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-boy-loses-arm-after-friend-injects-drugs-at-birthday-party-101624597332245.html
25-06-2021||Other||Vaccine hesitancy persists among 13 primitive vulnerable tribal groups of Odisha||Odisha has been vaccinating around 3 lakh people a day since June 21 when the Covid-19 vaccination drive entered into a campaign mode. But for the state tribal welfare department, getting the members of the 13 primitive vulnerable tribal group (PVTG) is proving to be a tough task, HT has learnt.Vaccine hesitancy among the 1.3 lakh people in the 13 PVTG groups, who are eligible for vaccination, has proved to be a headache for the officials.“Till now we have managed to vaccinate just about 17,000 of these 1.3 lakh people mostly in the 30+ age group. Though Dongaria Kondhs in Rayagada and Bondas in Malkangiri have shed their hesitancy, among the rest it persists. The people of tribal welfare department, as well as healthcare workers, are trying to create awareness but still, it’s proving to be a tough task,” said P Arthanari, project director of Odisha PVTG Empowerment Livelihood Improvement Programme.Till Thursday evening, Odisha had vaccinated more than 1.06 crore people of the eligible 3.09 crore people of which 19.53 lakh received two doses and the rest single doses of Covid-19 vaccine. On Thursday, it vaccinated 2.82 lakh people, much higher than what it managed to vaccinate in May and most of June.The PVTG groups are Birhor, Bonda, Chakotia Bhunjia, Didayi, Juang, Kharia, Dongria Kondh, Kutia Kandh, Lanjia Saura, Lodha, Mankidia, Paudi Bhuyan and Saura.In the second surge of the pandemic, around 160 people from these communities had tested positive for Covid. Many groups like the Chakotia Bhunjias who live in relative isolation in the Sunabeda sanctuary were infected in the second wave.Officials said while many of them were hesitant to get tested for Covid-19, the reluctance to get vaccinated is proving to be a big challenge. “We are trying to overcome this challenge. We have got interpreters to convince them in their language,” said PK Mishra, special officer, Lanjia Soura Development Agency in Gajapati district.Gram Vikas, an NGO which conducted a Covid-19 assessment among 61,034 people in the tribal-dominated districts of Gajapati, Ganjam, Kalahandi, Kandhamal, Keonjhar and Sundergarh, found low rates of vaccine coverage. There is still lots of vaccine hesitancy among the tribals and rural communities, an official of the NGO said.The officials said a video clip doing the rounds that predicted that those vaccinated would dye in the next two years proved as one of the biggest impediment in getting people vaccinated. In other areas, the tribals told healthcare workers that they trusted their village deity to protect them. In a village of Rayagada district early this month, the people fled by the time the vaccinators arrived.“They have their own belief system. They would rather believe in Dishari and Bejuni, their priests, than the modern medical system. As a tribal researcher working in a central government project, I have found it difficult to win their trust,” said PC Mohapatra of Koraput-based Council of Analytical Tribal Studies.However, there seemed to be some silver lining despite the hesitancy. In Rayagada district, around 1,700 Dongaria Kondhs have so far been vaccinated while in Malkangiri over 2,000 Bonda tribals have been vaccinated. “We did not expect the Bondas to agree so quickly to our pleadings for vaccination. I hope other tribals fall in line as well,” said Malkangiri chief district medical officer Dr Prafulla Nanda.Meanwhile, the SC/ST welfare department has started a daily wage compensation worth ₹100 for 14 days for all PVTG people who tested positive for Covid-19. As per the PVTG covid management strategy, a health kit, worth ₹2500, is being provided to every family of infected PVTG member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccine-hesitancy-persists-among-13-primitive-vulnerable-tribal-groups-of-odisha-101624596113665.html
25-06-2021||Other||Doctor held for raping colleague in Assam’s Dibrugarh||Police in Assam’s Dibrugarh district on Thursday arrested a doctor for allegedly raping a colleague at a private hospital on Wednesday night. The woman lodged a police complaint on Thursday morning, they added.Also Read | Man sentenced to 12-year imprisonment for raping minor in Bihar“As per the complainant’s statement, the accused doctor laced her drink with some intoxicant before raping her. A medical examination has been conducted and its report is awaited,” said Shwetank Mishra, superintendent of police, Dibrugarh.The accused was arrested on Thursday afternoon. Police have lodged the case against him under the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 376 (rape) and 328 (causing hurt with intoxicant/drug with intent to commit an offence). Further investigation is underway, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/doctor-held-for-raping-colleague-in-assam-s-dibrugarh-101624592813117.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gurdev Sharma is new Kullu SP after predecessor suspended||Two days after a scuffle between police officers in Kullu during the visit of Union minister Nitin Gadkari, the Himachal Pradesh government suspended Kullu superintendent of police (SP) Gaurav Singh and the personal security officer of the chief minister’s security staff Balwant Singh. The commandant of the 5th Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB), Gurdev Sharma, has been posted as the new Kullu SP. The transfer orders were issued late on Thursday night. Also read: Jai Ram’s security officer, SP engage in scuffle in KulluBrijesh Sood, the additional superintendent of police (ASP) involved in the scuffle, has also been relieved of his duties and attached to the police headquarters in Shimla. The ASP of the 3rd IRB at Pandoh, Puneet Raghu, has been posted as the ASP, CM’s security. On Wednesday, Raghu had been given the additional charge of the post. Statements of officers recorded Meanwhile, all three police officers involved in the scuffle have recorded their statement before the investigating officer, deputy inspector general (central range) Madhusudan. Sources said that initial probe has found the three officers guilty of Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules and the Police Act. In his statement, Gaurav Singh accused the CM’s security of breaking protocol and adding three vehicles in the motorcade of Union minister Nitin Gadkari on its own. He accused the CM security staff of abusive behaviour. He said he lost temper and slapped the ASP after he misbehaved with him. Brijesh Sood said that Gaurav Singh did not allow the CM’s security vehicles at a proper place in the motorcade that would have amounted to breach in security. He refuted allegations of misbehaving with the SP. Balwant Singh said he got angry after his senior officer was slapped by the Indian Police Service officer. Probe report to be submitted soon It is learnt that the probe report will be submitted to state director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu by Friday evening. Sources said that the tiff between Gaurav Singh and the chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s security had started over watering of the ground where the CM’s helicopter had landed. Sood’s sister Seema Sood has filed a complaint against Gaurav Singh at Ghatta police post in Joginderngar of Mandi district and demanded strict action against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurdev-sharma-is-new-kullu-sp-after-predecessor-suspended-101624592453007.html
25-06-2021||Lucknow||DMs told to crack down on illegal sand mining and storage in Uttar Pradesh||The Uttar Pradesh geology and mining department has directed district magistrates to carry out geo-tagging of the places where sand has been stored and to install CCTV cameras for a vigil on the activities of contractors to check illegal mining and storage during the monsoon.An official said ahead of the halt in sand mining next week, contractors have expedited work in major rivers across the state and a large quantity of sand has been dumped across Bundelkhand and eastern Uttar Pradesh.In a letter to the district magistrates, secretary, geology, and mining, Roshan Jacob, said the permission to store sand at the dumpsites was given to ensure that adequate sand was available for construction during the monsoon. Sand mining would be halted from July 1 to September 30, she said.Also Read | Stay alert, Yogi directs officials on Covid’s ‘Delta-Plus’ variantThe sand could be stored at the spots approved by the district administrations. The names of the contractors and the rates of the mineral would be displayed on boards along with geo-tagging of the spots.A second official said illegal sand mining with machines has been detected and cases have been registered against contractors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/dms-told-to-crack-down-on-illegal-sand-mining-and-storage-in-uttar-pradesh-101624591913441.html
25-06-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Village heads, monitoring committees to enforce Covid protocols||With the wedding season (June 24 to July 15) beginning, nigrani samitis (monitoring committees) and newly elected pradhans (village heads) have an additional role to play in villages and rural areas of Lucknow— keep a check on social gatherings and ensure social distancing to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). “Apart from carrying out development works and addressing social issues, pradhans and nigrani samitis will also ensure that Covid-19 protocols are followed strictly in villages,” said Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate, while addressing pradhans and the nigrani samitis during a meeting aimed at ensuring strict implementation of Covid-19 protocols in the rural areas of Lucknow. Also Read | Stay alert, Yogi directs officials on Covid’s ‘Delta-Plus’ variantThe DM also stated that village heads must ensure door-to-door surveys in their villages, keep a check on rumours and ensure that all villagers wear masks. The village heads, he said, must also dispel myths related to vaccination and create awareness among rural folks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-village-heads-monitoring-committees-to-enforce-covid-protocols-101624591553319.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Rain, thunderstorm likely today, says IMD||Delhi is likely to see thunderstorm accompanied by rain on Friday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Light rain or drizzle has also been predicted for Saturday, as per the forecast. IMD officials said that while parts of the city might receive light to very light rain on Friday and Saturday, chances are that Delhi will get monsoonal showers only after a week. The minimum temperature on Friday is likely to be 28 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature is predicted to hover around 38 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Thursday was 28.3 degrees Celsius and the maximum temperature was 38.2 degrees Celsius. Also Read | IMD’s string of wrong monsoon forecasts for DelhiDelhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 140. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI stood at 146 in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’. On Thursday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. Surface winds are moderate and east-north-easterly. Although ventilation is favourable for dispersion, an increase in dust long-range transport is expected for the next three days. AQI is likely to stay in the moderate category with PM10 as the lead pollutant for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-rain-thunderstorm-likely-today-says-imd-101624589032939.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra see upward trend amid third wave concerns||Daily cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra saw an upward trend after maintaining a trajectory below the 10,000-mark for days even as the state is battling the Delta Plus variant, a mutation more dangerous than all of its previous variants. On Thursday, the number of daily Covid-19 cases neared 10,000-mark as 9844 people found to be infected.Maharashtra found 10,066 people positive with Covid-19 on Wednesday. There were 10,107 cases of infections in Maharashtra on June 16, since then state cases below the 10,000-mark. There were 8,470 and 6,270 cases of infection on Tuesday and Monday respectively.Since the beginning of the pandemic in India in March last year, Maharashtra has always been the hotspot of Covid-19 cases. In the second wave as well, it was among the top states to report the highest number of daily cases of infection. The first case in the state was recorded in Pune on March 9, 2020.The total number of cases till now is 6,007,431 in Maharashtra. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra stands at 121,767, while the total number of deaths has now reached 119,859. Pune leads with 16,456 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,348 patients.On Thursday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with the local administration of seven districts in which he directed the officials to prepare considering the possibility of Covid-19 third wave. He asked the state health department to coordinate with local administrations and prepare a plan to ramp up health infrastructure.In view of the Delta Plus variant, the chief minister also directed district administrations not to take risk by granting more relaxations under the five-level plan imposed by the state government.Thackeray held a review meeting of collectors of seven districts — Sindhudurg (1.21%), Ratnagiri (0.97%), Kolhapur (0.79%), Sangli (0.54%), Satara (0.40%), Raigad (0.39%) and Hingoli (0.004%) — where average weekly positivity rate is on the higher side, barring Hingoli. At present, the average positivity rate of the state is 0.15%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-cases-in-maharashtra-see-upward-trend-amid-third-wave-concerns-101624584970115.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Man killed, wife shot at five times in Delhi, honour killing suspected||In a suspected case of honour killing, a 23-year-old man was shot dead in Dwarka's Ambarhai village on Thursday and his wife severely injured, police said here.Information about the incident was received at the Dwarka Sector-23 police station around 9 pm, they said."During an enquiry, it was found that Vinay Dahiya of Haryana's Sonipat and his wife Kiran Dahiya (19) were shot at by six to seven people inside their rented accommodation in Amberhai village," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said.Vinay Dahiya sustained four bullet injuries which led to his death, while Kiran Dahiya was shot five times and she is undergoing treatment at the Venkateshewar Hospital, the DCP said.The couple had eloped last year against wishes of their families. Legal action is being taken, the police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-killed-wife-shot-at-five-times-in-delhi-honour-killing-suspected-101624579959735.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||1 killed, 4 injured after cluster bus rams into traffic police booth in Delhi||One person was killed and four others were injured when a Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) cluster bus rammed into a traffic police booth near Sarai Rohilla in Delhi.Two police and one traffic police personnel were among those injured. The bus driver is absconding.As per a Delhi Police officer, "Road accident took place near Sarai Rohilla. Additional Sub-Inspector Govind, inspector Rishipal, Rohini Traffic Circle inspector Kishan Kumar were injured in the accident when the DTC cluster bus entered the traffic police booth. One person who died in the accident, has not been identified yet. The name of the other injured person is Ram Kumar. A total of five people have been injured.""As per the preliminary investigation, it seems that the brakes failed. The bus driver is absconding from the spot," the official added.Further probe in the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/1-killed-4-injured-after-cluster-bus-rams-into-traffic-police-booth-in-delhi-101624578330611.html
25-06-2021||Lucknow||Enjoy cordial relationship with Yogi, says UP deputy CM||Uttar Pradesh’s deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Thursday attempted to dispel talk of an uneasy relationship between him and chief minister Yogi Adityanath, saying he enjoys a very good relationship with him.“With the blessings of Maa Vindhyavasini, I enjoy cordial and strong relationship with him,” said Maurya, while addressing a question regarding his relationship with Yogi. The deputy CM made the statement while interacting with the media on the sidelines of the inauguration of various developmental projects in Mirzapur.On June 22, Adityanath went to Maurya’s residence to bless his son and daughter-in-law on their recent wedding.The deputy CM also questioned the Opposition, which has been critical of the Adityanath government’s handling of the second coronavirus wave, over its contribution during the crisis. “Where was the Congress and the Samajwadi Party when Prime Minister Modi and CM Yogi were serving the public during corona crisis?” Maurya asked, and alleged that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav were missing during the peak of Covid pandemic in UP between April 15 and May 15 when the state registered an average of 27,907 cases and 254 fatalities.Congress’s Shailendra Singh said that the BJP government badly failed in Covid management. The BJP leaders have started making tall claims again. Public will give them befitting reply in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/enjoy-cordial-relationship-with-yogi-says-up-deputy-cm-101624574523399.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Old forgotten inboxes||The door looks weathered; so does the letterbox on it. The box is broken, there’s nothing inside. The next door on the street has a similarly dilapidated box. So does the door ahead. The lane is like a museum of letterboxes. Almost every house has one, each exuding the mood of a bhule bisre geet, an old forgotten song.Old Delhi is speedily altering. Familiar landmarks are giving way to new. Ramshackle mansions are being replaced by multi-storey housing. Local pizza outlets are popping up within a spitting distance of kebab stalls. Much is disappearing, but the Walled City’s old letterboxes are hanging on. If no longer as a utility, then as an overlooked exhibit.This is one of the areas in the Capital where residences are still equipped with such long-time metallic or wooden contraptions. But most are cobwebbed and dust-covered, as if untouched for years. One street to view them is in Kucha Chalan, which isn’t far from the former site of Daryaganj’s post office. (It’s been replaced by a car showroom.)Bearing their respective addresses, the little letterboxes here might have gone out of use, but they vividly evoke the days when people would handwrite letters to friends and patiently wait for handwritten replies, dropped into the box weeks later by the neighbourhood dakiya (postman) on bicycle. In houses with letterboxes, there would be the thrill of unlocking the little lock to collect the day’s catch. “In my time, trunk (phone) calls to relatives outside the city were expensive, so we would write letters,” recalls an elderly woman whose house is fitted with an inactive letterbox. She says that the box wasn’t freely accessible to everyone in her family—a revered elder would first scan all the letters for any “objectionable” correspondence.The worn out state of most of these boxes suggests the weakening of letter writing culture. That’s no proof of the death of paper mail. Many houses across the city, including modern apartment complexes, have letterboxes in some form or the other, stuffed daily with printed materials ranging from insurance documents and pizza delivery flyers to invoices, and perhaps even an occasional letter or postcard (what’s that?!)One house in Kucha Chalan stands out flamboyantly: atop a rusting metal letterbox is nailed its gleaming red-and-white wooden adaptation. The letterbox revival suddenly seems less hopeless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-old-forgotten-inboxes-101624572229418.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Soon, learner’s driving licence test to be done online; software in ‘final stages'||The state transport department is in the final stages of creating a software that will allow applicants to appear for a learners’ driving licence test from their homes, and get the document without any physical intervention, a senior official said on Thursday.“The NIC (National Informatics Centre) is developing the software for e-learner’s licence and it is almost ready. It is currently undergoing testing and security audit. The NIC is also trying to add a face recognition system to ensure there is no attempt by proxy,” the official added.Once implemented, an applicant will not have to visit the regional transport office (RTO) to give the test for the learners’ licence. The project is likely to take off in about two months, the official said.Once the applicant clears the test, an e-learner’s licence with a validity of six months will be issued. “The process will require applicants to register on the transport department website, that will allocate them a date on which they can take the learner’s licence test from their homes. The applicant will go through a standard online tutorial, and can then take the test. The candidates will also have to sit for a test to check for colour blindness, after which the e-learner’s licence will be issued,” said the official.On June 22, the Delhi government also decentralised the process of issuing vehicle registration certificates by empowering the car/two-wheeler dealers to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/soon-learner-s-driving-licence-test-to-be-done-online-software-in-final-stages-101624571988179.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||‘E-divide a worry, unique learning need of the hour’||From addressing concerns on online education during the Covid-19 pandemic to suggesting innovative solutions to resolve multiple issues -- 100 students from classes 5 to 12 will on Friday be awarded for winning responses submitted for a nationwide competition – Lenovo Smarter Ed Scholarship, an initiative by the Hindustan Times. The winners will be given Lenovo laptops and tablets worth ₹25 lakh.Hundreds of students from classes 5 to 12 submitted entries in the form of essays, audio files, audio video files, or digital presentations, on the current online education system, documenting their concerns, ideas, and creative solutions.Around 200 students were shortlisted from the entries based on originality of thought, constructive recommendation, and creativity. The shortlisted students were interviewed virtually by senior editors and journalists from HT, who picked the 100 winners.A challenging timeSchools from across the country were shut following the nationwide Covid-19 lockdown imposed in March last year, pushing students towards online education in a matter of days.Though some schools reopened in a phased manner in January for senior students, the rise in infections during the second wave of Covid-19 led to them being closed again, and to the cancellation of the Class 10 and Class 12 board exams.Nandini Sharma, a Class 12 student at Ryan International School in Vasant Kunj and one of the winners of the competition, submitted an essay on the impact of Covid-19 on teenagers.“There was a slump for students of my age with a period of no creativity, because we have a lot of competitions in schools. I suggested introducing activities such as group discussions, movie presentations, analysis of out-of-syllabus topics, because they can sharpen our cognitive and creative abilities,” she said.Auvi Mukherjee, a Class 11 student of Bombay Scottish School in Mumbai, said, “I enjoyed online education and it was convenient to access lectures and classes from home. But I do not believe that online education will mirror offline education. Traditional learning experiences are different due to the environment and real-world experiences. Online learning can act as a resource repository, or maybe a substitute for bad weather days.”Interactive lesson plansSeveral younger students called for more interactive lesson plans. Ayush Datta, a Class 8 student of Delhi Public School in Kolkata’s New Town, said, “My experience with online learning has been pretty good. I think it would be much more interesting if the curriculum is made more interactive and engaging. Apart from this, we need to address the issue of the digital divide. We are lucky to have access to the internet but not all students have that access. We could maybe distribute devices and arrange for internet in rural areas.”Principals from several schools said the competition allowed children to explore the pros and cons of online learning and come up with feedback in their own schools.Prachi Ranadive, principal of Shishuvan School in Mumbai, said, “The essay topic was very close to the students because it was all about getting their views and insights. Though schools hold regular sessions to communicate with students, the competition gave children the individual opportunity to write and express themselves.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/edivide-a-worry-unique-learning-need-of-the-hour-101624571808909.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Queues outside Metro stations spilling on to markets: Traders||Long queues outside Metro stations are causing crowding and traffic snarls in markets around stations, a delegation of traders told Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) managing director Mangu Singh on Thursday, officials and members of the delegation said.Long queues outside Metro stations, especially during peak hours, have become a common sight ever since the Metro resumed operations on June 7. The passenger load has almost doubled in the past fortnight, Metro officials said. On June 7, 680,000 passenger journeys, or trips, were carried out. This increased to 1.3 million on June 18. On June 20, 848,000 trips were operated and 852,000 on June 24.The delegation included members of the Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI).“Since Metro services reopened after the Covid-19 lockdown, only limited number of gates are kept open and entry and exit are managed from the same gate. We have asked DMRC to allow more gates to be opened and also to increase the frequency of trains so that crowd does not spill over to markets,” said Brijesh Goyal, chairperson, CTI.Goyal said more entry and exits should be opened at stations around markets such as Chandni Chowk, Kashmere Gate, Red Fort, and Rajiv Chowk. Traders said the intermittent closure of Metro gates to ensure social distancing on the network was causing crowding on roads near stations, and in parking areas.Metro officials admitted that crowding was happening around busy stations, and those that serve as interchange facilities. They added that strictly ensuring Covid-19 protocols inside and outside its premises was critical, leading to a number of gates not being used, and rigorous checks were being carried out to avoid crowding at stations.DMRC officials that the government guidelines for Covid management allow only alternate seats to be used, and do not permit standing. This means that the passenger carrying capacity has been reduced to 10-15% of the normal, the officials said. Another senior official said that each coach now carries 25-30 passengers, compared to about 300 earlier.“The long queues are caused as only single-entry points are permitted at most of the Metro stations. In a mass transit system, it is difficult to regulate the number of people inside the system once full entry is permitted,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications).Though the passenger carrying capacity has been curtailed, the Metro is conducting about 5,100 train trips every day at a peak frequency of 2.5 minutes to 5 minutes on major corridors. “This was the same frequency at which the Metro was operating during the pre-Covid times. The Metro is operating and running at its full frequency/capacity but with a reduced number of passengers due to restrictions,” Dayal said.But experts said that the agencies will have to ensure that while Covid norms are followed inside the Metro system, crowding is controlled outside stations.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said a mass transit mode such as the Delhi Metro was designed to carry more standing passengers than sitting ones, adding that reducing the carrying capacity of trains to 10% (calculated based on pre-pandemic passenger traffic) will push the system to more losses. He pointed out, at the same time, that it was important Metro stations and trains do not become infection hot spots.“We really need to plan this carefully. It is important that rather than putting the entire onus of ensuring social distancing on the Metro, the government also play its part by controlling passenger load by staggering market hours, office timings, etc,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/queues-outside-metro-stations-spilling-on-to-markets-traders-101624569873614.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to hold 15-day ‘van mahotsav’||The Delhi government will hold a 15-day “Van Mahotsav” from June 26, and cabinet ministers, MLAs, NGOs and resident welfare associations will participate in this tree-plantation campaign, Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said on Thursday.Rai will launch the campaign from Garhi Mandu on the banks of the Yamuna.On June 27, the plantation drive will be held in all the 70 assembly constituencies in Delhi.Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia will participate in this campaign on June 28, and health minister Satyendar Jain will lead the plantation drive at the Poonth Kalan Nursery, Nangloi, on June 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-hold-15-day-van-mahotsav-101624569644133.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali gym told to pay up ₹6k along with refund amount to law student||The district consumer dispute redressal commission-I here has directed a Mohali-based gym to pay ₹3,000 as compensation for harassment and ₹3,000 as cost of litigation to a law student seeking refund of his membership fee.Disposing of the complaint filed by Ujjwal Sood, a student at University Institute of Legal studies, Punjab University, the consumer commission has directed Swan Genx Projects Private Limited, Phase 8B, Industrial Area, Mohali, to refund the amount of ₹7,870 to Sood with 9% interest from February 2020 till realization.Sood, in his complaint, said that he had subscribed to a 12-month membership of the gym operating under the brand name The Code Fitness from August 29, 2019, to August 27, 2020, and paid an amount of ₹15,000 through credit card.However, the gym management informed Sood on January 15, 2020, that due to unforeseen and unavoidable circumstances, it is not going to continue on the promised premises, but in case the member wanted to get the services, he could approach the Mohali/Zirakpur centre, or apply for a refund instead. Sood chose the latter and applied for refund on January 16, 2020.He was assured that refund would be processed within a period of 30 days from the date of application. However, on February 28, the gym refunded only ₹7,870 to him.On this, Sood moved the consumer forum stating that the gym failed to return the promised refund amount despite his several efforts.The registered notice sent to the gym management was returned with the report “unclaimed” and the case proceeded ex-parte.The consumer forum, said, “The gym management chose not to contest the consumer complaint to rebut the allegations of the complainant. We are, therefore, of the view that they have nothing to say about the allegations levelled. Hence, the act of not providing proper services and thereafter not refunding the balance amount to the complainant proves deficiency in service and unfair trade practice on its part.” It directed the gym to pay up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-gym-told-to-pay-up-6k-along-with-refund-amount-to-law-student-101624568272031.html
25-06-2021||Other||Fleecing during Covid treatment: 3 pvt hospitals in P’kula refund excess fee||Facing the heat for fleecing Covid-19 patients, three private hospitals in Panchkula finally refunded the excess charges to the patients and their kin. The three hospitals -- Alchemist Hospital, Sector 21, Paras Hospital, Sector 25, and Wings Hospital, Sector 25, -- revised 18 inflated bills. The development comes after the Panchkula administration issued show-cause notices to these hospitals. After reconciliation of 18 bills, the hospitals were asked to refund the overcharged amount by June 23. The patients were charged anywhere between 42% and 345% more than the rates fixed by the government. Alchemist hospital has refunded the overcharge amount to four patients, Wings Hospital revised three bills while Paras hospital, which had the maximum complaints of overcharging, refunded money to 11 patients. Three of 11 patients at Paras Hospital had expired so the money was refunded to their kin. “The hospitals had charged 300 to 350% more than the rates fixed by the government. We had taken these 18 bills as test bills after complaints of overcharging started pouring in. The three hospitals have refunded the overcharged amount,” said BB Singhal, member of the district-level committee that was looking into the complaints. Singhal is also member of the Haryana State Pharmacy Council. The district-level committee has also recommended a self-audit of Covid bills by the hospitals. “The committee will randomly check the self-audited bills to ensure that people are not fleeced in the name of treatment,” added Singhal. MLA had flagged the issue Speaker of Haryana assembly and MLA from the Panchkula constituency, Gian Chand Gupta had even visited Paras Hospital after receiving complaints of overcharging. He had recommended the formation of a panel to look into the matter. Gupta had also written to health minister Anil Vij requesting for an audit of the bills issued by the private hospitals. A district-level eight-member committee, led by ADC Mohd Imran Raza, was constituted which, in its report, had said that the hospitals are not adhering to the government rates. In June last year, the Haryana government had issued an order capping the daily package rate for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals between ₹8,000 and ₹18,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fleecing-during-covid-treatment-3-pvt-hospitals-in-p-kula-refund-excess-fee-101624568091665.html
25-06-2021||Other||Mayo hospital refunds ₹25 lakh to 28 patients overcharged for Covid treatment||Nearly a month after a case was registered against Mayo Hospital (now Mount Star Hospital) in Sector 69 for blackmarketing remdesivir injections and overcharging on account of Covid-19 treatment, the hospital authorities have refunded around ₹25 lakh to 28 patients. Between April and May, when the tricity was battling the second wave of Covid, the hospital had fleeced around 100 patients, charging around ₹50,000 to 1 lakh more than the set limit from each patient. An inquiry by a team led by sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Jagdeep Sehgal had found that the hospital was charging around ₹20,000 a day from Covid patients. As per the rates set by the government, a private hospital can charge ₹16,500 a day from a patient requiring ventilator support while for a bed without a ventilator, the charges are capped at ₹14,500 a day. This includes all expenses including room rent, visiting charges, and PPE requirements. “Mayo Hospital was found to be offering a package of ₹40,000 for the entire span of hospitalisation but was adding ₹6,000 a day as visiting charges, which is illegal,” said report submitted by the SDM had stated. On May 29, a case was registered under Section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and Section51 (b) and 58 of the Disaster Management Act 2005, Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Acts at Phase-8 police station. 3 directors write to bank for stop cash credit limit Meanwhile, three of the total eight directors of the hospital have written to the bank to stop the cash credit and overdraft facility, which the hospital is using to refund the money. In a letter to HDFC bank, the three directors – Dr Deepak Tyagi, Dr Manoj Sharma and Dr Virender Dhankhar – said the hospital is facing financial crisis and there is a dispute among board members over operating the said account. When contacted, HDFC branch manager Deepak Wadhwa confirmed that he has received a letter from three directors but added, “We will not act unless we get a resolution from the board of the directors in this regard.” Acting chief executive officer (CEO) of the hospital, Dr Rajesh Gulia said, “We are refunding the overcharged money to Covid patients. To date, we have refunded around ₹25 lakh to 28 patients. As far as the three directors are concerned, one director Dr Deepak Tyagi is already under suspension, and we are holding a board meeting to decide the further course of action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mayo-hospital-refunds-25-lakh-to-28-patients-overcharged-for-covid-treatment-101624567371523.html
25-06-2021||Other||Chandigarh tricity reports single daily death after 3 months||Only one Covid-19 death was reported in the tricity on Thursday with Chandigarh and Panchkula logging zero deaths. The last time that the three cities had reported a single death was on March 19.Chandigarh has reported zero deaths for the second time in three days while in Panchkula, it is for the second consecutive day that the virus has not claimed any life. 19 new infections in UTThe UT health department on Thursday reported 19 fresh infections of Covid-19, taking the cumulative count to 61,542. On Wednesday, 43 cases and one death had been reported in the city. At 1.1%, the daily positivity rate also dipped on Thursday against 2.2% on Wednesday.Mohali reports 28 positive cases, one death The district on Thursday reported 28 fresh Covid-19 cases, which took the total count since the outbreak last year to 68,123. One more death took the toll to 1,044. Out of the total 28 positive cases, nine each are from Mohali and Dhakoli, one each from Dera Bassi and Kurali, four from Kharar and two each from Lalru and Banur. Meanwhile, 36 more patients have recovered from the disease, bringing down the number of active patients to 360 and the number recoveries to 66,734.10 cases in P’kulaTen fresh cases were reported from Panchkula on Thursday, which took the cumulative count in the district to 30, 550. So far, 30,108 patients in the district have successfully recovered while 372 have lost their lives. The district now has 70 active cases. Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said there has been a significant dip in infections in the district. Over the last 10 days, the number of new cases in the district has remained below 10 and there was also a day when no new case was reported. He said vaccination is key to fighting the pandemic. “As a result of awareness drives, people are coming forward and getting vaccinated,” said the DC. He also appealed to the people to not drop guard amid the dipping cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/may-24-tricity-reports-single-daily-death-after-3-months-101624567251995.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||25% of those infected with black fungus in Chandigarh succumbed||With 10 out of the total 41 patients infected with mucormycosis (black fungus) in Chandigarh succumbing to the infection, the case fatality ratio (CFR) of the disease in city has reached 25%. This is much higher than the Covid CFR of the city, which currently stands at 1.3% with 807 deaths and 61,542 cases so far.As per the data provided by the UT health department, all 10 black fungus fatalities have taken place at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, which has so far admitted 22 patients from the city. Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has admitted 16 black fungus patients while two patients are undergoing treatment at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16. Another one has been admitted at a private hospital in the city. Of the 10 black fungus fatalities, seven were infected with Covid-19 while three had no history of the viral infection.Professor Surinder Singhal, head of ENT department at GMCH-32, said, “Due to post-Covid complications, many people are getting infected with mucormycosis. Many of them succumbed to post-Covid complications but since they were also infected with black fungus, these deaths were added to the list of black fungus fatalities.”Prof Singhal added, “Most cases coming to GMCH-32 are referrals from other hospitals. By the time they come here, they are already in a critical state and have already been administered amphotericin B antifungal drugs for days at the previous hospital.”He revealed that even before Covid outbreak, the CFR of mucormycosis hovered around 40 to 80%. Prof Singhal advised people who have recovered from Covid-19 to monitor their blood sugar levels and continue wearing masks to avoid getting the fungal infection. Condition better than Punjab hospitalsAs hospitals in Chandigarh also cater to patients from nearby cities and states, the total number patients admitted here (including residents and non-residents) stands at 467, of which 34 have succumbed so far. This takes the total CFR in city hospitals to 7.2%. The figure is lesser than Punjab hospitals where the CFR stands at 9.28%. Symptoms to watch out forMucormycosis is a rare but serious fungal infection which can disfigure people even when it is not fatal. The infection can affect the sinus, eyes, lungs, jaws and teeth and sometimes brain of the patient. Health experts say that Covid survivors, who don’t follow the post-recovery instructions of the doctor, especially those pertaining to blood sugar levels and intake of medicines, are more prone to the fungal infection. Dr Arunaloke Chakrabarti, head, medical microbiology, PGIMER, said, “People with symptoms such as nasal blockade or congestion, nasal discharge (bloody or brown/black), facial pain, numbness or swelling or blurred vision must contact doctors at the earliest to control the infection spread.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/25-of-those-infected-with-black-fungus-in-chandigarh-succumbed-101624566772636.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Falling prey to gory crimes, kids no longer safe at home||From child marriage to sexual assault and murder, crimes against minors perpetuated by their family members over the last few months point towards a disturbing trend. As many as four such cases have been reported in the district in the last five days alone. Home is not a safe place for numerous toddlers, children and teenagers anymore, more so for girls, as they are stalked by sexual predators, smothered in infancy or married off against their wishes at the earliest convenience. Teenaged girls are already vulnerable to be kidnapped on the pretext of marriage in the district as evidenced by a report of the National Crime Records Bureau. Of the 195 cases of kidnapping reported in the city in 2019, 175 victims were minors and of the 62 rape cases reported in 2019, 17 victims were minors.Children are often brutally thrashed on making small mistakes in several families. As per Dr Rajiv Sharma, consultant psychologist, as children are physically weak, they are easy to overpower and manipulate, which makes them easy targets.“In most of cases, it was seen that the reason for children being abused by family members was drug abuse, lack of education and financial instability. Child marriage has been mostly observed in low-income families,” he said. In case of sexual assault on minors, the abusers are mostly under the influence of drugs or liquor, Sharma said, adding that such incidents leave a lasting impact on the psyche of children. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said, “We make it a point to act immediately in cases involving minors and women. We have trained officials to deal with these cases sensitively.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-falling-prey-to-gory-crimes-kids-no-longer-safe-at-home-101624565993390.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh parking contractors seek waiver of licence fee from MC||After getting a notice from the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) for recovery of unpaid dues of past two months, parking contractors in the city have sought exemption from the same, citing the losses suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Earlier this month, the MC had served notices to two parking contractors after the latter failed to pay the licence fee for April and May.MC additional commissioner SK Jain said, “The contractors have not paid the outstanding amount to the MC and instead sought exemption from clearing the dues on account of the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions.”There are two paid parking contractors who manage 89 parking lots in the city.Vikas Pandey, manager of zone 2 parking lots, said, “We are still cross-checking with the MC what amount is pending. For one month, due to the lockdown restrictions, the parking lots remained vacant. In addition to the markets, tourist areas like Sukhna Lake also remained shut. We have requested the MC for exemption for the period.”The civic body may consider their plea. “We have not made any proposal for exemptions so far. We are seeking more information and detailed documents on the issue. The contractors have sought full waiver, but we are analysing how much is justified, if any. The final call on the issue will be taken by the MC general house,” said Jain.Relief plea not for the first time The MC had auctioned both the paid parking zones for over ₹10 crore annually. But so far, the contractors have been given either partial or complete exemption from payment of dues in the past one year.In 2020, in the wake of the Covid-19 lockdown, the civic body waived off licence fee for April and May. Thereafter, contractors were allowed to deposit 35% to 45% of the fee for June 1 to August 31.In its October 2020 general house meet, the civic body had decided not to give any further waiver from September. The members had contended that financial activity in the city had picked up and markets and offices had been allowed to open.However, after the contractors threatened to withdraw their services, the MC allowed a partial waiver of the licence fee — ranging from 45% to 65% — for September, October and November. It had decided to charge the full fee from December onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-parking-contractors-seek-waiver-of-licence-fee-from-mc-101624565937295.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Finally, 115 Panjab University faculty members get promotion||Acting on a long pending demand of Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA), the university has promoted around 115 faculty members under career advancement scheme (CAS).The orders were issued by the varsity on Wednesday. PU vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on the recommendation of screening-cum-evaluation committees ordered the promotion of these faculty members, in anticipation of the approval of syndicate and senate. At present, the governing body of the university is not in place due to pending elections.The senate, which is PU’s supreme governing body, has the power to take the final call on promotion of teachers. The cases are also taken up by the syndicate prior to the senate’s ultimate call.The interview/screening of these faculty members were conducted earlier this year after continuous protests by PUTA. However, the promotion letters were delayed in absence of the governing body.Last month, the PUTA executive in its meeting had unanimously condemned the callous and apathetic attitude of the vice-chancellor for causing an inordinate delay in issuing appointment letters to the teachers under CAS.PUTA President Mritunjay Kumar said, “This was our long pending demand and teachers are satisfied now. The faculty members are also appreciating PUTA’s efforts.”The CAS promotion has remained a key issue in the recent years and was one of main agenda during last year’s PUTA elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finally-115-panjab-university-faculty-members-get-promotion-101624565936308.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Only 4% Mohali residents full vaccinated till now||Getting vaccinated is now the only viable protection against Covid and its rapidly mutating variants, but only around 63,000 people out of Mohali’s total population of 14.2 lakh have been fully inoculated so far. This is just 4.4%, or one out of 22 people. Around 5.49 lakh (40%) people in the district have got the first dose. The vaccination drive began on January 16 this year for healthcare and frontline workers; Phase 2 of the drive for senior citizens and those aged above 45 with comorbidities began on March 1; for all people above 45 years on March 23; while the 18-44 age bracket was covered from May 1 onwards under the third phase. Mohali civil surgeon Dr Adarsh Pal Kaur said, “The percentage of people vaccinated is low as residents of villages are not coming forward. But, the response from urban areas has been good. We will be meeting panchayats soon to ensure that their apprehensions are addressed.” According to figures from the CoWin portal, of the 5.49 lakh inoculated residents , 2.94 lakh are from the 18-45 age group, followed by 1.11 lakh from the 45-60 age bracket, while only 80,000 senior citizens have got the jab. Notably, out of the total number, 2,93,880 are men and 1,91,761 women. In Mohali, vaccines are being administered at 32 government sites and eight private hospitals. A drive-through campaign is also underway at the Sports Complex in Sector 78. Both Covishield and Covaxin are being offered. While the second dose of Covishield is being provided only after 84 days as per central government guidelines, Covaxin’s second dose is being administered after 28 days. Among the population covered so far, 4,81,695 have received Covishield and around 66,760 Covaxin. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said the drive is picking up. “Initially, people were reluctant, but now, we are getting good response from the people belonging to the 18-45 age group. The numbers will improve in the coming days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-4-mohali-residents-full-vaccinated-till-now-101624565932058.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Para-athletes protest near Punjab CM’s house in Chandigarh, demand jobs||Para-athletes of various disciplines held a protest near the official residence of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh here on Thursday, demanding jobs from the state government.The protesting sportspersons said they wanted to return the awards given by the state as a mark of protest. They were joined by Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders and workers, and slogans were raised against the Congress government of the state.As the protesters gathered near the chief minister’s residence, police blocked them with barricades, evicted them from the site and detained them briefly.Taking a dig at the government, the protesters said if it could offer jobs to the sons of two Congress MLAs on compassionate grounds, then there is no reason why it cannot give jobs to them.They were referring to the Punjab cabinet’s decision to appoint Qadian MLA Fatehjang Singh Bajwa’s son Arjun Partap Singh Bajwa as an inspector in the Punjab Police and Ludhiana MLA Rakesh Pandey’s son Bhisham Pandey as a naib tehsildar in the revenue department on “compassionate” grounds.AAP legislator Gurmeet Singh Meet Hayer said the special athletes were more qualified and fit for government jobs than the sons of Congress MLAs and leaders.The Amarinder Singh-led Congress government made a lot of announcements for sportspersons, but most of them are living in poverty now, he said.The AAP leader added that para-athletes had staged a ‘dharna’ last year as well to remind the government of its promise of jobs to them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/paraathletes-protest-near-punjab-cm-s-house-in-chandigarh-demand-jobs-101624565873000.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Deficiency in service: Consumer panel asks travel portal to pay ₹60K to Chandigarh man||The district consumer disputes redressal commission, Chandigarh, has ordered a travel firm to pay ₹60,000 to a city resident on account of deficiency in service. Anil Grover, a resident of Sector 50, had made a booking through MakeMyTrip India Private Limited on October 21, 2018, for an international holiday package to Dubai from December 2 to December 7, 2018. He made an initial payment of ₹43,000 and applied for a tourist visa for two people through the firm. However, one of the applications was rejected twice, following which Grover requested the firm to cancel the booking and refund the amount, which was denied. The consumer commission was approached on January, 21 The firm had told court that it facilitates confirmation of the booking and would not have any obligation or liability towards visa services. Hence, there was no deficiency in service or unfair trade practice on their part. The panel observed that trip was purely dependent on the issuance of visa and it was the responsibility of the firm to make fully-refundable bookings and apply for the visa on time. “ (It) ..being a giant travel company needs to design their package and refund policy better, keeping in mind the visa processing time and the possibility of a rejection. The complainants should not be penalised if the trip was cancelled solely on account of visa rejection, which was a pre-requisite for travel,” the commission said, adding that the firm had industry expertise, connections and time to make non-refundable bookings. Thus, it is a case of deficiency in service, it said. Now it has been ordered that travel firm will refund an amount of ₹44,835 along with interest at the rate 9% per annum from the date of payment and pay ₹10,000 as compensation and make another payment of ₹7,000 as cost of litigation. It has been ordered that decision be complied with within 30 days, failing which, rate of interest would go up by three percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/deficiency-in-service-consumer-panel-asks-travel-portal-to-pay-60k-to-chandigarh-man-101624565871353.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Missing for 23 days, Moga woman, 2 kids traced||A woman who had gone missing from her marital home in Takhtupura Sahib village of Moga with her children after a dispute with her husband on May 31, was found at her maternal home in Barnala on Thursday, 23 days after her disappearance. It was initially suspected that the woman, Manpreet Kaur, and her two children – aged four and two – were being kept in illegal custody in Ludhiana, following which the Ludhiana unit of the police was roped in, said additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, investigation) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti. Manpreet could not be traced in Ludhiana and had kept her phone switched off to avoid detection, Bhatti said. “We learnt that the woman had stayed at a shelter home in Jalandhar and later found out that she had also sought shelter in ashrams in Ludhiana as well. Following her trail, the police traced her at her maternal home, a day after she reached there,” said the ADCP.Manpreet said she had avoided going to her parents’ home for as long as possible and had chosen to stay at ashrams instead because she knew her husband will contact her parents. She had to return to her parents after ashrams refused to accommodate her without informing the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/missing-for-23-days-moga-woman-2-kids-traced-101624565571287.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana man booked for sexually assaulting 6-year-old niece||A 31-year-old man was booked for raping his six-year-old niece in Narangwal village on Wednesday. As per the victim’s mother, the accused, an unmarried farmer, had also sexually assaulted her daughter one year ago, but she had not lodged a police complaint as she had been pressured by her husband and his family to keep quiet about the matter. In her complaint, she said, “On June 3, my husband’s brother took my daughter to his house and sexually assaulted her. My daughter told me what had happened after returning home. My husband and his family again asked me not to lodge a complaint, but I did not relent to pressure this time.” ASI Satinderpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said a case had been registered under Section 376 (rape on a woman under 12 years of age) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act against the accused, who is on the run. The victim has been medically examined, but the report is pending. Police say the woman lived in one portion of the house with her husband and daughter, while the accused lives in a separate portion. The woman has already filed complaints against the accused and other family members. They have in turn filed a complaint against the woman for quarrelling without reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-man-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-6-year-old-niece-101624565391771.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Suspected snatcher who was brutally thrashed in Ludhiana dies; four booked||A man who was brutally thrashed for allegedly trying to snatch a mobile phone succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday, after which four slum dwellers were charged with murder.The accused, Rajkumar, his father Gopal ,and his friends Ganpat and Hajari, had been earlier booked on attempt to murder charges. Following the death of the victim, Mohit 19 of Sahnewal, three of his assailants were arrested, while Rajkumar is on the run. Assistant sub-inspector Dharmpal, in-charge Jeewan Nagar police post, said the incident took place on June 16. “Mohit and his aide Guddu, were trying to snatch a mobile phone from Rajkumar. When Rajkumar resisted, Mohit assaulted him with a brick.”“Rajkumar raised the alarm, after which his father Gopal and his friends, Ganpat and Hajari came to his aid and thrashed Mohit after tying him with chains. Guddu managed to flee,” the ASI said. Police found Mohit lying unconscious on the road and rushed him to the hospital, where he succumbed. A hunt is on to arrest Rajkumar and to trace Guddu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suspected-snatcher-who-was-brutally-thrashed-in-ludhiana-dies-four-booked-101624565152089.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||No new Covid death in Ludhiana for first time in 3 months||After three agonising months of the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic raging across the district, no new Covid-induced deaths were reported in Ludhiana on Thursday. The last time when the most populous district of the state reported no fresh fatalities was March 14. Gradually, as the second wave gripped the district, the number of daily deaths also started increasing, reaching an all-time high of 30 casualties a day on May 10 and May 11, when the virus was at its peak. However, come June, both the number of daily fatalities and casualties have taken a nosedive. Three days after the district recorded a six-month low of 19 deaths, as many as 40 people tested positive for the virus on Thursday, taking the district’s case count to 86,781. Of the total positive cases detected so far, 84,237 patients have recovered, while 464 remain active. At present, six Covid patients are on ventilator support in the district. In a relief to health workers, the active cases remained below the 500-mark for the second consecutive day.The last time when the active cases had been below the 500-mark was February 24, when the district had logged 495 active cases.The fresh cases include 12 patients with influenza-like symptoms and two patients from outpatient departments. In a positive trend, the recovery rate has touched 97.59%, while the death rate has dropped to 2.41%.No black fungus case detected No mucormycosis (black fungus) cases were reported in the district. So far, 138 cases of black fungus have been diagnosed in the district, of which 35 cases are active.Medical services to remain affected With the Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) Association going on strike on Friday to protest against the reduction in non-practising allowance under the Sixth Pay Commission, health services will remain hit in the district on Friday. Several services such as outpatient departments (OPDs), inpatient departments (IPDs), unique IDs for persons with disabilities (UDID), Ayushman Bharat - Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY), and elective surgeries will remain suspended. PCMC Association member Dr Rohit Rampal said all meetings, video conferences and webinars related to all health schemes will be boycotted.The joint forum of government doctors had called for the strike on June 23. The forum includes PCMS doctors, PCMS specialist doctors, rural medical officers, homeopathy, ayurvedic, and veterinary doctors working with government departments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-new-covid-death-in-ludhiana-for-first-time-in-3-months-101624564671319.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Money-laundering case: ED allegations frivolous, says Khaira||Congress leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira on Thursday accused the Enforcement Directorate (ED) of levelling “frivolous” allegations against him in a money laundering case. Calling the ED allegations an attempt at “character assassination”, Khaira, who had joined the Congress three weeks ago, said he completely rejects and debunks all charges of financial irregularities. In March, the ED had carried out raids on the premises of Khaira and his family members in a money laundering probe linked to the 2015 Fazilka drugs smuggling case and fake passport racket. The agency has alleged that Khaira is an associate of drug case convicts and fake passport racketeers. The two-time MLA’s statement was in response to the ED notices summoning fashion designers Ritu Kumar, Sabyasachi Mukherjee and Manish Malhotra, from whom Khaira had purchased clothes for the wedding of his daughter. Khaira said these payments, which are nominal, were made in 2015-16. He said he had purchased three wedding dresses for his daughter and his family and these ranged from ₹7 to ₹8 lakh in total. The source of the money paid to the fashion designers was his overdraft account in a bank in Jalandhar, he added in a statement. The MLA alleged that attempts were being made by the ED to malign him by repeating the same old charges of fake passports and the NDPS case. Khaira had won the 2017 election as candidate of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). He rebelled against the AAP leadership two-and-a-half years ago, floated his separate party and then rejoined the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moneylaundering-case-ed-allegations-frivolous-says-khaira-101624564431156.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||What’s in a name? New gangs of Delhi, notoriety for old villages||Google the words “Sandeep Singh gangster”, and the search engine shows over 500,000 pages on several alleged criminals named Sandeep Singh. The top results also throw up references to hockey player Sandeep Singh, the former captain of the national team. But there is nothing on Sandeep Singh, Delhi’s most wanted gangster because very few people know the 35-year-old by his real name. Instead, in police files, media reports, and even court papers, he is Sandeep Kala Jathedi, or simply Kala Jathedi.Jathedi is an urban village on the Delhi-Sonepat border.Now search for Kala Jathedi, and the engine will give over 600,000 sites with the fugitive’s name. There are also explainers about the gangster, how he operates in Delhi while he is believed to be in Dubai, and his alleged links to the recent murder case in Chhatrasal stadium in which police arrested two-time Olympic medallist wrestler Sushil Kumar.And, of course, there are details of the nondescript, but now dreaded, hamlet he comes from.Jathedi is not the only Delhi village in recent months to gain notoriety because of its link with a gangster. Several villages in the outer rim of the Capital have become infamous because the names of several top gangsters are attached to the villages. In court and police records, their gangs are known by the village names.Some of Delhi’s other top gangsters — Sandeep Jathedi, Neeraj Bawana, Nitu Dabodia, Tillu Tajpuria and Vikas Langarpuria — have all chosen to adopt their village names. A trend that the residents of these villages say has brought fear and notoriety to the places where they live and grew up in — places that were otherwise harmless and ordinary, but which are now in the spotlight for all the wrong reasons.For example, on May 19, when police arrested wrestler Sushil Kumar, he was with his friend Ajay Sehrawat. When confronted by investigators, Ajay told him that his name was Ajay Bakkarwala, a resident of Bakkarwala village in outer Delhi. Police immediately knew they had to take him seriously.Residents perturbedSubash Solanki, a retired DTC bus driver and a resident of Bakkarwala is perturbed by the link that, he says, is sullying his village.“More than 200 years ago, an Afghan traveller was passing by our village and saw thousands of cattle grazing in the open fields. He was surprised that our village had so many cattle. He had never seen a sight like that. We were told that the traveller had given the name of the village as Bakkarwala. Bakkar in Urdu means cattle. Ours was the village of cattle grazers. But today, Bakkarwala is seen as a criminal village,” he said.So notorious is the Bakkarwala gang for carjacking across the city that police officers say the first thing they do when a new case is registered is open the crime dossier and check the status of members of gangs of Bakkarwala gang, to see if any of them were in the vicinity of where the incident took place.One of its residents, Manoj Bakkarwala stole over 500 vehicles and was involved in numerous cases of carjacking until 2012. Nobody in Delhi Police remembers Manoj’s actual second name. Manoj’s son, who was arrested last year for similar crimes, is also simply identified as Ashish Bakkarwala.Thirty-five kilometres away from Bakkarwala, on the Delhi-Haryana border, is Tajpur, another Delhi village that has earned the notoriety for multiple cases of extortion, robbery and land grabbing associated with Sunil Maan, better known as Tillu Tajpuria.Sunil Jaat, who runs a gaushala in Tajpur, said: “People outside our village judge us these days when we say we are from Tajpur. Because of media reports, people think the village is full of criminals. Tajpur is famous for having many wrestling rings and producing many wrestlers. We have Arjuna Award winners such as Om Vir Pehalwan from our village. Even today, most drivers in Delhi Police who work as constables, or in the fire department, are from our village.”Jaat admits that Tajpur will find it hard to shed the label given to it by Tillu Tajpuria. “Tillu Tajpuria became his name after he got into the wrong side of the law. To us, he was a promising wrestler who had a promising future. He may be in jail but his accomplices keep getting arrested, and the name Tajpuria keeps coming up again and again,” he said.The one village that has gained the most notoriety is Bawana. Located in the northern part of the city — 47 kilometres from India Gate — the urban village is a mix of farmers who have been living in the village and tens of thousands of migrant workers who work in the factories.One of its best-known residents, often mentioned in the media, is Neeraj Sehrawat, better known as Neeraj Bawana. Until his arrest in 2015, Bawana was the most wanted gangster in Delhi. Even today, Bawana’s gang continues to operate in several parts of the city and are often arrested in cases of extortion and robbery. Residents of Bawana village, who asked not to be named, say that Neeraj Bawana alone is responsible for bringing their village to disrepute.A Delhi police constable, who lives in Bawana, said: “Neeraj Bawana made our village famous for the wrong reasons. Sometimes, when I tell my own colleagues about my house in Bawana, the first thing they ask me is about Neeraj Bawana. Nobody talks about the many lawyers or a famous judge in the Delhi lower judiciary that our village has produced. Our elders say that among all villages in Delhi, Bawana sent many soldiers in the British army during World War 1. Nobody talks about this. People think that Bawana is a village of gangsters.”‘Sense of protection’Delhi Police officers say it has become fashionable for wannabe gangsters to use their village name as it gives them a false sense of protection.“The younger ones think they are recognised if they say they are from Bakkarwala gang or Tajpuria gang. They choose to use the village names as their second name. This is why the village’s names gets tarnished. When a trader in Delhi received a threat call from a person, who identified himself as XYZ Bawana it makes an impact. If the same person identifies himself as XYZ Jangpura (a place in south Delhi), very few will take him seriously. Unfortunately, this is the level of how much the villages have been tarnished,” a mid level officer from crime branch, who asked not to be named, said.Double-edged swordAdvocate LN Rao, who was in the Delhi Police for over three decades until he retired as a deputy commissioner of police in 2014, said using the names of the villages is a double-edged sword.“For the peace-loving residents, it becomes difficult to shed the village’s tag of notoriety. There are cases where people fear to get a prospective groom or bride from such villages. On the other hand, for the criminals, it works because they are also seen in the league of the notorious names from their village. Many youngsters who are yet to cross the line of the law also get swayed by this notoriety and sometimes take the wrong path in life,” Rao said.Earlier this month, Delhi Police arrested two 17-year-old boys for trying to extort ₹1 crore from an IT executive by claiming to be from Bawana and with links to Neeraj Bawana.On June 4, when police caught them, they confessed they were not from Bawana — had never even been there, had never met the jailed gangster, but believed that they could pull off the heist by simply claiming to be from Bawana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/whats-in-a-name-new-gangs-of-delhi-notoriety-for-old-villages-101624563278609.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||UP suspends transport officer in Mukhtar Ansari ambulance case||A transport officer has been suspended in connection with the registration of an ambulance used to ferry gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari from a Rupnagar jail to a Mohali court in March this year. Rajeshwar Yadav, the then assistant regional transport officer (ARTO) of Barabanki, faced action over his alleged role in the fake ambulance papers case, sources in the transport office said on Thursday.Yadav is currently posted at the regional transport office in Ballia. Additional district magistrate Ram Asrey confirmed the development.A special investigation team (SIT) was set up by Uttar Pradesh Police to probe the case.On April 2, a case was registered in Barabanki after the documents of the ambulance bearing UP registration number were found to be fake.Ansari, the BSP MLA from Mau, wanted in Uttar Pradesh for various cases, was on March 31 produced before the Mohali court in connection with an alleged 2019 extortion matter.After an initial probe, the name and address given for the registration of the ambulance were found to be fake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/up-suspends-transport-officer-in-mukhtar-ansari-ambulance-case-101624564251377.html
25-06-2021||Lucknow||Covid vaccine doses: UP achieves June’s 10 million target six days ahead of deadline, says Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday announced that Uttar Pradesh had achieved June’s target of one crore (10 million) Covid vaccination doses that the state government had set for itself. He said the target was achieved six days ahead of schedule.In a tweet, following an update in the vaccination figures, the chief minister said: “Under the guidance of Prime Minister, UP has achieved the target of administering one crore vaccination doses in the month of June...With the planned and coordinated efforts that target was hit six days ahead. The state so far has given a total of 2.89 crore (28.9 million) doses of the vaccine (since January 16, 2021).”Soon afterwards, the state government released a message of thanks to vaccination and mobilisation teams, and health workers. The state would administer a minimum of six lakh doses each day till June 30, he said.Additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal said at a press conference that with the target of one crore (10 million) doses in the month already done, it appeared that the state would also manage to achieve the target of 10 crore (100 million) doses by August 31.Earlier in the day, the chief minister said at a high-level Covid review meeting, “Vaccination is an effective safety shield against Covid, so the inoculation campaign in the state must continue effectively, with speed, and uninterruptedly. The state government aims to administer at least 10 lakh doses each day from July 1.”Yogi asked for initiating special alertness and caution in the state in view of cases of new coronavirus variant ‘Delta-Plus’ surfacing in several states in the country.“Hold a meeting with the state expert committee on Covid and chalk out a strategy to tackle the new variant. Begin sample collections in the districts of UP that are closer to such states that have confirmed cases of Delta-Plus and then get genome sequencing done on those samples,” he said to officials.The chief minister said that all necessary equipment required for genome sequencing should be arranged at Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU).The strategies that the state government had been applying so far proved effective in controlling Covid-19 infection in the state and the policy of ‘trace, test, treat’ must continue with efficiency, he said.He said that in the past 24 hours, a total of 229 fresh cases of Covid were reported in the state, while 308 patients recovered and were discharged from hospitals, and only 3,552 cases were active across the state. He said the Covid recovery rate was now 98.5% in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid-vaccine-doses-up-achieves-june-s-10-million-target-six-days-ahead-of-deadline-101624564193625.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Petrol priced at ₹103.89, diesel at ₹95.79 per litre||Fuel prices continued to surge in the city on Thursday, with one litre of petrol priced at ₹103.89 and diesel at ₹95.79. In Mumbai’s neighbouring Thane, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹104.01, while one litre of diesel was available at ₹95.91. Petrol price crossed ₹106 in Maharashtra’s Parbhani with one litre of petrol priced at ₹106.21. One litre of diesel was priced at ₹97.25 in Amaravati, the highest in the state. Transporters’ body met state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne on Wednesday evening and requested to lower excise duty and Value Added Tax (VAT) on petroleum products. “A memorandum was given and a recommendation to the Central and state regarding reduction in excise duty by the Central government and VAT by the state was given. Issue of random challans done by enforcement officials at the border, issue of 5% tolerance and levy charges was also taken up. Other issues that were discussed include the misuse of e-challan system, tax waiver of commercial vehicles, faceless system for payment of national permit fees and sanitisation and priority vaccination of drivers,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress. The transporters’ body will also hold one-day protest pan-India on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/petrol-priced-at-103-89-diesel-at-95-79-per-litre-101624564194098.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||₹630-cr bogus billing racket busted, plywood trader held in Ludhiana||Busting a ₹630-crore bogus billing racket, the zonal unit of the directorate general of goods and services tax intelligence (DGGI) on Thursday arrested a timber and plywood trader at Ferozepur Road. The trader, Barinder Singh, had allegedly availed ₹98 crore input tax credit (ITC) through bogus billing by creating 12 dummy firms. Singh was arrested after DGGI search teams led by additional director Rituraj Gupta and joint director Daljit Kaur, comprising 35 officers, conducted raids at 16 locations. He has been sent to judicial remand till July 7.Incriminating evidence was seized from the residential and business premises of the accused, including electronic and IT devices. Officials said Singh and his family members were operating three firms but had created 12 fictitious firms for issuing fake invoices to avail and pass inadmissible ITC without actually suppling goods through circular trading. The firms were created on the names of Singh’s employees or ex-employees. The accused was found involved in bogus outward supplies of around ₹600 crore, involving ITC of ₹94 crore and bogus inward supplies of ₹630 crore involving ITC of ₹98 crore. It is suspected that the accused had been involved in circular trading for at least three years. The three trading firms of timber and plywood were found to be engaged in making outward supplies to six of the dummy firms. Those six firms were then making outward supplies to another six dummy firms and the goods were ultimately returned to the three firms operated by the accused.An official said that different suppliers and buyers of these trading firms were under the radar of the department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/630cr-bogus-billing-racket-busted-plywood-trader-held-in-ludhiana-101624564191964.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||NCB nabs Pak-linked drug dealer from Hoshiarpur||A “most wanted” drugs dealer linked to a Pakistan-based operative was on Thursday arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) from Hoshiarpur district of Punjab, the central agency said.Jasbir Singh, 35, alias Momi/Boss, was arrested following the recovery of 56 kg of heroin along the India-Pakistan International Border (IB) in the border district of Bikaner, on June 2 night.The seizure was made by troops of the Border Security Force (BSF) and it had called this catch the “highest-ever” recovery of drugs from the IB in Rajasthan to date.The agency said Singh Jasbir a habitual offender and was absconding since 2019.The NCB followed up on this drugs recovery case and filed a complaint under sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and went on to arrest five people from various locations of Punjab and Rajasthan.“The receivers of the contraband had fled from the spot (on June 3) and could not be apprehended. The case was handed over to NCB unit based in Jodhpur,” a senior officer said.He added that this operation has “inter-state as well as international ramifications” and the suspected supplier of the heroin seized by the BSF is a man named Malik Choudhary of Lahore in Pakistan.The officer said the probe in the case is ongoing and the NCB is working to “break the nexus of the drug syndicate operating internationally”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ncb-nabs-pak-linked-drug-dealer-from-hoshiarpur-101624564071332.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD seeks probe against Cong, AAP into ‘sacrilege conspiracy’||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday asked the special investigation team (SIT) probing the Kotkapura police firing case to widen its the scope and probe the hand of Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the sacrilege conspiracy to allegedly defame and destabilise the then state government led by Parkash Singh Badal.Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia also demanded narco test of all the likely beneficiaries of the sacrilege conspiracy during the Akali regime. “All the major leaders of Congress and their secret accomplices from the AAP must be put through narco tests to get the truth on what role each one of them played in that conspiracy,” he said at a joint press conference with senior vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema in Chandigarh. Majithia also expressed “surprise” over the brazenness with which the Congress high command had gone about setting a deadline for the conclusion of the ongoing probe by SIT. “Whose order is the SIT expected to obey — high court or that of the Congress high command?” he asked. The SAD leaders said the Congress high command, its state unit and the state government have come to believe that only illegal arrests of Parkash Singh Badal and Sukhbir Singh Badal can save their credibility which lies in tatters. “We dare them to defy the law on this,” they added. Majithia and Cheema said (former minister) Navjot Sidhu had openly admitted that chief minister Amarinder Singh had told him about Congress’ design to purposely drag the probe till the last six months of their tenure to create a hype and milk the issue in the elections. They said the “political asylum” provided by AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal was also a part of a prior deal on sacrilege report against Akalis and narco test must also be conducted on him to unveil the entire conspiracy.It’s political drama: BJP Terming the questioning the Badals in the sacrilege and police firing cases as a charade, BJP national spokesperson Iqbal Singh Lalpura said the police has to gather evidence first and not make the accused witnesses in the crime.He said in the last 25 years the ruling parties in the state ruined the police institution by making it work fixing their rivals instead of conducting fair investigations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-seeks-probe-against-cong-aap-into-sacrilege-conspiracy-101624563955933.html
25-06-2021||Other||Petty politics on jobs used to target CM: MLA Bajwa||Chandigarh A day after declining the government job offer for his son, Congress MLA Fatehjang Singh Bajwa on Thursday slammed some of his party colleagues, including dissenting cabinet ministers, for using the government decision to target chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. At a press conference, the Qadian MLA, who has been under fire since the state council of ministers approved the decision last week, said that petty politics was played over the decision. He added that his family took a collective decision not to accept the job offer and that he had conveyed it to the party’s central leadership on Wednesday. Last week, the Punjab council of ministers had approved a proposal to appoint Arjun Partap as an inspector in the Punjab Police and Ludhiana North MLA Rakesh Pandey’s son Bhisham Pandey as a naib tehsildar in the revenue department on “compassionate grounds”. Cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, Charanjit Singh Channi, Sukhbinder Sarkaria, Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Razia Sultana had opposed the decision during the meeting. Later, Jakhar had also strongly criticised the decision, stating that the party and the government would be accused of promoting nepotism. Fatehjang said that before the cabinet meeting, he had requested the CM to withdraw the agenda of job offer, but the government went ahead. The MLA said his son, Arjun Partap Bajwa, has set a precedent by giving up the job offer. “(Punjab Congress president) Sunil Jakhar and cabinet ministers Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria should follow the same precedent,” he said. The Congress MLA said Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa’s son is the Gurdaspur zila parishad chairman, Sarkaria’s nephew is the chairman of the Amritsar zila parishad and Jakhar’s nephew is the chairman of Punjab State Farmers’ Commission.He also slammed Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal and other opposition leaders for politicising the issue. Thanking the CM for the job offer, Arjun said the issue had been blown out of proportion. “It would have been a tribute to my late grandfather. There are many ways I can serve the people of Punjab,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/petty-politics-on-jobs-used-to-target-cm-mlabajwa-101624563954778.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||As big fat weddings shed their flab, mares get kicked to the curb in Ludhiana||With the coronavirus pandemic sounding the death knell for the big fat Indian wedding, the new-age groom is opting to not gallop onto the wedding venue on a decked up white mare, a well-lubricated wedding procession in tow, but is instead zooming to the locale in a car or two-wheeler. While this departure from the age-old tradition has helped brides and grooms-to-be economise, it has certainly cost the equines and their owners dear. Staring at an unprecedented crisis since lockdown was imposed in March 2020, those in the mare business have been struggling to make ends meet, so much so that arranging feed for the animals is becoming tougher with each passing day. Reeling under fiscal losses due to the slump in business, owners of mares have found themselves under a mountain of debt a year on. Unable to feed and groom their mares any longer, many have put their mares on sale, but are finding no takers. Discounting the household expenses, mare owners have to spend ₹200 on each equine per day. However, left in a lurch with no income source, shelling ₹200 a day is also a tall order. No takers for mares on saleGursharan Singh, a mare provider, who inherited the business from his grandfather, says, “People are going for low-key weddings these days and mares are unfortunately not making the cut. With no earnings for over a year, I have had to borrow money to arrange bread and butter for my family. I have two kids and have to pay their school fee as well as such caring for the mares any longer seems infeasible. However, no one wants to buy the animals. The government keeps announcing restrictions but we are still waiting for relief.” “Three generations of our family have been in the business but we have never witnessed such a prolonged dry spell before,” says Singh. Those in the business of renting out mares can be seen sitting idle on the bus stand. In the pre-Covid era they would make a handsome profit between August and April. ‘Resume night-time weddings’ Ask them if the relaxations had helped boost business, the mare providers say day-time relaxations count for little as the slump will continue until night-time weddings resume. With only 50 people allowed in a gathering, hardly any customer is showing up. So, are any of them planning to change their vocation? The mare owners respond in the negative, saying they have been in the business for decades and do not know any other work. “I have 15 mares and the daily expenditure on them comes to around ₹3,000. Even as we struggling to feed our families, we have to arrange feed for these speechless animals. People are blind to our plight as we stare down an abyss of uncertainty. Even if bigger gatherings are allowed and business bounces back, it will take at least two years to clear our debts and get life back on track,” says one Tony.Stable boys rendered dependent on gurdwarasWhile mare owners sit idle and can no longer afford to pay staff, their stable boys have picked up odd jobs to survive. Another mare provider, Arvinder Singh Lucky, says,”While we can only wait for things to normalise, our labour has picked up odd jobs to make ends meet. Many a times, they rely on the local gurdwara for their meals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-big-fat-weddings-shed-their-flab-mares-get-kicked-to-the-curb-in-ludhiana-101624563953746.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Capt announces setting up of Bhagat Kabir Chair in GNDU||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced setting up a Bhagat Kabir Chair in Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, ₹10 crore for the development of Bhagat Kabir Bhawan in Jalandhar.On the occasion of Bhagat Kabir Jayanti, the CM also announced that the government will soon disburse ₹560 crore to landless farm labourers under the debt waiver scheme.Virtually joining the people in paying respects to the 15th century mystic poet and saint Bhagat Kabir during a state-level function in Jalandhar, the CM said the Chair to commemorate Sant Kabir would undertake research on the life and philosophy of the great mystic poet. The Bhagat Kabir Bhawan, he said, would be built over 0.77 acres, of which 13,000 sq feet covered area would house a community hall with a seating capacity of 500. Of the ₹10 crore, ₹3 crore would be spent on the construction and ₹7 crore towards the land cost, he added. Referring to the post matric SC scholarship scheme, Amarinder said that the state government had released 100% funds during the 2020-21 academic session and had also amicably resolved the issue of pending payments with private colleges, which had been told not to withhold the roll number of any student. Slamming the Centre for abruptly withdrawing from the scheme, thus jeopardising the future of our students, the CM said the state government had launched Dr BR Ambedkar Post Matric Scholarship Scheme to bail out the students left in the lurch by the Centre’s decision, forcing the central government to also restore the scheme. Though the state had paid its 40% share, the central government was yet to release its funds, he added.Cabinet minister Sunder Sham Arora urged the people to follow the path shown by Bhagat Kabir, who vehemently opposed the prevalent caste system during his times. On MLA (Jalandhar West) Sushil Kumar Rinku’s request, the CM asked the sports department to examine the suggestion for an exclusive sports park for women in Jalandhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-announces-setting-up-of-bhagat-kabir-chair-in-gndu-101624563891325.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab orders immediate inoculation of remaining health workers, their families||The Punjab government on Thursday ordered immediate inoculation of all remaining healthcare workers and their families, besides stressing on the permanent and need-based improvement in the existing healthcare facilities in the state. Chairing a high-level meeting to review the preparedness of all four government medical colleges in the state, chief secretary Vini Mahajan said the health facilities have been further ramped up by up to 25% at each medical college, with a total of more than 1,430 level-2 beds and over 700 level-3 beds, including 262 paediatrics beds. She said additional equipment worth over ₹20 crore was being purchased for all four medical colleges to meet the future demand. The health and medical education departments were asked to upgrade and augment tertiary care facilities, especially those pertaining to children, fungal infection, oxygen supplies, manpower requirements, medicine stocks, other consumables and testing facilities. The meeting discussed the need of biomedical engineering services division felt during the second Covid wave and reviewed the ongoing work to install medical oxygen plants and requisite electricity supply for each healthcare institution. Principal secretaries, health, Hussan Lal, medical education DK Tiwari, health and medical education adviser Dr KK Talwar, BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur, director, medical education and research Dr Sujata Sharma, along with heads and senior doctors from all the four government medical colleges in Amritsar, Patiala, Faridkot and Mohali were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-orders-immediate-inoculation-of-remaining-health-workers-their-families-101624563833435.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Plan keeping in mind 3rd wave, Delta+ cases: Uddhav to local administrations||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed local administrations to prepare considering the possibility of a third wave of Covid-19 infections and the instances of Delta Plus variant cases in the state. He asked the state health department to coordinate with district administrations and prepare a plan to ramp up health infrastructure. The chief minister also directed district administrations not to take risk by granting more relaxations under the five-level plan imposed by the state government.Thackeray held a review meeting of collectors of seven districts — Sindhudurg (1.21%), Ratnagiri (0.97%), Kolhapur (0.79%), Sangli (0.54%), Satara (0.40%), Raigad (0.39%) and Hingoli (0.004%) — where average weekly positivity rate is on the higher side, barring Hingoli. At present, the average positivity rate of the state is 0.15%.The state has found 21 Delta Plus cases across six districts. Of them, nine cases are in Ratnagiri, seven in Jalgaon, two in Mumbai and one case each in Thane, Palghar and Sindhudurg.“The second wave is yet to be over and at the same time we are about to face a possible third wave. We will also have to consider the threat owing to the Delta Plus variant, while planning to ramp up health facilities such as ICU beds, oxygen supply and field hospitals wherever required,” the chief minister said. The state government is on alert after 21 Delta Plus cases were found in the state. It has kept all 21 patients in isolation and they are being monitored round the clock. “For further studies, we will be checking their travel history, if they were re-infected or got infected even after getting vaccinated as the Delta Plus strain is capable of escaping antibodies developed with the help of the Covid vaccine,” state health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday.“Do not take a decision on relaxations in haste even if there is a five-level plan in force. We are not in a position to take risks. If people are flouting rules in the name of relaxation, which can result in reversal of the situation, then we need to conduct a detailed study before taking any decision on relaxation,” Thackeray told district collectors in Thursday’s meeting.Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said the situation in the above districts can become a cause forconcern. “We will improve testing, contract tracing and vaccination in the seven districts. We will also provide required health infrastructure to deal with the situation.” The collectors demanded mobile testing centres to improve Covid-19 testing in their respective districts.The state government is reconsidering its five-level plan imposed for relaxations and is likely to bring stricter restrictions back in the state. This is being done in the backdrop of 21 Delta+ cases found in the state as the transmissibility and virulence of the virus is more than the other variants. The issue was discussed in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. The state task force also told the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that the five-level plan is unscientific and needs to be reconsidered, the officials said.Meanwhile, the state government has set a target of producing 3,000 metric tonnes of oxygen every day. At present, it produces 1,300 metric tonnes.Under its Mission Oxygen, also coined as ‘Swayampurna Maharashtra’, the state has set a short-term goal of 2,300 MT to be achieved in the next six months. The mission, which is expected to cost the state Rs1,100 crore, will have the participation of private players with the aim of at least one new plant in each of the six divisions.Thackeray also held a meeting with representatives of major oxygen producing firms and urged them to improve their production in the next three to four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/plan-keeping-in-mind-3rd-wave-delta-cases-uddhav-to-local-administrations-101624563833903.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Protests against pay panel: CM sets up oversight committee of ministers||Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Thursday constituted an oversight committee of ministers to resolve the grievances of the state government employees. Local government minister Brahm Mohindra, finance minister Manpreet Badal, social justice and empowerment minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, medical education and research minister OP Soni and health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu will be a part of the oversight committee, an official spokesperson said. The announcement came amid protests by the government employees’ unions and doctors against the “anti-employee recommendations” of the 6th Punjab Pay Commission approved by the state council of ministers. The state government employees have rejected the recommendations of the pay panel, particularly the formula used to calculate the increase in pay, and have gone on a five-day pen-down strike from Wednesday. Government doctors have given a call for strike on Friday and also announced mass resignation if the recommendation of the pay panel on delinking non-plasticising allowance (NPA) from basic pay is not dropped. The CM also directed the chief secretary to constitute an officers’ committee to personally listen to the grievances of the employees of various departments. The committee comprises Vivek Pratap Singh, KAP Sinha and Husan Lal, all senior IAS officers of the rank of principal secretary. The officers committee will regularly meet the employees and attempt to resolve their grievances. It will submit its report to the Oversight Committee for appropriate decision. “The state government is committed to redress all the genuine demands of its employees,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protests-against-pay-panel-cm-sets-up-oversight-committee-of-ministers-101624563712381.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Elderly couple found murdered in Jagraon village||An 85-year-old man and his wife aged 81 were found murdered at Lakha village in Jagraon sub-division of Ludhiana district, sending shockwaves among residents of the area. Police suspect old enmity behind the murders as they found no signs of robbery in the house. The assailants had even disfigured the faces of the victims, Hari Chand and Shanti. While the woman’s body was found lying on the bed on Tuesday, while that of her husband was recovered on Wednesday from a room where the family had stocked fodder for cattle.The couple has four children. While their younger son, Kuldeep Kumar, lives in Finland, elder son Pawan Kumar and daughter Anita Sharma live in Moga. Their second daughter Praveen Rani, who is estranged from her husband, lived with the couple. At the time of the incident, she had gone to the house of her sister in Moga to get her Covid-19 vaccination dose.Ludhiana senior superintendent of police (rural) Charanjit Singh Sohal said the police initially received information that a woman’s body was found in the house and her husband was missing. On search, his body was also found. The couple’s son Pawan Kumar said, “I informed the police after some neighbours informed me about murder of my mother on Tuesday.”Hathur station house officer (SHO) Arshpreet Kaur said a case under section 302 (murder) was registered against unidentified persons. “We are waiting for the autopsy report. We have rounded up some people in connection with the case. We will crack the case soon,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/elderly-couple-found-murdered-in-jagraon-village-101624563711464.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab falls behind other states in per capita immunisation, blames Centre for bias in vaccine supply||With Punjab lagging behind several other states in terms of per capita free vaccination for the 18-plus, the Amarinder Singh-led government has blamed the Centre for bias in supply of doses as compared to the BJP-ruled states. The state also raked up the issue in a video-conference with the Union ministry of health. “Not only Punjab but other opposition-ruled states have also taken up the matter with the Centre. Punjab was given 1.36 lakh doses on Wednesday with the state’s stock nearly 2.3 lakh doses. We have around 76,000 doses of Covaxin,” said a senior government functionary Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the Centre has not been providing enough vaccine to Punjab even as the vaccination drive has picked up pace in the BJP-ruling states like Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “Haryana administered a record 5 lakh jabs in a day because they were having more stock of jabs. Similarly, an average vaccines administered daily in MP before June 20 was 1.75 lakh and it surprisingly increased to 17 lakh on June 21. It is a nine-fold increase. Also, Karnataka has made over five-fold increase in giving vaccines due to adequate supply of shots. The same is the case with Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat,” he added. Sidhu claimed that these BJP-ruled states have received the supply of not less than 5-17 lakh in a single day, while Punjab got just 16 lakh doses from June 1 to June 24. “This exposes the disparity in the supply of vaccine,” he added. The gap between the demand and supply in states is a matter of concern and equal distribution of vaccine is crucial for the success of the world’s biggest immunisation drive to save precious lives, the minister said. “If Punjab will have a stock of 2 lakh doses, it will automatically give 1-1.5 lakh a day. I have written to the Union health minister in this regard,” Sidhu said. In May, the state received just 17 lakh doses, while it got 16 lakh shots in June so far. Doses administered in state (CoWin App) Districts on top District Vaccinated Ludhiana 8,84,503 Jalandhar 6,12,901 Mohali 5,49,118 Amritsar 4,59,016 Hoshiarpur 4,57,978 Districts on bottom Districts Vaccinated Mansa 77,984 Fatehgarh Sahib 87,173 Barnala 91,198 Fazilka 1,20,192 Faridkot 1,21,483||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-falls-behind-other-states-in-per-capita-immunisation-blames-centre-for-bias-in-vaccine-supply-101624563652481.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||FIR filed against owner of Cyclone Tauktae-hit tug boat Varaprada, others||Yellowgate police station on Thursday night registered a first information report (FIR) in connection with tug boat Varaprada that sank due to Cyclone Tauktae that passed through 180 kilometres off Mumbai coasts last month. Eleven crew members on board the boat had died in the incident and two were rescued.Senior police officers confirmed that an FIR under relevant sections for culpable homicide not amounting to murder has been registered against the owner of Varaprada and others, based on the complaint by Francis K Simon, one of the survivors and chief engineer of the tug boat.Besides Varaprada, barge Papaa 305 also sank near Heera Oil Field in Arabian Sea after being hit by Cyclone Tauktae on May 17. As many as 75 crew members had died in the incident. There were 261 people on board the ill-fated barge, and during the search and rescue operation by Navy and Coast Guard, 186 people were rescued. Yellowgate police is already investigating a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in connection with the sinking of barge Papaa-305. The master of the barge, who died in the incident, has been named as an accused in that case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/firfiled-against-owner-of-cyclone-tauktae-hit-tug-boat-varaprada-others-101624563653001.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Death in Amritsar road rage incident: SUV ‘stolen’ from outside victim’s house at behest of accused, says family||A Mahindra Bolero SUV damaged in an alleged road rage incident in which a 29-year-man was killed in Amritsar three days back was forcibly taken away from outside the victim’s house on late Wednesday night at the behest of the accused, his family has alleged. Avtar Singh was bludgeoned to death allegedly by a Punjab Police sub-inspector’s son Anter Kahlon (prime accused) and his aides after an argument over passing of vehicles in the Kot Mitt Singh area of the city. His brother Hira Singh (25), who was accompanying him, was injured in the incident. The vehicle damaged with iron rods and other weapons was supposed to be taken in possession by the police soon after the incident, but was not. The family has alleged the SUV was “stolen” with an intention to destroy evidence in order to weaken the case. They were also issued threats by some unidentified persons, they claimed. The police have booked Kahlon and his seven of his aides but none of them has been arrested so far. The police have also failed to identify the other accused who according to them were involved in the incident. Besides, they are yet to collect the victims’ medical legal reports from hospital. Vipan Kumar, the deceased’s brother-in-law, said, “The vehicle was parked outside the house. Around 2am, two accomplices of Antar came and took the vehicle along. They also threatened to eliminate Hira Singh.” “It was not a road rage incident as is being claimed by the police. My brother-in-law was quite active in the area working with people and the accused wanted to assert his supremacy,” he added. Avtar’s wife Seema said, “No policemen approached us to take the SUV in possession. There has been no arrest due as Antar’s father is a cop. We will hold protest against the police if this goes on like this.” Antar is facing seven criminal cases, most of attempt to murder. Sultanwind station house officer (SHO) Parneet Kumar said, “After the incident, the vehicle was used by the victim’s family to take Hira to hospital. We asked the family to submit the vehicle, but they didn’t. We are investigating the vehicle theft incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/death-in-amritsar-road-rage-incident-suv-stolen-from-outside-victim-s-house-at-behest-of-accused-says-family-101624563651445.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Patti shootout: One more accused held||Police on Thursday arrested one more accused in connection with Patti shootout in which an Akali worker and his aide were killed.The arrested accused has been identified as Sumesh Singh, alias Billa, of ward number 12 in Patti. Police said Billa is an accomplice of one of the key accused, Malkiat Singh, alias Laddu, who was appointed as the Patti Truck Union president by Congress MLA Harminder Singh Gill. Aman Fauji, who was close friend of former SAD minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon’s right hand man Gurmukh Singh Ghulla, and his accomplice Pooran, were shot dead by two car-borne men when they were returning after paying obeisance at a tomb in Patti on May 27.Earlier, police had arrested Laddu and three others were arrested for the killings. Police said Laddu hatched the conspiracy with one Lakhbir Singh, alias Landa, a notorious gangster presently living in Canada. The police have already got issued a red-corner notice against Landa from the Interpol. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said Billa had conducted a recce before the murder. He had been absconding and was arrested from his home following a tip off, he said. The police have also identified two more accused involved in the crime. These two men, according to police, had supplied weapon and provided shelter to the accused who had executed the crime. The police, however, refused to identify the two men citing apprehension that they could flee. The duo was gunned down by gangster Preet Sekhon who was hired by Landa and Laddu. Sekhon has also been at large. He had claimed responsibility of the double murder at his Facebook page.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/patti-shootout-one-more-accused-held-101624563595516.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Nitin Gadkari lays foundation stones of projects worth ₹6,155 crore in HP||Union minister for road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Thursday inaugurated and laid foundation stones of projects worth ₹6,155 crore for Himachal Pradesh in the presence of CM Jai Ram Thakur virtually in Manali. “The total outlay of the 222km-long nine road corridors is ₹6,155 crore,” according to an official statement.The road transport and highway minister promised that road travel time from Delhi to Kullu will be reduced to just seven hours within two years or even before, it said.He laid foundation stones of projects of four-laning of Kangra Bypass to Bhangbar section of NH-88, Kiratpur to Nerchowk (greenfield alignment) on section NH-21 besides expansion of Paonta Sahib to Hewna section of NH-707 and Ashyri to Sri Kyari section among others. Gadkari said that road projects worth ₹15,000 crore would be awarded to Himachal Pradesh this year. Detailed project report (DPR) for construction of 40km left-bank road project at Manali would be prepared at the earliest. CM Jai Ram Thakur said that being a hilly state, roads were the only mode of transportation here. “That is why the main focus of the political leadership as well as the common people is roads,” he said. Union minister of state for road, transport and highways Gen VK Singh said projects worth ₹2,000 crore have been completed in the state and work was in progress on projects worth ₹7,000 crore. Union minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Singh Thakur, while addressing the event virtually from New Delhi, said the road infrastructure in the country has witnessed unprecedented expansion. He said that the Union minister would definitely provide projects for strengthening the road network in Himachal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nitin-gadkari-lays-foundation-stones-of-projects-worth-6-155-crore-in-hp-101624563593764.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 166 new cases, 2 succumb to contagion||Himachal Pradesh recorded 161 fresh Covid infections on Thursday taking the state’s tally to 2,01,210 while the death toll mounted to 3,447 after two more people succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 29 were reported in Chamba, 24 in Kullu, 20 in Kangra, 17 in Mandi, 16 in Hamirpur, 13 in Shimla, 10 in Sirmaur, nine each in Bilaspur and Solan, seven in Una, four in Kinnaur and three in Lahaul-Spiti. Recoveries have reach 1,95,611 after 322 people recuperated while the active cases have come down to 2,123 In terms of the caseload, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 45,738 cases so far followed by Mandi where 27,008 people have been tested positive to date and Shimla with 25,029 cases. Solan has 22,166 cases, Sirmaur 15,300, Hamirpur 14,304, Una 13,236, Bilaspur 12,607, Chamba 11,036, Kullu 8,840, Kinnaur 3,211, and Lahaul-Spiti 2,705.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-166-new-cases-2-succumb-to-contagion-101624563592749.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||All-party meet: Some call it a good beginning, others doubt Centre’s intention||As almost all the leaders who attended the all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday demanded restoration of statehood, political leaders and common people have kept their fingers crossed.The political leaders termed it a good beginning, but they still have apprehensions whether the promises would be fulfilled or not and if things that had been taken from the erstwhile state on August 5, 2019 will be returned. Many Kashmiris said that their scepticism over the meeting proved right.However, many are hopeful at least New Delhi will take some positive steps after Thursday’s meeting that last for more than 3.5 hours.Narwav Baramulla BDC chairperson and Congress leader Mir Iqbal said at least the dialogue has started. “But the outcome was not as expected.... Timeline should have been given for restoration of statehood as confidence building measure.”He said the PAGD should have demanded that the case in SC should be heard weekly so that special status issue also is settled down and a way ahead is chosen. The Apni Party leader and senior leader, Usman Majeed, said it was their party that voiced the public’s concerns. “We tried our best to get the people’s apprehensions alleviated at the highest level in the echelons of power in the country.”Adnan Ashraf, spokesman of the People’s Conference, said at least from negativity, things have started going towards a positive direction. “We have never left the hope for good.”Salman Sagar, former Srinagar mayor and NC leader, said former chief minister Omar Abdullah advocated for dialogue. “Yet again, he has shown the ideal representative character. Straight and laconic approach,” he added. Many locals said the outcome of the meeting was on expected lines. “It was no surprise. Talks over Articles 370 and 35 A were shut over the pretext that the case is in Supreme Court. We knew there won’t be any output. Sooner or later they had to take local leaders on board,” said Jan Mir, a businessman from Srinagar.“It was simply an ice-breaker. The Centre wanted to test to which level the local mainstream leaders have become workable with the new reality after spending months in jail and they were successful in that,” he added.Javaid Ahmad, who works in the tourism industry, said the people did not have many hopes from the exercise, particularly from the mainstream leaders.“At least the PAGD should have forcefully raised the issue of special status, but they didn’t even properly discuss that. The Centre had already committed to statehood and elections, but we didn’t even get a date for those. What tangible came out, nothing,” he said.Salim Ahmad, a teacher from the Old City, said the NC and the PDP should look beyond vote-bank politics over the special status of J&K.“Their sincerity over Articles 370 and 35A will be tested only when they will fight elections jointly or in the post-election scenario they will form a coalition. Right now, their talks are merely political rhetoric,” he said. An academic teaching in a degree college, on condition of anonymity, said the people of Kashmir are still processing the development.“It appears so contradictory. Local leaders formed an alliance to demand special status back and today, they appeared in a group photograph with those who jailed and humiliated them and hundreds of their land’s people. The development had no build-up which would have prompted this participation. People have to wait to understand what really happened,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/allparty-meet-some-call-it-a-good-beginning-others-doubt-centre-s-intention-101624563591236.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||BJP appeasing Valley leaders at our cost, say pro-Jammu parties||Though statehood remains an emotive issue on either side of the Pir Panjal range, PM’s all-party meeting at Delhi has drawn sharp criticism from pro-Jammu parties, including the West Pak refugees, PoJK refugees and the internally displaced Kashmiri Pandits. West Pak Refugees Front chairman Labha Ram Gandhi said, “We will be happy if Jammu and Kashmir becomes a state again, but we had to wait for 72 years for getting citizenship in J&K… it was not a separate country. However, even after abrogation of Articles 370 and 35-A, we have not been given full citizenship rights. Today’s meet meant nothing to us as what Congress government used to do was repeated by the BJP…appeasing Kashmiri leaders at the cost of Jammu.” Chairman of the SOS International, a frontal organisation of PoJK refugees, Rajiv Chuni said, “At today’s meeting, there were more Kashmiri leaders than what used to be during Congress regimes. When J&K Reorganisation Bill was introduced, it rekindled hopes among us of getting 24 seats for PoJK in the assembly, but the government put a freeze on it. We faced the worst genocide. The BJP can’t be called representative of Jammu.” Ikkjutt chairman advocate Ankur Sharma said, “Today’s meeting was a total sell-out of Jammu. Delimitation of constituencies on the basis of fudged Census is again going to give power back to Kashmiris. Jammu will remain under Kashmir’s hegemony. Jammu’s interest has been compromised again.” Chairman of Panun Kashmir, an umbrella organisation of internally displaced Kashmiri Pandits, Ajay Chrungoo said, “More or less, the recognised pro-India parties, which had welcomed changes of August 2019 in J&K, have gradually started shifting towards the type of politics, which the Gupkar group have been projecting.. And that’s not a welcome thing happening”. He further said, “The government should have at its own level realised that the overground regional parties in the Valley like the National Conference, the People’s Democratic Party and segments of the Congress are basically publicly committed to restoring of the old status quo and they are not as yet endorsing the changes which have taken place. So by fulfilling certain of their conditions, the government is giving an impression that they are now moving back and are just reversing their position, which will be politically very destabilising.” Chrungoo further said, “Our stand on delimitation is very clear that it should be on the basis of new Census and there is still time for the government. Otherwise, holding the entire exercise on 2011 Census will be a subversive act.” “It appears the government didn’t want to disturb old Kashmir’s hegemonic order. It look like the Centre has given a signal that they are ready to take a step back and we know that just one step back, the whole thing is going to tumble down,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjpappeasing-valley-leaders-at-our-cost-say-pro-jammu-parties-101624563532483.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||PM should also seek opinion from Ladakh people: Ghulam Ahmed Mir||As all leaders across the board demanded restoration of statehood, Congress J&K chief Ghulam Ahmed Mir tells HT’s Mir Ehsan that though nothing was promised, they could feel that Delhi has realised that things need to be sorted out in J&K.How do you see today’s meeting with PM Modi and its outcome?We asked for the agenda but were told that people are free to speak on any line. PM Modi seemed to be curious and heard us patiently. So almost everybody spoke and demanded restoration of statehood in one voice, including the BJP leaders.What did the Congress tell PM during the meeting?We demanded five things during the meeting. The restoration of full statehood, constitutional protection of land and job rights, rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits and other displaced people and holding of elections at an earliest besides release of political prisoners. We told the PM that they should also seek opinion from the people of Ladakh region because there is also strong resentment about the bifurcation of J&K.Do you feel that the Centre is serious or the attitude has changed?Yes, I could feel that there is certain amount of pressure, either internal or from outside, but they have realised that things need to be sorted out in J&K. This was the beginning which has been welcomed by every participant.Did PM Modi promise something to the leaders?Nothing was promised, but the PM and the home minister told us that after delimitation process, elections would be held because that is the legal requirement. They also tried to clear apprehensions about the delimitation process and we assured that people will be involved at district, tehsil and block levels. They, however, said that the government is committed to restoring statehood.Did leaders stress on dialogue with separatist leadership or Pak?Nobody spoke about the dialogue with separatist leaders. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, though, tried to clear her point of view on her statement about dialogue with Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pmshould-also-seek-opinion-from-ladakh-people-ghulam-ahmed-mir-101624563531257.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 382 fresh cases, 20 more fatalities||With 382 more Covid cases, the total count in Punjab on Thursday reached 5,93,941, while 20 more fatalities pushed the toll to 15,944, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases dropped to 5,274 while the state’s positivity rate stood at 0.68%.Deaths were reported from Barnala, Bathinda and Faridkot. Among the fresh cases, Amritsar reported 47 infections, followed by 40 in Ludhiana and 33 in Jalandhar.With 715 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured persons reached 5,72,723, according to the bulletin.There are 127 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 390 other critical patients and 1,730 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 1,06,14,550 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-382-fresh-cases-20-more-fatalities-101624563412480.html
25-06-2021||Other||Sanitation workers suspend work in Patiala||Patiala Seeking regularisation, over 450 employees engaged in sanitation/cleanliness work of the city under the Patiala municipal corporation have started an indefinite strike from Thursday. No cleanliness related work was done on Thursday, leaving major parts of the city in mess. Employees alleged that they are working on meagre salaries as the contractors, who hired them, continued to exploit them despite providing services for past four years.Sunil Kumar, Patiala president, Punjab Sanitation Workers Federation, said, “We work eight hours a day, but are paid only 7,633 per month. MC contractors also deduct from this amount, if we miss work. In protest against this, we have stopped sewerage disposal, cleaning and garbage disposal in the city. Our stir will continue till our demands are met.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sanitation-workers-suspend-work-in-patiala-101624563411383.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||1985 Kanishka bombing: 36 years on, Canada remembers the dead with commemorations||Family members of the victims of the Air India flight 182, the Kanishka, marked the solemn 36th anniversary of the worst terror incident in Canada’s history, with a hybrid observation that included visits to memorials across the country and on a virtual tribute space.With large gatherings not allowed in Canada due to the Covid-19 pandemic, small groups of family members assembled at various locations to remember those they had lost when the Kanishka exploded midair off the Irish coast on June 23, 1985, due to a bomb planted in the plane by Khalistani terrorists.The terror attack claimed 329 lives, of whom 268 were Canadian citizens, and 24 Indians. It is also the worst episode of terror in Canadian history and is recognised as its National Day of Remembrance for Victims of Terrorism. In a statement, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said this “despicable act of terror remains the deadliest terrorist attack in Canada’s history. Sadly, it was not the last time Canada had to confront the malice of terrorism.”Family members said Canada needed to remain “vigilant” about terrorism. Among them was Deepak Khandelwal, who was just 17 when he lost his elder sisters Chandra and Manju. “I would say that Canada has to learn from the past, from these types of mistakes,” he said, adding he was painfully reminded of their absence particularly as the pandemic rages as both his sisters were in the medical field and could have helped at this time. Susheel Gupta, who lost his mother Ramvati on that doomed flight, went to the Ottawa memorial. Such memorial services, he said, “advocate on behalf of victims of terrorism, and we feel a responsibility to remind people that terrorism has occurred here and could happen again”.Indian officials laid wreaths at the memorials with India’s high commissioner Ajay Bisaria doing so in Ottawa, consul generals in Toronto and Vancouver, Apoorva Srivastava and Manish in their respective cities and the Representative of India to the International Civil Aviation Organisation Shefali Juneja visiting the site in Montreal.A virtual service was also held on a YouTube channel established by the Air India 182 Victims Families Association, where tributes to the deceased were also posted.These commemorative services on Wednesday were held under the shadow of the recent revival of the Khalistan movement in Canada. Events this year came as pro-Khalistan elements in Canada have hijacked protests over three farm laws in India to buttress their movement in the country. Indian officials have flagged this growing menace to Canadian authorities. The Indian consulate in Vancouver was blockaded by protestors on January 26 and pro-Khalistan slogans and speeches resounded outside the building that day, while in February and March, rallies taken out by the Indo-Canadian community to celebrate partnership between the two nations in combating the coronavirus crisis were confronted by groups brandishing Khalistan flags.This has led to plenty of concern being voiced by India to interlocutors in Ottawa in this context and the latest episode occurred this Sunday, when a group of two dozen Indo-Canadians took out a car rally in the Greater Toronto Area to face some violence as an opposing group again came bearing the Khalistan standard. That led to the arrest of a 34-year-old man from Brampton, Inderjit Dhami, who was charged with possession of a weapon for dangerous purpose, and four counts of uttering a threat to cause death or bodily harm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1985-kanishka-bombing-36-years-on-canada-remembers-the-dead-with-commemorations-101624563291357.html
25-06-2021||Other||Stop mudslinging, tender public apology, Jakhar to Bajwas||Chandigarh Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Thursday advised the politically and economically well-placed Bajwa family to apologise for hurting the sentiments of youth of the state, instead of throwing mud at others. Rubbishing questions raised by the Bajwa family over the appointment of his nephew Ajay Vir Jakhar as chairman of Punjab State Farmers’ and Farm Workers’ Commission, the Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) chief said that he (Ajay Vir) did not draw any salary or other emoluments. “The Bajwa family, by accepting a government job for its kin, has not only hurt the feelings of thousands of jobless youth but also damaged the reputation of the chief minister and the Congress, besides tarnishing their deceased father’s name,” a statement from Jakhar said. He added that even now by pretending to quit the job on moral grounds and throwing mud on others, Bajwa was trying to hoodwink the public and cover up their monumental blunder. It would be better if they admit the mistake and publicly apologise to the people of the state, he said. Jakhar said that as far as Ajay Vir being the chairman was concerned, he had not drawn a single rupee from the exchequer during his tenure as salary, or any other benefit. “He has a unique identity of his own. Due to his knowledge, vision and understanding of the agriculture sector, even before he became the chairman of the commission, he was being regularly invited by the Government of India for discussions before the annual budget for the past several years,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stop-mudslinging-tender-public-apology-jakhar-to-bajwas-101624562991210.html
25-06-2021||Other||Downpour will wash away Mumbai civic body’s claims, say experts||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) monsoon preparations are likely to prevent waterlogging at several areas of western suburbs only for the first 30 minutes of heavy rainfall. Reason? Despite BMC’s tall claims of overachieving its target of removing silt from nullahs, they have remained uncleaned and had floating garbage and hardened silt, which can lead to waterlogging at Santacruz, Khar and Juhu Tara Road, if there is heavy rainfall this monsoon.The possibility that these areas can get waterlogged is backed by the findings of HT’s monsoon audit by a three-member expert panel, on Wednesday. The three experts examined BMC’s desilting and nullah-cleaning work at several areas in Gazdar Bandh at Santacruz. They found that the South Avenue nullah, Main Avenue nullah and P&T nullah were clogged with sewage, silt and a lot of floating garbage discharged on a daily basis from the slums located on the banks of the three nullahs. Citizens residing in slums constructed on the banks of the nullahs were partly to be blamed for discharging waste into the nullahs which are supposed to act as a channel for discharging the rainwater.South Avenue nullah discharges rainwater coming from SV Road towards Gazdar Bandh pumping station, which is located closer to the sea. According to the observation made by experts, not only is the nullah filled with waste, but BMC’s claim of desilting has also washed out, considering the huge amount of silt lying inside the South Avenue nullah.At Main Avenue nullah, the experts have observed that the road running parallel to the nullah was very narrow, which might cause difficulty in removing the cranes and other heavy vehicles amid waterlogging. Here too, one could easily spot waste floating and untouched silt inside the nullah.The scenario was no different at P&T nullah either. The only thing different here was that silt was collected and kept sideways towards the nullah to ensure that the water flow is not hindered. However, silt along with garbage floating in it were not removed. Owing to the condition of above three nullahs, residents in the area face waterlogging on all the roads, starting from the 10th to the 20th road in Santacruz and Khar, along with flooding of major arterial roads, including SV Road and Linking Road.According to BMC, it undertakes 75% of the required desilting every year before monsoon and 15% during the season. The remaining 10% is undertaken after monsoon. Surprisingly the data, prepared by the civic body claims to have achieved 102% of its desilting target for the western suburbs, as on June 2. According to BMC data, a total of 237,561.77 metric tonnes of silt was present in the nullahs and rivers of western suburbs, of which 179,062.18 metric tonnes had to be removed before monsoon. However, BMC claims to have removed 183,771.39 metric tonnes.Udaykumar Shiroorkar, former assistant municipal commissioner,, said, “The visual inspection indicates that no work has been done properly for western suburbs, and there is plenty of silt and garbage floating in it. The silt in the nullah has hardened, indicating that it has not been deposited recently. I would not go by BMC data, and my observation is from what I saw on ground, and that was not satisfactory.”DK Pathak, a former engineer of civic body’s storm water drainage department said that better cleaning of nullahs is needed to ensure that there is minimal scope of waterlogging. “What we saw on Wednesday in the western suburbs was that only half of the desilting work was completed,” he said.Santacruz resident Gautam Rao alleged that locals have been complaining of waterlogging around Gazdar Bandh area for 20 years now.“With time, the situation has worsened, as even Link Road and SV Road get waterlogged now. We had to go to the court to ensure that BMC takes measures to resolve the problem. They [BMC] spent over ₹100 crore and said the problem will be resolved once the Gazar Bandh pumping station is operational. The pumping station has been operational for almost two years, but the situation is the same even today,” said Rao. Bhagyawant Late, deputy chief engineer of storm water drains (western suburbs), said that the nullahs and drains have been cleaned regularly. “The problem of garbage is continuous due to the nearby settlements. It’s not like we haven’t done proper desilting work. We have taken out the required amount of silt,” Late said.“There is an average depth for every nullah that is decided, and silt is removed as per those calculations. Also, as Gazdar Bandh is near the sea, the silt deposits in the drains during high tide. Our system is efficient to handle 50mm of rainfall in one hour. If it rains beyond that, draining out water might get slow, resulting in waterlogging,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/downpour-will-wash-away-mumbai-civic-body-s-claims-say-experts-101624562930705.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||2 railway lines lead MMR connect in right direction||Two railway projects are all set to increase connectivity and reduce the travelling time between the city and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) – doubling of the railway line between Panvel and Karjat railway stations and construction of the second phase of Belapur and Uran railway lines. The two lines will cater to thousands of commuters who are living or working in the urban areas of Raigad district, which is expected to witness further growth, when the Navi Mumbai international airport gets operational. Panvel as well as Belapur-Uran belt will be in close vicinity of the airport which is under construction now. With the pandemic affecting suburban local train commute due to crowding, the new suburban railway lines will facilitate in reduction of crowding on the Central Railway’s main line between Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and Kalyan, and harbour railway between CSMT and Panvel. The railway lines will also help in opening up new growth centres, with the expansion in connectivity of MMR with the city. Belapur-Uran line The new suburban railway corridor between Belapur and Uran in Raigad district is a crucial corridor for expansion of the local train network. Once completed, the railway corridor will facilitate direct travel between Mumbai and Uran and will connect to the new Navi Mumbai international airport and Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT). The railway line received sanction in 1967 and first phase of the corridor opened between Belapur and Kharkopar (12.5km) railway station in November 2018. The estimated cost of the Belapur- Uran railway project is ₹1,782 crore and the project is being undertaken on a cost-sharing basis of which 66% is being borne by City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) and 33% by the Central Railway (CR). The second phase of the corridor between Kharkopar and Uran is going on with the construction of two major bridges, two road underbridges and four road overbridges. A parcel of land has to be acquired mainly between Kharkopar and Ranjanpada stations. The railway stations include Gavhan, Ranjanpada, Nhava Sheva, Dronagiri and Uran. The second phase is expected to be completed by 2023. “The Kharkopar -Uran new line construction work is in progress at various sites with the help of construction machinery such as pile boring machines, concrete placer booms and transit mixers. The major construction activities under progress are superstructure work of cover over platform at Rajanpada station, foundation and sub-structure work at Nhava-Sheva, Dronagiri and subway work at Uran railway stations,” said a senior CR official. Panvel-Karjat line The doubling of the railway line between Panvel and Karjat was sanctioned in 2016 and is part of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP) 3. A 56-km of railway line is being constructed between Panvel and Karjat railway stations at a cost of ₹2,783 crore. The project is expected to be completed by 2024. The additional railway lines between Panvel and Karjat will increase connectivity and will also reduce time taken to travel. Currently, a passenger who wants to travel from Panvel to Karjat has to travel by local trains via Kalyan or via Thane railway stations. It takes nearly one hour to travel by local train. After construction of the railway line corridor commuting time will reduce by 15 minutes as passengers would be able to board direct local trains and avoid crossovers. The Mumbai Rail Vikas Corporation Limited (MRVC), a joint venture of the Maharashtra government and the Indian Railways, is constructing the project and has begun the on-ground construction work of the railway line. Five railway stations will be a part of the additional railway lines. The railway stations include Panvel, Chowk, Mohape, Chikhale and Karjat railway stations. A rail flyover is being constructed by MRVC between Panvel and Chikle railway stations and the body has invited tenders for construction of three tunnels with ballastless tracks between the railway sections. “MRVC has started work on the new suburban railway corridor on Panvel-Karjat route. We plan to fast-track construction after the monsoon and aim to complete the construction in three years. This will reduce the commuting time by half-an-hour and will push development in this region,” said RS Khurana, managing director, MRVC. Once completed, more than 20 local train services will operate between Panvel and Karjat railway stations daily. Transport experts believe a holistic approach of increasing housing and opening up of employment opportunities between Panvel and Karjat, and Belapur and Uran will have to be adopted. “To decongest and expand the local train connectivity, employment opportunities have to be developed in the areas. Self-sufficient nodal points will improve the standard of living and be meaningful for the development of railway lines. Housing along with opening up offices will be crucial,” said transport expert AV Shenoy. Passenger associations have demanded construction of two suburban railway projects on priority basis. “The on-ground work of the projects is slow and they need to be implemented faster. Priority should be given to both the suburban railway projects. Both the railway corridors will create employment and increase connectivity with Mumbai,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-railway-lines-lead-mmr-connect-in-right-direction-101624562810659.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crime branch arrests two, seizes whale vomit worth ₹7.75 crore||Unit 3 of Mumbai Police’s crime branch arrested two persons including a former Mumbai Police constable from Lower Parel area for allegedly trying to sell 7.75 kilograms of whale vomit or Ambergris, produced in the digestive system of sperm whales. Police claimed the seized Ambergris is valued at ₹7.75 crore.The arrested accused have been identified as Prasad Pingle, 44, and Amit Patil, 36, both residents of Alibag. Crime branch officers got information that few people were allegedly going to sell ambergris in Lower Parel area. Forest officials were informed accordingly, and a trap was laid near Sitaram Mill compound. The team intercepted two persons in possession of 7.75 kilograms of whale vomit, said inspector Sopan Kakad.“During interrogation, we learnt that both the accused are residents of Alibag and one of them was a police constable in Mumbai and dismissed from the service in 2016 when he was attached with the Pydhonie police station,” Kakad added.After confirmation by the forest department, the case was registered in the NM Joshi police station under the Wildlife (Protection) Act. Both the arrested accused were produced in the court and remanded in police custody till June 29 for further investigation.Whale vomit samples will be sent to forensic department in Kolkata for chemical analysis. Ambergris is highly valuable and is used in perfume manufacturing. Found floating in tropical seas, it is in high demand in the international markets. The brownish material comes from an endangered and protected whale species. In a similar case, on June 15, unit 4 of crime branch had arrested three persons at Mulund with 2.7 kilograms of whale vomit worth ₹2.70 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crime-branch-arrests-two-seizes-whale-vomit-worth-7-75-crore-101624562571852.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: EOW registers seventh case against Cox and Kings||The economic offenses wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police registered seventh first information report (FIR) against Cox and Kings, its promotors, directors and employees for duping Yes Bank to the tune of ₹523 crore. The tours and travels company availed loan from the private sector bank but defaulted in repayment.On the basis of complaint lodged by Ashish Joshi, senior executive from Yes Bank, EOW registered the fresh FIR for loan default of ₹523 crore. Niket Kaushik, joint commissioner of police (EOW), confirmed the development and said the investigation is on.Banking (fraud) unit of EOW has booked Cox and Kings promotor Ajay Ajit Peter Kerkar, his wife Urshila, senior executive Anil Khandelwal and some other directors, auditors and others.EOW sources said various financial irregularities surfaced during the forensic audit of Cox and Kings group accounts, following which details of loan defaults have also emerged. EOW is already investigating six FIRs against the group for alleged frauds involving over ₹2,000 crore. Of the six FIRs, five are registered by private sector banks. Enforcement Directorate (ED) officers are also probing irregularities and money laundering aspect, while EOW is looking into the criminal part.Kerkar and the other senior executives are facing charges under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 409 (criminal breach of trust by a public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) 471 (using as genuine a forged) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.EOW officers said the accused travel company, its promoters, directors, auditors and other accused conspired together and fraudulently availed loan from various banks. “Forged documents were submitted to banks by Cox and Kings group to fraudulently obtain the loan. Later the loan money was diverted and used for other purposes,” said an officer.Previous FIRs against the group were made by Axis Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank, Laxmi Vilas Bank and a private investment firm. EOW officer already interrogated Kerkar, Khandelwal, and others by taking their custody in previous FIRs. ED officers had also interrogated them. They are in judicial custody now. “Kerkar and Khandelwal are key accused in the case and were at the helm of the affairs,” said another EOW officer.Kerker has filed two counter FIRs against some complainant banks and senior executives of his company for conspiring together and cheating the company. EOW is also investigating these two complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-eow-registers-seventh-case-against-cox-and-kings-101624562571272.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to have its own climate action plan by October||The city is set to have its own dedicated climate action plan by October, ahead of the 2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) to be held in November, officials in the state environment minister’s office confirmed on Thursday. The action plan will be drafted by the World Resources Institute (WRI) India, which has been engaged as a consultant by the environment department. The action plan is being undertaken pursuant to Mumbai’s entry into the C40 Cities climate leadership group in December last year. C40 connects 97 of the world’s largest cities, enabling them to “collaborate effectively, share knowledge and drive meaningful, measurable and sustainable action on climate change”. Member cities are encouraged to develop and implement action plans in line with goals of the Paris Agreement.Mumbai’s action plan will be executed in seven broad steps, of which two have already been completed, said officials privy to the development, on the condition of anonymity. Step one is referred to as context setting, wherein officials at the city and ward level were apprised of the need for such a plan in light of Mumbai’s burgeoning climate vulnerabilities. Step two involves collating demographic data and defining the socio-economic and ecological features of the city, based on existing literature and land-use studies.The eventual action plan will be featured on the C40 website alongside those of other member cities. “It is an external facing document, and should be easily read by other governments, private companies, people within the innovation and research space, and so on, who may not be familiar with the city,” said Lubaina Rangwala, associate director at WRI India’s Sustainable Cities Centre. Steps three and four, Rangwala explained, are simultaneous processes that involve developing a “climate profile” for Mumbai and conducting a “sectoral analysis” across six different verticals — air pollution, water resources and urban flooding, urban greenery and biodiversity, energy efficiency in municipal buildings, transport and mobility, and waste management.For this, data will be collected from 15 departments of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), and 25 external organisations, both private and state, including the transport department, sewage departments, disaster management department, tree authority, development planning authority, private power distributors, the meteorological department and pollution control board among others.Officials did not comment on the nature and extent of data being gathered, but said it will be analysed using an Excel-based tool developed by the C40 group, called the City Inventory Reporting and Information System (CIRIS). “The data will be fed into the system and analysed in comparison with global benchmarks, to help us identify gaps in each sector based on its overall emission load. These gaps will need to be addressed in our climate plan,” said Rangwala.When it comes to planning concrete action, Mumbai’s climate plan will rely on two approaches — mitigation and adaption. “Under the mitigation head, we will be making a greenhouse gas inventory for the city using the CIRIS tool, and further conduct a ‘scenario analysis’ in which we will identify potential opportunities for emissions reduction,” said Rangwala. The mitigation aspect of the plan will also involve an air pollution analysis to identify emissions trends and pollution hotspots.Under the adaptation head, WRI India will conduct a vulnerability analysis to assess the exposure of different parts of the city to climate change, largely looking at variations in class and spatial distribution among the population. The other component under adaptive action is to conduct a “climate and land use assessment”, which will also include a baseline count of trees in the city.An official in BMC’s environment department involved in the project said, “Right now, we are only at the data gathering stage. Of the 40 departments, 13 departments have not yet sent any data. They have been reminded and given time till July 10 to comply.”The final three steps in the drafting process involve holding stakeholder consultations, setting tangible emission reduction goals for the city, and finally proceeding to implement the policy which is expected to happen before year-end.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-have-its-own-climate-action-plan-by-october-101624562450737.html
25-06-2021||Other||Stir against farm laws: Now, farmers mobilising migrant workers against Centre’s agri laws||Sangrur Tubewells and paddy fields in the district have emerged as new hotspots for political mobilisation. With elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh just a few months away, farmers have started mobilising migrant workers against the three agriculture laws implemented by the BJP-led central government.Avtar Singh, a farmer from Bhullerheri village, and associated with Bharti Kisan Union (BKU) Rajewal said, “In our meetings with migrant workers, we discuss new agricultural laws. We try to convince them that the black laws will leave them jobless.”“The BJP made anti-farmer laws. These laws, however, are equally dangerous for migrant workers who are dependent on the agriculture sector. When big corporates will start farming in Punjab, they will use machines. High-level technology will replace labourers and the labour class will face unemployment. We have appealed to migrants hailing from UP that they should oppose BJP’s policies and not vote for this party,” Avtar added.Sangrur block chief of BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) Gobinder Singh said, “The BJP is introducing anti-farmer and anti-labour policies. We will hold meetings with migrants at tubewells and ask them to oppose the saffron party.”Migrant workers had returned to their native states last month, when the covid-19 was its peak in the second wave of the disease. They returned to Punjab, in huge numbers, before June 10 in search of jobs. Their presence has enabled farmers to avoid confrontation with local Punjabi labour over wages.Ramadhin, 32, a migrant from UP, said he has been coming to Punjab for the past 10 years, adding, “We are landless. A labourer can’t run his business, he is dependent on farmers. If farmers lose their land, where will we work?” Another migrant Sudhir, 27, said, “Farmers are telling us that the new laws will take away their land, which will also affect our jobs with them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/stir-against-farm-laws-now-farmers-mobilising-migrant-workers-against-centre-s-agri-laws-101624562332429.html
25-06-2021||Lucknow||RLD president Jayant Chaudhary urges PM Modi to end impasse on Centre’s new farm laws||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) national president Jayant Chaudhary has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to end the impasse on the Centre’s three new farm laws.“I urge you to make that call,” Chaudhary said in a letter to PM on the eve of the completion of seven months of farmers’ protest. He was referring to the PM’s earlier statement that he was just a phone call away from the protesting farmers.“It pains the nation that even after your statement, the government appears to have further withdrawn from engaging with the farmer organisations even as the farmers are waiting at Delhi’s borders,” the RLD chief said.“However, in the face of public sentiment, a sensitive government would not shy away from taking a step back in order to move forward,” he remarked.“It is not clear to the farmers, how these laws improve their market position or pricing power,” he said.He mentioned in the letter that the farmers’ agitation not only had a negative economic impact, but also the failure to resolve the key issues had hurt the pride of the nation’s agriculturists.He signed off by saying, “I urge you to make that call, Mr Prime Minister and let the farmers go back home to the villages to work for the empowerment of India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rld-president-jayant-chaudhary-urges-pm-modi-to-end-impasse-on-centre-s-new-farm-laws-101624562271902.html
25-06-2021||Bangalore||Don’t project me as CM face: Siddaramaiah to Cong MLAs||Bengaluru Amid growing fissures within the Congress over the chief ministerial face for the 2023 assembly polls, senior party leader Siddaramaiah on Thursday requested legislators not to give any statements projecting him as the future chief minister of Karnataka. In a statement on Thursday, the leader of the opposition requested his party legislators not to say “the future chief minister Siddaramaiah”. He added that there are still two years left for elections and that legislators should not make statements on who the next chief minister will be. The statements come at a time when nearly a dozen Congress legislators have openly endorsed Siddaramaiah as the future chief minister, irking party president DK Shivakumar and other senior leaders who also believe they are in contention for the top job. A video also surfaced on Thursday, where another Congress MLA Byrathi Suresh from Hebbal constituency can be purportedly heard addressing Siddaramaiah as a “permanent CM”. The statements come despite directives not to do so by Shivakumar and the national leadership of the party, including Randeep Singh Surjewala, several party legislators in Karnataka continued to make statements projecting Siddaramaiah as the next chief minister. Siddaramaiah is among the most powerful leaders within the Congress and Shivakumar among others have challenged the former’s dominance over party affairs ever since he joined them in 2006. Siddaramaiah is one of the handful of chief ministers in Karnataka’s history to complete a full-five year term in office from 2013-18. The Sonia Gandhi-led party has seen its top leaders in at least three states--Rajasthan, Punjab and Karnataka--quarrel among themselves and dent its chances against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), its principal rival political outfit in India. The infighting within the Congress in Karnataka has denied them the opportunity to capitalise on the increasing dissent and discord within the state unit of the BJP. Interestingly, several BJP legislators from Karnataka have made open calls for the removal of BS Yediyurappa as chief minister unlike the situation in the Congress where party MLAs have openly endorsed Siddaramaiah for the top chair. Like Shivakumar, several senior leaders like G Parameshwara, Mallikarjuna Kharge among a host of others hone similar ambitions. Parameshwara on Thursday said that this discussion needed to end here as the party high command will decide who will become chief minister once the party secures a majority in the 2023 assembly polls. Downplaying the ongoing rift within the party, Yathindra Siddaramaiah, the legislator from Varuna and the opposition leader’s son on Thursday said, “In every party leaders express their personal opinion but this does not mean that they cannot stand each other or have differences.” He said that the Congress is united and will face the elections together. “When it comes to the party, whatever the president says is final,” he said, not being dragged into a debate that has raised several questions and troubles for the Congress. Notwithstanding its own troubles, the BJP too has joined in the debate to further pile on the Congress and its current predicament. R Ashok, senior BJP legislator and minister for revenue, on Thursday said that there are factions like D-Congress and S-Congress coming up within the party, inferring the groups under Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah. “This is Congress’s internal matter. They have a high command which has become weak. Since the high command has become weak, such problems are cropping up,” Ashok said. He added that the Congress high command cannot even say if Siddaramaiah will be their chief ministerial candidate or not unlike the BJP where the national leadership have made it clear that Yediyurappa will continue in the top post. Lashing out at BJP, Shivakumar said that the party should first sort out its own mess than point fingers at others. “We have seen even the people who lose the elections also become a CM of the state. Not only the 224 elected members can become CM, others too can. Our state has seen such things in the past. Shri Devraj Urs and Shri Ramakrishna Hegde had become CM’s even after losing and not contesting elections,” Shivakumar said, trying to make light of a development that has undermined his authority within the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/dont-project-me-as-cm-face-siddaramaiah-to-cong-mlas-101624562211367.html
25-06-2021||Bangalore||No need to panic: Experts on Delta plus variant||Bengaluru: The detection of the new Delta plus variant of the Covid-19 virus in Karnataka has raised concerns of yet another spike in cases. Even though it has not been proven that the surge in cases in Maharashtra was due to the new variant, the timing of the spike and the detection of the variant are causing concerns in neighbouring Karnataka. Experts, however, said that there is no need to panic and stressed on conducting adequate research into the variant.According to Karnataka’s department of health and family welfare, during the first and second waves, infected interstate travellers from Maharashtra, Kerala and Tamil Nadu were behind the outbreak in the state. “Our two neighbouring states, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu have the highest number of the Delta plus variant cases. Maharashtra has reported 22 cases so far and Tamil Nadu has reported four (as of Wednesday). These are not the total number of the Delta variants in these states but those found in the sequencing conducted. So, this is a matter of concern,” said a senior bureaucrat in-charge of health in Karnataka, who didn’t want to be named. The Union health ministry had classified Delta plus as a “variant of concern’ in India on Tuesday. The Delta variant has been held responsible for the deadly second wave of the pandemic in India. Several other countries also consider Delta as the factor behind the sudden surge in infections. The new variant is a mutated version of the virus. Speaking about the case detected in Bengaluru, BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta said that the case was detected much earlier (he didn’t specify the exact date). “The patient has recovered, and his contacts have recovered as well. BBMP will be initiating the process to conduct more genome sequencing to identify the variant in the state. But what is important is that people should understand the virus the still among us and Covid prevention norms should be followed,” Gupta told reporters on Thursday. Despite these concerns, a senior bureaucrat told HT that no discussion on travel restrictions have been held so far. The government also plans to continue with the current relaxations of the lockdown rules, he added. Even though the state bureaucracy is worried about the new variant, experts in the city are of the opinion that adequate research should be conducted into the variant but said that there is no need to panic. Dr Ravi, former head of the neurovirology department at NIMHANS and member of Karnataka’s TAC on Covid-19 said that unnecessary panic around the variant should be avoided. “Whether is it more infectious, there is no evidence to show that. They are tracking the patients to find if the virus spreads faster. We will know this soon,” he said. He added that it doesn’t seem that variant is more virulent. “All of the 41 cases detected in the country, there is no evidence of any deaths (due to the variant). The pattern of disease in Delta plus is no different from what is seen in the Delta variant. Most of the Delta plus cases are from samples collected more than a month ago. My reading is that if it was collected one month back, had it (the Delta plus variant) been so deadly, there would have been a higher number of cases and deaths. In fact, the numbers are coming down,” he said. He, however, pointed out that increasing genome sequencing is very important and ramping up vaccination is the real solution to the Covid-19 problem. Dr Vishal Rao, a member of the expert committee on Karnataka’s Covid task force said that it is important to keep eye on the patients in the ICU to understand the implications of the new variant. “As a doctor, it is important for me to keep an eye on the ICU and those showing severe symptoms and find out genomic patterns exhibited by them… It eventually comes down to conducting more genome sequencing. The government has announced that it would conduct 5% genome sequencing. It is a good sign because we are doing less than 0.5% right now,” he said. Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar on Thursday said that vaccination is the only way out to keep Covid-19 at bay. Government is determined to provide both the doses of the Covid vaccine for all by this December end, he added. “Vaccine is the only solution for Corona. Otherwise, we need to mask up all the time. If we want to be mask free, then everyone should be vaccinated at the earliest,” he said. The minister on Wednesday had confirmed the presence of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 in Bengaluru. Two cases of the new variants have been reported in Karnataka – one each in Bengaluru and Mysuru, the minister had said. He also said the information has been shared with the Union health ministry and a further course of action is being planned. Adding that the state is monitoring the emergence of new variants and that six genome labs are functioning in the state. “Wherever we have a suspicion, we are doing genomic sequencing. We are doing random checks of five per cent of the total samples checked,” Sudhakar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/no-need-to-panic-experts-on-delta-plus-variant-101624562210746.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai airport naming: Protest peaceful; cops to book organisers, leaders||Thousands of people including project-affected persons (PAPs) and political party workers staged a peaceful protest to demand naming of the proposed Navi Mumbai international airport after PAP leader DB Patil. The DB Patil Navi Mumbai International Airport All Party Action Committee has warned that it will stop all airport work if the state fails to accept the demand by August 15. Police said cases will be registered against the leaders and organisers for holding a public meeting as they had no permission for the same due to the pandemic. Amid fears of clash between the police and protesters, the public meeting took place on Palm Beach Road near NMMC headquarters. Police said there were around 10,000 protestors, but the organisers put the number over 100,000. Independent sources put the number between 25,000 and 40,000. Shivraj Patil, deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone 2, said, “We had been asking the leaders to not hold the meeting but since they went ahead, we were ready with a strong bandobast to prevent the protestors from reaching Cidco Bhavan. Cases will be registered against the leaders and organisers. Such a meeting cannot be allowed when Covid norms are still in place.” He claimed the protest was peaceful as the police were constantly coordinating and communicating with protestors and leaders to ensure there is no untoward incident. The action committee had planned a protest of at least 100,000 people to gherao Cidco, which has passed a resolution to name the airport after Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray. Protestors came not just from Navi Mumbai, Panvel and Uran but also Mumbai and other parts of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). They carried placards, wore clothes with Patil’s pictures and raised slogans praising him and declaring their demand. There were also several political leaders cutting across party lines, including Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) MLA Raju Patil and Congress MP Hussain Dalwai. The action committee submitted a memorandum to Cidco stating their demand to cancel the resolution approving Balasaheb Thackeray’s name and propose DB Patil’s name. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and Panvel MLA Prashant Patil, who has been spearheading the agitation, said, “There was not a single political party flag visible today, proving that this is a movement of the people from all spheres. Sons of the soil have come from all over. The chief minister has got a very strong message today of what the people want.” He added, “We have given time till August 15 to the government to complete the formalities to finalise DB Patil’s name. If it fails to do so, the action committee and the sons of the soil will ensure that all Navi Mumbai airport related work will come to a standstill.” “For me my community comes first and hence it is my duty to be here for DB Patil. Raj Thackeray has only raised a technical issue of the airport being an extension, but the state is playing games and is waiting for something really grave to happen to wake up,” said Raju Patil, MNS leader. Congress leader Hussain Dalwai said, “I have worked with DB Patil in the OBC movement in which he was my leader. He got justice for the sons of the soil and was an inspiration for struggle of the people. MVA wants the issue to be resolved amicably and DB Patil deserves the demand being made for him. He worked selflessly only for the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-airport-naming-protest-peaceful-cops-to-book-organisers-leaders-101624562030656.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Fight for OBC reservation heats up||Other Backward Classes (OBC) reservation is turning into a hot political issue in Maharashtra as OBC Jan Morcha, an umbrella body of various OBC organisations, staged protests across the state on Thursday. The outfits have been demanding restoration of the 27% political reservation in all local bodies.The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), too, has declared to hold statewide protests from June 26. The party has declared chakka jam (road block) at around 1,000 places in the state. With the state election commission’s announcement on holding bypoll for the vacant seats in five zilla parishads — Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim, and Nagpur — following the Supreme Court’s order on OBC reservation, the political temperature has also started soaring in the state. All parties have demanded for postponement of the bypolls till the issue is sorted out.The by-poll is slated to be held on July 19 and votes will be counted on July 20.The OBC reservation issue is of political importance as the community, though fragmented into nearly 382 castes, makes up nearly 52% of the state’s population.OBCs are on the verge of losing their political reservation in local bodies across Maharashtra as it was quashed by the Supreme Court last month. The Apex court ruled that the reservation in favour of OBCs in local bodies should not exceed the 50% cap in reservation quota. It also directed the state to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which the quota would be fixed. It means no seat is going to be reserved for the OBC community in the upcoming local bodies comprising municipal corporations, municipal councils, zilla parishads, panchayat samiti and gram panchayats at least for this year or until the state government completes the entire process.The Apex court decision has come at the time when OBCs were already worried about losing a share in their existing 27% reservation in government jobs and education following demands made by the Maratha community to incorporate them in the OBC category as they have lost their reservation benefits following another verdict of the Supreme Court.Marathas were granted 12% and 13% reservation in government jobs and education, respectively, by enacting the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act in 2018, but the Apex court recently quashed it.“OBC Jan Morcha held dharna outside around 350 tehsil offices across the state and also handed over a charter of demands to tehsildars,” said Chandrakant Bavkar, executive president, Jan OBC Morcha. “The outfit has already sent around 275,000 mails to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, OBC welfare minister Vijay Wadettiwar and social justice minister Dhananjay Munde, requesting them to make attempts to restore the reservation,” he added.The outfits are also planning to hold protests such as human chain, raasta roko and morcha in the coming days if the state fails to proceed on their demands, Bavkar said.State chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, on the behalf of the government, on Thursday wrote a letter to the state election commission with a request to postpone the bypolls as it is not an appropriate time, considering the Covid-19 pandemic and fear of rise in cases owing to Delta plus variants, officials said. “The letter states that it would be difficult for them to provide manpower as the state machinery is busy in handling pandemic and monsoon preparedness,” said a senior official privy to the development.In response, state election commissioner UPS Madan said they will not be able to postpone the by-elections. “The Supreme Court in its order directed the state election commission to hold bypolls on the seats vacated due to its order, thus we are following the Apex court’s directives. We are not in a position to postpone them, until and unless the court asks us to do so,” Madan told HT.The state government is further trying to persuade the community by declaring preventive measures such as filing a revision petition before the Apex court and setting up a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data.On the other hand, the Opposition is looking at it as an opportunity to create more trouble for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikar Aghadi (MVA) government, which is already in a damage control mode after the Supreme Court quashed reservation for Maratha community.BJP national secretary Pankaja Munde, while interacting with media persons after a state executive committee meeting held on Thursday, said, “We have decided to hold chakka jam andolan at 1,000 places across the state. We also want the bypolls to be cancelled. The state government should intervene and ask the election commission to postpone them. We will also be challenging it in the court.” Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said they would have collected empirical data in four months. “If we were in power, I would have ensured that the process of collecting empirical data is completed in four months. If you can’t do it, tell us we can do it in four months,” Fadnavis said.NCP leader and minister Chhagan Bhujbal said the Centre should provide them with empirical data. “If the Centre provides us with empirical data, the issue will be resolved in only four days but the Centre is not doing so,” he said and asked opposition leaders to bring empirical data from the Centre and take the credit for saving OBC reservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-fight-for-obc-reservation-heats-up-101624562031299.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||BJP demands CBI probe against MVA ministers Ajit Pawar and Anil Parab||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is looking to create fresh troubles for the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The party on Thursday demanded a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and transport minister Anil Parab based on allegations made by controversial police officer Sachin Vaze.A resolution demanding CBI probe against the ministers was passed in the BJP’s state executive committee meeting held on Thursday.Vaze, who is in National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody in the Antilia bomb scare case, wrote a letter in April, alleging that he was asked by ministers to extort money from businessmen and contractors.Pawar is nephew of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar. A splinter group of NCP MLAs headed by him supported a short-lived BJP government in 2019. Meanwhile, Parab is a close aide of chief minister and Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray.“The MVA government is shielding the criminals. In Vaze case, allegations of extortion against the then home minister Anil Deshmukh, corruption in transfer of police officers have ruined the reliability of this government. Based on the allegations made by Vaze in his letter, a CBI probe needs to be initiated against Ajit Pawar and Anil Parab,” said state BJP president Chandrakant Patil.In his letter, Vaze stated that someone claiming to be very close to Ajit Pawar asked him to collect ₹100 crore a month from illegal gutka sellers. He also alleged that Parab asked him to look into the inquiry against fraudulent contractors listed by the Mumbai civic body. The former police officer, dismissed from service in May, also claimed that Parab asked him to collect ₹2 crore from some 50 contractors.Refuting the charges, Pawar had said he never met Vaze. “I have never met Vaze nor have I spoken to him ever. So go ahead and conduct an inquiry if this is what needs to be done,” he said.Parab also debunked the allegations, saying it was BJP’s conspiracy to defame MVA. “In order to defame the chief minister, it was necessary to vilify someone close to him. This is a part of agenda being pursued by the BJP,” Parab had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-demands-cbi-probe-against-mva-ministers-ajit-pawar-and-anil-parab-101624561970622.html
25-06-2021||Other||4 cops injured as mob attacks police party in Tarn Taran||Tarn Taran A mob of 20-odd attacked a police party with sharp-edged weapons in Khair Dinke village, 20km from district headquarters, injuring four policemen on Thursday. The police team had arrested two drug peddlers, but the family members and relatives of the accused freed them after the assault.Assistant sub-inspectors (ASIs) Narinder Singh and Kartar Singh; constable Tejbir Singh and Punjab Home Guard jawan Jatinder Singh have been injured. A Maruti Suzuki Swift car that was used by the police team while executing the operation has also been damaged. According to the police, a team of anti-Narcotics staff led-by ASI Kartar had a tip-off that Lakhbir Singh, alias Lada, and his brother, Kulwant Singh of Khair Dinke village, were involved in drug peddling.“The team laid a trap and sent a conduit for purchasing drugs from the accused. During the operation, 40gm of heroin was recovered from both the accused, who were arrested on the spot. After a while, Lada managed to flee from the custody. The police party followed Lada to nab him. During this chase, family members and relatives of the accused assaulted the police party with sharp-edged weapons. They also managed to free accused Kulwant from police custody,” a police official said. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said a case has been registered under under the NDPS Act and the IPC against the accused at Chabhal police station. He added that one of the cops had got a severe cut on his head. DSP City Sucha Singh Ball said, “A group of 20 persons assaulted the cops and we have identified 14 of them. All of these will be behind bars soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-cops-injured-as-mob-attacks-police-party-in-tarn-taran-101624561791225.html
25-06-2021||Other||24,000 quintal wheat grain siphoned off in Sultanpur Lodhi||Jalandhar Over 24,000 quintal wheat grain, meant for distribution to the poor under the Atta Dal scheme, has been siphoned off from stock at Sultanpur Lodhi, district food supplies controller (DFSC), Kapurthala, has found in an inquiry.Kapurthala deputy commissioner Deepti Uppal had ordered the probe after Sultanpur Lodhi MLA Navtej Singh Cheema and members of the Kisan Union lodged multiple complaints on non-disbursement of wheat from October 2020 to March 2021 to beneficiaries; they had also raised the issue of poor quality. Kapurthala DFSC Geeta Bishambhu had submitted her inquiry report with the director, food and civil supply department, on June 21. The names of four food inspectors of Sultanpur Lodhi have surfaced as key accused in the scam.The report noted that the Sultanpur Lodhi centre of the department didn’t provide record of wheat distribution to the inspection teams despite repeated orders in May; later the DFSC received many other complaints following which a special inspection team was formed on June 9. The report added that depot holder association had brought into the notice of DFSC office that inspectors posted in Sultanpur Lodhi block didn’t release wheat despite repeated requests, while slips of beneficiaries were issued.The probe has recommended action against staff posted at Sultanpur Lodhi centre of the food supplies department because many beneficiaries failed to take benefit of wheat due to their gross negligence. “The state government suffered huge financial loss and a dent in image due to staff negligence,: the report added. “In Sultanpur Lodhi, there are 45 depots, of which 18 depot holders received wheat for distribution from food inspectors but they didn’t distribute the entire wheat as per rules. The inspection committee recorded statements of 25 depot holders, who confirmed that they didn’t receive wheat,” added the report. The inspection report of wheat stock at Khera village of Sultanpur Lodhi shows that of 43,678 quintal of wheat, 4,357 quintal was released; 15,000-odd was found in stock and 24,000 quintal had been siphoned off. The report added that the wheat at Khera village open stock was of poor quality and could not be counted. The DFSC also issued directions to food inspectors to shift the remaining stock from Khera village to a secure place. as the Food Corporation of India had recommended upgrade of the storage facility at Khera village. The report recommended that the department staff posted at Sultanpur Lodhi had committed huge negligence and did not even listen to the district circle office of the department. “If staff officers had shifted the stock from Khera village, as per earlier orders the stock could have been safe,” it adds.DFSC Geeta Bishambhu refused to comment. Sultanpur Lodhi SDM Charumita who has been conducting a parallel probe in the matter said she would submit the report in a day or two to Kapurthala deputy commissioner. MLA Cheema said, “Officials who caused sufferings of the poor must be punished.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/24000-quintal-wheat-grain-siphoned-off-in-sultanpur-lodhi-101624561371142.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Suburban commuter chases mobile thief, gets him arrested||A 48-year-old commuter jumped off a running train, sustained severe injuries and lost consciousness but not before getting the thief arrested who had robbed his mobile phone.According to the Mumbai Central government railway police (GRP) officers, the incident took place at around 11.30am on Wednesday when Virar resident Devendra Parekh was travelling from Dadar to Lower Parel by a slow local.M Inamdar, a senior police inspector of Mumbai Central GRP, said that Parekh was sitting on a seat near the door passage when the train approached Prabhadevi station. As the train started, a man boarded the train and within seconds snatched Parekh’s mobile phone and jumped off the running train, as the train gained some momentum.The 48-year-old businessman raised an alarm and followed the robber. Parekh however missed a foot and slipped. However, before falling Parekh had grabbed the robber.“As Parekh fell on the platform, the robber managed to get free, and taking advantage of the crowd, he ran,” said Inamdar. “The GRP constables on duty at the platform rushed to the spot and intercepted the robber,” he added. Due to Parekh’s quick thinking the robber had slowed down and was arrested,” said Inamdar.The robber has been identified as Gauravkumar Menpal Singh, 24. The police officers said that while Singh was arrested and the mobile phone worth ₹18,000 was recovered, they rushed Parekh to the KEM Hospital.“Parekh has suffered injuries on his knees, shoulders and head. He is undergoing treatment at present,” added Inamdar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-suburban-commuter-chases-mobile-thief-gets-him-arrested-101624561252788.html
25-06-2021||Other||Panipat woman booked for killing infant||A woman was booked for allegedly giving some acidic substance to a four-month-old boy in Vikash Nagar locality of Panipat.In the complaint filed by Kanta Devi, mother of the child and wife of a UP-based labourer, alleged that accused Laxmi, 30, gave some acidic substance to her son following an argument between their families and a feud between their children a week ago.She alleged that on June 22, when she reached home, she found her son Harshit unconscious with foam coming out of his mouth. Some liquid was spread on the floor and she spotted Laxmi near her room, she told police.She rushed him to a private hospital and the baby was admitted but on Thursday, the child was referred to PGIMS, Rohtak but he succumbed on the way to the hospital.Panipat City police station in-charge Sunil Kumar said on complaint of mother of the baby, police have booked Laxmi under Sections 302 and 328 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The child’s body was handed over to the family after postmortem and investigation is on to ascertain the cause of death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panipat-woman-booked-for-killing-infant-101624561251666.html
25-06-2021||Lucknow||After UPRERA warning, promoter promises speedy possession of flats||: The UP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UPRERA) has warned promoter Supertech Limited to comply with its orders. The regulatory authority’s warning came after knowing that the promoter is not complying with its orders passed against complaints of allottees. The UP RERA has passed 282 orders against the Supertech Limited for refund of amount of the allottees. It has also issued 249 recovery certificates against the promoter, but compliance has been done in only 101 cases so far, officials said.While presiding over a meeting, Rajive Kumar, UPRERA chairman on Wednesday issued a warning to the promoter for non-compliance of orders. RK Arora, company’s chairman, who was also present at the meeting, assured that by the end of August this year at least 70 percent of orders of the UP RERA will be complied.The regulatory authority had issued orders to the promoter for handing over possession of flats to 933 allottees that the promoter has failed to comply. The promoter informed that out of 933 allottees, 402 have been offered possession of flats. The promoter also informed that by the end of August this year, the occupancy certificate of four projects will be obtained and 140 allottees will be given possession. The promoter also assured that by August this year, 70 percent of the allottees would be given possession.It may be pointed out that the promoter has 40 registered projects. Out of these, registration of 26 projects has lapsed and eight projects have been completed by the promoter. Rajive Kumar directed the promoter to submit an action plan to complete remaining projects in the shortest possible time and to ensure speedy possession to allottees. The promoter informed that in some projects applications will be submitted for extension of registration.The UP RERA chairman pointed out that disposal of registration applications of future projects of the promoter would depend on the status of compliance of orders of the regulatory authority. Kumar added that in order to protect interests of the allottees, if there is any negligence in compliance of orders by the promoter, effective punitive action will be ensured under other provisions of section-63 of RERA Act, including recovery through recovery certificates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-uprera-warning-promoter-promises-speedy-possession-of-flats-101624561250558.html
25-06-2021||Chandigarh||Start special Covid testing drives, says Haryana chief secretary||Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan on Thursday cautioned the health officials about complacency in view of the recent decline in Covid-19 cases in state.Vardhan advised the health officials to conduct special sampling drives in places of high density including colleges, offices, shopping malls, industrial establishments, etc.The directions came following a video conference with Union cabinet secretary, Rajiv Gauba to review Covid-19 preparedness.As per a statement, the chief secretary said that the health department should ensure that at least 50,000 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT-PCR or rapid antigen test (RAT) should be conducted every day.He further directed the health officials to identify the gaps experienced during the recent second wave of the pandemic and prepare themselves in advance for every eventuality.The chief secretary gave directions that requirement of essential drugs as well as equipment such as pulse oximeters, thermometers, ventilators, etc should be anticipated and the process for their procurement and purchase should be expedited.Vardhan reiterated the importance of imparting training to medical personnel with special focus on treating paediatric Covid cases in the near future.He emphasised on the need to source, modify and adapt the existing medical life saving equipment for paediatric use.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/start-special-covid-testing-drives-says-haryana-chief-secretary-101624561132391.html
25-06-2021||Lucknow||Now, new firm to manage ALS ambulances in UP; joint inspection of fleet begins||: A new company will now run the 250 advanced life support (ALS) ambulances, transporting very serious/critical patients to hospitals in the state. Before the takeover, a joint inspection of ambulances by a team from new firm Ziqitza Healthcare Limited as well as the old company, GVK EMRI, took place on Thursday. The changeover would have no impact on the patients who would continue to get free of cost transport to hospital as before, an official of the new team said. “We are beginning with the joint inspection of ambulances that were already giving services to patients. Our teams along with the previous company and government representatives will assess the condition of the vehicles and the equipment fitted in them,” said Milton Singh, chief manager for the Ziqitza Healthcare Limited. Joint inspection began from Jhansi, Lalitpur, Jalaun, Orai districts, in Jhansi division and Agra, Firozabad, Mainpuri Mathura, in Agra division. By July 20 this process has to be completed in all the 75 districts. The firm is already running ambulances services in several states including Jharkhand and Sikkim. The normal or non-ALS ambulances will continue to be run by GVK EMRI, an official said. While normal ambulances with oxygen support facility are provided for less serious patients, who dial ‘108’ facility for help but for serious patients, the same call centre (108) generates requirement for an advanced life support (ALS) ambulance in case of serious patients. There is another ambulance facility available exclusively for pregnant women who have to dial 102 to avail the service. Asked if there will be change in calling number from the two 108 and 102, the director general medical health Dr DS Negi said, “We are working on it. We shall make sure patients can easily access to ALS and non-ALS ambulances.” The GVK EMRI HR head Lingraj Das issued a circular on Thursday. “The new firm has got tender to run ALS ambulances but none of our staff should be worried as we shall follow services rules and keep you informed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-new-firm-to-manage-als-ambulances-in-up-joint-inspection-of-fleet-begins-101624561133012.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||SSC results to be declared by mid-July; entrance exam for junior college admissions by July-end: GR||Results of the Senior Secondary Certificate (SSC) examinations will be announced by July 15, and an optional physical entrance exam for first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions will be conducted by July-end or August first week, stated a government resolution (GR) released on Thursday.The notification comes nearly a month after the state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that admissions to FYJC will be based on a common entrance test (CET).According to GR, an optional CET exam will be conducted based on the Class 10 syllabus and comprising multiple-choice questions (MCQs) for 100 marks. This exam will be first open to FYJC aspirants from all school board. Those who don’t want to opt for the physical entrance exam will be marked according to their performance in the internal assessment of Class 10.“Students appearing for the optional CET exam will be given first preference during admissions to FYJC. After these admissions are completed, the remaining vacant seats in junior colleges will be allotted to those students who do not appear for the entrance exam,” said Varsha Gaikwad, state school education minister. The decision to conduct a CET exam for FYJC aspirants was taken to bring about uniformity and comparability in class admissions, Gaikwad had added. Earlier this year, all school education boards including the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and the Council of Indian Secondary Certificate Examinations (CISCE) decided to scrap Class 10 exams due to increasing Covid-19 cases. Instead, the boards decided to grade the students based on their internal exam performance for the year. The state government’s decision to conduct CET for Class 11 admissions has invited mixed reactions. “As of now it seems like CET will be based on state board syllabus in mind, so we hope this does not pose as a hindrance for students from other school education boards. Also giving first preference only to those who give the entrance exam will automatically push all students to give the exam,” said the principal of ICSE school in the city. On April 12, the state government had postponed HSC exams to the end of May and SSC exams to June. However, following CBSE’s decision to cancel Class 10 exams and a similar decision from ICSE, IGCSE and IB there was growing pressure to cancel exams from students and parents to ensure equivalence across boards which is key at the time of admissions to colleges. On April 20, Class 10 exams were declared cancelled by the state government and students will now be marked based on internal assessmentsAround 17 lakh students appear for SSC in the state. In Mumbai itself, nearly 2.24 lakh students were admitted into various junior colleges across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region last yearBoard-wise numbersClass 10 student data (2020)SSC: 17,54,367CBSE: 73,484ICSE: 23,336||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssc-results-to-be-declared-by-mid-july-entrance-exam-for-junior-college-admissions-by-july-end-gr-101624561131228.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to study Covid-19 ward war rooms||Anticipating the third wave, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will undertake a study on the ward-wise Covid-19 war room scheme that was initiated during the first wave. Civic body officials believe the study is likely to help them understand the loopholes and further strengthen their strategy, which helped streamline the management of novel coronavirus infection cases during the first and second wave.When the pandemic first hit Mumbai in March 2020, there was one central BMC helpline — 1916. However, by June, cases were peaking in the city, which increased the pressure on the centralised helpline number. The critical helpline number got completely clogged with calls, following which, BMC commissioner IS Chahal decided on decentralisation and ward-level war rooms were set up subsequently which proved fruitful in timely admission of Covid-19 patients.“We were the first city to initiate ward-wise war rooms which helped channelise timely treatment of Covid-19 patients and thereby control the fatality rate. We have therefore decided to conduct a study which might guide us to strengthen the decentralised disaster management system if we face the third wave,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.Each war room runs 24X7 with teachers and data entry staff working in three shifts — 7am-3pm, 3pm-11pm and 11pm-7am. There are around 15-16 people who work in each shift. However, the number may differ ward-wise.As per civic officials, in April when the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak, the 24 ward war rooms received over 80,000 calls with maximum queries on beds and ambulances.“Last year, in May, when Covid-19 cases surged suddenly, there was too much chaos. The centralised disaster number couldn’t handle the number of calls. But the war rooms helped distribute the burden. So, with all the data available with us, we want to study how the module worked for Mumbai,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. “We are yet to chalk out the plan, and which ward to select for the study,” she added.However, compared to April, the number of calls has decreased drastically with the flattening of the pandemic curve in the second wave. “The number of calls has dropped drastically compared to April. As 80% beds in hospitals are vacant, now, we are getting around 100 calls which were around 500 calls in April,” said Kiran Dighavkar, BMC assistant commissioner and in-charge of G-South ward that covers Dharavi, Mahim and Dadar.The decentralisation was done to allot beds to critically ill patients on time. Guidelines were issued to prioritise the admission of patients based on their health condition.Explaining the protocol, Dr Dripti Soni, one of the doctors in the war room, said call attendants first enquire if the patient has co-morbidities which includes medical history like blood saturation levels and their blood pressure. If the patient doesn’t have the medical equipment, then the ward war room sends healthcare workers to their house to gather information.“Many patients and their relatives start panicking when they test positive for the infection. Almost 90% callers ask for hospital beds. But patients with oxygen saturation above 95% and with no severe co-morbidities don’t require hospitalisation. So, this prioritisation helped stop unnecessary occupancy of hospital beds,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-study-covid-19-ward-war-rooms-101624561070580.html
25-06-2021||Other||Farmers to protest on June 26 to mark 7 months of their stir||Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Yogendra Yadav on Thursday said they will hold a protest march across nation on June 26 to mark completion of seven months of the farm agitation against Centre’s three farm laws.Yadav said the government has failed to address the grievances of farmers and it is trying to break the farm stir by using different tools.“We will protest outside the governor houses across nation on June 26 to mark completion of seven months of the farm agitation. There is undeclared emergency in the nation and the BJP government is trying to crush every dissent voice,” he added.Yadav said Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar had claimed that he is just one call away from the farmers to discuss their issue but the protesters are yet to get his call.“Union ministers have turned arrogant and they don’t want to think about repealing Centre’s three farm laws,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-to-protest-on-june-26-to-mark-7-months-of-their-stir-101624561013553.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||2,053 persons given fake vaccines in Mumbai, state tells HC||The state government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that stringent measures had been undertaken to clamp down on private vaccination camps being organised in the city wherein residents of societies, students and employees of educational institutions and corporate houses were being administered fake vaccines and five first information reports (FIR) were registered along with the testimonies of around 400 witnesses. The Mumbai Police and the BMC, while responding to the query of the HC, informed the bench that around 2,053 persons had been administered fake vaccines in nine such camps and the perpetrators had been arrested. The court, while expressing its dismay at such instances directed the state government and BMC to formulate policies or guidelines on an immediate basis to ensure that the lives of the citizens were not put to risk and sought affidavits enumerating the same by the next hearing. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation filed by Siddharth Chandrashekhar, was informed by advocate Anita Shekhar-Castellino that in light of news reports of some individuals/groups taking advantage of the problems faced by citizens, while booking vaccination slots on Co-WIN portal, the court should issue directions to the authorities to make the process more accessible for everyone and prioritise vaccination for the elderly and the sick. In light of these submissions, Castellino said strict action was required against the persons who fooled and fleeced people. On June 22, the court had directed the police to investigate the same and submit a report and had also directed the BMC to formulate a policy to ensure such instances were not repeated.Responding to the directions of the court, chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare for the state submitted a confidential status report on the investigation and said that five FIRs had been registered in Mumbai against the perpetrators and probes to get to the root of the scandal was in progress. Thakare submitted that due to the seriousness of the issue, the lower court had refused to grant bail to two of the accused, namely Ashish Mishra of Aditya College of Architecture and Rajesh Pandey, another accused. He added that Dr Manish Tripathi, a third accused was absconding. The group of five had allegedly held private vaccination camps for a society in Kandivli and Versova and their scandal came to light after the certificates issued by them did not reflect on the Co-WIN portal. Thakare sought directions of the court to the authorities and others that the local police station should be informed about the organisation of such vaccination camps in advance.Thakare further submitted that in all 2,053 persons were given fake vaccines and it included 390 vaccinations at Hiranandani Health Club at Kandivli (West), 514 in Borivli, 207 at Poddar Education Society in Parel, 30 at Malad West and around 365 employees of Tips Industries at Khar. He further informed the court that none of the beneficiaries of the fake vaccines had suffered any side effects after inoculation. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare for the BMC informed the bench that the civic authority has lodged a complaint against the frauds and its investigations revealed that none of the hospitals to which the scamsters had claimed to be attached to, had provided the vials for such camps. Sakhare added that Covishield manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII) was also requested to look into the issue.After hearing the submissions and being told that guidelines were yet to be formulated by the state and BMC to curb such instances, the bench said, “We want a specific policy on fake vaccination. You cannot delay like this, this is an urgent matter. Every minute is important and time is of the essence.”The bench observed that there was a need to test the beneficiaries of the fake vaccines to ascertain the effect of the fake vaccines so that they can be vaccinated properly. The court then directed the state and BMC to file affidavits and posted further hearing to June 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2053-persons-given-fake-vaccines-in-mumbai-state-tells-hc-101624561010559.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 9,844 new cases, crosses 6 million mark||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 9,844 new Covid-19 cases, crossing the 6,000,000 mark. The total number of cases till now is 6,007,431 in Maharashtra. The first case in the state was recorded in Pune on March 9, 2020. Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said the government has been able to contain the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have a population of more than 120 million in Maharashtra and till now 6,007,431 have been infected with the virus. This shows that we have been able to deal effectively with Covid-19,” said Dr Lahane.Of the 9,844 new cases, 773 were from Mumbai. Mumbai witnessed 10 deaths taking the total death toll to 15,348.The second wave that started in Maharashtra on February 10 has so far led to 3,958,629 new Covid-19 cases and 68,499 deaths within four months, compared to the first wave from March 9, 2020 to February 9, 2021, which saw 2,048,802 cases, along with 51,360 deaths in approximately 11 months. Dr Ishwar Gilada. secretary-general, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said most of the cases were in the second wave. “We had about 64% cases in the second wave as it was more infectious, virulent and also lethal compared to the first one,” said Gilada. “Even today, we are facing problems in mainly rural parts of Maharashtra in places such as Kolhapur, Raigad and Ratnagiri,” he added.A total of 232,576 tests were done on Thursday, while the number of recoveries stood at 9,371. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra stands at 121,767, while the total number of deaths has now reached 119,859. Pune leads with 16,456 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,348 patients. Mumbai tops in active cases with 18,687 patients, followed by Pune with 17,363 active patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-9-844-new-cases-crosses-6-million-mark-101624560950611.html
25-06-2021||Other||Excessive mining depleting ground water: Dadri farmers||The farmers of Jhojhu Kalan village in Charkhi Dadri district have expressed fear that the groundwater of their tubewells has been depleting as mining activities to extract stone crusher is going on unabated at their adjacent Ramalwas village, which shares boundary with their fields.The farmers said they have been running from pillar to post for the past one year urging the administration to take action against the contractors for allegedly digging up 200-ft pits in the ground to extract stones and continuing mining activities by throwing groundwater outside the mining area with the help of pipes.The farmers conducted panchayat four times seeking action against the contractors.Suresh Kumar Sangwan alias Foji, of Jhojhu Kalan, said scores of farmers from their village had met Dadri deputy commissioner Amarjeet Singh Mann a few days back asking him to take action against contractors who have been extracting stones by depleting groundwater at Ramalwas village site.“Due to rampant extraction, groundwater of nearly 150 tubewells has reached 200-ft. We have no issues with the mining activities but it should be stopped as it reaches the groundwater table. If they continue to do so, it is a violation of the National Green Tribunal’s norms. The DC has assured us of looking into the matter,” he added.Another farmer Anil Kumar Sangwan said they had lodged a complaint with the Haryana chief minister’s window in November last year but no action has been taken against the violators so far.“There is a nexus between the contractors and the officials to extract stone crushers while violating the NGT norms. We had reached out to three former DCs to intervene in the matter but no action has been initiated. Workers at Ramalwas mining site are throwing groundwater in the canal from the site with the help of pipes. When we raised the issue of sand mining, it was stopped in many parts of the district but stone crusher mining is on unabated,” he added.Virender Kumar, a farmer of Jhojhu Kalan, said the officials are ignoring the mining issue and are hesitating to take action against the ‘mining mafia’.“If our tubewells’ groundwater depletes, how will we earn our livelihood? The miners have been extracting stones from groundwater and have created 200-ft deep pits, if anyone falls, they won’t survive,” he added.Dadri mining officer Niranjan said the Dadri DC has formed a two-member committee, including him and a hydraulic engineer, to look into the matter.“Water being thrown out by workers at the mining site is not groundwater. It was extracted from rocks. The mining activities are allowed until the groundwater does not appear,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/excessive-mining-depleting-ground-water-dadri-farmers-101624560891562.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Conduct final-year PG exams at the earliest, NMC tells colleges||Nearly two months after the National Medical Commission (NMC) announced the postponement of final year postgraduate (PG) medical examinations by a month, the commission recently released another circular requesting all affiliated colleges to conduct the pending exams at the earliest.In an advisory dated June 22, NMC requested colleges to conduct exams depending upon the local Covid situation. “Covid-19 caused disruption in all walks of life in the country for the last year and a half, expectedly the medical students had to endure the major brunt of this,” said the circular. “The NMC had to issue regular and pertinent advisories regarding matters concerning the examinations and students to tide over the crisis. Fortunately, Covid has started to show a retreating trend and therefore we are advising colleges to hold the pending examinations for PG speciality and super speciality courses at the earliest,” the circular added.In April, the central government decided to extend the final year PG medical and dental exam by a month and the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for postgraduate courses (NEET-PG) by four months.Originally scheduled to take place in the month of May, PG final year exams were postponed by a month based on a circular by NMC to ensure all students are working across hospitals as the country was amid the peak of the second wave of Covid-19.Even before the NMC advisory was released, the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) in the last week of May, had announced the examination timetable for these exams. As per the MUHS circular, the pending exams will be conducted in the month of August for all PG speciality, super-speciality and diploma courses. Students, however, are still unsure if they’ll have enough time to prepare for their exams. “Most of us (students) are working every day at hospitals across the state and have had no time to prepare for our exams,” said Dr Prajakta Mhatre, another final year PG medical student.In May, the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) had also approached MUHS as well as the Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) to give final year PG students at least 45 days of preparation time for exams. “The authorities accepted our demand but till date, we haven’t received our relieving letters from DMER. Only once these letters are issued will we get to prepare for the upcoming exams, which commence from August 16,” said Dr Pranav Jadhav, vice-president central MARD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/conduct-final-year-pg-exams-at-the-earliest-nmc-tells-colleges-101624560831212.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Satisfied with vaccination of nearly 1/3rd prisoners in Maharashtra: Bombay HC||The state prison authorities on Thursday informed the Bombay high court (HC) that nearly a third of the inmates lodged in jails across the state had received the first jab and the number of active Covid cases had come down from the earlier 63 to 21. The submissions were made by the state in response to the query by the HC in the suo motu public interest litigation (SMPIL) which was initiated based on news reports of the spurt in Covid cases during the second wave. The court then expressed its satisfaction with the progress made in the correctional homes to ward off Covid. The court was also informed that around 80,580 tests were conducted on jail staff and inmates and around 2,706 inmates were granted interim bail and 518 emergency parole to decongest jails. The state added that over 13,000 prisoners and 3,641 staff members were vaccinated with atleast the first dose.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the SMPIL, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the state had complied with various directions of the HC which had brought down the number of Covid-19 positive cases in the 45 jails across the state substantially and the total prison population had also decreased slightly.The note submitted by the prison authorities shows that out of 1,296 prisoners above the age of 60 years, around 1,177 are vaccinated while 4,119 of the 4,660 inmates between 45-60 years have received a jab. The note further states that of the 27,044 inmates in the age group of 18 to 45 years only 8,039 are vaccinated. In all 13,335 of the around 33,000 inmates are vaccinated which includes 1,539 inmates having comorbidities from the three groups. Responding to the suggestion of Prof Vijay Raghavan, member of Centre for Criminology and Justice in Tata Institute of Social Sciences, who is assisting the court in the PIL to have lady doctors visit prisons for women, Kumbhakoni submitted that prison authorities had been asked to coordinate with government hospitals and ask them to send lady doctors on rotation and need basis to treat women inmates. On the suggestion by senior counsel Mihir Desai on having mobile pathological labs to ensure immediate testing of inmates within jail premises and also avoiding the need for police escorts to take inmates to hospitals, Kumbhakoni submitted that the lab facilities to conduct various tests were present in all nine prisons and collection and analysis of samples was done in the prison hospitals itself. The state added that district health agencies were helping the prison department in the collection of samples and reports of samples are communicated to the prison authority. The state further informed the bench that jail superintendents were instructed on June 22 to check and get all defective machines repaired and to also check the availability of mobile lab facilities by approaching concerned medical officers in the district.After hearing the submissions the bench noted in its order, “We record satisfaction at the progress made in the correctional homes to ward off Covid. Almost 1/3rd of the prison population has been vaccinated and the number of active cases has reduced considerably and presently stands at 20.”Seeking further facts and figures of Covid situation at prisons in Maharashtra, HC posted further hearing to July 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/satisfied-with-vaccination-of-nearly-1-3rd-prisoners-in-maharashtra-bombay-hc-101624560770572.html
25-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai vax scam: Seven FIRs registered; 6 who posed as doctors booked||Bhoiwada police on Wednesday night registered the fifth first information report (FIR), while late Thursday evening, the Bangur Nagar and Borivli police stations filed the sixth and seventh FIRs respectively, in connection with the vaccination scam. The Bhoiwada police have booked six people, who posed as doctors and held an unauthorised vaccination camp, in May at a private educational institute Poddar Centre in Parel. Mumbai Police has, for the first time, charged members of the bogus vaccination camp group with a section of attempt to commit culpable homicide not amounting to murder in the Bhoiwada police FIR.Police officers said the arrested accused - Mahendra Singh, Shrikant Mane, Seema Singh and three others conducted the bogus vaccination camp at Poddar Centre between May 28 and 29. “During the camp, some adulterated medicine in the name of Covishield vaccine was administered to the employees of the institute. The accused collected the Aadhar Card details of the institute staff and issued bogus and forged vaccination certificate in the name of Nanavati and Lifeline Care hospitals. The gang of fake doctors made ₹2,44,800 through this vaccination camp,” said Vinod Kamble, senior inspector of Bhoiwada police station. The case has been registered on the complaint of Badlapur resident Shankar Namdev Kesari, 34, an employee at Poddar Centre.Vijay Patil, deputy commissioner of police, zone 4, said, “The Mahendra Singh-led group organised the camp at the Poddar Centre and allegedly administered bogus vaccines to its 207 employees.” Singh is presently in the custody of Kandivli police and is one of the key members who executed bogus vaccination camps at various places in Mumbai. “As the accused, Singh, is also involved in this case, we suspect that the camp was organised by the same group, but with different nursing staff and doctor,” said a police inspector from the Bhoiwada police station.In Bangur Nagar vaccination was done on May 25 and 38 employees of Bank of Baroda were vaccinated, whereas 514 people were vaccinated from Mansi Share and Stock Advertisers Private Limited at Shimpoli, Borivli (West) on May 26 and May 27. The accused Mahendra Singh, Sanjay Gupta, Manish Tripathi, Shrikant Mane and Seema Ahuja are some of the common accused in other FIRs. The group charged ₹1,000 per jab.During Singh’s interrogation in the Kandivli case, he revealed details about the bogus camp at Parel, following which we started a probe. After contacting Poddar Centre employees in the preliminary probe, it was ascertained that Singh’s group conducted bogus vaccination camp, following which, on the complaint of institute’s employee we registered a criminal offence and have begun an investigation, said DCP Patil.The police have booked the six accused under sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating), and 471(Using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 269 (unlawfully or negligent act which likely to spread the infection of dangerous disease), 270 (malignant act which is likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life), 274 (adulteration of drugs), 275 (sale of adulterated drugs), 276 (Sale of drug as a different drug or preparation), 34 (common intention) and sections 43 (damage to computer system) and 66C (identity theft) of Information Technology Act and 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act.The Bhoiwada police will take Singh’s custody after his police custody is over in other cases. The police are now in process of collecting evidence and recording statements of those employees who were administered bogus vaccines.Fraud group also held camp in ThanePolice officers’ part of the investigation said that during interrogation the accused have revealed that they have also conducted a bogus vaccination drive at the RenewBuy Insurance Company in Pachpakhadi area of Thane on May 26.After this, they organised a vaccination camp in Borivli, Parel (May 28-29) and then at Hiranandani Heritage in Kandivli on May 30, and later at other places in city.A civil contractor (who could become a witness in the case) had taken the jab at the Thane camp. After the Poddar administration showed interest in camp, he then introduced them to Shrikant Mane, who along with Seema Ahuja organised a vaccination camp at Parel through Mahendra Singh, the police said.Singh-led group would mostly tell their ‘victims’ that they had procured the vaccines from Dahisar-based Shivam Hospital, the police said.Majiwada (Thane) resident Mane and Kalyan resident Ahuja are former employees of controversial global tours and travel agency Cox and Kings group. They played the role of mediators in the fake vaccine scam. The two were produced in court by Bhoiwada police and remanded in police custody till SaturdayEarlier the police had arrested five people, including Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-vax-scam-seven-firs-registered-6-who-posed-as-doctors-booked-101624560710615.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board discusses ways to streamline water supply||The Delhi Jal Board (DJB) vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha on Thursday convened a meeting of senior officials to discuss issues related to the equitable distribution of water Delhi, supply shortage and water contamination, as well as the setting up of an emergency response team to minimise water-related complaints.Addressing officials, Chadha said, “The emergency response teams, consisting of chief engineers and superintendent engineers, will draft special plans for critical areas under their jurisdiction in consultation with local MLAs. These plans will then be submitted to member (water) for verification and further necessary action. On execution of these plans, it is expected that the number of complaints the DJB receives will reduce.”He added, “We need to find a way to supply the available raw water in an equitable manner, either through a piped network or additional tanker trips. DJB’s officers need to ensure that complaints received are redressed promptly without fail.”He instructed DJB officials that a constituency-wise analysis of the database, in terms of the amount of water received by DJB installations, needs to be done at regular intervals to ascertain the gap between demand and supply.Chadha also directed the formation of an emergency response team, consisting chief engineers and superintendent engineers, who will draft special task plans for critical areas under their jurisdiction in consultation with area MLAs and after site visits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-jal-board-discusses-ways-to-streamline-water-supply-101624560352528.html
25-06-2021||Other||Trader body meets DMRC chief highlights problem of crowding outside Metro stations||New Delhi: Long queues outside Metro stations are causing crowding and traffic snarls in markets around stations, a delegation of traders told Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) managing director Mangu Singh on Thursday, officials and members of the delegation said.Long queues outside Metro stations, especially during peak hours, have become a common sight ever since the Metro resumed operations on June 7. The passenger load has almost doubled in the past fortnight, Metro officials said. As per the data, on June 7, 680,000 lakh passenger journeys or trips were carried out which increased to 1.3 million on June 18. On June 20 , 848,000 trips were operated on Sunday and 852,000 on June 24.The delegation comprised of members of the Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI) who told the DMRC MD that considering most markets in Delhi are located around Metro stations, the long queues outside their gates were spilling over to markets causing crowding and traffic jams, members of the delegation said. “Since the Metro services reopened after the Covid-19 lockdown, only limited number of gates are kept open and entry and exit are managed from the same gate. We have asked the DMRC to allow more gates to be opened and to also to increase the frequency of trains so that crowd does not spill over to markets,” said Brijesh Goyal, chairperson, CTI. Goyal said stations around markets such as Chandni Chowk, Kashmere Gate, Red Fort and Rajiv Chowk, more entry and exits should be opened. The traders said that the intermittent closure of metro gates to ensure social distancing inside on the Metro network was causing crowding on the roads adjacent to the stations and also around parking areas. The Delhi Metro said crowding was mostly happening around busy stations and those that act as interchange facilities. They said the Metro was strictly ensuring Covid-19 protocols are followed both inside and outside its premises, which is why limited number of gates are being used and rigorous checks are being ensured to avoid crowding on stations. DMRC officials as per the government guidelines for Covid management, sitting is being allowed only on alternative seats with no standing. This means that the system was only operating at 10-15% of its capacity, the officials said, adding this is what causing crowding at some of the stations. “The long queues are caused as single-entry points only are permitted at most of the Metro stations. In a mass transit system, it is difficult to regulate the number of persons inside the system once full entry is permitted,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications). A senior official confirmed each coach now carries 25-30 passengers compared to 300 earlier. Besides restricted seating, only 5,100 train trips every day at a peak frequency of 2.5 minutes to 5 minutes is being managed on all the major corridors. “This was the same frequency at which Metro was operating during the normal pre-Covid times. The Metro is thus operating and running at its full frequency/capacity but with a reduced number of passengers owing to restrictions,” Dayal said. Mohan Taparia, a commuter travelling from Dwarka Mor to Rajiv Chowk on Thursday said that he had to wait over half hour just to get inside the station. “There is no problem once you’re inside the station. But the problem is to get in. There is a long queue and people rarely follow any social distancing. How does any social distancing inside the station help if there is crowding outside,” said Taparia. Experts also said that agencies will have to ensure that while Covid norms are followed inside the Metro system, crowding is also controlled outside station gates. Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said a mass transit mode such as the Delhi Metro was designed to carry more standing passengers than seated ones, adding that reducing the carrying capacity of trains to 10% (calculated based on pre-pandemic passenger traffic) will only push the system to more losses. He also pointed out that it is important that the Metro stations and trains do not become infection hot spots. “We really need to plan this carefully. It is important that rather than putting the entire onus of ensuring social distancing on the Metro, the government should also play its part by controlling passenger load by staggering market hours, office timings, etc. Meanwhile, for the time being, the Metro can focus on increasing the frequency of trains and add more coaches so that the carrying capacity can increase,” Ram said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trader-body-meets-dmrc-chief-highlights-problem-of-crowding-outside-metro-stations-101624560351914.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Shalimar Bagh dacoity: Suspects yet to be identified||Investigations into the Shalimar Bagh dacoity case, in which five men broke into the house of a businessman in Shalimar Bagh on Tuesday, held his daughter hostage and decamped with cash and jewellery worth over ₹20 lakh, failed to make headway, with the police now suspecting that the five men may be from outside Delhi. Questioning of scores of local criminals has yielded no results or helped the police identify the suspects, officers associated with the probe said on Thursday.Multiple teams of north-west district are working on the case, but despite having CCTV footage in which the suspects are seen, one of them without a mask, police are still clueless about their identities, an investigator said, asking not to be named.“One of the theories we are working on is that the suspects may be from a “transformed version” of the notorious Bawariya gangs as the modus operandi of the five men is similar to that of Bawariyas,” said the officer, adding that the teams are also looking at an Aligarh-based gang that had committed a similar crime in Rohini a couple of years ago. Bawariyas are a nomadic tribe, whose folk have been involved in a string of violent crimes, including murder, rape, burglary and/or assaults, in the states of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.On Tuesday around 2.30am, five unidentified robbers, four of them wearing masks, broke into the ground floor house of Ramesh Bansal, a businessman dealing in steel utensils, in Shalimar Bagh, held his 24-year-old daughter Arushi hostage, ransacked her room and decamped with cash and jewellery worth over ₹20 lakh that the family has purchased for her wedding.The robbers remained in the house for nearly one and a half hours and ransacked the entire room in which the woman slept. Bansal and his 22-year-old son Chetan were sleeping in their respective rooms with the air-conditioners (ACs) on, because of which, they did not hear anything and remained asleep, even as the robbers fled with cash and jewellery, the police said.Explaining why investigators are suspecting that the men are from “outside Delhi”, the officer quoted above said unlike the Bawariya gangs, which usually kill or harm their victims, the five suspects did not harm Arushi. Also, unlike the Bawariya gangs that ransack the entire house, the five only targeted Arushi’s room; particularly the almirah in which cash and jewellery were kept, the officer said.“There are also several similarities. Like the Bawariya gang members, the five suspects also chose a house close to a park, and cut the iron fencing of the park and scaled a boundary wall to enter the house. In the video footage, they are seen wearing tight clothes, the kind that is preferred by Bawariya members,” the officer said.Police are also collecting dump data of cellphones active in the neighbourhood at the time of the dacoity. “The scrutiny of the dump data may help us identify mobile numbers that did not belong to people living in the locality,” another police officer said, also requesting anonymity.The police have not ruled out the involvement of an “insider” as the robbers specifically asked the woman about the wedding jewellery. The robbers took away the woman’s iPhone but left her MacBook. She used the laptop to contact a friend, who in turn called the police control room and informed them about the crime. The woman’s father and brother learnt of the incident only on being woken up by the police knocking on their door.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shalimar-bagh-dacoity-suspects-yet-to-be-identified-police-say-they-may-be-bawariyas-101624560351310.html
25-06-2021||Other||E-learner’s licence software in final stages||The state transport department is in the final stages of creating a special software that will allow applicants to appear for a learners’ driving licence test from their homes and issue the document without any physical intervention, said a senior official on Thursday. “The NIC (National Informatics Centre) is developing the software for e-learner’s licence and it is almost ready. It is currently undergoing testing and security audit. The NIC is also trying to add a face recognition system in the software to ensure there is no proxy test attempt,” said the official. Once implemented, an applicant will not have to visit the RTO to give the test for the learners’ licence. The project is likely to take off in about two months. “It will be an e-learner’s licence with a validity of six months. The process will require applicants to register on the transport department website, that will provide them a date on which they can take the learner’s licence test from their homes. The applicant will go through a standard online tutorial and then take the test. The candidates will also have to sit for a test to check for colour blindness, after which the e-learner’s licence will be issued,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elearners-licence-software-in-final-stages-101624560350530.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Four students ‘planning terror activities in Delhi’, detained from Ladakh||Delhi Police on Thursday said they have detained four students from Kargil who were allegedly making a conspiracy to plan and execute terror activities in the national capital.Police identified the four men as Nazir Hussain, 26, Zulfikar Ali Wazir, 25, Aiaz Hussain, 28, and Muzammil Hussain, 25. Officers said the four, who are all residents of Thang village in Kargil district of Ladakh, were detained in a joint operation with Intelligence Bureau, Kargil Police and the Delhi police’s special cell.“They have been taken on transit remand and brought to Delhi for questioning. Further details will be shared in due course,” a police spokesperson said.The police in their statement said the four men were conspiring to execute a terror attack but did not officially specify the nature of the attack that the men were allegedly planning, or if they were part of any recent terror attack in Delhi.But officials privy to the investigation said the four suspects were allegedly linked to the explosion outside the Israel embassy on January 29, 2021.No police officer, who is authorised to issue press statements, commented on the exact role of the four men in the explosion. A mid-level officer, who asked not to be named, said, “The central intelligence agencies had intercepted them. It was their operation. We will question them in connection with this case and the other plans that they had.”According to the police, a low-intensity improvised device went off around 5pm near the Israel embassy on APJ Abdul Kalam Road. No injury to any person was reported in the incident. The window panes of a few vehicles parked on the road were shattered outside the embassy. Police had registered a case under the explosives Act but did not arrest anyone.The case is being investigated by the National Investigation Agency. On June 15, the NIA released photographs of two men, who had allegedly placed the explosives(crude bomb) on the road outside the embassy in the New Delhi area, and announced a reward of ₹10 lakh for information about them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-students-planning-terror-activities-in-delhi-detained-from-ladakh-101624560292537.html
25-06-2021||Other||4 rob man at gunpoint||Four bike-borne men robbed the employee of a jeweller of a bag containing around ₹70 lakh cash at gunpoint in north Delhi’s Gulabi Bagh on Thursday afternoon. Police said around 3pm, the employee, identified as Rajesh, was going from Kucha Mahajani near Chandni Chowk on a scooter to hand over the money to his employer in Pitampura. When he reached metro pillar number 142 in Gulabi Bagh around 3:30pm, four men on two bikes intercepted him and asked him to hand over the bag to them. When Rajesh resisted, the robbers threatened to shoot him, snatched the bag at gunpoint and fled the spot. Rajesh raised an alarm and informed his employer. The police was also informed about the crime.“A case of robbery has been registered at the Gulabi Bagh police station. Several teams have been formed to identify and nab the robbers,” said deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse.  Investigators said they are scanning CCTV cameras installed in Kucha Mahajani. They are also scanning the footage of cameras installed on the route that Rajesh took and the place where the robbery took place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-rob-man-at-gunpoint-101624560293051.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt lays down guidelines for foster care, invites applications||After a delay of nearly six years, the Delhi government has laid down detailed guidelines for the foster care of children who have been deprived of a family or have parents who have been declared unfit. To that end, the department of women and child development (WCD) has also invited applications from families interested in fostering children.Until now, family-based foster care could never take off in Delhi, despite being mandated under the Juvenile Justice (Care & Protection of Children) Act, 2015, as the policy was stuck in administrative hurdles. But, group foster care has been in place with scores of NGOs taking in children and providing them institutional care.The new guidelines are in addition to the government’s child sponsorship policy -- Hindustan Times reported on this on June 20 -- which allows corporates and individuals to sponsor the education, health, and basic sustenance of children. Till now, such activities were limited to a few NGOs.The new policies and guidelines come in the backdrop of several children losing either one or both parents to Covid-19. As per the recent data collected by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights, at least 1,436 children lost either one or both parents to Covid-19 in the city. Of them, 59 lost both parents, while 467 lost their mother and 910 lost their father.Under the foster care system, the government will incentivise foster care by offering a monthly financial assistance of ₹2,000 per child to the foster family.“This foster care scheme will be linked to the Covid-19 compensation scheme of the Delhi government, which was notified on June 22. We will soon begin an intensive awareness campaign about the scheme so that more people come forward to apply to foster children, and, after scrutinising applications, we will get a clear picture of the number of children who lost their parents or have been abandoned during this pandemic or otherwise. Such children, upon thorough social investigation, will either be placed for adoption, if the child is below six years of age, or for foster care, if (s)he is more than six years old,” said a senior official from the WCD department, on condition of anonymity.According to the guidelines, the decision to declare an orphan, abandoned or surrendered child as legally free for adoption/foster care is to be taken only on the concurring opinion of majority members (at least three of them) of the child welfare committee (CWC). When there is no majority, the opinion of the chairperson shall prevail. It also mandates that in the case of siblings, they must be kept together, unless it is in their best interests to stay apart.“The number of children placed with a foster family shall not exceed eight in one unit, including biological children of the foster parents… Children who are not being adopted after being declared legally free for adoption may be eligible for foster care… Short term foster care shall be for a period of one year. Long term foster shall be for a period exceeding one year, which can be periodically extended by the CWC till the child attains 18 years of age…,” read the foster care guidelines, a copy of which is with HT.A family will be eligible to apply for foster care if the applicant and spouse are at least 35 years old and are Indian citizens, owning a house in Delhi. Both spouses have to be willing to foster the same child and have enough income to meet the needs of the child or children. “A final call on putting a child with a particular set of foster parents will be taken either by the CWC concerned or the Juvenile Justice Board,” said the official quoted above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-lays-down-guidelines-for-foster-care-invites-applications-101624560291884.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||NDMC hikes trade licence fee by 7% for fiscal 2021-22||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has increased the annual fee for renewal of trade licences for fiscal 2021-22 by up to 7%. Senior officials said the new fee will be applicable for restaurants, hotels, coffee shops and sweet shops.In a statement released on Thursday, the NDMC said the maximum hike in licence fee is for five-star hotels, which will now have to shell out ₹65,484 per annum to obtain a licence, instead of the earlier ₹61,200.Generally, the health and trade licence is issued for a period of three to five years, and may be revised after two years, officials said.The NDMC made a similar attempt at increasing the licence fee last year as well, but the decision was rolled back after the intervention of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who cited the Covid crisis as a reason to not put additional financial burden on traders.“The new licence fee for 2021-22 will be applicable from April 1. There would not be any increase for small kiosks, stalls, Mother Dairy booths, water trolleys etc. For the rest of the categories, the increase ranges from ₹100 to ₹1,700 annually, except in the case of five-star hotels,” an NDMC official said.Under the new structure, butchers, fish and poultry traders will have to pay an annual fee of ₹1,284 now, against the earlier fee of ₹1,200.Guest houses with up to 20 beds will have to pay ₹2,568 instead of the earlier ₹2,400, while those with 21-50 beds will have to pay ₹6,527 instead of ₹6,100. Guest houses having 51-100 beds will have to shell out ₹13,054 now as against ₹12,200 earlier. For guest houses with more than 100 beds, the fee has been hiked from ₹24,500 to ₹26,215.For cafes with more than 50 seats, the fee has been revised to ₹13,054; earlier, it was capped at ₹12,200.The NDMC also stated that office canteens, sweet shops, gyms, auditoriums and circuses that were earlier charged a licence fee of ₹1,200, will now have to pay ₹1,284, while movie theatres, dance halls at hotels, clubs and spas will have to pay ₹6,527 as licence fee to the civic agency instead of the earlier ₹6,500.“The NDMC would process around 200 cases (categories) for health licences this year. Of these cases, there would be no increase in the fee for 25% cases, which cover all small shops, stalls, water trolleys etc,” the NDMC statement read.It added, “In 40% cases, there would be an increase of ₹400, 30% cases would have increase of ₹900, 2% cases have ₹100 and 1% cases covering five-star hotels etc. would have an increase of ₹4,300 per case per annum.”In a statement issued by Palika Bazar Association, traders said they had written to the Prime Minister, the chief minister and to their member of Parliament, requesting relief from any tax hike this year. However, no consolation as forthcoming they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ndmc-hikes-trade-licence-fee-by-7-for-fiscal-202122-101624560291186.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Over 157,000 get Covid vaccine jabs in Delhi as drive picks up||The national capital on Thursday administered a record 157,060 doses of coronavirus vaccines, as the inoculation programme in Delhi kept up its upward momentum, days after a new phase of the drive kicked off across the country.The city also added 288 new vaccination sites on Thursday, taking the number of sites in the city to 1,374, all of which are now open to people of all ages.The Delhi government on Wednesday said it removed age restrictions from vaccination sites, which were previously exclusively for either the 18-45 or 45-plus age bracket, after the Centre began procuring and supplying all shots.Wednesday saw Delhi administer over 100,000 vaccine doses in a day for the first time. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Atishi on Thursday said Delhi has so far given 25% of its population aged between 18 and 45 at least one dose of a vaccine.“There has been an increase in supplies available for the younger age bracket, because vaccine stocks for both groups have now been clubbed,” said Atishi, the AAP legislator from Kalkaji.So far, 5,172,606 people in the Capital have got at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, while 1,625,630 have received both.The state government on Thursday also said it has planned a vaccination drive for the city’s homeless Friday onwards, beginning with central district’s Yamuna Pushta, which houses several homeless shelters.The immunisation drive picked up pace after June 21, after the switch in vaccination policy allowed the government to use the free doses by the Centre, previously meant for the above-45 age-group, to adults of all ages.Also read | Covid-19: Shots for 60+ group hit hesitancy hurdle“The government started the Jahan Vote, Wahin Vaccine campaign earlier, focussing on those above the age of 45. With more than 70% of the people in the age group already immunised [with at least one dose], the response was not great despite all our outreach efforts. Once the vaccination centres were opened up for the young, the numbers shot up because they were enthusiastic and waiting for the vaccine to become available,” said a senior administration official from Shahdara district.Another official from south-west district added that walk-ins have proved to be a popular choice.“Several people prefer walk-ins, and centres have started seeing more and more people coming in since centres began to allow them at the start of the week,” said the official.These vaccination sites in the Capital can administer over 226,000 shots a day, and districts said they have planned to open more such centres once Delhi receives more shots.“The supply of vaccines has improved over the past week, and bulk supplies are likely soon, as companies increase their production. The plan is to administer 300,000 shots a day; we have planned accordingly. The sites will be started as more vaccines become available,” said a third district official.India’s vaccine drive began on January 16, for health care workers, expanded to include all front-line workers on February 1, and then, everyone over the age of 60 years and people over the age of 45 with co-morbidities, on March 1. On April 1, it was further expanded to include everyone over the age of 45. Then, in response to demand from states and people, the drive was opened up further, to everyone over the age of 18 years, although states were told they would have to pay for the vaccines of those between the ages of 18 and 45. Private hospitals were also allowed to offer vaccinations. However, with supplies constrained, the drive faltered. The country’s Supreme Court too termed the approach “arbitrary”, forcing a rethink.On June 7, Prime Minister Modi announced that the Centre would again be in charge of sourcing and supplying vaccines. It would, he added, buy 75% of locally available vaccines, with the remainder being reserved for private hospitals. And it would bear the cost of the entire 75%, he added.The new phase of the vaccine drive comes even as cases of Covid-19 are declining in the country, with the ebbing of the second wave.The Delhi government’s vaccination bulletin on Thursday said the city currently has 20 days’ stock of Covaxin and nine days of Covishield. Delhi received more than 68,000 Covaxin doses and 80,000 Covishield doses on Wednesday.However, the government is limiting Covaxin jabs to those due for a second dose.“We will need the current stock of Covaxin for those who were given their first shot in May,” said a fourth official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-157-000-get-covid-vaccine-jabs-in-delhi-as-drive-picks-up-101624560290559.html
25-06-2021||Other||Delhi: Speeding car hits 2 traffic cops in West Hari Nagar, one critically injured||Two traffic police personnel were injured after an allegedly speeding car hit them and dragged one of them for nearly two kilometers on its bonnet in west Delhi’s Hari Nagar on Tuesday afternoon. The injured policemen were identified as assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Vishram, and head constable Vinod. Both of them were admitted to Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital and are undergoing treatment. Police said that though the ASI is out of danger, his condition is still serious. According to deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel, ASI Vishram, head constable Vinod and constable Anoop were regulating traffic at Mangal Pandey Road near Mayapuri traffic signal on Tuesday afternoon. Around 4.30pm, they spotted a Volkswagen car with tinted (blacksheet) glasses coming towards them. The car was nearly 50 metres away when the policemen signalled the driver to stop, said police. “Initially, the driver slowed down the car but as the vehicle was approaching the policemen, he suddenly pressed the accelerator. The car hit Vishram with such force that he flung into the air and fell on the road, sustaining grievous injuries to his head, right hand and hip,” said a traffic police officer, who did not want to be named.According to the officer, Vinod was standing behind Vishram. Due to the unexpected and sudden increase in the car’s speed, he did not get time to move away and jumped over the car’s bonnet to avoid getting hurt. “Instead of stopping the car, the driver sped his vehicle and dragged Vinod on the bonnet for nearly two kilometres. Vinod lost his grip and fell down from the bonnet near Hari Nagar bus depot. He injured his hands and left leg. The car driver fled the spot on his vehicle,” said the officer. Police said that constable Anoop, with the help of the public, rushed both Vishram and Vinod to DDU hospital. Later, a case was registered based on their complaint. The police have identified the culprit and are yet to arrest him. The owner of the car has been identified with the help of CCTV cameras installed on the routes that the vehicle took before and after the mishap, said police on Thursday.“We have registered a case under Sections 307 (attempt to murder), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) of the IPC. Efforts are on to arrest the car driver,” said Goel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-speeding-car-hits-2-traffic-cops-in-west-hari-nagar-one-critically-injured-101624560231364.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||Sisodia to review cultural plans delayed by pandemic||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia will review various plans of the government’s art and culture department that have been delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak, department officials said.They said the plans will have to be altered in view of the impact of the pandemic and resultant lockdowns on funding. “A pandemic-influenced view of culture is needed in the current circumstances. Besides, spending towards projects is likely to be reduced,” said an official, who asked not to be named. The official added that Sisodia, who holds the art, culture and language portfolio, wrote to the art and culture department last week and exhorted it to use art as a medium to increase awareness about vaccines.Abhinandita Dayal Mathur, adviser to the deputy chief minister, said Sisodia has underlined the need to review and implement measures in view of the pandemic. “More than ever before, we need a cultural policy amid the pandemic. In such times, we need art and culture to derive hope and keeping the same in mind, plans will be reviewed and implemented,” said Mathur.The Delhi Cultural Policy Advisory Committee, that was set up last year to formulate a comprehensive cultural policy, is also expected to submit its report to Sisodia. “The focus will be on implementing cultural policy reforms in a manner that art can be used to give hope in these difficult times, while ensuring a dignified way of living for artists,” the department official quoted above said.Earlier this year,the Delhi government announced plans to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence with 75-weeks of celebrations. The plans were stalled amid the spike in Covid-19 cases in April.Sanjay Garg, the chief archivist at Delhi Archives, said many activities, such as plans for the commemoration of 75 years of Independence, might be recalibrated in view of the pandemic, “While we have been planning activities keeping the pandemic in mind, things don’t look very concrete right now in the current scenario. There is uncertainty. We are trying to formulate programmes that can be conducted online while prioritising safety. We might have to wait and monitor the situation for one to two months before we can kick off new activities on the ground,” said Garg.As the city slowly and steadily unlocks itself after a punishing fourth wave of infections, artists who are part of the Delhi government’s street theatre and performing arts fellowship, have started campaigns aimed at quelling vaccine hesitancy. Sisodia launched the fellowship on January 15 this year to promote street art in Delhi. It supports 500 artists from diverse backgrounds including theatre, music, dance and fine arts.The fellowship comes under Delhi government’s department of art, culture and languages and offers a monthly stipend of ₹5,000 to the selected artists.“On an experimental basis, we started the campaign and scaled it up after receiving good response. While some people are a little rigid, we have been able to capture attention and many people have now started paying attention to our message. We have performed at four different clusters in the city in June alone,” said Shyama Manna, 21, a street art fellow.Manna said performances were focusing on making people aware of ‘Jahan Vote, Wahan vaccination’ campaign, besides busting myths pertaining to vaccination.“We tell people about the vaccination campaign, by which they can get inoculated at their polling booth located in the neighbourhood. Often, there are rumours surrounding the vaccines. We dispel these rumours with factual information,” said Manna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sisodia-to-review-cultural-plans-delayed-by-pandemic-101624560230567.html
25-06-2021||Delhi||One more held in GTB hospital shootout case, 16 arrests so far||One more suspect involved in the east Delhi’s Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital shoot-out was arrested from outer Delhi’s Karala village by the Rohini district police on Wednesday. The total number of people arrested in the case has now reached 16, while two juveniles have also been apprehended earlier in the case, said police officers privy to the development.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said on Wednesday, the district’s special staff team received information that Amit Mathur, who was wanted in the shoot-out case, was going to visit his house in Karala village. The information was verified and accordingly, a trap was laid. The team caught Mathur and later handed him over to GTB Enclave police station’s team, that is investigating the case.On March 25, a group of criminals attacked a police team inside the hospital when they had brought gangster Kuldeep Mann alias Fajja for a check-up. In the ensuing shoot-out, one gangster was killed and another was injured. Fajja managed to escape with one of the suspects on a bike which they robbed from a person who was visiting the hospital for his wife’s check-up. Three days later, the police tracked Fajja to an apartment in Rohini and gunned him down.“Mathur confessed to his involvement in the shoot-out and the conspiracy to help Fajja escape police custody. He was roped in by Deepak alias Teetar, who has been emerged as one of the key conspirators. Mathur is also associated with jailed gangster Jitender alias Gogi,” said the DCP.Investigators said nearly 30 criminals from Delhi and Haryana were part of the conspiracy and were divided into three modules, each assigned with a different task. Mathur was part of the module led by Deepak alias Boxer, Teetar, Mohit Badani and Ravi Malik, who was killed in the gunfight at the hospital, according to the charge sheet filed by the police.“Mathur reached the hospital on a bike and he was aksed to help Fajja flee. The conspirators had asked Mathur to keep the bike’s engine on to save time. However, the suspects were not expecting a shoot-out, and hence after gunshots were heard in the hospital campus, the plan went haywire. Fajja snatched a bike at gunpoint at the hospital’s gate number 7 and fled with Deepak alias Boxer. Mathur fled on his bike,” said an investigator, requesting not to be named.The charge sheet in the case names two fugitive dons as the main conspirators – Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri and his key associate Kala Rana – who are currently operating from Dubai and Bangkok respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-more-held-in-gtb-hospital-shootout-case-16-arrests-so-far-101624560170534.html
25-06-2021||Lucknow||Stay alert, Yogi directs officials on Covid’s ‘Delta-Plus’ variant||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday asked for initiating special alertness and caution in the state in view of cases of new coronavirus variant ‘Delta-Plus’ surfacing in several states in the country.“Hold a meeting with the state expert committee on Covid and chalk out a strategy to tackle the new variant. Begin sample collections in the districts of UP that are closer to such states that have confirmed cases of Delta-Plus and then get genome sequencing done on those samples”, Yogi said.According to his statement, the state is barely 3 lakh doses away from achieving the June month’s target of administering one crore doses state and is likely to overshoot the target as the state aims to give six lakh does each day till June 30.The chief minister said this at the high-level Covid-19 review meeting and said that all necessary arrangements and equipment required for genome sequencing should be arranged at Lucknow’s King George’s Medical University (KGMU).Yogi said that so far, the strategies that the state government had been applying proved effective in controlling Covid-19 infection in the state and the policy of ‘trace, test, treat’ must continue with efficiency.Talking about vaccination, Yogi said, “Against June month’s target of the state government of administering one crore doses, the state has already administered 97 lakh jabs. Vaccination is an effective safety shield against the Covid, so that inoculation campaign in the state must continue effectively, with speed, and uninterrupted. From June 21 to 30, the state had made the target of minimum six lakh jabs each day and then from July 1 at least 10 lakh doses each day.”He said that in the last 24 hours, a total of 229 fresh cases of Covid were reported in the state, while 308 patients recovered and discharged from hospitals, and only 3,552 cases are active across the state. He said Covid recovery rate was now 98.5% in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/stay-alert-yogi-directs-officials-on-covid-s-delta-plus-variant-101624559512786.html
25-06-2021||Pune||Kabaddi gets a leg-up, PMC plans to form its own teams||Pune: Corporator Amol Balwadkar’s initiative to have the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) own kabaddi teams, boys and girls, has found some grounds for success. The PMC general body on June 22 passed a motion to plan its own teams of kabaddi players. “I had proposed to create a kabaddi team of international stature, where 15 girls and 15 boys will be selected, and trained by national coaches,” said Balwadkar, corporator, Prabhag 9 Balewadi, adding that he was seeking approval for the plan for the last one year. “The proposed Pune Municipal Corporation team will be registered as a commercial entity under the Pune District Kabaddi Association. They will be eligible to participate in industrial events, contests organised by private and public-sector companies, and local tournaments. It is a welcome development for the promotion of the sport. Let’s hope it will also help players to get job opportunities,” said Rajendra Andekar, joint secretary, Pune District Kabaddi Association. The proposal stated that PMC will help prepare players from district and state for national and international competitions by providing a dedicated space for practice and taking care of their well-being. The criteria and details for player selection will soon be published as an advertisement. “Once the details are out, it will bring clarity on how players and coaches representing the PMC team will get paid,” said Andekar, who added that the proposal’s financials will be decided after it is cleared by the civic administration. Players have welcomed the innovative and said that it will be beneficial for many who although are promising, but are jobless. Pooja Shelar, national player from Bhosari and winner of the state’s Shiv Chhatrapati Award, said that the proposal is a good concept. “We have coaches, but women support is not enough. We need coaches who can hone our skills, guide good diet plan and teach exercises adopted by international players. The concept will also open doors for good work opportunities.” Ankita Jagtap, former captain of Maharashtra team and member of Rajmata Jijau Sangh in Shukrawar Peth, said, “This kind of programme should push for more women kabaddi players to come forward, but we need more professional leagues like the men’s event as playing professionally will also open better job opportunities. We also need a dedicated place for practice and better our game.” Kishori Shinde, assistant commissioner, PMC sports department confirmed that the general body has okayed the proposal. “It will be a good platform for kabaddi players, but the municipal commissioner will take the final call,” Shinde said. Vikas Kale, national player and Pro Kabaddi League participant who represents Haryana Steelers, said, “It is a good initiative for players. PMC teams should have good coaches and trainers who will select players only on performance basis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kabaddi-gets-a-leg-up-pmc-plans-to-form-its-own-teams-101624546069336.html
