26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Mystery of the missing diary||Exotic dogs, cats and birds sell like hot cakes nowadays. While these breeds are derived from imported stock, the breeding and sale of such creatures by unregulated livestock entrepreneurs carries a collusive risk. Wild Indian species can be peddled under the guise of “legal business” in exotic species and advertised via the phenomenal though unmonitored reach of trans-national social media platforms. This came to the fore when a team of the Ropar wildlife preservation division raided Gill Farm situated bang on the busy Ropar-Nawanshahr highway and astride the biodiversity-rich Shivalik foothills. The raiding team seized 19 chicks of the Alexandrine parakeet, a near-threatened species. Among the assortment of exotic species reared at the farm for sale through Whatsapp deals, the raiding team unearthed two pieces of meat suspected to be of wild Indian species. The meats were later dispatched to the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, for forensic examination to establish if the species fell under the Wildlife (Protection) Act (WPA), 1972. The raids carried out on May 3, were a consequence of tip-offs provided by Nawanshahar honorary wildlife warden Nikhil Sanger and Parbhat Bhatti from the NGO, Jagriti, and not the outcome of intelligence developed by the wildlife department. The raids unearthed a very disturbing piece of evidence. A handwritten diary in Punjabi was seized from Gill Farm. It carried standard entries of sale proceeds from exotic breeds that went up to a few lakhs and the names of purchasers. Apart from that, it carried entries claiming that the author had killed 170 wild boars, and 60 bara singhas (sambars), including seven in one day. The diary notes the sale of two eagles for ₹1.25 lakh and mentions ‘teetar’ (wild partridges) also. However, follow-up investigations and challan preparations currently underway by the Hoshiarpur wildlife division have taken a mysterious turn: the diary has gone missing in a subtle indication of its explosive value.Hoshiarpur DFO (wildlife) Gursharan Singh told this writer: “We did not receive the diary from the Ropar raiding team. Neither is the diary mentioned in the seizure memo submitted to us.” However, this is contradicted by Bhatti. “We video-recorded the proceedings during the raid. Sanger handed over the diary to range officer Bhupinder Singh of the Hoshiarpur division, who was summoned to the spot following the raid. The diary was not mentioned in the memo due to an oversight,” Bhatti told this writer.Fearing a leak, the then chief wildlife warden, Punjab, VB Kumar, had reposed faith to get a secret raid conducted in a team constituted under the Ropar division rather than the Hoshiarpur division under whose jurisdiction Gill Farm actually falls. Only the raid’s follow-up was allotted to Hoshiarpur division. Seized of the matter now and noting the value of the missing diary, Ropar DFO (wildlife) Monica Yadav on Friday directed Bhatti and Sanger to furnish full evidence of the seized diary, including the photographs and videos of it, to the Punjab chief wildlife warden and herself. It was Yadav who had constituted the successful raiding team from the field staff of Ropar division.That the questionable practises indulged by Gill Farms were flourishing for a few years under the noses of multiple law-enforcement authorities is evidenced by numerous posts on the Facebook page of ‘Gill Farm Balachaur’, which (till the time of going to print) openly displays videos and photographs in captivity of banned Indian species such as rose-ringed and Alexandrine parakeets, black kites and a dead wild boar. The page advertises the sale of various non-veg pickles, including that of boneless meat of ‘soor’ (boar) and the price of a parakeet chick as ₹2,000. The owner of the farm, Gurvinder Singh Gill, was booked under Sections 9, 39, 49, 50 and 51 of the WPA, 1972, and is currently on bail. The case against him has been lodged at the court of judge Balwinder Kaur Dhaliwal, sub-divisional judicial magistrate, Balachaur, and is pending the filing of the challan by the Hoshiarpur division. The 19 parakeets seized from Gill Farm were released into the wild following an order from Nawanshahar sessions judge KS Bajwa on Tuesday. When contacted by this writer for his version, Gill responded by sending an expletive-laced SMS on Friday night. Gill later issued a threat on Saturday morning when this writer persisted in his efforts to secure his version: “You are not a journalist, you are a fake. You are trying to blackmail me. You come to my farm and I will teach you a lesson.” With these final words, Gill abruptly cut off the cellphone conversation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-mystery-of-the-missing-diary-101624731961793.html
26-06-2021||Gurugram||MCG official under probe for attempting to conceal inaction in drain cleaning work||An executive engineer (XEN) of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) is under investigation for “concealing inaction” with regard to drain cleaning work in the run-up to monsoon, officials said on Saturday. The engineer undertook cleaning of a drain under the Public Works Department (PWD) in Ward 21 and tried to pass it off as the one assigned to him in Ward 20, officials said.The MCG commissioner, Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, gave the engineer a seven-day deadline to provide an explanation in writing, before disciplinary action is initiated.Ahuja, in his notice, stated that the executive engineer “was unaware of the works in progress in the area under his control” and questioned if the engineer made field visits to supervise the ongoing works. “You (XEN) failed to show any progress on the preparedness for the flood control and the measures undertaken by you to avert waterlogging in your area. In this way you have tried to conceal your inaction at the ground, to combat the flooding in your area and have tried to subterfuge the undersigned (a superintending engineer) by showing a spot not under your control,” Ahuja’s notice stated.The MCG’s engineering wing operates under eight different zones. The engineer in question was assigned to Zone 1.As per Ahuja’s show-cause notice, the engineer was issued orders earlier this month to clear all stormwater, sewerage lines, manholes under his jurisdiction, along with making necessary arrangements for dewatering flood-prone areas and completing the ongoing developmental works in this regard. The engineer was also directed to take all possible measures to prevent water stagnation and flooding at waterlogging-prone spots.However, when a superintending engineer (SE) was inspecting the work, it was found that work on the assigned drain was not done, while a drain under the PWD’s jurisdiction was being repaired.“Upon investigating further, the SE realised that the drain belonged to the PWD and the MCG had no authority or responsibility over maintaining the said civic amenity. It was further found that the stretch was in Ward 21 instead of Ward 20, and the XEN had taken the SE to another site than what was asked for,” a senior MCG privy to the matter said.Ahuja termed inaction as an “act of indiscipline, disobedience, and not discharging official duties honestly and diligently.” The notice stated, “(It) further shows your apathy towards the work involving danger to human life and property, which is a grave matter and putting the general public at the risk of inconvenience and throwing avenue to public tranquillity.”Another executive engineer pulled upAn executive engineer assigned to Zone 2 was also served a show-cause notice by the MCG commissioner on Saturday, for failing to undertake necessary monsoon preparedness measures. As per Ahuja’s notice, an MCG inspection found that the drains had not been cleaned, nor had any proper machinery and manpower deployed at flood-prone sites, despite repeated reminders in various meetings held since June 11.Ahuja sought an explanation within seven days, failing which disciplinary action would be initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-official-under-probe-for-attempting-to-conceal-inaction-in-drain-cleaning-work-101624731841789.html
26-06-2021||Other||After Delta plus Covid-19 variant found in Faridabad, mass testing, safeguards prioritised||The Faridabad district administration on Saturday said that screening and testing for the Delta plus Covid-19 variant would be carried out in the entire sector from where the first case of the variant was reported. District officials said that the case was reported from the ESI Hospital on Friday, following which a containment zone was created to prevent its spread. On Saturday, the state Home minister Anil Vij also directed that “100% contact tracing of the patient” should be carried out and a containment zone created. Yashpal Yadav, the deputy commissioner of Faridabad, said that a decision to screen the entire sector was taken immediately after the case was reported. “The patient has minor symptoms; he is doing fine and is being taken care of. The immediate family, relatives and entire neighbourhood will be tested to ensure that this variant doesn’t spread,” said Yadav, adding that a micro-containment zone is being created in the area. A release from the Faridabad district administration late Saturday mentioned that the patient, a 25-year-old male, had already tested positive for Covid-19 in May. He started exhibiting symptoms again this month after attending a wedding and travelling to Delhi for work through Metro. Five of his close contacts have also been traced and their samples taken for testing, said officials.Because of the threat posed by the Delta plus variant, the Faridabad administration decided to strictly implement Covid-19 safeguards. “Masks and Covid appropriate behaviour will have to be followed and strictly enforced as we don’t want the third wave to spread in the city or state,” said Yadav. Anil Vij, health minister Haryana expressed confidence that the state was fully prepared to fight the mutant virus. Directions have been issued to carry out contact tracing of the first patient infected with Delta plus virus in Faridabad, he said. Responding to the letter written by the Central government to the state to create a containment zone, the health minister said that the state has already asked the officials concerned to create a containment zone and also conduct testing on a large scale. On Friday, Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, department of health and family welfare, had written to the state chief secretary, intimating that a case of Delta plus variant of Covid-19 was found in a sample of a patient in ESI Hospital of Faridabad. The letter said that the Delta plus variant was highly transmissible, strongly bonded with lung cells and weakened antibody response. 10 cases, 10 recoveriesGurugram, on Saturday, recorded 10 new Covid-19 cases but also witnessed the recovery of 10 patients. As per details shared by the health department, there are 141 active Covid-19 patients in the district, of whom 128 are in home isolation. Two deaths were also reported in the district, taking the toll to 894.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-delta-plus-covid-19-variant-found-in-faridabad-mass-testing-safeguards-prioritised-101624731841123.html
26-06-2021||Gurugram||Polio drive: Health dept sets 160K target for Gurugram||The district health department will conduct a large-scale pulse polio drive from June 27 to June 29, with an aim to deliver polio doses to more than 160,000 children, said officials on Saturday.In the run-up to the vaccination drive, the health department has paused the Covid-19 vaccination on weekends. It has also launched a district-wide screening drive on Saturday for non-communicable diseases such as cancer, diabetes, and heart problems.Gurugram chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Virender Yadav said that 2,510 vaccinators will administer polio vaccine to 160,245 children at 677 booths across the district. “Children up to the age of five years would be administered the polio dose on Day One, and the vaccinators will conduct a door-to-door campaign and administer the polio vaccine to the children through the next two days,” said Yadav.As per the plan, the department has identified 441 high-risk areas including slums, construction sites, and locations where nomads are staying in the city where the teams will administer the polio drops to the children there. “We will continue to focus on the marginalised communities,” said Yadav, adding that 116 mobile teams and 16 transit teams have been constituted for the vaccination drive.Meanwhile, the health department has also launched a screening drive for the locals to check the spread of non-communicable diseases such as cancer, diabetes, and other problems related to the heart. The first such screening camp was held at Daulatabad on Saturday.The purpose of screening is to ensure that diseases are diagnosed in the first stage and treated before those become life-threatening, Yadav added.On Saturday, the district health department screened 200 people for various health issues at the Daulatabad camp.Dr Isha Narang, deputy civil surgeon, said that the screening process would be carried out across the district, and residents having symptoms of any such disease would be provided with consultation and treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/polio-drive-health-dept-sets-160k-target-for-gurugram-101624731840528.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Gyms, yoga institutes in Delhi to open at 50% capacity from Monday||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in a notification on Saturday that gymnasiums and yoga institutes in the national capital can open from Monday, while adding that marriages and wedding functions can also be held in hotels, banquet halls and marriage halls.Also Read | After India, Delta variant driving South Africa's Covid-19 third wave“Gymnasiums and yoga institutes will be permitted to open at up to 50% capacity. The owners shall be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. In case any violation is found, strict action will be taken against the owner, as well as the individual, and the premises will be sealed forthwith,” a DDMA notification, dated June 26, read. Public parks, gardens, golf clubs and outdoor activities will also be allowed, it said.Additionally, the notification said, marriages will be allowed to take place in hotels/banquet halls/marriage halls with a maximum of 50 guests allowed to attend. Earlier, on June 13, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that marriages will be permitted only in courts or indoors with a ceiling of 20 attendees; this order, too, continues to stay in force. Similarly, 20 persons are allowed to attend funeral or last rite-related gatherings, as announced by Kejriwal that day.Also Read | Arvind Kejriwal eases Covid curbs. Shops, restaurants, malls can reopenOwners of hotels and banquet halls will be responsible to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and will have to face action, along with the defaulting individual, in case of a violation of the norms.Also, restaurants and bars can open at 50% capacity for another week, from 5am on June 28 to 5am on July 5, as per the notification.These directives come on a day when Delhi reported 85 Covid-19 cases and nine deaths from the preceding 24 hours, taking the Capital’s cumulative infection tally to 1,433,675, including 24,961 deaths due to coronavirus. This is the city’s lowest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases since last May.Also Read | 85 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi; lowest single-day rise this yearDelhi began unlocking from May 31 amid a steady fall in its daily Covid-19 cases. The city was put under a lockdown on April 19 which was extended several times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/gyms-bars-in-delhi-to-open-at-50-capacity-from-monday-ddma-101624729577569.html
26-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand strengthening health infra to tackle possible third wave of Covid-19||In a bid to fight against any possible third wave of Covid-19, the Jharkhand government is strengthening health services infrastructure and setting up paediatric intensive care units in district hospitals, a statement said on Saturday.The district administrations have started working on development of special wards in medical facilities for treatment of coronavirus-positive children as doctors and health experts cautioned that boys and girls may be infected the most during the possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, it said.Many district authorities have already set up at least one such facility and are in the process of developing other units in rural parts of the state, the statement said.The administrations of several districts such as Koderma, Ranchi, Dhanbad, Jamshedpur, Gumla, Latehar and Giridih have already completed the work related to PICUs, it said.In Ranchi, work for a 27-bed PICU has been completed, and at least 40 more beds will be added, while East Singhbhum district is arranging 30 beds for the paediatric intensive care unit.A 20-bed PICU facility has been completed in Koderma, while Giridih and Hazaribag are developing paediatric wards in community health centres and Sadar Hospitals of the districts.The work for developing PICU facilities in Dhanbad and Khunti districts is in the advanced stage of completion, the statement said.At least 14.34 lakh people are below 18 years of age in the state, according to a manual prepared by the government for dealing with the Covid-19 third wave."Our government will leave no stone unturned to create the best possible health infrastructure for our children and citizens. The third wave has been anticipated but the government is preparing itself in advance to fight against it," Soren said.The second wave was a lesson for the administration and helped it find loopholes in health services."I am keeping a close watch on every development. We are trying our best to create a robust medical infrastructure across the state," he said.The chief minister also directed officials to strengthen paediatric wards in government hospitals with modern medical equipment so that infected patients in rural areas can avail the best possible treatment for free in their localities.The PICU wards are being decorated with thematic artworks and paintings, while curtains, bedsheets and covers used in these units are colourful, an official said.Apart from this, television sets are being installed, storybooks and other learning materials have been arranged for and dedicated play areas are being created in the medical facilities, he said.The state is already on high alert following the detection of new coronavirus strains recently.Apart from PICUs, the government has set up several medical facilities in collaboration with corporate houses like Tata Steel, Vedanta and SAIL for treatment of coronavirus patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-strengthening-health-infra-to-tackle-possible-third-wave-of-covid19-101624729065537.html
26-06-2021||Other||From July 1, postmen to sell vehicle insurance too||Besides delivering regular mails, the local postman would soon be able to sell car and bike insurance policies right at one’s doorstep.The service, set to start in Prayagraj and Kaushambi districts from July 1, is being offered by India Post through India Post Payment Bank (IIPB), said senior superintendent post (SSP), Prayagraj zone, Sanjay D Akhade. The IIPB has been created by the government to deliver banking services in rural areas.To avail this facility at one’s doorstep, an individual needs to call 155299 or place a request on the Post Info App or click on ccc.cept.gov.in/ServiceRequest/request.aspx. However, one needs to have an account with IPPB, said officials. “We have started giving training to our staff members. Any customer can visit the post office to avail the service or if needed, the postmen would visit the customer’s house and provide the facility,” said Akhade. For this, the bank has tied up with Bajaj Allianz and Tata AIG General Insurance Companies, he added. The insurance facility will be totally paperless and the person will need to show the registration certificate (RC) of the vehicle and the old insurance cover. The amount will be debited from the individual’s IPPB account and policy will be made available immediately, said Akhade. “However, those who do not have an IPPB account, the same can be opened in a few minutes just by providing Aadhaar card and mobile number,” said Akhade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/from-july-1-postmen-to-sell-vehicle-insurance-too-101624728900879.html
26-06-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party ousts its 11 district chiefs||The Samajwadi Party (SP) on Saturday sacked the presidents of its 11 district units with immediate effect, the party said here on Saturday. In a statement, SP’s state unit president Naresh Uttam said presidents of Gorakhpur, Moradabad, Jhansi, Agra, Gautam Budh Nagar, Mau, Balrampur, Shravasti, Bhadohi, Gonda and Lalitpur districts have been removed with immediate effect. The action has been taken on the directives of the party president Akhilesh Yadav, he added. Though no reason was cited in the statement release for the party’s action against its district unit chiefs, reports reaching here from some districts said the party's nominees in many districts did not turn up for filing their nomination papers for the post of zila panchayat chairman. In Bhadohi, the party's nominee, Shyam Kumari Maurya, whose candidature was announced about a month ago, did not turn up for filing her nomination. In Gorakhpur, SP candidate Jitendra Yadav was also not able to file his papers. On Saturday, nominations were filed in all districts of the state for the post of zila panchayat chairman and the polling will take place on July 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/samajwadi-party-ousts-its-11-district-chiefs-101624728126588.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay plans to revise UG curriculum, makes it flexible||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), on Saturday kicked off a survey seeking recommendations for revising and improving its curriculum for undergraduate (UG) courses.The institute plans to give students the option to train as a generalist in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) or as a specialist in a subject of their choice.The survey for feedback and suggestions will be extended to students, faculty, alumni networks, the industry as well as recruiters. “We are seeking inputs from all our stakeholders from students to recruiters,” said IIT-B, director Subhasis Chaudhuri.While the curriculum for courses are revised every 10-15 years and feedback is sought from all stakeholders, this time the institute plans to provide more flexibility to students in choosing their courses.“The broad philosophy is to give more flexibility to students to adjust their course work in tune with their interests. One direction of our pursuit is to allow students to shape themselves as a ‘generalist’ in STEM disciplines by taking electives from their own or other departments or as a ‘specialist’ in a particular discipline (as currently followed) by taking courses (including electives) from a chosen (sub)discipline. Even the curriculum for ‘Specialists’ is planned to be broadened in keeping with the current developments in various subject areas,” said Chaudhuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-plans-to-revise-ug-curriculum-makes-it-flexible-101624727280158.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 72% fall in Covid cases in June compared to May; city to remain under level 3||The city has recorded a 72% fall in the number of Covid-19 cases in the first 24 days of June, as compared to the first 24 days of May, reveals the state health department data. Further, the number of deaths has also gone down drastically in June, as compared to May. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has announced that the city will continue to remain under level-3 restrictions, a day after the Maharashtra government tightened lockdown norms.According to the data, between May 1 and May 24, 42,991 cases were reported in the city, which went down to 11,921 cases in June. Subsequently, in the same period during May, 1,356 deaths were reported that went down to 488 in June.In the same period, overall 1,282,906 tests were carried out in the city, of which, 658,210 were carried out in May and 624,696 were carried out in June.According to BMC officers, though the cases have gone down, they will have to remain on high alert owing to the detection of Delta plus variant of Covid-19. Owing to the same, Maharashtra tightened its lockdown norms on Friday deciding to impose stricter lockdown norms, reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three.The first two levels, which had maximum relaxations, have been removed till further order, according to a notification issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Friday.Post this, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal issued orders stating that Mumbai will continue to remain under level-3 restrictions until further orders. This, when the positivity rate in Mumbai (3.96%) and oxygen bed occupancy (26.04%).According to level 3 restrictions, essential shops and establishments can remain open till 4pm on all days, non-essential shops and establishments can remain open till 4pm on weekdays, restaurants are allowed to operate dine-in with 50% capacity, till 4pm on weekdays, and can allow takeaways and home deliveries after. Travelling via local trains is restricted for medical and essential services, gyms, salons and spas are open till 4pm, operational on 50% capacity without the usage of the air conditioner.Further, the BMC predicts that the third wave of Covid-19 will hit the city anytime by September 2021. The BMC has said it will scale Covid beds by over 10,000 and is in the process of setting up 16 oxygen plants across the city. On Saturday, the city reported 648 cases followed by 15 deaths taking the case tally to 719,610 cases and 15,383 deaths. The city’s recovery rate is 95% and the fatality rate is 2.13%. There are 19,943 active cases in the city.Dr Madhav Sathe, a microbiology professor at Nair Hospital’s college said, “The decreasing cases do indicate that the second wave is getting weaker day by day. In the country, we are vaccinating around 50 lakh citizens daily and if this same trend continues for the next 6 to 7 weeks, I feel that the effect of a third wave will be very mild. However, the effect of third wave will also depend on the covid appropriate behaviour being followed by the citizens. Until a substantial amount of the population is not vaccinated, we should avoid gatherings and going to crowded places.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-72-fall-in-covid-cases-in-june-compared-to-may-city-to-remain-under-level-3-101624727160171.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 hit finances at IITs as income from fees declined||The Covid-19 pandemic, the subsequent lockdown and a decline in receipt of fees affected the finances of Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) across the country.At IIT-Bombay, the total income — recurring and capital — declined by ₹25 crore in 2020-21 compared to the year before. “Overall, the balance of finances was not affected much. Naturally, the expenditure on operations and maintenance, other than Covid-related ones, was correspondingly less due to regulated functioning of offices, departments and labs as per government orders, work from home, fully online teaching etc.,” said Prasanna M Mujumdar, deputy director, finance and external affairs, and professor in the department of Aerospace Engineering at IIT-Bombay. He said the overall reduction in total income was less than 10%. As the pandemic struck last year, internal revenues of IITs took a blow. The primary source of income at all IITs is the academic receipts of tuition fees, hostel rent and rent collected from commercial establishments on campus.“Due to Covid-19 we received less income from seat rent and commercial establishments and the grant from ministry of education (MoE) was also reduced due to budget cuts. Due to the reduction in operating costs such as lower electricity consumption, almost no travel and less consumables, the institute managed with the reduced funds,” said Bhaskar Ramamurthi, director, IIT-Madras. A senior official at IIT-Delhi, too, confirmed that income received in 2020-21 was less than the year before.Most IITs have been reporting a funds deficit in their annual reports for the past few years. IIT-Bombay, for instance, has recorded deficits to the tune of ₹100 crore a year.In a bid to make IITs self-sufficient, the Central government has been weaning grants. Instead, IITs now take loans from Higher Education Funding Agency (HEFA) for infrastructure and other projects. The principal is to be paid by the institute while the interest is paid by the ministry of higher education.IIT-Bombay has so far sought loans worth ₹491 crore — ₹410 in the first phase — for various infrastructure projects. Of this, the institute has repaid ₹73.35 crore from its internal revenue. “The institute escrows ₹41 crore each year for Phase-1 loan. This is set to increase to around ₹49 crore from this year, as Phase-2A of the loan has started,” said Mujumdar.IIT-Madras, too, pays around ₹50 crore a year towards HEFA loans, said Ramamurthi. “The loan is paid off in 10 equal instalments over 10 years. So we are repaying about ₹50 crore per year. We have paid instalments since 2019,” he said.With reduced income, repaying HEFA loans has become a challenge. IIT-Madras availed of a moratorium in payment last year while IIT-Bombay sought a moratorium but eventually did not avail it. “A request was made by IIT-B. I think MoE had clarified that conditional moratorium can be provided in line with Reserve Bank of India circular and requested a confirmation to place the matter before HEFA board. However, on consideration of the financial position, estimates and projections, IIT-B did not opt for any moratorium,” said Mujumdar.Ramamurthi said, “IIT-M is growing rapidly in its research output, and with the increase in student population to 10,000 and more, the faculty strength is also steadily going up towards 1,000. We need to add infrastructure as well as launch global scale research efforts. We are also internationalising by admitting more foreign students, recruiting foreign faculty and entering into joint academic programmes with top universities worldwide. This is the time the institute needs more investment in infrastructure and research equipment. Our ability to grow will be determined to a significant extent on our ability to raise money for these investments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-hit-finances-at-iits-as-income-from-fees-declined-101624727040134.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Pandemic impact: Ground handling agencies appeal government to help, fear bleak future||It has been almost 15 months since India imposed a ban on regular commercial flight services to curb the spread of the pandemic which hit the country last March. Domestic operations, though suspended along with the overseas flights, resumed after a two-month hiatus on May 25, 2020. However, the prolonged suspension of international operations - considered bread-and-butter of ground handling agency operators - has had a profound effect on their business, with squeezing revenues and increasing losses.Ground handling is a key function of the aviation eco-system, involving activities such as passengers’ boarding and deboarding, their baggage and cargo, among others. The sector, which is dominated by four-five major players, who handle ground handling activities of various international airlines and some domestic carriers at the country’s major airports, employs around 70,000 workforces.Apart from independent ground handling companies, these activities are handled by some domestic airlines as well. With limited revenue generation owing to fewer flights, ground handling companies have been forced to take several mitigating measures such as layoffs and salary cuts, among others, to keep the business afloat. Moreover, with the looming threat of a possible third-wave and continued uncertainty around the resumption of regular overseas flights, operators are sitting with their fingers crossed over business prospects in the near future.‘In the worst situation’The second wave of the pandemic has hit this capital and labour-intensive sector harder at a time when the domestic travel demand had recovered almost 65% of a pre-Covid level, said Murali Ramachandran, president of the Ground Handling Association Of India (GHAI) and CEO- India, Celebi.“Aviation sector is in the forefront of the pandemic. Domestic demands started recovering from July-August last year, we were looking at a fair amount of recovery. We are in the worst situation. The impact of the second wave has dragged us back in time to July of last year,” Ramachandran said, who recently wrote to the government on behalf of the association, seeking financial succour for the loss-making sector.According to India head of aviation advisory and research firm, Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), Kapil Kaul, ground handling companies at an industry level is estimated to have incurred losses to the tune of USD 125-150 million in the financial year ended March 2021, and that the impact of the pandemic on the ground handling firms is severe like all others in the aviation business.“Our dependency is more on international flights and less on domestic. As much as 75% flights handled by us are international which remain suspended,” said Ramachandran. Currently, limited international flight operations undertaken under the Centre’s air bubble agreement with various countries’ governments accounts for almost 15% of pre-Covid overseas flight operations.“All this has put financial pressure on us. We were already struggling from last year. The second wave has beaten us very harshly,” Ramachandran added.Ground handling employees lost jobsAccording to data shared in the Rajya Sabha by the minister of state for civil aviation Hardeep Singh Puri in February, a total of 19,247 people lost jobs at airports- 12,646 in the ground handling agencies department, 6,981 at airlines and 170 at cargo operators during March-September 2020.Going by this data, 33.5% employees working with the ground handling agencies lost jobs during the period. The major ground handling operators, who work across the major airports across the country include Celebi, Air India SATS Airport Services Private Limited (AISATS), Bhadra Ground Handling Services, Indo Thai Airport Management Services. Flight volumes dropped by 58%The aviation sector is at the forefront of the pandemic. Domestic demands started recovering from July-August last year when the agencies had started looking at a fair amount of recovery.“ In FY2020-21, AISATS flight volumes dropped by 58% compared to FY 2019-20 and led to a significant drop in revenue while our cost of operations could not be reduced at an equivalent rate due to the government’s Covid-19 regulations as well as the need to maintain a base level of resources to be prepared for recovery. This led to significant financial loss and a tremendous strain on the finances of the company. Moreover, the increase in fuel prices, as well as costs of acquiring additional Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) created a further financial burden on our company,” said Ramanathan Rajamani, CEO of AISATS.The Ground Handling industry cannot afford any further cuts in its service rates as the cost of handling an aircraft has increased substantially due to a reduction in flight frequencies and greater workload, and related costs in the area of disinfection and cleaning owing to the pandemic. “AISATS is the first ground handler in India to have launched UV-C (Ultraviolet C Band) disinfection services for aircraft interior cleaning at Delhi and Trivandrum as we believe that introducing such innovative solutions will help boost passenger confidence in air travel and lead Indian aviation towards a faster path of recovery,” Rajamani added.GHAI seeks help from aviation ministryGiven this situation, GHAI recently wrote to the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) for help. “In the form of some support measures: we have asked the ministry for their support in the bank moratorium on interest charges on loans for a period of at least two years. We also asked them to consider instructing airport operators not to charge concession and rental fees until normalcy of operation is achieved and to consider a stimulus to sustain salary payments and allow subsistence allowances to minimize retrenchment,” Ramachandran said.“We have taken a lot of effort to build skill sets and it will be unfortunate if the industry is pushed to go through massive retrenchments,” he added.The association has also asked the government to create a structured plan and system to get international flight schedules back on track instead of reviewing them monthly as international business is their mainstay. Ramachandran said that their revenues have reduced to 15% of what they have been earning. “We need financial support from the airports in terms of reduction in rent, at least in proportion to the business we have been doing. The times ahead look very bleak for us. We had started rehiring when the second wave hit us, we don’t want to go for another round of reduction and retrenchment of people,” he said. The sector had around 70,000 employees working for them but each company had to downsize around 25% due to the pandemic.‘If there is no third wave, things may improve’Prem Bajaj, chairman and managing director of Bhadra International ground handling agency, said that vaccination was the only hope for the industry, for faster revival. “The vaccination drive seems to have picked up since last few days, but to reach a meaningful percentage of vaccination we are looking at, at least closure of FY 2021-22, which means that this fiscal is unlikely to be any better than FY 20-21. Certain estimate predicts a worse 21-22 compared to FY 20-21,” said Bajaj.The ground handlers unanimously said that another year of losses would cripple the entire sector substantially. However, they expect the recovery to the pre-Covid level to happen only in 2023.However, the industry fears the impact of a third wave, if any, on them. According to Ramachandran, if there is no third wave by September then things may start improving. If every company opens up and nothing changes, international flights could come back to 50- 60% of the pre-Covid level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pandemic-impact-ground-handling-agencies-appeal-government-to-help-fear-bleak-future-101624726980252.html
26-06-2021||Pune||CSR funds should be brought in for development of sports infrastructure: Sharad Pawar||In a review meet for the under-construction International Sports University at Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex, Balewadi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar urged private firms to invest in development of sports infrastructure via corporate social responsibility funds along with government funding. “People from private firms should come forward and utilise the corporate social responsibility funding for the development of sports infrastructure along with government funding,” said Pawar. “The International Sports University, Maharashtra will be instrumental in creating technical manpower for sports management, job creation in the sports sector and sports training. Athletes should take full advantage of these upcoming advanced facilities,” added Pawar. While visiting the stadium, Pawar visited a renovated hockey stadium along with a swimming pool and shooting range. The government has sanctioned ₹400 crore for the International Sports University which is slated to be developed in a phased manner. In the first phase, courses for sports science, sports technology and sports coaching and training with capacity of 50 students for each course will begin. The construction of the university slowed down due to the second wave of Covid-19. Things slowed down with the eruption of the second Covid wave. We are focusing on speeding up the work on priority for this project,” said Sunil Kedar, state sports and youth affairs minister. Cars parked on track While the review meeting was underway in the main building of Shiv Chhatrapati sports complex, many officials parked cars in the main athletic stadium on the main athletic track. Even though the whole parking space in the front side of the stadium was vacant, officials opted to park their cars on the main stadium track. “Such incident will not happen in future. Once the international sports university starts, the grounds in the sports complex will be only used for the sports activities,” said Kedar. In the past, management has given the ground many a times for political function and marriage celebrations. “Officials always take such things lightly. Driving or parking a car damages the synthetic track. Already track has developed bubbles in between and such activities will make it worse for running,” said an athlete on the request of anonymity who trains at the main athletic stadium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/csr-funds-should-be-brought-in-for-development-of-sports-infrastructure-sharad-pawar-101624726200112.html
26-06-2021||Pune||Parents anxious due to delayed Class 12 result||The results of Class 10 and 12 students will soon be declared, after on Thursday the Supreme Court (SC) ordered all the boards to declare the results by July 31.However, parents are getting impatient due to the pending admission for graduate courses. Archana Gugale a parent said, “My son is in Class 12 and we had applied for couple of graduation courses in private universities but as the results are not yet declared we cannot confirm the admissions, the state government should now act promptly and declare results immediately.” On the other hand, Maharashtra state board is expecting to declare Class 10 results before July 15, while the assessment plans for Class 12 students for state board students is yet to be finalised. In all this delayed result process, students and their parents are losing their patience over further admission plans. Education experts are demanding more clarity over the state education department decisions. “This month is coming to an end and soon the month of July will start, this is a crucial period for admissions in the academic year and still results of Class 10 and 12 are not yet declared, lakhs of students and their future careers are at stake. The results should be declared as early as possible, so that further admission process will begin. Now SC has intervened into the Class 12 results giving an ultimatum to the boards which is a good thing. Even the state board should now work faster on declaration of results,” said Nitin Bhalerao, an education expert. Dhananjay Kulkarni an education expert and who had filed a PIL in Bombay High Court about conducting the Class 10 exams said, “There will be always a difference of opinion in the assessment and results declaration process, but it is delaying the academic year. In the declaration of class 12 results state government should not go along with the CBSE formula and either giving 50 per cent weightage to CET exam for admissions entire 100 per cent marks of CET exam should be taken into consideration. When the covid situation will normalise the exams should be conducted for the further admission process.” Due to the increase in the Covid positive cases in the state, Class 10 and 12 board exams were cancelled this year by the state government. While the assessment of Class 10 students’ formula is decided, but the issue of assessment of Class 12 is not yet decided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-anxious-due-to-delayed-class-12-result-101624725120066.html
26-06-2021||Pune||BJP demands to postpone elections until OBC reservation is restored||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Saturday demanded to postpone polls for five Zilla Parishad (ZP) and 33 panchyant samitis until the OBC (Other Backward Class) reservation is restored. BJP on Saturday carried out state-wide agitations for the demand of getting back OBC’s political reservation which was scrapped by the Supreme Court. BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil led the agitations at Kolhapur and BJP’s national secretary Pankaja Munde participated in Pune’s chakka jam agitations. Patil said, “The state election commission announced the elections for five Zilla Parishads including Dhule, Nandurbar, Akola, Washim and Nagpur and 33 panchayat samitis. They will be held without OBC reservation. We all should make aggressive agitations for postponing these elections.” Patil said, “It is the failure of the Maharashtra government which did not put proper stand in the court. Now they are blaming the Central government for it but OBC reservation was only scrapped in Maharashtra. If the Central government was responsible for it, the OBC reservation would get scrapped all over India.” Patil said, “BJP will continue the agitations till the OBCs do not get justice.” Munde said, “During the Covid-19 pandemic, some elections were postponed. On the same line, the ZP elections should also be postponed. The committee needs to get in between the ruling party and opposition, which would request the state election commission to postpone the elections.BOXNo conflict between Marathas and OBCs: MundeBJP leader Pankaja Munde on Saturday said, “The ruling Maha Vikas Agadi is trying to create conflict in between society on the issue of reservation. There is no conflict in both OBCs and Marathas. We are in support of both, the Marathas are demanding reservation in education and jobs. On the contrary OBCs are demanding political reservation. Both demands are separate.” Munde also criticised the ruling party and said the ministers from Mahavikas Agadi were also agitating for getting reservation for OBCs. “It’s sad that instead of taking any decisions they are agitating,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-demands-to-postpone-elections-until-obc-reservation-is-restored-101624725060089.html
26-06-2021||Pune||Lonavala police collects fine of ₹12,30,300 in May and June||During the month of May and June, Lonavla police collected a fine of ₹12, 30, 300 from people who flouted the Covid regulation in the city. The first information report has also been registered against 100 people, and fine was collected from 2,237 people. “Since the last three weeks, most of the fine is collected from tourists as they continue to visit the twin hill stations of Lonavla and Khandala even after the Section 144 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) is imposed,” said Dilip Pawar, senior police inspector in charge of Lonavla city police station. The first information report was imposed on those people who dodge police to visit viewing spots. “Many youngsters on two wheelers dodge police officials while they were collecting fines from other people, later they were caught when they reached the viewing sites,” added Pawar. According to Section 144, five or more than five persons are not allowed to gather in public places. “Recently, we also placed posters on Mumbai-Pune expressway to inform people that no viewing points are open in the city, still tourist traffic is not on decline,” added Pawar. The district administration has allowed outsiders entry to the main city who have booked their hotel and bungalows for the stay. However, with no restriction on tourist entry by administration, the situation becomes troublesome for police on duty. “Weekend is a tough job. We have allotted the extra police staff for two days to control the crowd. On a few occasions when there was a heavy rush to avoid traffic jams we left people even without imposing fines,” added Pawar. However, Lonavla’s traders’ association and Chikki association have requested Lonavla municipal council (LMC) not to ban tourists at the hill station. A member of the traders’ association on request of anonymity said, “Our 60 per cent income depends on the footfall of tourists, if LMC bans entry on them then we will face more economic crisis. We are ensuring social distancing rules are followed.” The Bhushi dam – one of the tourist attraction spots overflowed last week and an additional police check post has been created to avoid crowds of people. “Situation is improving as the number of tourists are declining steadily on weekends after we put up posters on the expressway. For police, the situation is becoming hard to control as there is continuous tourist traffic from both the sides (Mumbai and Pune),” Somnath Jadhav, chief executive officer (CEO), Lonavla municipal council.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lonavala-police-collects-fine-of-rs-12-30-300-in-may-and-june-101624724940156.html
26-06-2021||Pune||Pune police set up online payment for Covid violators||The Pune police have launched in online payment method for fine levied on Covid19 regulation violators. In three days starting June 23, the police have collected ₹24,000 through online payments alone. Under the vigilance of Assistant commissioner of police, administration, Pune police, a bank account has been established to collect fines. “Under vigilance of ACP administration, Pune city, at HDFC bank, a separate bank account was opened. All traffic divisions officials have been provided with mobile phones, QR code information, flex with QR code on it. All officials deciding on traffic duties have also been trained for the process,” read a statement from the police. The card payment system has been in place to accept fine from the beginning of the lockdown. Police action is initiated against those found without mask or crowding or roaming with a valid reason. There are around 60 check-posts in the city for night curfew which are manned by local police station officials. Traffic police division officials are on duty during the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-set-up-online-payment-for-covid-violators-101624724642882.html
26-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Districts to conduct gap assessment of pvt hospitals||The state health department has directed all districts to get a gap assessment conducted of the existing infrastructure and equipment at private paediatric hospitals under their jurisdiction.The direction comes as part of the preparation, prevention and planning manual for a probable third wave of Covid-19 pandemic, officials said on Saturday. In an order issued on Friday by in-charge of third wave state control room Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh, the districts have been directed to conduct gap assessment and hold review meeting with hospital executives and verify the checklist provided by authorities. The officials need to take adequate measures to fill the gap and provide action taken report back to the paediatric health cell of the national health mission, the order stated. “After the assessment, if required, the health department will also provide private hospitals with equipment such as oxygen cylinders and concentrators on rent, as the goverment has enough stock of such equipment now,” said Siddharth Tripathi, nodal officer of health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. Special vaccination drive for truckers travelling to and from BangladeshMeanwhile, the state government will conduct a special drive to inoculate drivers and helpers involved in transportation of goods to and from Bangladesh.“It is being done after direction from the high commissioner to Bangladesh to inoculate them on priority in order to contain the spread of virus,” said Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-districts-to-conduct-gap-assessment-of-pvt-hospitals-101624724642046.html
26-06-2021||Ranchi||Wild bear kills three in Garhwa district||Three persons were killed by a wild bear and three others were badly injured at Barokol village of Bhandaria forest area in Garhwa district, officials said on Saturday.The incident occurred around 8pm on Friday, when one of the injured persons, a woman, was returning from the forest to her home. “As per initial probe report, the woman was attacked by a bear. As her family members and others rushed to her rescue, the animal attacked them as well, leading to death of three of them and injuring three others,” said Rajiv Ranjan, chief wildlife warden of Jharkhand. The injured were sent to a primary hospital, from where they were referred to Garhwa sadar hospital for better treatment on Friday night, Bhandaria police station in-charge Laxmi Kant said. Bodies of the deceased were sent to Sadar Hospital for postmortem examination, he added. Condition of one of the three injured was serious, Garhwa civil surgeon Kamlesh Kumar said. “Doctors are attending to the injured. Though badly injured, two of them are stable. However, Kamlesh may require reconstructive surgery at a specialist centre such as RIMS in Ranchi, as his face is badly damaged. Our eye specialist is reviewing his injuries. We referred him to RIMS, but he will be under our treatment for a while as he does not have any family member at the time to go along with him,” Kumar said. The chief wildlife warden said adequate compensation will be given to the family members of the deceased. As per mandate, family of such victims in the state get monetary compensation of ₹4 lakh. “Officers are helping the family in treatment and other work. Some cash payment has been made to meet immediate needs. The complete compensation amount will be made after postmortem and other formalities are completed,” said Ranjan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/wild-bear-kills-three-in-garhwa-district-101624724639993.html
26-06-2021||Patna||Lightning kills 6, Patna flooded after pounded by record rain||Six people died after struck by lightning as heavy rains coupled with thunderbolts lashed parts of Bihar since Friday evening, even as Patna recorded 150 mm of rainfall, its highest single-day rainfall in June that left large parts of the state capital inundated, including the assembly building and the residence of deputy chief minister Renu Devi. On June 20, 1997, Patna had recorded 205.4 mm of rainfall, its highest to date, according to the meteorological department.The state’s disaster management department (DMD) confirmed death of six people due to thunderbolts across the state. As per its control room, two people died each at Muzaffarpur and Sheikhpura and one each at Sitamarhi and Lakhisarai till 5 pm.Patna Meteorological Centre has also issued a yellow colour warning for thunderstorm activities till June 30 across the state.Weatherman Zeeshan Ansari, said, “Patna witnessed unprecedented high intensity rain and thunderstorm activities during early hours on Saturday. Rise in temperature in southern districts, presence of humidity in atmosphere and cyclonic circulation resulted into intense lightning activities.”“A cyclonic circulation is lying over Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. Under the influence, Bihar will continue to receive moderate to heavy rain till June 30. Residents and farmers are advised to take shelter in pucca houses if they see lightning strikes or hear thunderstorm sound,” he said.Meanwhile, incessant rain inundated major residential areas in Patna, throwing life out of gear due to heavy waterlogging. Two to three feet high water accumulated in Rajendra Nagar, Kankarbagh, Ashok Rajpath, Anisabad, Beur More, Azimabad, Station Road, Nala Road, Patliputra Colony, Shivpuri, Bailey Road and Khagual.With roads covered with sheets of water, residents feared a repeat of 2019 when large areas of the capital city had remained waterlogged for days following post-monsoon rain.Hundreds of families face a harrowing time on Saturday after stormwater flooded approach roads and entered houses in Rajeev Nagar, Ramkrishna Nagar, Bazar Samiti, Phulwari Sharif and Danapur.“Rainwater has entered inside my verandah, hall and bedroom. I don’t even have space for relocating my furniture and house articles. Besides, the stormwater has also swept slit and garbage inside the house as the municipal staff left heap of slit near drains,” said Uzma Khan, a resident of Phulwari Sharif.Santosh Kumar, a resident of Khagual, said, “Around 1,000 people are suffering in this locality due to heavy waterlogging. I have filed a written complaint at municipal office but have not received any response yet.”Meanwhile, Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) said the work to drain out water from main areas and rescue operations were under way.Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma, said, “As soon as rain abated, we started draining accumulated water from different localities. Waterlogging has been cleared from various localities, including Bihar Legislative Assembly, Patna airport, Rajendra Nagar, Kankarbagh and Ashok Rajpath. Our quick response team is carrying out rescue operations in waterlogged areas.”As per DMD, more than 450 people died due to lightning strikes in the state last year which included 83 deaths in a single day on June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lightning-kills-6-patna-flooded-after-pounded-by-record-rain-101624724582317.html
26-06-2021||Pune||Night-time dacoity at Chakan company; 8, including 2 women, booked||A group of eight unidentified people, including two women, were booked for dacoity at a company in Chakan industrial area in the small hours of Friday. The gang fled with valuables and cash collectively worth ₹25,87,247.85, according to the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Shashimohan Narendradev Sharma (36) a resident of Alandi road area of Bhosari. Sharma owns the company called V Tech Industries Limited i Chinbbali Phata, Kuruli in Khed. The incident happened around 2am on Friday when the closed company was guarded by two men - Nagesh Wakode and Vinod Kolekar. “There are other such cases that we are looking at. There are minr injuries and no major injuries to the two security guards,” said Police sub inspector MK Chitampalle of Mahalunge police station who is investigating the case. The two guards were threatened with blades and chilli powder that they spread on their table in order to scare the guards. The two were subdued by covering them in a blanket and forcing them on the ground, according to the complainant. The gang damaged the metal gates, metal shutters, and CCTV in the company premise before ransacking it, the complainant told the police. Among the stolen valuables was ₹11,700 cash, materials of brass, copper, PB copper mix, rods and scrap material. A case under Sections 395 (dacoity), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 506(2) (criminal intimidation using weapon), 120(b)(criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Mahalunge police outpost of Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nighttime-dacoity-at-chakan-company-8-including-2-women-booked-101624724580878.html
26-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: Hundreds of village flooded in four districts, 8500 evacuated||Heavy rains have inundated hundreds of villages in 19 blocks of four districts in north Bihar, where disaster management personnel have mounted operations to rescue marooned residents.According to a press release by the disaster management department (DMD), personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have rescued more than 8,500 from the flooded areas of East and West Champaran, Gopalganj and Saran in the past couple of days.The release stated that low-lying areas in five blocks each of West Champaran and East Champaran, six of Gopalganj and three of Saran are reeling under the flood-like situation as rising waters from Gandak and Burhi Gandak have inundated vast areas over the past one week.Though the discharge in Gandak from Nepal, gauged at Valmikinagar barrage, maintained a receding trend on Saturday, it continued to flow 50 cm above the danger levels (DL) at Dumariaghat in Gopalganj and maintained the rising trend there. Similarly, Burhi Gandak, which flooded Champaran districts, has jumped the DL at Rosera in Samastipur by nearly 30 cm.“We have heightened surveillance on the embankments on all rivers originating from Nepal, as they are maintaining a rising trend and exerting pressure on a certain stretch of the bund. All embankments are safe,” said an executive engineer of the water resources department.Villagers residing near the embankments on Kosi near Baltara in Khagaria and Basua in Supaul districts have been asked to relocate to safer places as the river was almost touching the DL on those spots. Ghaghara was flowing at 60.29 metres against the DL of 60.82 metres at Darauli in Siwan, while Kamla was around 60 cm below the DL at Jainagar in Madhubani.The overnight rains in many areas in Goplaganj already flooded by river water have compounded the woes of residents who have settled in makeshift huts along with essential commodities for survival. “There is no assistance from the government. We are struggling for potable water and fodder for cattle as the entire area has been flooded,” said Manohar Rai, a native of Belthari village of Kochaikot in Goplaganj who has taken a shelter on NH 27 along with other villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharhundreds-of-village-flooded-in-four-districts-8500-evacuated-101624724579976.html
26-06-2021||Other||Bihar: Police arrest 3 involved in ‘black marketing’ of blood, 62 units recovered||The Purnia police on Saturday claimed to have busted a racket involved in black marketing of blood and plasma with the arrest of three persons on Friday evening. Sixty two units of blood and plasma were also seized from their possession, officials said.Police said the arrested persons extorted money from patients in various private hospitals/nursing homes in Purnia and its neighbouring districts. The racket’s mastermind is a staff of a private hospital in Purnia, said station house officer (SHO) of Sadar police station Madhurendra Kishor.“Acting on a tip-off, a police team carried out a raid at Kaptanpara locality near Line Bazar, known as medical hub of the region, late Friday evening and recovered 36 units of blood and plasma from a refrigerator, besides needles and other tools used in extracting blood,” the SHO said.Later, in another raid at another house in Purnia town area, police recovered 26 units of blood and plasma, the SHO said. During interrogation, police found that the racket was also operational in neighbouring Katihar, Araria and Kishanganj districts. Police sources said possibility of involvement of private hospitals and nursing homes in the racket cannot be ruled out, adding, “Several names have already come up during interrogation.”Elaborating the modus operandi of the racket, the SHO said,“They used to lure poor people and extract their blood for ₹400-500 per unit. Later, they sold it at an exorbitant price from ₹1,500-2,500 per unit, depending on severity of the case.”A senior doctor posted at a hospital Purnia district, requesting anonymity, said, “The racket made huge money during the pandemic when there was an acute shortage of blood. The racket also sold blood to the thalassemia patients.”Meanwhile, police started a probe of involvement of private hospitals and nursing homes in black marketing of blood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/biharpolice-arrest-3-involved-in-black-marketing-of-blood-62-units-recovered-101624724523665.html
26-06-2021||Patna||After Centre’s guidelines, Bihar takes steps to regulate SSA spending through one bank a/c||The Bihar Education Project Council (BEPC) has written to all district education officers (DEOs) to conform to Centre’s guidelines regarding modified procedures for spending and utilisation of funds meant for centrally sponsored schemes (CSS).The new mechanism for Samagra Shiksha Abhiyaan (SSA), under which DEOs are required to operate through only one bank account mapped with public finance management system (PFMS) portal, will be effective from July 1, officials said. “For this, the multiple existing bank accounts have to be closed, and all the unspent money, along with accrued interest, from there has to be transferred to the single zero balance subsidiary bank account to be opened at different levels by June 26, 2021,” wrote BEPC director Sanjay Singh.Singh has directed the DEOs to prepare head-wise details (general head, capital head) of all the unspent money under elementary and secondary education and categorise them under general, SC and ST components before sending it to the state office. All the unspent amount after adjusting advanced has to be returned to the account of single nodal agency (SNA), as mandated, by June 28 so that the new integrated system could take off by July 1.The department of expenditure, Government of India, had issued the modified procedure for release of funds to states/ union territories for CSS and monitoring utilisation of funds released to ensure effective cash management and improve transparency in public expenditure management. Under it, each SNA, registered with the PFMS, has been designated for each CSS by every state government.According to the Centre’s guidelines, funds available in the bank accounts of the implementing agencies have to be transferred to the bank account of the SNA concerned with clear bifurcation of the central and state share.Singh said the direction was issued by the Union finance ministry with regard to all centrally sponsored schemes. “We will review it after 3-4 days, as it has to be followed,” he added.In keeping with the Centre’s integrated education scheme, the Bihar SSA, for tackling class 1-12 in a coordinated way, had also notified just one implementing agency at the state level, the BEPC.The decision to subsume the entire centrally sponsored scheme into one integrated school education scheme was done to rationalize institutional arrangements at all levels and adopt a holistic approach for administration of school education. As the scheme is outcome oriented, school effectiveness occupies the centre stage of its management framework.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/after-centre-s-guidelines-bihar-takes-steps-to-regulate-ssa-spending-through-one-bank-ac-101624724522844.html
26-06-2021||Pune||Stalker tries to kill woman’s brother||A man was arrested along with his three accomplices, including two minors, for trying to kill the brother of a woman who told his wife that he had been stalking her in Bopodi area of Pune. The arrested men were identified as Ankush Waghmare (41), Pranjal alias Kukya Shelar (21) a resident of Barathe vasti area of Bopodi while the apprehended minors were identified as teenagers known to the men. A complaint in the matter was lodged by a 25-year-old woman who submitted in her complaint that Waghamre had been standing outside her house and physically following her around since June 22. The complainant informed Waghmare’s wife about his acts and when he showed up again outside her house, her brother confronted him and asked him to not stand there or follow his sister. Waghmare attacked the complainant’s brother while one of his co-accused hit him in the head with a wooden plank. As the man ducked the attack, the plank hit their mother who was trying to intervene. One of the minors used a sharp weapon to attack the complainant’s brother in the head. However, as he moved, it landed near the neck of one of his friends who was also trying to intervene, according to the complaint. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 354(d) (stalking), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506(2) (criminal intimidation with a weapon), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadki police station. Police sub inspector Amol Bhosale of Khadki police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/stalker-tries-to-kill-woman-s-brother-101624724521530.html
26-06-2021||Other||Bihar: Gang of robbers busted, 3 held||Darbhanga police on Saturday busted a gang of interstate highway robbers and arrested three persons for allegedly looting a truck earlier this month. The police also recovered 112 looted cartons of malt-based drink mixes along with ₹2 lakh and a DCM truck used in the robbery. All three arrested persons are natives of UP, said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babu Ram. According to the SSP, the looted goods were kept in Gulab Bag in Purnia and Semapur in Katihar from where it was being supplied in the market for consumption and sale with the connivance of several white-collar people hailing from Araria, Katihar and Purnia districts. “They are now on police radar,” he said. The accused have been identified as Mukhtar Ali alias Muster (Meerut), Yamin (Bulandshahr) and Najim alias Rashid (Hapur).The SSP said that the accused have confessed to their involvement in looting a truck laden with goods in Araria on June 1. The looted goods were loaded on the DCM truck. An FIR under Section 395/412 of the IPC was lodged at Bishanpur police station on June 6 in this regard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-gang-of-robbers-busted-3-held-101624724520760.html
26-06-2021||Other||Man’s burnt body recovered in Purnia||Police recovered a 27-year-old man’s burnt body from Mishritola under Jalalgarh police station of Purnia district on Friday evening, officials said on Saturday.According to police, the man was killed by pouring boiling water over him.  The body has been sent for postmortem examination at Purnia district hospital, said Jalalgarh station house officer (SHO) Menka Rani.Police said the man lived alone after his wife divorced him about a year ago.“This is a first-of-its-kind incident, where somebody was killed with boiling water. We are investigating the incident. We are waiting for the postmortem report,” the SHO said. The sister of the deceased said her brother was last seen with a local on Friday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mans-burnt-body-recovered-in-purnia-101624724520018.html
26-06-2021||Pune||BJP demands action against SKMC commissioner||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded action against the commissioner of Sangli, Miraj, Kupwad Municipal Corporation (SKMC) for letting Apexcare Hospital function even after serious procedural lapses. The hospital owner is in police custody after the hospital recorded 87 deaths within 43 days during the second wave of Covid19. BJP’s Deepak Mane has submitted a letter to Abhijeet Chaudhary, Collector of Sangli district, in this regard on Friday. In the letter, the national ruling party, which is in opposition in Maharashtra, has claimed that the SKMC commissioner Nitin Kapadnis has turned a blind eye to the lacunae in the hospital functioning and granted permissions without due diligence. On Friday, the Sangli police also made new arrests in the case along with the brother of Dr Mahesh Jadhav who is a plastic surgeon running a Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) called Apexcare Hospital. The case is registered at Mahatma Gandhi police station of Miraj. The police have arrested a total of 10 people in the case. The hospital came onto police radar after the hospital refused to send all its bills for financial audit after repeated orders to do so, according to the SKMC officials. Multiple patients and kins of those deceased at the hospital sent complaints of inflated bills without justification to the District Collector office. Upon inspecting the place, the police found one broken ventilator and 10 bipap machines. The treating doctors were found to be students of homeopathy while the titular MD doctors of three different specialisations were found absent on most days, according to the complaint in the case. Multiple other facets to the case are unfolding in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-demands-action-against-skmc-commissioner-101624724460706.html
26-06-2021||Other||Bihar: After a golden maiden year, veg Coop set to get land for processing unit||The East Champaran district administration has identified land to facilitate setting up of a processing unit by Tirhut Vegetable Processing and Marketing Cooperative Union (TVPMCU), a registered cooperative society of vegetable growers which is revolutionising vegetable production and marketing in northwestern Bihar. Set up in 2019, the union sold vegetables worth ₹24 crore during the two phases of pandemic while ensuring handsome profits for farmers.According to officials, as against the requirement of 50 acres, 25 acres of land belonging to agriculture department has been identified near Kudiya agriculture farm in Chakiya subdivision and identification of remaining land is underway. “A proposal has already been sent to the state agriculture department after the identification of the land. Necessary formalities related to the transfer of land would be completed once the approval received,” said Shirshat Kapil Ashok, district magistrate (DM), East Champaran, describing it as a unique initiative aimed at ensuring assistance to farmers in form of assured income and quality for consumers. “We have also given them nod for opening their retail outlets in Motihari. Around 3,000 farmers from East Champaran district associated themselves with the cooperative during the second phase of pandemic and benefitted from facilities,” said the district magistrate. In an effort to ensure remunerative prices to farmers and standard quality vegetable at reasonable prices to consumers and eliminate middle men, the Tirhut cooperative was formed under a state government’s scheme called Tarkaari. A total of 7,460 farmers and vegetable growers from eight districts — East Champaran, West Champaran, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Chapra, Muzaffarpur, Siwan and Gopalganj — have already associated themselves to the cooperative society through 45 of its functional primary vegetable cooperative societies (PVCS), the first tier of its operational structure at the grassrootsLast year, the union launched its online services for home delivery of vegetables in Muzaffarpur and Motihari and retail outlets in Sitamahari. It aims to expand its operations in all 136 blocks spread over eight districts by this year. Vegetables can be ordered online in Muzaffarpur and Motihari by visiting www.tarkaarimart.in.TVPMCU’s chaiman Amit Kumar Shukla said the cooperative started the operations after the nationwide lockdown was enforced last year. “We have been able to register a robust business of about ₹24 crore from five districts as on March 31 this year. About 9285 metric tonnes (MT) of vegetables was sold after procurement from farmers and vegetable growers, which includes supply to Delhi-based cooperative societies too,” the chairman said. “Our 80-odd PVCS have already registered, of which 45 have become operational. We are looking forward to expanding our operations in all 136 blocks of eight districts by the end of this year, which is bound to create a win-win situation for both farmers and consumers,” he said.At the village of Kamaluwa in Areraj block of East Champaran, majority of residents are vegetable growers, and now they have no regrets. “The best thing about joining the cooperative is that we are saved the hard bargaining by local wholesalers who often indulge in finding fault in quality of our produces,” said Nitish Kumar, an associate of TVPMCU. “Moreover, the pricing is better with instant cash payment,” said Nipu Bhagat, another village. “The whole model has a huge potential to provide direct and indirect employment to a large number of people,” said Nayan Prakash, CEO, TVPMCU.Breaking new groundThe pandemic periodTirhut Vegetable Processing and Marketing Cooperative Union (TVPMCU), founded in 2019, sold vegetables worth ₹24 crore in fiscal 2021-22.Expanding footprint7,460: Number of affiliated vegetable growers 80: Primary vegetable cooperative societies registered45: Primary vegetable cooperative societies registered functional8: Number of districts associated (East Champaran, West Champaran, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Chapra, Muzaffarpur, Siwan and Gopalganj)Future roadmapVegetable processing unit to come up at Chakiya, 25 acres land belonging to agriculture department has been identified near Kudiya agriculture farm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-after-a-golden-maiden-year-veg-coop-set-to-get-land-for-processing-unit-101624724461268.html
26-06-2021||Other||10 days after blast, a bomb scare at Darbhanga rly station||A consignment of electronic items on Saturday triggered a bomb scare at Darbhanga railway station, where a parcel blast on June 17 is already investigation by police and various agenciesRailway staffers alerted Government Railway Police (GRP) and Railway Police Force (RPF) personnel when the consignment caused a “loud thud” after being tossed up on the floor at platform number one close to GRP office on Saturday. It had arrived from New Delhi by Bihar Sampark Kranti express. GRP personnel promptly informed senior officials and a team of bomb disposal squad was also pressed into service. In the end, it turned out be a consignment of electronic items such as Bluetooth speakers and chargers.A GRP official said the sound could have been possibly caused by a Bluetooth speaker after being activated accidentally upon being tossed on the ground.The recipient of parcel, who was called by police, said he owned a shop of electronic gadgets and mobile phones in Darbhanga. “I had procured the electronic goods from Lajpat Nagar market in New Delhi,” said the consignee, identified as Raman Kumar Jha.Earlier, a National Investigation Team (NIA) team visited Darbhanga station on Friday and inspected the spot at the railway station where a parcel carrying readymade cloth had caught fire following a low-intensity blast on June 17.The consignment sent from Secunderabad was booked in the name of Mohd Sufian, who is being traced. The Uttar Pradesh police, meanwhile, arrested two persons from Shamli on Friday in connection with the blast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-days-after-blast-a-bomb-scare-at-darbhanga-rly-station-101624724460044.html
26-06-2021||Other||BRICS countries seek tips on makhana cultivation, Bihar experts on job||Agriculture scientists from Bihar will give tips on makhana (fox nut) cultivation to their counterparts and farmers from BRICS after its member countries, Brazil, Russia and South Africa and China, requested the Indian government for the same, officials said on Saturday.Bihar Agricultural University (BAU), Sabour, has been asked to prepare a training module for agriculture scientists/experts/farmers in BRICS member countries.Anjani Kumar, director of Patna-based ATARI (Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute), said, “The world is looking to Bihar for makhana cultivation. BRICS member countries have requested Indian government to provide scientific inputs on makhana cultivation. BAU at Sabour has been asked to prepare a module for training in this regard.”Recently, a five-day webinar was organized by Bhola Paswan Shastri (BPS) Agricultural College, Purnia, under BAU-Sabour, on “Strengthening of makhana value chain in Bihar” between June 16 and 20. Makhana is being increasingly recognized as a super food, believed to be packed with nutritional and medicinal properties. “Its demand has risen sharply, especially during the pandemic, given its immunity booster property,” said Vidyanath Jha, a professor at Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) at Darbhanga. “Makhana has established Bihar in general, and Mithilanchal, Kosi and Seemanchal in particular, on the global map,” he said. According to Rajesh Kumar, director, student’s welfare at BAU, 85% of makhana in the country is grown in Bihar. “By increasing the area of its cultivation, Bihar farmers may double their income by 2022,” he said.Paras Nath, principal of BPS Agricultural College, Purnea, said, “During the last five years, a large number of farmers have switched to makhana cultivation and our experts are visiting remote areas to promote its cultivation.” He said he hoped marketing and branding of Bihar makhana would help improve conditions of farmers more.Researcher and principal investigator of Makhana Research Project at BPS Agricultural College, Anil Kumar, who has made makhana cultivation in Seemanchal and Kosi popular through his research, said, “Makhana development project has expanded to Mithilanchal, Kosi and Seemanchal regions. Training has been given to 600 farmers from these three regions. Makhana, which was earlier grown in ponds and perennial water bodies, is now being cultivated in paddy fields.”Makhana is grown on about 35,000 hectares of land in Bihar, but is likely to extend to over 1 lakh hectares within a few months, Kumar said. Makhana producing districts in Bihar are Darbhanga, Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Purnia, Katihar, Araria, Kishanganj, Saharsa and Supaul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/brics-countries-seek-tips-on-makhana-cultivation-bihar-experts-on-job-101624724402986.html
26-06-2021||Pune||Case against BJP leaders for Covid violations||A case was registered against around 100-150 leaders and workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for crowding and flouting Covid19 regulation during the protest demanding retention of reservation for other backward class (OBC) community in local bodies.The Supreme Court, in May, rejected the state government’s review petition on the court’s decision to quash reservation for the OBCs in local governing bodies.The BJP, which is in opposition in Maharashtra, held a protest in Katraj chowk of Pune and it was attended by party leaders like Pankaja Munde, Girish Bapat, Jagdish Mulik, Yogesh Pingale, Deepak Mane, Omkar Malvadkar, etc. However, whether all of them have been booked in the case, registered at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is not yet clear.Visuals of the protest showed that most of the leaders were without masks, surrounded by a crowd of party workers. Social distancing, and mask rules , both were violated blatantly even as the Delta plus variant of Covid19 has been declared as a variant of concern in India with at least 22 active cases in the state.Permission was granted for 50 people to participate in the protest and a notice under Section 149 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was issued.A case was registered at Bharti Vidyapeeth police station against over 100 people gathered at Katraj chowk for not complying with the notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-against-bjp-leaders-for-covid-violations-101624724401936.html
26-06-2021||Pune||Exam fee waiver to students who lost parent: SPPU||In a major decision by the management council of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), it was decided that students who have lost a parent during the pandemic, their examination fee will be waived off for this academic year. Along with this, during the management council meeting on Saturday, SPPU shut at least 25 courses from different colleges as these colleges had sought permission for the same. During the meeting on Saturday, many colleges which had sought permission to shut down a few courses as there were no takers for the course. The management council has granted permission to 25 such courses to shut across various colleges under the SPPU. Prafull Pawar, registrar of SPPU said that some courses have been shut as colleges have sought permission for the same. “There were a few courses which were in the list as no students have taken admissions in them. Colleges which had applied for the closure of these courses have been granted permission by the management council. Every year colleges give a list of such courses which are to be pruned,” said Pawar. In the past few years, colleges and institutes offering professional courses like Masters in Business Administration (MBA) and Engineering have been consistently closing down across the country. In this, Maharashtra has the highest number of closures. Pawar added that along with this decision, the exam fee waiver for students who have lost either of their parents comes as great relief during this pandemic. And if the exam fee was earlier paid by the students, it will be reimbursed as per the decision taken on Saturday by the management council. This decision comes as a relief to many students who have suffered due to the surge in Covid cases and have lost their parents. “It was decided during the meeting on Saturday that the work of the sports complex will also be finished within a month’s time. It was directed that the Sports complex work should be completed within a month’s time. The decision of exam fee waiver comes as a relief to a lot of students,” said Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/exam-fee-waiver-to-students-who-lost-parent-sppu-101624724101330.html
26-06-2021||City||Pune civic body issues fresh guidelines on Covid curbs, effective from June 28||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday issued fresh guidelines regarding Covid-19 induced restrictions and they will be effective from June 28.A statement issued by the PMC stated that essential shops shall remain open only till 4 pm every day while non-essential shops to remain open till 4 pm between Monday to Friday. Essential services, including hospitals and medicine shops to remain open all time.It stated that restaurants, food courts can open with 50 per cent seating capacity between Monday to Friday with only parcel and home delivery allowed on Saturday and Sunday.Social, religious and entertainment events are allowed with 50 people between Monday to Friday, stated PMC.It further stated that gyms, salons and spas can open till 4 pm on Saturday and Sunday.As per the statement, wine shops have been alowed to open from Monday to Friday till 4 pm.Malls and theatres/multiplex, religious places shall remain closed, stated PMC.School, college ane educational institutes to remain closed completely till July 15, it added.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra Government had amended its five-level unlock plan implemented earlier this month and announced that there will be three-level restrictions in all districts now irrespective of weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy.According to a circular issued by the state government, all administrative units will be under level 3 and above (4 or 5) till the district disaster management authority takes a call to withdraw them. The order also pushes for 70 per cent vaccination coverage of the eligible population in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-civic-body-issues-fresh-guidelines-on-covid-curbs-effective-from-june-28-101624721069926.html
26-06-2021||Other||International Day against drug abuse: CM launches process to destroy drugs seized from nine districts||Amritsar Punjab chief minister launched, digitally, the process of setting on fire drugs that police of nine districts had seized over the past two years. The collective destruction of drugs was organised to mark the International Day Against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking that was observed across the world on Saturday (June 26). The United Nations has been marking this day since 1987. Physically, the drugs are being destroyed at the incinerator of the Khanna Paper Mill in the city and the huge cache of the substances that devastates families will have been peddled for around ₹1,380 crore if not seized. The drugs that will be destroyed over the next few days include 659-kg heroin; 5.8 crore intoxicating tablets and capsules; 3,000-kg poppy husk, and a few kg of marijuana, charas and smack. Amritsar police commissioner Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill is supervising the process.Gill said, “Drug disposal committees (DDCs) of ten police districts — Amritsar-city, Amritsar-rural, Batala, Gurdaspur, Jalandhar-city, Jalandhar-rural, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Barnala and Mansa — have visited us to destroy drugs they have seized. The drugs are being destroyed after taking due permission from courts,” he added. On June 18, Tarn Taran police had destroyed 34kg heroin; 225 kg poppy husk; 90,291 intoxicating pills, 26 injections and some intoxicating powder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/international-day-against-drug-abuse-cm-launches-process-to-destroy-drugs-seized-from-nine-districts-101624720920594.html
26-06-2021||Other||Hit by Covid downturn, ex-MR makes desi vinegar a sweet proposition||‘When the going gets tough, the tough get going’ is a proverb that fits well on Rajkishore Singh, a small-time farmer-turned-entrepreneur of Mohammadpur Anetha village of Sirathu development block of Kaushambi district. During this pandemic-hit time, when many established firms are struggling to keep themselves afloat , Rajkishore, 32, is gearing up to expand his family’s vinegar business in a big way from his village located 20km from the Kaushambi district headquarters. Rajkishore worked as medical representative for a pharmaceutical firm till the world got hit by Covid-19. “Overnight I found myself without a job and struggling to even support my wife Renu, 27 and son, Abhi, 4,” he said.Luckily, his family owned three bighas (80,732 sq ft) land in his village, where his father grew sugarcane and made vinegar from its juice. “My father, Raj Khema, 56, had been making vinegar for the last 15 years, by the traditional method using the juice of our home-grown sugarcane and in which I often helped. He used to sell excess vinegar to ‘thelawalas’ at a cost of ₹40 to ₹50 per litre while using the rest for home use,” Rajkishore said.In this time of need, Rajkishore returned to his family business. “I decided to organise and expand this business. I started procuring sugarcane from Fatehpur villages like Dhata, Sonari and Pauli at a cost of ₹400 to ₹500 per quintal and started preparing vinegar in the traditional style, using my father’s recipe, but at a larger scale, using earthen pots and selling it to a few neighbouring districts like Kaushambi and Pratapgarh,” he added.His efforts paid off and soon, National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) took note of this small family business and offered to support it. This saw Rajkishore joining hands with other few fellow villagers, also financially hit by the pandemic, like Shiv Ashish (40), Vijay Bahadur (52), Ajit Singh (31) and Uday Narayan (63) resulting in the birth of Anetha Farmers Producer Company Ltd, a Farmer Producer Organisation (FPO), befittingly named after their village.Soon, more farmers joined in and their count rose to over 300—all having a share in the FPO.In place of 10-12 quintals of sugarcane that Rajkishore and his father used for making the vinegar, they are now using 350 quintals of sugarcane for making their tasty and healthy vinegar using the money pooled in by ‘partner’ villagers. “Despite the present challenges of a sluggish economy, courtesy Covid-19, I sent many samples to different states last year and got a decent number of orders. Now, I am supplying the vinegar not just across UP but even to states like Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal with NABARD support,” he added.Rajkishore, who is now also planning to improve the filtration process of his family’s vinegar-making technique to cut down on the wastage, said that he is confident that his efforts will not only benefit him and his father but also the villagers, making the name of his village known all across India for quality desi vinegar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hit-by-covid-downturn-ex-mr-makes-desi-vinegar-a-sweet-proposition-101624718160612.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 9,812 coronavirus cases; death toll rises to 179||Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally soared past 6 million after the state recorded 9,812 number of cases on Saturday. This marks a slight increase from the 9,677 cases reported a day before. Total number of recoveries soared to 5,781,551, after 8,752 number of people made a full recovery in the last 24 hours. The death roll reached 120,881 as 179 more fatalities were reported.Capital city of Mumbai reported 648 number of cases, reporting a decrease from the 693 recorded a day before, 15 individuals succumbed to the infection. The capital city has been placed under level 3 category restrictions.The state has been witnessing an upward swing in cases owing to the Delta plus variant. On Friday, the new variant claimed its first victim after an 80-year-old woman succumbed to Covid-19. The state currently has around 22 cases of the Delta plus variant, the highest in the country.Director-General of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Dr Balram Bhargava cautioned authorities on Friday as the districts of Raigad, Sangli, Sindhudurg, Satara, Pune, Ratnagiri, Kohlapur, Palghar, Osamanabad continue to report over 5% positivity rate. The World Health Organisation (WHO) stipulates a positivity rate of below 5% for a pandemic to be considered under control.The Union health ministry has already issued alerts to the state government fearing a brutal third wave might wreak havoc across the state. By the Maharashtra government's own projection 50 lakh individuals, including 5 lakh children, could be infected during a third wave. Stricter curbs were enforced keeping in mind these projections."About five lakh children may be infected, of which 2.5 lakh may need admission in government hospitals. All these possibilities were discussed during this week's cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray," state health minister food and drug minister Rajendra Shingne told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-9-812-coronavirus-cases-death-toll-rises-to-179-101624713570702.html
26-06-2021||Other||Now, father of Hathras girl who wrote to PM Modi sits on indefinite fast||After a five-year-old girl of Maya Nagla village in Hathras district wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 12 seeking potable water in her village, her father Chandra Pal Singh started an indefinite fast on Saturday over the “slow pace of work” on the Jal Nigam project launched in August 2020 to supply water to the village and press for his daughter’s demand. Singh is an MBA and used to work in a private factory in Faridabad. He came back to his village three years ago. Singh alleged that the local administration and officials of Jal Nigam, Hathras, failed to make the project a reality over the past 10 months. However, officials of the Jal Nigam claimed that the project would be completed by September 2021, the deadline set for it. “I have been struggling to resolve the issue of water scarcity in my village--Nagla Maya since long and recently my five-year-old daughter Nikunj Singh, with help of her cousins, wrote a letter to PM Modi in this regard,” stated Chandra Pal Singh. “Minister in UP cabinet Mahendra Singh had made efforts to address the water problem and the scheme was launched in August 2020 to supply water by pipeline to Mahasinghpur gram panchayat. But the local administration has failed to make it a reality in the past 10 months,” complained Singh. “For me PM Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath are like gods, and I trust them. I gave up food and water from today (Saturday) and sat in front of photos of Modi and CM Yogi by lighting a ‘akhand jyoti’, which will continue to be lit till every person of my gram panchayat gets potable water,” said Singh. Refuting Singh’s allegation, Jal Nigam (Hathras) executive engineer RK Sharma said work on the project was progressing at a fast pace. “The deadline for the completion of the project is September 2021, but we will complete the work before the deadline. This project would make potable water available for three villages of Mahasinghpur gram panchayat, including Nagla Maya,” he claimed. Earlier, Hathras district magistrate Ramesh Ranjan had said, “The work is on for providing water to the village of the complainant.There was disruption in work because of Covid restrictions/curfew, but the contractor has now resumed work and will complete the project as soon as possible.” However, Singh claimed that the pace of the project to lay a water pipeline, which would supply water to the three villages including his, was very slow. He alleged, “The area has been facing water crisis for the past three decades because underground water is not fit for drinking and a population of about 2 to 2.5 lakh living in 150 villages under 61 village panchayats have to rely on a water source in Haitha Raghunathpur village, around three kilometers away from my village.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-father-of-hathras-girl-who-wrote-to-pm-modi-sits-on-indefinite-fast-101624711982009.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Rain and thunderstorm in Delhi bring respite from heat||Marking a possible onset of pre-monsoon, the national capital on Saturday saw light rain in some parts accompanied with storm, ending the hot day on a pleasant note. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) also predicted thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain for Saturday."Thunderstorms with light to moderate intensity rain with wind speed of 20-40 Km/h would occur over isolated places of North-Delhi, South-west Delhi," the IMD said in a tweet.Adjoining areas Nuh, Tizara, Rewari, Faridabad (Haryana), Noida, Greater-Noida and Indirapuram are also likely to witness rain and windy weather for the next two hours, IMD said.The weather body on Saturday said monsoon is unlikely to progress to Delhi, Chandigarh, Haryana, remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, and Punjab for nearly two weeks and is also likely to enter a “break spell” from June 29 onwards. Heavy rain will be confined to northeast India while rainfall will be subdued in the rest of the country at least till around July 5, it added.“Models suggest monsoon entering into a break spell from July 29. Heavy rains to be confined mainly over northeast India at least till July 5 with suppressed rainfall over rest of India. Active-break spells are part of monsoon dynamics and decides quantum of seasonal rainfall,” tweeted M Rajeevan, secretary of ministry of earth sciences.He added break spells normally last for a week. But in some years, they have lasted over 10 days. Longer breaks can affect agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rain-and-thunderstorm-in-delhi-bring-respite-from-heat-101624709405741.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||85 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi; lowest single-day rise this year||In its lowest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases this year, Delhi reported 85 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, taking its cumulative infection tally to 1,433,675, a health department bulletin showed on Saturday. The city also saw nine new fatalities due to the viral disease as its death toll increased to 24,961 comprising 1.74% of the total cases.Also Read | 'Fight over, can we do some work?': Kejriwal to Centre amid row over oxygenRecoveries from Covid-19, meanwhile, rose by 158 to 1,407,116 or 98.15% of the overall caseload, the bulletin showed. Active cases were recorded below the 1,600-mark at 1,598. These comprise 0.11% of the infection tally.Also Read | At least two members of Delhi O2 audit panel did not sign off on findingsThe positivity rate in the preceding 24 hours stood at 0.12% as 72,920 samples were tested for the coronavirus disease. Of these, RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests were conducted on 50,839 samples while the remaining 22,081 samples underwent rapid antigen testing. A total of 21,203,679 samples have been tested in the Capital till now while tests conducted per million population stand at 1,115,983.Also Read | Over 166,000 get Covid-19 jabs in Delhi as drive hits another one-day highIn the same period, 166,310 beneficiaries were vaccinated against Covid-19; while 147,873 were administered their first dose, the corresponding number for those receiving their second and final dose was recorded at 18,437. Cumulative vaccination has thus reached 7,129,002 including 5,462,512 and 1,666,490 beneficiaries who have received their first and both doses respectively.Delhi, where a lockdown was imposed on April 19 to curb the spread of Covid-19, began to unlock from May 31 as the number of daily cases began declining. However, with massive crowds flooding markets in the city, experts have expressed concerns over the flouting of rules. Last Friday, the Delhi high court warned that the city would be in "great trouble" if the flouting of norms continued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-85-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-single-day-rise-this-year-101624710011986.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis, other BJP workers detained during protests over OBC reservation||The former Maharashtra chief minister and the present leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis was detained on Saturday during the protest over the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the local bodies reservation in Nagpur.Some other Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers who were gathered at their party office to begin a 'morcha' in front of the Maharashtra Secretariat demanding political reservation of the OBC were also detained by the Mumbai Police on Saturday.Also read: ED arrests two aides of ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil DeshmukhAmong many protestors, the police detained former Mumbai minister Girish Mahajan, Mumbai BJP chief Mangal Prabhat Lodha, and MLC Rahul Narvekar. The police detained the protestors, who had planned for a 'chakkajam', before the march towards the Secretariat could begin.The police said that all protestors have been taken to the Marine Line Police station, as per a report by news agency ANI."The MVA government has failed to protect the OBC's reservation. The issue can be solved through Centre Government's intervention, and our leader, Devendra Fadnavis can help with the same. The MVA leaders should come to him to take his help over the issue, but they would not come because they would rather delay it. It is a matter of credit taking for them," ANI quoted MLA Kalidas Kolambakar as saying hitting out at the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government of the state for their incapacity to provide reservations."Today we are holding protests state-wide, at a 1000 places to pressurise the Government to expedite the process. Our demand is to restore the 27 per cent political reservation in all local body elections in the state," he added.The plan to hold a statewide protest demanding the political OBC reservations was announced by the BJP on Thursday.Also read: Fadnavis takes dig at Sena in lecture on EmergencyThe Supreme Court had observed that the reservation in the favor of OBC in local bodies should not lead to the surpassing of 50 per cent cap in reservation quota. The apex court had rejected the state government's review petition concerning the political reservation.The OBC had lost their political reservations in the local bodies of Maharashtra comprising of municipal corporations, municipal councils, zilla parishads, gram panchayats etc.Earlier this month, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray after a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted that the Centre is expected to take positive decisions on matters of Maratha and OBC reservation.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/former-maharashtra-cm-devendra-fadnavis-other-bjp-workers-detained-during-protests-over-obc-reservation-101624702342165.html
26-06-2021||Pune||Nurses call off strike after govt agrees to their demands||After protesting for five days, the United Nurses Association, which is a state-wide nurses association in Maharashtra, called off its strike after the state minister for medical education Amit Deshmukh promised the nurses that their demands would be fulfilled.The primary demands of the nurses included pay raise and recruiting new staff.In solidarity with the state association, nurses at Sassoon General Hospital too had joined the protest for the past five days.Manisha Shinde, state president for United Nurses Association, said, “These nurses have been on strike for a few days. We note that the nurses are confronting the same concerns faced by nurses across the state, including the demands for safe patient care staffing, adequate planning by the hospitals to ensure a safe environment to reduce workplace violence, and an end to government attempts to have more contract nurses.”Shinde said that since the past few days beginning from June 21, the nurses had started the protest.She said, “On June 21 and 22 we just had a two-day strike and then since June 23 we have been on a complete strike. We spoke with Deshmukh who has agreed to implement all our demands with immediate effect except those that need a nod from the finance ministry which too he has agreed to put up in our favour.”The nurses at government hospitals including BJ Medical College and Sassoon General Hospitals were on a strike shutting down all services except the emergency services.One of the demands of the nurses was also to provide ₹50 lakh as ex-gratia to the families of the deceased nurses on the same line as given to doctors and also jobs to the family members as per the qualification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nurses-call-off-strike-after-govt-agrees-to-their-demands-101624704959681.html
26-06-2021||Pune||Study suggests correlation between high levels of pollution and Covid-19 deaths||A study involving various experts from across the country found a correlation between high levels of pollution and Covid-19 deaths. The study shows that Maharashtra has recorded the second-highest annual particulate matter 2.5 emission loads in India and has also recorded the highest number of Covid-19 related deaths which indicates a link between air pollution and Covid-19, both of which directly impact the respiratory system.The study titled ‘Establishing a link between fine particulate matter (PM2.5) zones and Covid -19 over India based on anthropogenic emission sources and air quality data’ also provided the first evidence about how people living in highly polluted areas are vulnerable to Covid-19 infection.It is authored by Dr Saroj Kumar Sahu, PG environment sciences and Poonam Mangaraj, PG environment sciences from Utkal University, Bhubaneswar; Dr Gufran Beig, senior scientist; Suvarna Tikle, a scientist from IITM-Pune; Bhishma Tyagi, National Institute of Technology, Rourkela and V Vinoj, IIT-Bhubaneswar.In the study, Covid-19 cases were observed between March 2020 to November 2020, while national PM 2.5 emissions load were estimated from the base year 2019.For the study authors divided specific areas into different hotspot zones across India. From 16 cities across 36 states, Pune and Mumbai were the two cities picked from Maharashtra (falling under zone 6) for the study. Also, Pune and Mumbai are among the Covid-19 hotspots in the country, where high air pollution from the transport and industrial sectors are having a visible relationship with a higher number of Covid-19 cases and casualties.Dr Sahu said, “Our findings suggest a significant correlation between the district level air pollution data and Covid-19 cases. We found that regions with huge amounts of fossil fuel such as petrol, diesel, and coal among others. combustion in transport and industrial activities, also experiences a lot more Covid-19 cases, PM2.5 are small-sized particles affecting the upper respiratory system, and Covid-19 too has shown similar health impacts.”Air has suspended particulate matter (PM) of different sizes. Many of these are a complex mixture of dust, pollen, soot and smoke and they are hazardous. Of this, PM 2.5 is the smaller kind, with a diameter, not more than 2.5 micrometres (fine particles). PM2.5 is considered to have a very significant health impact as it can stay in the air for days or weeks, and is small enough to invade the lung airways.The study found that out of the 16 cities captured in the study, Pune and Mumbai recorded the third and fourth highest ‘bad air quality days’ respectively. Pune saw a total of 117 bad air quality days. Similarly, Mumbai saw 165 bad air quality days out of the total.Parallelly, Pune recorded 3.38 lakh Covid-19 cases and 7,060 deaths, while Mumbai recorded 2.64 lakh Covid-19 cases and 10,445 deaths during this period, which was the highest in the country.Dr Sahu highlighted that the study revealed that while Maharashtra was one of the leading industrialised and developed states with a high quantity of PM2.5 emissions, district-level emission estimation showed Mumbai was experiencing more pollution than Pune.Apart from Mumbai and Pune, the study also presented two other hotspots - Nagpur and Chandrapur - in Maharashtra that witnessed high pollution as well as higher Covid-19 cases and casualties.“Though these cities were not directly part of our study, both locations have the presence of industrial units and power plants that aggravate air pollution making them hotspots in Maharashtra,” said Dr Sahu.The study identified that Maharashtra has emerged as a dominating polluting state where the road transport sector plays an important role followed by industrial, thermal power plants and biomass burning among others.Dr Sahu added, “Through our analysis, it has become clear that rising pollution load is becoming more of a catalyst to aggravate the Covid-19 cases.”Dr Beig, senior scientist and founder project director, System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) and co-author of the paper, said that at hotspots within Maharashtra exposure to daily air pollution can make a person’s lungs weak.“When human-induced emissions are added combined with the double impact of the Covid-19 virus, the damage to lungs will be much faster and worsen health conditions,” he said.Ashok A Shingare, member secretary, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), said, “By and large we are aware that if there are more pollutants in the air, there is a predominance of more pneumatic diseases in those regions. Considering the coronavirus impacts the pulmonary system, there has to be and is a clear correlation for health ailments emerging out of both air pollution and Covid-19. Keeping the transport sector as the major source of air pollution in Mumbai and Pune, we have leapfrogged from BS-IV to BS-VI but implementation and adoption of these new vehicles are lacking. There is a need for building more awareness and to keep economics in mind for faster adoption of BS-VI.”KEY CONCLUSIONS FROM THE STUDY1) Higher numbers of Covid-19 cases are found in states like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat amongst others where exposure to the prolonged high concentration of PM2.5 is relatively high.2) Major cities such as Pune, Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad and others experienced the highest number of Covid-19 cases. The PM2.5 emission loads are also higher over these areas due to fossil fuel-based human-induced activities.3) The results demonstrated that Covid-19 and PM2.5 emission load are indicating a significant correlation with reported cases and with resulting deaths.4) Transport and industrial sector was the major PM2.5 contributor in Maharashtra and correlated with the rise in Covid-19 cases.5) Present finding is crucial to frame further preparedness under the current situation to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic in densely populated states like Maharashtra. The results are helpful to slow down the spread of the virus by providing more preventive steps and resources in areas with high pollution levels for present situations as well as for future possibilities.6) Among solutions, the study highlighted that there was a need to go in for cleaner technology, better transport emission norms like Bharat Stage VI at the earliest, and ensure better coal technology like ultra-supercritical power plants to reduce particulate emissions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/study-suggests-correlation-between-high-levels-of-pollution-and-covid-19-deaths-101624704779583.html
26-06-2021||Pune||Supriya Sule, Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol engage in war of words over Ambil odha anti-encroachment drive||Supriya Sule, Member of Parliament (MP) from Baramati, and Muralidhar Mohol, Pune Mayor, engaged in a war of words over Pune Municipal Corporation’s anti-encroachment drive on the banks and in the vicinity of Ambil odha (stream).Sule criticised PMC’s way of handling the drive and suggested that the mayor should resign if he cannot handle the responsibility properly. Mohol, on the other hand, issued a rebuttal and stated it as a way of diverting the issue.On being asked about the allegations followed by the anti-encroachment action in Ambil odha, Sule said that a proper inquiry of the matter should be done and the mayor should provide proper answers.“Pune mayor should answer how and why the anti-encroachment action was undertaken. If he cannot handle the responsibility then he should resign,” she said.This remark by Sule did not go well with Mohol who issued a rebuttal. “The statement is a way of diverting attention from the real issue. The real issue is who pressured the administration into undertaking the action. We handled the responsibility of fighting the Covid war and Ajit Pawar also praised our efforts. Maybe Sule doesn’t agree with him (Pawar),” said Mohol.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Mukund Kirdat, said, “BJP is politicising the issue. When PMC issued the appeal to vacate the homes, they asked residents to contact the builder (Kedar Associate) for rehabilitation. And said if the citizens would not shift, PMC will take action against them without any notice. If PMC officially announced the residents to approach the builder, then how can it now politicise the issue.”PMC in a press statement said, “It planned the action much before. The Ambil odha got shrunk and is U shape at the site. It was suggested to make it straight. PMC only planned action against 130 homes.”Sule blames BJP for misusing powerSupriya Sule blamed Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for misusing the central agencies for political vendetta after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted search operations at the residences of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in Nagpur and Mumbai in connection with a money laundering case. ‘It is really unfortunate the way central government is using these agencies. It is a threat to democracy,” said Sule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/supriya-sule-pune-mayor-muralidhar-mohol-engage-in-war-of-words-over-ambil-odha-anti-encroachment-drive-101624704600545.html
26-06-2021||Pune||PMC Covid-19 war room sees drop in calls; civic body to curtail staff||Amid a decline in Covid-19 cases, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to reduce lines and manpower of 24x7 Covid-19 war room as calls have declined from 1,200 to 12 calls per day.According to officials, from the last four days, the number of calls were between 12 and 25 per day. A few days back, it was 12-13 per day. Maximum calls are related to bed availability.Dr Manisha Naik, assistant medical officer, PMC, said, “The number of calls has dropped from 1,500 to 12-13 calls per day. So, we have decided to curtail staff. We sent teachers and engineers back to their original department. However, the war room is operational and will continue to attend to calls.”PMC had set up a 24x7 war room in March-2020 (during the first wave) to allocate beds to Covid patients in PMC/government hospitals. If a patient wants to get admitted to a private hospital, based on data from the Pune division dashboard, the patient is guided to a private hospital based on the availability of the beds.PMC has given a contract to Indohealth Software Solutions Pvt Ltd to run the war room during the first and second wave. It appointed doctors and teachers (from government schools) and engineers. The manpower was 136. There were 25 lines in operation at the peak. Earlier, the war room received 3,500 to 4,000 calls daily, and the team was able to receive 1,500 to 1,600 calls in a day. Maximum calls were related to bed availability inquiry.Now, the corporation reduced manpower up to 32 which includes doctors and private agency staff members. The corporation issued an order and sent back all teachers and engineers to their earlier work. At present, PMC is operating 14 lines to handle calls.HC notice to PMC over bad management of war roomIn May this year, the Bombay High Court had slapped a notice to PMC over the bad management of the war room. The high court was hearing a bunch of petitions related to Covid-19 management in the state to consider imposing a strict lockdown in Pune due to the high number of active cases. Thus, the PMC had submitted an affidavit to appraise the court of the improved situation in the city.Helpline numbers: 020-25502110-67801500||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-covid-19-war-room-sees-drop-in-calls-civic-body-to-curtail-staff-101624704420124.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Calling up the AC service person? Welcome home the man in PPE suit!||If your doorbell rings and you spot someone all covered in full PPE kit, disposable shoe cover, hand gloves and double masks - on a usual occasion you would be taken aback! But the minute this person at the door identifies himself as a service guy to check/fix the air conditioner, denizens are jumping with joy. The reason being the high demand of AC service providers who have been running from pillar to post in Delhi’s sultry weather to attend the sudden spike in booking post lockdown. “My phone just doesn’t stop ringing. Every day I’m getting 150-200 calls,” says Sunil Kumar Soni, an electrician from Gurugram, adding, “Koi na koi call waiting chal rahi hoti hai; itne busy hai hum. We’re doing about 25 home visits since the lockdown opened. Humara staff ab dheere dheere aa raha hai kaam karne, jo ladke gaon chale gaye they toh usse thoda sahara hai. Par phir bhi, ek din me ek ladka 3-4 ghar visit kar raha hai. Itni demand hai!” Those denizens who had been surviving somehow in absence of AC at home, during the lockdown, didn’t waste a nano second to dial up the service men as soon as the city unlocked. And many say that it hasn’t been easy to get through since they are in huge demand. Chandana Das, a resident of Dwarka shares how her husband has been trying to get hold of an AC servicing guy since quite a few days now! “Initially we were all caught up with the trauma that the second wave of Covid-19 brought. We lost a few family members and emotionally were so shaken. Slowly when we started to bring ourselves back to normal, we realised that both the air conditioners in the house had conked off! And we were jolted back to reality to get them repaired soon since the kids are feeling restless in this sweaty summer. But each time my husband calls up the service centre, the line is engaged.” “Garmi kaafi bad gayi hain kuch din se toh sabko servicing karwani hi hai ACs ki. Pehle lockdown tha aur sab ghar ke andar the, kisi ko aane nahin de rahe the, is liye ab demand bad gayi hai,” says Asif, an AC service provider in Delhi-NCR, adding: “We’re getting four to five confirmed leads among 10-15 calls every day. Still we have not increased the rates, jo pehle lete the wohi le rahe hain. Do paise kam ki kama kar rahe hai.”Gulam, who provides AC servicing for home and at gyms across Delhi-NCR, shares how his team is ensuring to follow the Covid-19 safety protocols. “We have provided our team PPE Kits, masks, sanitisers, and disposable shoe covers. Aise toh hum kahin jaate hi nahin. Log ghusne bhi nahin dete jab tak unko santushti nahi ho ki humne sare precautions liye hai. Jinke ghar medical condition wale patients hote hain, woh khud hi keh dete hain ki PPE kit pehen ke aana, and we don’t charge them extra for it. Ab ye bimari toh aisi hai ki sabke sath hai, aur garmi bhi bahut hai toh per day 12-15 service calls bhi lene padein to hum le rahe hain.” Some AC service providers say that denizens have been so paranoid that if the mask slips, they send them back! “They are very careful and don’t want to take any risk. Ek baar mera mask gir gaya gaya toh jinke ghar me tha unhone wapis bhej diya hain kyunki mere pas extra mask nahin tha,” shares Gulam, and Raj Singh Pana, but another AC servicing provider, opines that people have suddenly become less careful. “100 se zyada phone aa rahe hain because of the hot weather. Ab toh aisa lag raha hain ki Covid hain hi nahin. But we are very careful on our own, hume apna dhyan khud rakhna chahiye.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/calling-up-the-ac-service-person-welcome-home-the-man-in-ppe-suit-101624702749401.html
26-06-2021||Other||Tripura extends Covid-19 curfew in 10 local urban bodies till July 2||Tripura extended its Covid-19 curfew for another seven days from Saturday till July 2 in ten local urban bodies and Agartala Municipal Corporation. The move comes after monitoring the Covid-19 positivity rate of over five percent in the past week. However, the Covid-19 mortality decreased in this period, as per the state health records. “ ...the situation has been reviewed in detail by the state government and it is felt necessary to extend Corona curfew/Corona night curfew in the following ULBs in order to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic,” the state notification. Covid-19 positivity report since June 19 found that the positivity rate in the state ranges between 3.37% to 5.34% while 23 people died in the said week.The curfew would be imposed from 2 pm on Saturday at Agartala Municipal Corporation, Ranirbazar municipal council, Jirania Nagar panchayat in West district, Udaipur municipal council in Gomati district, Kumarghat municipal council, Kamalpur Nagar Panchayat in Dhalai district kailasahar municipal council in Unakoti district, Panisagar nagar panchayat, Dharmanagar municipal council in north district, Khowai municipal council in Khowai district and Sonamura Nagar panchayat in Sepahijala district, according to the new curfew notification. Fifty percent attendance in government and non-government offices till 4 pm have been mandated. No public meeting in open or closed spaces, except for government meetings with the presence of not more than 20 persons, would be allowed. Shops and markets have been allowed to open from 6 am till 2 pm. Shopping malls, cinema halls, multiplexes would remain shut. A total of 18.31 lakh people, above 18 years, have been vaccinated in Tripura so far. The state has reported 63,868 Covid-19 cases till date with 662 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tripura-extends-covid-19-curfew-in-10-local-urban-bodies-till-july-2-101624702440310.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Farmers' protest: Delhi Police amps up security at border locations||The Delhi Police on Saturday increased the security arrangements across the city's border ahead of the anticipated protest march by farmers, the news agency PTI quoted officials as saying.Farmers across India especially belonging to states like Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have been protesting against the contentious three farm laws. The farmers' protest, also reported to be the largest in history, completed seven months on Saturday. They began the protest in the national capital by camping at the Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana and at the other two borders namely Tikri and Ghazipur.Also read: News of Rakesh Tikait's arrest 'incorrect’, clarifies Delhi PoliceIn view of protest and amped-up security, the Delhi Metro closed its three main stations on the Yellow Line for four hours on Saturday."As advised by Delhi Police, in view of security reasons, three Metro stations of Yellow Line namely, Vishwavidyalaya, Civil Lines and Vidhan Sabha will remain closed for public from 10:00 am to 2:00 pm tomorrow i.e, 26.06.2021 (Saturday)," the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) tweeted Friday night."Kheti Bachao, Loktantra Bachao Diwas" (save agriculture, save democracy) is being marked all over the country on Saturday to signify the completion of seven months of the farmers' agitation and 46 years after the promulgation of the Emergency in India in 1975, as per a statement by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 protesting farmers' union, reported PTI.Farmers across the country plan to march in rallies to Raj Bhavans in different states on Saturday and to express solidarity, one such rally is also being planned in Massachusetts, USA, PTI reported the statement as saying.Thousands of farmers from Saharanpur and Sisauli in western Uttar Pradesh reached Ghazipur gate led by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Rakesh Tikait. While, farmers growing wheat, sugarcane, mango, apple, green gram, paddy, jowar and others continue to protest in different parts of the country for remunerative guaranteed prices, the statement added.Earlier on January 26, the farmers' protest took an unexpected turn after the march derailed from the planned route and a group of agitators took over the Red Fort leading to clashes in the national capital.Farmers have been protesting at the borders of the Capital against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020, passed by the Parliament in September 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-police-amps-up-security-at-border-locations-101624698942382.html
26-06-2021||Bangalore||Three more mins ‘baby’ not cool! Exam invigilator remark — concern or brouhaha?||Even after completing her exam before time, a student of Bengaluru’s Christ University was shaking. It wasn’t due to the worry of how she would fare in her results, but the fact that when she informed her invigilator that she’s done writing the online exam and sought permission to leave, in reply she read the words “3 more minutes, baby”. The student, who then took to social media to share a screen grab of this incident, reportedly spoke to other professors in her college and even filed a complaint, but the college hasn’t issued a public statement yet. In fact, when other students started sharing their opinions on social media, and we approached them, many refused to comment saying they have “instructed by the college to not to talk to anyone” on this matter. So, on condition of anonymity, a student from the same college, tells us: “We use a software called mettle that assigns us a proctor (invigilator) who is there to monitor us while we write the exam. The problem with the software is that the proctor can see everything we’re doing while we’re writing our papers but we don’t know anything about who is there behind the camera. Even I’ve been told to lower my camera several times during exams but I never thought about it in a negative light till this incident happened.” The students who decided to speak to us, were disappointed with the way that the college authorities dealt with this concern even after a formal complaint. Stating how these events impact their mental health, many made several calls made to the university but to no avail. “The student we are talking about, first shared this anonymously and later revealed her identity. Then, more and more students came out sharing similar problems. Seeing how the college took no action initially, we had to bring it to the media and put it out there. After all this effort, the university finally decided to look into the matter. But I’m very disappointed that it took us so much of effort to actually get this case noticed by our university,” says another student at Christ, opining, “As a teacher, one needs to think before they speak and utter such words. Because it’s certainly not cool to talk like this!”Students across the country, from various universities, have been asking for the redressal of this issue, on social media. An undergraduate student of Delhi University, on the condition of anonymity, shares a similar experience, stating: “In one of my digital classes my professor made me and the girls in the class extremely uncomfortable by asking us to switch on the camera continuously. And not the boys, but only we were being asked to open the cameras. The way he talks to us and jokes with us in the class also made us extremely uncomfortable. It’s difficult when teachers behave this way as we see them as an authority source and feel scared and are unable to speak up because of the fear of repercussions.” Even the student unions are angered by the way the incident has been dealt with. “Students want their college to be a place of safety and demand transparency in the system. And this is not the first such complaint filed by students,” says Manish Govind Raj, state general secretary of NSUI Karnataka, adding, “The university settled the matter with the local authorities and the parents of the student who wanted to take this up further but were not allowed to. As a student and a youth leader, I don’t understand why this should be continued. When we asked them (the university) on what happens if we refuse to take the exams online in this way, all they say is take it offline without any clarity on when and how it will be facilitated. I’m sure they can be a little more sensitive that this.”Some opine that all this is just brouhaha considering it's common to use words such as “dear” when in a conversational tone. Nevertheless, it does leave a bad impression on a young mind. Gitanjali Lall, a psychologist, says, “For students to address such a concern or talk about such an incident takes a lot of courage. I feel the college should try to rehabilitate them and help them instead of shunning the subject... With digital media and online cyber bullying so common, students going through such cyber bullying must be taken care of immediately. It can have a lasting impact on their mental health and how they perceive themselves or their image.” (With inputs by Aprajita Sharad)Author tweets @somyasureshFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/three-more-mins-baby-not-cool-exam-invigilator-remark-concern-or-brouhaha-101624698960875.html
26-06-2021||Other||Chhattisgarh seeks continuation of special assistance scheme for Maoist insurgency-hit districts||Chhattisgarh has urged the Centre to continue a special assistance scheme for the Maoist insurgency-hit districts to improve infrastructure there, officials said on Saturday. Officials said the scheme was launched in 2017-18 to improve security related infrastructure in these districts. The demand for its continuation was raised during a meeting the Union home ministry held with representatives of Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra and Telangana on Friday.“Though the scheme was intended for three years, the Chhattisgarh government requested its continuation. In the first year, Chhattisgarh got ₹5 crore for each district... ₹33.33 crore each for eight districts was provided in the second and third year. This year, we got ₹14.5 crore each for each district hence we requested continuation of the funds because many security-related infrastructures are being built in these districts,” said special director general (planning), Chhattisgarh Police, RK Vij. Vij added sectoral allocation of the money to eight districts includes around 35% for roads. “The fund is very important for a state like Chhattisgarh because we have a maximum number of Maoist affected districts and infrastructure is very important in these areas,” Vij added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chhattisgarh-seeks-continuation-of-special-assistance-scheme-for-maoist-insurgency-hit-districts-101624698719431.html
26-06-2021||Other||Odisha reports first Delta Plus case, 62-year-old male found infected||Odisha on Friday reported its first case of Delta Plus variant of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, said to be a ‘variant of concern’ with increased transmissibility, from Deogarh district even as the state government said there is little cause for concern, Additional chief secretary, health, PK Mohapatra said.“The infected person did not receive any vaccination when his swab sample was taken for the test and subsequent genome sequencing. He has recovered from the infection,” said Mohapatra.A 62-year-old male from Deogarh district was among the 48 cases of Delta Plus in the country after genome sequencing of the virus was conducted by laboratories.Scientists at the Institute of Life Sciences in Bhubaneswar, where the genome sequencing was done in the second week of May, however, did not find any other case of Delta Plus variant even though 600 cases of genome sequencing were conducted after that.Delta plus (B.1.617.2.1/(AY.1), said to be a variant with increased transmissibility, is the latest in the long list of new mutant forms of the Delta strain with health experts warning that it may lead to a third wave of the pandemic in the country.So far, Maharashtra, which was the worst-hit state in the second surge of the Covid-19 pandemic, has detected 20 cases, the maximum number of Delta Plus positives. Tamil Nadu comes second with 9 cases and Madhya Pradesh with 7 cases.Director, health services, Dr Bijay Moahapatra said there was no cause for concern and the third wave of the Covid -19 pandemic can be predicted before it arrives in Odisha. “The effects of the first and the second waves were felt in Delhi and Mumbai first and later in Odisha. So, we can well predict the arrival of the third wave but we have to be cautious and prepared,” he said.On Friday, Odisha reported 2,912 fresh cases of Covid-19 as the TPR dropped to 4.53, indicating a decline in the Covid wave. Several districts, however, like Khurda, Jajpur, Balasore and Cuttack continued to report a test positivity rate (TPR) above 5. Khurda’s TPR was more than 10.The daily Covid-19 fatalities have also remained over 40 since June 1 with 2,000 deaths reported in the last 3 months in the state. Of the 29,512-odd active cases in the state, around 22% are under treatment at various hospitals while 8% are in the ICUs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-reports-first-delta-plus-case-62-year-old-male-found-infected-101624696138997.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab ex-deputy CM Sukhbir Badal questioned for Kotkapura police firing||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday appeared before the Punjab Police’s special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing when he was the deputy chief minister and held the home portfolio. Sukhbir appeared for questioning at the Punjab Police Officers’ Institute building in Sector 32, Chandigarh, amid a show of solidarity by the senior leadership of the party. All Shiromani Akali Dal core committee members and MLAs were present at the venue. Also read: 2015 police firing case: Officer who landed in controversy during Badal’s quizzing quits as SIT’s legal expertThe three members of the SIT, led by additional director general of police (ADGP), vigilance, LK Yadav are questioning Sukhbir, it is learnt. Initially, the police did not allow the senior SAD leaders to go inside the building where Sukhbir was to be questioned. Later, the security officials relented and allowed the core committee members and the MLAs to go inside the building, where they were seated in a hall, it is learnt. Badal Senior questioned on June 22 On June 22, Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal was questioned at his official MLA flat in Chandigarh on his role in the police firing case. The SIT had earlier summoned Badal for questioning at a rest house in Mohali on June 16, but he requested to put off the date of his appearance, citing ill-health and old age. The date of the questioning was rescheduled and it was decided that the SIT will question the five-time Punjab chief minister at his official MLA flat in Chandigarh. Parkash Singh Badal was the chief minister when the three incidents of sacrilege took place in Faridkot district in 2015, leading to resentment and protests and triggering the police firing. The state government set up the new SIT, led by Yadav, to probe the Kotkapura incident following the Punjab and Haryana high court’s directions on April 9 that quashed a report by the previous SIT. The previous SIT, led by special DGP Parbodh Kumar included then IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. It had also questioned Parkash Singh Badal in the same case in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ex-deputy-cm-sukhbir-badal-questioned-for-kotkapura-police-firing-101624695418863.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||'Fight over, can we do some work?': Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to Centre amid row over oxygen||A day after Delhi's ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party sparred over an interim report by a Supreme Court-appointed panel to look into oxygen crisis in the Capital during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday hit back again. This time, Kejriwal called on the Centre to work together "so that no one is short of oxygen in the third wave.""If your fight over oxygen is over, can we get back to work? Let's make such a system together that there is no shortage of oxygen in the third wave. In the second wave, people suffered a severe shortage of oxygen. Now, this should not happen in the third wave," the Aam Aadmi Party leader tweeted in Hindi. "If we fight amongst ourselves then Corona will win. If we fight together, the country will win," he added.In the report on Friday, the Supreme Court-appointed audit panel said that the Delhi government exaggerated its oxygen requirement by four times in April and May. However, the Delhi government rejected the claims and, in turn, accused the BJP of misleading people. Manish Sisodia, Delhi's deputy chief minister, said that findings of the audit committee "do not exist." "We have heard of a so-called report that claims oxygen demand in Delhi was exaggerated. BJP leaders have been citing such a report against the AAP government. The truth is: There is no such report. The BJP is misleading people. No such report exists. The BJP is lying," Sisodia said in a video press briefing on Friday.BJP's Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta said that the Centre provided the Delhi government more than what was required. But "due to the mismanagement by the city government, there were instances when some places reported only 48 hours' oxygen left in stock, while somewhere else, it was just for 48 minutes," he claimed.On Saturday, Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of All India Institute of Medical Sciences who led the panel, said it would not be correct to say that Delhi "exaggerated" its oxygen needs. Guleria made the comments while speaking to television news channel NDTV. He also said that the oxygen audit is an "interim report," and we should wait for the final version, according to the NDTV report.Delhi faced an acute shortage of medical oxygen and other key supplies as the Covid-19 second wave created havoc in the country. Several big hospitals of the city sent SOS calls reporting a shortage of oxygen even as the Delhi government blamed the Centre for inadequate allocation of the gas by the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fight-over-can-we-do-some-work-arvind-kejriwal-to-centre-amid-row-over-oxyg-101624695143045.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal administrative officer accuses MLA husband of torture||Oshin Sharma, a Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) officer, has accused her husband and Dharamshala legislator Vishal Nehria of physical and mental torture. Sharma, who is posted at the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) office in Dharamshala, has lodged a complaint with the police and sought protection. Also read: India records highest weekly vaccination with over 3.3 crore jabs administeredIn an 11-minute video that is being shared widely on social media, the 2019-batch officer alleged that Nehria had slapped her thrice on Thursday in front of his family members. Sharma said it was not the first time that he has physically assaulted her but such things have happened several times even before their wedding. The couple tied the knot only two months ago on April 26. Sharma, who has now returned to her maternal house, said she was friendly with Nehria since their college days and he would often assault her even then. “Due to his violent behaviour, I broke up with him. After becoming MLA in 2019, he started pursuing me. I refused for two years. However, later I thought of giving our relationship another chance,” she said. Sharma alleged that Nehria had beaten her at a Chandigarh hotel in February and just four days after the marriage, he threw her out of the house when she was Covid-positive. She claimed that Nehria hurts himself in fits of rage. The woman officer alleged that Nehria was also pressurising her to have a child, while she told him that he was not mentally fit to be a father. She alleged that his mother also humiliated her parents several times, while Nehria made dowry demands, saying he was not happy with the gifts her family had given at the wedding. “My purpose for making the video is just that if he does something to himself, I should not be held responsible,” said Sharma, expressing threat to her and her parents’ safety. Kangra superintendent of police Vimukt Ranjan confirmed having received a complaint from the woman officer. “We will probe it and call them to record their statements,” he said. Despite repeated calls, Nehria did not answer the phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-administrative-officer-accuses-mla-husband-of-torture-101624694639225.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to remain under level-3 Covid-19 restrictions||Level-three category restrictions related to Covid-19 will remain in place in Mumbai, the city’s civic body has said. This means essential shops and establishments can remain open till 4 pm on all days while those related to non-essential supplies can operate till 4 pm on weekdays. Restaurants will be allowed to operate dine-in with 50% capacity till 4 pm on weekdays. The travel on local trains will be restricted to medical and essential services. Gyms, salons, and spas can also remain open till 4 pm, operational at 50% capacity without air conditioning.The positivity rate in Mumbai right now is 3.96% and oxygen bed occupancy 26.04%.As of June 25, Mumbai reported 718,962 cases and 15,368 deaths. The recovery rate in the city is 95% and the mortality rate 2.13%.The Maharashtra government on Friday announced stricter Covid-19 lockdown norms, reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three.The move came as cases of Delta plus variant of Covid-19 were reported in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-to-remain-under-level-3-covid-19-restrictions-101624693438790.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||SAD chief Sukhbir Badal appears before SIT probing 2015 Kotkapura firing case||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday appeared before a special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. He reached the Punjab police officers' institute at Sector 32 in Chandigarh at around 11am following a summons by the SIT.Badal was the deputy chief minister and holding the home portfolio when incidents of desecration of religious texts and the subsequent police firing at people protesting against it had taken place in Faridkot in 2015.Several senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders, including Bikram Singh Majithia, Balwinder Singh Bhundar, N K Sharma, and Daljit Singh Cheema, reached the Punjab Police Officers Institute in a show of support to Badal.On Tuesday, the SIT led by Additional Director General of Police (Vigilance Bureau) L K Yadav had questioned Shiromani Akali Dal patriarch and former Punjab chief minister Parkash Singh Badal for two-and-a-half hours.The Punjab government had formed the new SIT to probe the Kotkapura police firing incident following the directions of the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The new SIT is investigating the two FIRs registered on October 14, 2015, and August 7, 2018, in connection with the Kotkapura incident.The high court had on April 9 this year quashed a report by an earlier Punjab Police SIT into the firing at people protesting in Kotkapura in 2015 over the alleged desecration of the Guru Granth Sahib in Faridkot district.Police had also opened fire at a similar demonstration in Behbal Kalan, also in Faridkot, where two people were killed. A separate probe is underway in that case.Meanwhile, Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Saturday slammed Sukhbir Singh Badal and said the new SIT “inches closer to justice for Punjab's soul.”Sidhu tweeted, “6 Yrs since sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib Ji... No Justice in 2 yrs of your rule... No Justice in the following 4.5 yrs... Today, New SIT inches closer to Justice for Punjab's Soul & you cry of political interference... Political interference was that which delayed Justice by 6 yrs."Sidhu tagged the tweet of Sukhbir Singh Badal in which the former deputy chief minister accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of implicating the SAD leadership in false cases at the alleged instance of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi."While farmers suffer, CM is busy keeping Gandhi family happy & has accepted @RahulGandhi's directive to implicate SAD leadership in false cases. New SIT formed after the old one was indicted over political interference, is being run by state vigilance dept, so nothing has changed,” Sukhbir had said in a tweet on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-chief-sukhbir-badal-appears-before-sit-probing-2015-kotkapura-firing-case-101624691483292.html
26-06-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya vision document: PM Modi reviews plan in meet with Adityanath||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reviewed projects as well as a detailed plan for the development of Ayodhya and to promote the temple town as a global religious tourism site presented by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The state government is expected to brief PM Modi virtually about the proposed township, tourism board, upcoming airport in Ayodhya, development of Saryu bank, construction of road linked to temple apart from the Ram Mandir construction.Officials have said that the Yogi Adityanath government has hired LEA Associates South Asia Private Limited, an international consultant, to prepare a blueprint and a vision document for the overall development of Ayodhya. It has handed over a list of 27 projects that will be implemented as part of the development plan. “Out of the 27 projects, detailed project reports of 10 projects will be prepared soon,” Deepak Kumar, the chairperson of the UP Housing and Development Board, said.Deepak Kumar said Larsen and Toubro and Kukreja Architects are assisting the international consultant.Also read | Ram temple trust starts collecting donations from overseas IndiansPM Modi’s government has already approved ₹100-crore modernisation plan of the Ayodhya railway station in a bid to connect Ayodhya with the rest of the country. Ayodhya will also have an international airport and the state government has released over ₹321 crore for the land acquisition for the under-construction airport, to be named Maryada Purushottam Sriram Airport after Lord Ram. The state government has also approved ₹1,001.77 crore to purchase 555.66 acres of additional land for the construction of the international airport. Additionally, the Centre has also released its contribution of ₹250 crore.Also read | Religious places along 84-kosi parikrama route to get faceliftAyodhya Teertha Development Board to regulate all development activities in Ayodhya is also in the anvil, a senior official of the state government has said. It is also planning a new township to decongest Ayodhya, which will come up at Shahnawazpur on the Lucknow-Gorakhpur highway. The Uttar Pradesh Awas Vikas Parishad, a state government body, will implement the project. “The new Ayodhya will come up on 500 acres of land. In phase one, development work will be carried out on 180 acres,” an official said.Also read | Ayodhya mosque to be named after 1857 revolutionary Maulvi Ahmadullah ShahA provision of  ₹300 crore has been made for the construction of an approach road to the Ram Janmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya. And for the development and beautification of tourism facilities in Ayodhya, ₹100 crore has also been allotted.PM Modi in February 2020 announced the constitution of Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra, to oversee the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The Prime Minister visited Ayodhya to attend the bhoomi pujan at the Ram Janmbhoomi site on August 5 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-vision-document-pm-modi-reviews-plan-in-meet-with-adityanath-101624690367311.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||ED arrests two Deshmukh aides in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s personal secretary, Sanjeev Palande, and assistant, Kundan Shinde, in connection with the money laundering case the agency is probing against the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader.The two were due to be produced in a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Saturday.They were arrested after ED questioned them for hours till late Friday in Mumbai.ED officials said the accused were allegedly aware of the illegal money transactions that the agency claims to have traced to Deshmukh.The ED claimed that it has traced the trail of ₹4 crore allegedly collected by dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze from some bar and restaurants owners in Mumbai. This amount was allegedly sent to companies allegedly directly linked to Deshmukh’s kin.Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya tweeted on Saturday: “#Vaze #Vasooli case #AnilDeshmukh Secrataries Sanjeev Palande & Kundan Shinde arrested by ED today. I am sure Anil Deshmukh will be arrested in next few days.”On Friday, the anti-money laundering agency raided five places including Deshmukh’s residences in Mumbai and Nagpur.Deshmukh again denied all the allegations levelled against him, calling them false.Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh has accused Deshmukh of ordering policemen to collect ₹100 crore from businesses in Mumbai. The allegation forced Deshmukh to resign as the state home minister.Deshmukh maintained Singh levelled the accusation against him after the latter was removed as the commissioner for his poor handling of the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house. He said he is cooperating with ED, which is expected to summon him for questioning.The money laundering case against Deshmukh was filed based on the First Information Report registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against him under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on April 21.The CBI started the probe against Deshmukh after Singh wrote a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in March and made the allegations. The letter mentioned Palande as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-arrests-two-deshmukh-aides-in-money-laundering-case-101624686298574.html
26-06-2021||Kolkata||TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty falls ill, days after taking jab at 'fake' Covid-19 vaccine camp in Kolkata||Trinamool Congress member of Parliament (MP) Mimi Chakraborty, who was reported to have taken a vaccine shot at an inoculation drive in Kolkata which later turned out to be an elaborate scam, has now taken seriously ill, reported Hindustan Times Bangla on Saturday. The actor and MP was 'vaccinated' four days ago at a camp organised in the city's Kasba area, soon after which she became suspicious of the process and informed the police, eventually leading to the fraudulent operation being busted.Also Read | Fake vaccination drive: TMC MP Sen clarifies after photos with accused surfaceEarlier, the Parliamentarian had taken to her social media handle to assure people that the vaccines, albeit fake, were not harmful. Chakraborty informed that the vials being used at the camp have been sent to the lab for testing and results are expected in the next 4-5 days.The 'fake vaccine' case in Kolkata has been making the headlines for a while now. Impersonating as an IAS officer, one Debanjan Deb held two vaccine camps in the city where thousands of people, including TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty, are believed to have been taken their jabs. After the operation was busted, the cops seized fake labels pasted on several vials of an antibiotic injection used in place of the vaccines.Also Read | Kolkata vaccine fraud: BJP's Suvendu Adhikari demands immediate probeMimi Chakraborty fell ill on Saturday, four days after she received her jab at the supposed vaccination site. The actor-turned-politician's house physician was summoned to the residence early this morning, HT Bangla reports, adding that her medical complications include acute stomach ache and profuse sweating. Although she has received medical advice to get herself admitted to a hospital, Mimi has reportedly refused, opting for home treatment instead.It has been reported that the Trinamool MP had some previous medical conditions -- gallbladder sludge and a sluggish liver. However, it is not yet known if the 'vaccine' doses she received -- probable antibacterial injections -- triggered any adverse side effects.Mimi Chakraborty, who was invited to attend the camp earlier in the week, said she became suspicious about the vaccination process as she did not receive the customary SMS that is sent to people after they are administered a dose, and informed the police. However, she had already received her jab by then.The Kolkata police later said that Debanjan Deb, the person behind the fraud, had been impersonating as a joint commissioner of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) for the last four months and has duped a few people of several lakhs of rupees on the pretext of helping them get tenders of the civic body. It was with this money that he was organising the fake vaccine camps, the police indicated, adding that further investigation into the case is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-mp-mimi-chakraborty-falls-ill-days-after-taking-jab-at-fake-covid-19-vaccine-camp-in-kolkata-101624683143632.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Journey from Mumbai to Pune to get more scenic as govt restores Deccan Express with Vistadomes||The train journey between Mumbai to Pune is going to be extra enjoyable from Saturday as the Central Railway restored the services of Deccan Express with a Vistadome coach from Saturday. This will give passengers a clear view of the scenic beauty of the Western Ghats during the nearly four-hour journey.Vistadomes are European-style large glass windows that are equipped with advanced features, have glass roofs and observation lounges, which let passengers experience the outside beauty. The Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express will also have seats that can rotate up to 180 degrees.As the train resumed services, commuters seemed excited to travel in the train, which will pass through Matheran Hills, Songer Hill, Ulhas valley, areas of Khandala and Lonavala and tunnels. "The Vistadome coach will offer unhindered views of valley, river, waterfalls and much more on the Mumbai-Pune route," news agency ANI quoted a commuter as saying.Along with the one Vistadome coach, there will be 10 bogies of second-class seating and one-second class-seating-cum guard’s brake van.This is the first time a Vistadome coach is being deployed on the Mumbai-Pune route. The train will halt at Dadar, Thane, Kalyan, Neral (for 01007 only), Lonavala, Talegaon, Khadki and Shivajinagar.Union railways minister Piyush Goyal shared pictures of the train on Twitter. "Enjoy the scenic beauty of the Western Ghats with the first ever Vistadome coach on this route," he wrote on the micro-blogging site.Mumbai-Pune-Mumbai via Vistadome: Enjoy the scenic beauty of the Western Ghats with the first ever Vistadome coach on this route. The Mumbai-Pune Deccan Express Special Train having the Vistadome coach is all set to be restored on this route from 26th June 2021. pic.twitter.com/mNTjSZ2lozAs per Central Railway's guidelines, passengers with confirmed tickets will be permitted onboard the train. They will be required to follow all norms and standard operating procedures (SOPs) related to Covid-19. Bookings can be done at all passenger reservation system (PRS) centres and on the website www.irctc.co.in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/journey-from-mumbai-to-pune-to-get-more-scenic-as-govt-restores-deccan-express-with-vistadomes-101624684206321.html
26-06-2021||Jaipur||First case of Delta plus variant detected in Rajasthan||The first case of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus disease was detected in Rajasthan’s Bikaner district on Friday, officials said.Bikaner’s chief medical and health officer, Om Prakash Chahar said a 65-year -old woman was infected with Covid-19, she was asymptomatic and recovered completely without any institutional treatment.Chahar said the woman has recovered and is healthy. She has been administered both doses of the Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine.The sample of the patient was collected on May 31 and was sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune as the institute had asked the Sardar Patel Medical College (SPMC), Bikaner to send 10 random samples of Covid-19 patients for genome sequencing.He said of the random samples sent, one has been reported as Delta Plus variant from Bangla Nagar area. The woman, along with her three family members, was diagnosed with Covid-19. Her sample came positive for the new virus variant – Delta Plus. The report was received from Pune.The health officials have started scanning the neighbourhood and nearby areas.The state cabinet meeting, chaired by CM Ashok Gehlot on Friday also expressed concern over the occurrence of cases of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 in many countries and states of India. The meeting was told that according to the experts, this new variant of Covid-19 is said to be very deadly and rapidly spreading. In such a situation, any kind of negligence can create a big challenge. The members of the Council of Ministers said that relaxation in restrictions for business and other activities should be given keeping in mind all the apprehensions of the third wave.The Delta variant of the Covid-19 has emerged as a ‘variant of concern’ and another mutation of Delta, the Delta Plus, has been found in India. The first case of Delta Plus was detected in a sample collected in Maharashtra in April, the government has said. This indicates that though the variant has been reported recently, cases already existed in India in April during the peak of the second wave.Rajasthan’s Covid-19 rose to 9,51,826 with 131 fresh cases o Friday, officials said. Of the 131 cases, 17 were reported from Jodhpur, among others.The death toll stood at 8,905 as no new fatality was reported in the state due to the infection. A total of 9,41,048 patients have recovered from the disease so far and there are 1,873 active cases of the infection in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/first-case-of-delta-plus-variant-detected-in-rajasthan-101624683658235.html
26-06-2021||Other||Nearly 200 egrets, cormorant hatchlings die after Assam town committee fells bamboo trees over the fear of Covid spread||Nearly 200 egret and cormorant hatchlings died on Thursday after bamboo trees were felled in Assam’s Udalguri district over the fear of the spread of Covid-19 from the bird droppings. The trees were felled on an order issued this month by the executive officer of the Tangla Town Committee to five residents. “The droppings of egrets nesting on bamboo trees in your property have led to unhygienic conditions and could lead to spread of Corona infection,” said the order issued on June 8. “Residents in the neighbourhood are living in unhygienic conditions (because of the droppings). Therefore, you are directed to cut the bamboo trees in your property, which falls in the town’s area, and help create a healthy environment,” the order added. After the residents did not cut the trees, the town committee went ahead and felled them on Thursday. This led to the destruction of the egret nests and many eggs, hatchlings fell on the ground. Photos and videos showing the hatchlings lying dead or injured on the ground went viral on social media prompting Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma to direct forest and environment minister Parimal Suklabaidya to inquire into the matter. On Friday, Udalguri deputy commissioner P Uday Praveen visited the area and took stock of the incident. He has directed the circle officer of the area to prepare a report on the incident. “We have not been able to ascertain how many hatchlings and birds died as local residents took away some of them from the site after the bamboo trees were felled. We were able to rescue 88 hatchlings on Friday and send them to the Centre for Wildlife Rehabilitation and Conservation (CWRC) in Kaziranga,” Praveen said. “Instructions have been issued to local people to protect the birds and directions issued to the town committee not to carry out further felling of bamboo trees. We have kept a team at the spot to monitor the site,” he added. The birds that died were from three species, Cattle egrets (Bubulcus ibis), Little egret (Egretta garzetta) and Little cormorant (Microcarbo niger). All of them are protected under Schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “The death of the birds was due to sheer lack of education on the part of members of the Tangla town committee. It is ridiculous that they don’t know how Covid19 spreads,” said Rathin Barman, joint director of Wildlife Trust of India. Officials at CWRC, where the rescued hatchlings were taken, said the condition of nearly 60 of the 88 birds was precarious and many might not survive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nearly-200-egrets-cormorant-hatchlings-die-after-assam-town-committee-fells-bamboo-trees-over-the-fear-of-covid-spread-101624679698171.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||ED arrests two aides of ex-Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has arrested two aides of former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), news agency PTI reported on Saturday, citing officials familiar with the development. Deshmukh's personal secretary Sanjeev Palande and personal assistant Kundan Shinde were arrested in connection with the charges of money laundering against the politician who allegedly took a bribe of up to ₹100 crore.ED officials said that the two aides of the former home minister were found to be not cooperating with the investigating officers, even after around nine hours of questioning at the central probe agency's Ballard Estate office in Mumbai. Next, they will be produced at a special PMLA court in Mumbai later in the day, where the ED will seek their custody for custodial interrogation, the news agency reported.Earlier, the sleuths had raided the offices of the two men and that of Deshmukh, one in Mumbai and another in Nagpur. Around eight ED officials arrived at Deshmukh’s residence at 7.30pm along with a team of Central Reserve Police Force personnel and began the search. No one was allowed to enter the house and the search continued till the filing of this report.The ED is investigating allegations of money laundering against Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh. The probe was ordered after former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh accused Deshmukh of ordering some policemen to collect ₹100 crore from businesses.Deshmukh was forced to resign as the state home minister after the allegations surfaced.The Central Bureau of Investigation, which also raided Deshmukh’s residence in Nagpur in April, has filed a First Information Report against Deshmukh under the Prevention of Corruption Act and Indian Penal Code’s Section 120 B (criminal conspiracy). On May 11, ED filed a criminal case under the anti-money laundering law against Deshmukh.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-arrests-two-aides-of-ex-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-in-money-laundering-case-101624673873887.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra tightens Covid curbs amid rising Delta Plus cases. Check what’s new||The Maharashtra government on Friday said there will now be only three levels of unlock plan and issued new orders imposing uniform restrictions across the state irrespective of the positivity count and oxygen bed requirement. The government said that instead of the five-level unlock, announced earlier this month, there will be three-level restrictions now amid Delta plus variant of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in seven districts of the state.The Delta Plus variant has been detected in at least 21 Covid-19 patients and an 80-year-old woman with co-morbidities succumbed to the disease on June 25, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said.“Given that the virus causing COVID-19 is undergoing mutations in various geographies and that these mutations are displaying more transmissibility and potential reductions in monoclonal antibody response, a state-level trigger mandating all the administrative units -- irrespective of values of the indices of weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy percentage -- to remain at a level not below three is to be in operation till withdrawn by specific order of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA),” the Maharashtra government order said.Also read | K’taka CM mandates Covid testing for travellers from Maha, KeralaThe government also cited the warning issued by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG), designating the Delta Plus strain a “variant of concern”. The Maharashtra government has allowed the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to impose stricter restrictions in districts as and when deemed fit.Under Level 3 restrictions, establishments dealing in essentials will be allowed to function till 4pm on all days and the rule same will apply to shops selling non-essential items. Malls, theatres, and multiplexes will remain closed, and restaurants will be allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity till 4pm. Only takeaway and parcel services will be allowed after that.Also read | Maharashtra crosses 3 crore vaccine mark, first in IndiaGyms and salons will stay open till 4pm without air-conditioners and customers will be allowed on an appointment-only basis. E-commerce services and public transport will be allowed. Fifty guests will be allowed to attend weddings and for funerals, the number of people has been capped at 20. Private offices can stay open till 4pm on weekdays with 50 per cent of their staff. Essential and medical workers and women will be allowed to use local train services. Parks and gardens can open from 5am to 9am every day. Cultural activities will be allowed at 50 per cent capacity of the venue. Also read | Third wave unlikely to be as severe as second: ICMR studyOnly onsite labourers will be allowed to work at construction sites and others will have to leave by 4pm. Manufacturing of essential goods will be allowed at 100 per cent capacity and manufacturing units engaged in non-essential goods can work with 50 per cent capacity and with a dedicated transport facility for its employees.The DDMA will take special actions to ensure that the ease of restrictions does not lead to the further spread of Covid-19. Maharashtra recorded 9677 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 156 fatalities on Friday, taking the state's infection tally to 6,017,035 and the death toll to 120,370.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-tightens-covid-curbs-amid-rising-delta-plus-cases-check-what-s-new-101624670977370.html
26-06-2021||Kolkata||BJP, TMC trade charges over fake Covid-19 jab drive, police form SIT||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the fake vaccination scam and the alleged links of the accused with the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders after photographs of the accused with the top TMC leaders went viral.“Kolkata’s outgoing mayor and other senior leaders including ministers are associated with this. All persons who are linked to this man should be arrested. There should be a CBI probe,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP’s state unit president.Dismissing the allegation, TMC leader and outgoing mayor Firhad Hakim, whose photo with the accused went viral, said: “It is not possible to check the credentials of each and every person you come across in a public programme.”On June 23, the Kolkata Police busted a fake Covid-19 vaccination centre and arrested one Debanjan Deb (28), for posing as an IAS officer associated with the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and organising a few camps where at least 600 people, including Trinamool Congress MP Mimi Chakraborty, are suspected to have been inoculated. The number could rise. On Friday, the Kolkata Police formed a Special Investigation Team, headed by a deputy commissioner, to probe the case.Soon after Deb’s arrest, pictures of him with TMC ministers, including Firhad Hakim, Subrata Mukherjee and others went viral, triggering a slugfest.It was also found that the name of Deb, along with other TMC MPs, was engraved on the stone plaque of a bust of Rabindranath Tagore installed at a ward in Kolkata in February.TMC has denied the presence of its leaders at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-tmc-trade-charges-over-fake-covid-19-jab-drive-police-form-sit-101624663327026.html
26-06-2021||Dehradun||Char Dham limited to locals after HC rap||The Uttarakhand government has for now decided to open the Char Dham yatra only for the locals of the three districts where the shrines are located, hours after the high court reprimanded it for allowing the pilgrimage amid concerns that a third Covid wave is round the corner.The decision was taken by the state government during a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday. “From July 1, locals from three districts where the Char Dham shrines are located, would be allowed to visit them. They would have to carry either RT-PCR report... there would a daily limit on the number of pilgrims to be allowed to visit the shrines. That would be decided in an SOP to be issued soon...,” said state government spokesperson Subodh Uniyal.“A special official would also be appointed for each of the four shrines in coordination with the respective district administrations and Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board to monitor the pilgrimage.” He added that all the priests of four shrines would be vaccinated.Earlier in the day, a bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Alok Verma nudged the state to instead opt for live streaming of the ceremonies at the Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri and Gangotri shrines.“Perhaps the Char Dham Yatra needs to be postponed or cancelled, as already the Amarnath Yatra has been cancelled by the Jammu & Kashmir administration,” it said.“Considering the fact that large gathering invariably leads to a spike in the Covid-19 pandemic, this court is of the firm opinion that a catastrophe like Covid-19 pandemic should not be re-invited by holding and permitting large gathering at religious shrines, and by permitting the Char Dham yatra by the state,” the high court said.The Char Dham yatra, scheduled to start on May 14, was deferred on April 29 in view of the spike in Covid cases. On June 20, the state said the yatra would begin from July 1 for local residents, and pilgrims from other parts of the state from July 11.“Already holding of Kumbh Mela, and in permitting a large congregation of lakhs of people on Ganga Dussehra at Har-ki-Pauri at Haridwar are clear-cut proof of the failure of the civil administration... Once the devotees start gathering in large numbers, invariably the first victim is the SOP itself; the second victims are the people at large”, said the judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/char-dham-limited-to-locals-after-hc-rap-101624662711333.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Search on for relatives behind hate crime on Dwarka couple||In a suspected hate crime, a 23-year-old man was killed and his 19-year-old wife seriously injured after at least six men, including the woman’s three family members, opened fire at them in Amberhai village in Dwarka’s Sector 19 on Thursday night, police said. In all, at least 11 bullets were fired at the husband and wife from two pistols, they said.Police said the couple, Vinay Dahiya and Kiran from Gopalpur village in Haryana’s Sonepat, eloped in August last year and had a court wedding, despite their families strongly opposing the match as they belonged to the same village and the same gotra (lineage). Dahiya’s family members said a marriage between those of the same gotra is prohibited in the village as it is considered “incestuous”.A panchayat held in the village nearly 20 days after their wedding barred the couple from entering the village and their families were directed not to meet or contact the couple, Dahiya’s family said.Soon after their wedding, the couple approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking police protection as they feared for their lives. The court directed the Sonepat police to provide protection, but when HT checked, a senior Sonepat police officer, on condition of anonymity, said the couple never approached them for the protection. Sonepat SP Jashandeep Randhawa could not be reached for comment.The couple moved to Delhi and were living in rented accommodations in Amberhai village, police said. Dahiya owned a taxi and was employed by a private airline company. Kiran was pregnant but had a miscarriage two-three days ago, said Dahiya’s father Om Prakash.“Around 8.30pm Thursday, the two were in their first-floor apartment when three to four men came knocking and as soon as Kiran opened the door, they fired at her. At least four bullets were fired, three of which hit Kiran while one hit her husband,” said a police officer, quoting Kiran’s statement.“The injured couple ran for their lives. While Kiran ran towards the terrace, Dahiya rushed outside, with his attackers giving chase. On reaching the terrace, Kiran looked down to see her husband being chased down the lane and she began screaming for help,” said the couple’s landlady Jyoti Mudgal.“I too saw Dahiya running out and three men chasing him. Three or four more men were waiting outside. They chased Dahiya and shot him dead outside a boutique shop nearby,” said Mudgal, adding that Kiran scaled the terrace’s iron railing and crossed over to the adjacent building to save herself.Kiran climbed down that building and kept screaming for help. The building’s caretaker, Basanti, saw Kiran bleeding and alerted residents of that building. One of them called the police.“I was shaken to see the woman soaked in blood. She was pleading with us to save her and her husband. A police team arrived soon after and took her to the hospital,” said Basanti.One of the five cameras in the lane caught the men running down the lane. Although the footage is grainy, at least two men can be seen firing guns, police said.DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said Dahiya was rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital, where he was declared brought dead. He suffered four gunshot wounds to his chest and abdomen, while Kiran was shot three times in the neck and abdomen. “Kiran’s statement has been recorded. She said her brother Aman, cousin Vicky and uncle Shakti were involved in the attack,” said the DCP.“We have registered a case of murder, attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy at the Dwarka Sector 23 police station and are looking for the attackers, who came in a Scorpio SUV owned by Kiran’s uncle Shakti. Her father and another uncle are being questioned,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/search-on-for-relatives-behind-hate-crime-on-dwarka-couple-101624660005219.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||3 metro stations to stay shut for 4 hours today||The Delhi Metro will on Saturday shut three stations on the Yellow Line for four hours, in anticipation of a protest march called by farmers on June 26 to mark the completion of seven months of their agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws.“...in view of security reasons, three Metro stations of Yellow Line namely, Vishwavidyalaya, Civil Lines and Vidhan Sabha, will remain closed for public from 10:00 am to 2:00pm tomorrow i.e, 26.06.2021 (Saturday),” the DMRC tweeted on Friday night. Delhi’s Raj Niwas is located in the Civil Lines area.A senior police officer also said that in view of the anticipated protest, the DMRC has been asked to close some designated metro stations as a precautionary measure.A spokesperson of the Bhartiya Kisan Union said, “Farmers are gathering again in large numbers at the Ghazipur border” in a show of strength.The decision comes after Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leader Yogendra Yadav announced on Thursday that they will hold a protest march across the nation. On Saturday, farmer representatives will seek to submit memoranda to state governors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-metro-stations-to-stay-shut-for-4-hours-today-101624658950867.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Oxygen report fuels war of words in Delhi||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) not to call residents of the national capital “liars”, and said that when the party was busy with election campaigns, he was fighting to arrange oxygen for the people.His remarks were in response to a political battle over an interim report by a Supreme Court (SC)-appointed panel to look into Delhi’s oxygen crisis in April-May. The report said Delhi’s administrations and hospitals exaggerated the demand for medical oxygen, which the BJP drew on to attack the CM.Kejriwal on Friday tweeted, “My fault was that I fought for 2 crore (20 million) Delhi residents. When you [BJP leaders] were busy with election campaigns, I was awake all night arranging medical oxygen. I fought, I begged to ensure oxygen for people of Delhi. People have lost their dear ones due to oxygen shortage. At least don’t call them liars, they will feel terrible about it.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday also accused the BJP of misleading people and said that the purported findings did not exist as a legitimate, endorsed report of SC-appointed committee to audit the medical oxygen demand during the Covid-19 surge.“It is unbelievable to see that Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi government politicised oxygen supply when Covid was at its peak. This is such petty politics. The data presented by Oxygen Audit Committee in the report is shocking,” BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra said in a press conference on Friday.“How can someone politicise oxygen? How can someone play with life like this? This is criminal negligence. This is a conspiracy,” Patra said.He accused chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of creating a “false alarm and spreading panic across the country”. Patra blamed Kejriwal and his government for the lives lost in Delhi due to the oxygen shortage. “He should feel guilty of ruining lives.” Patra said Kejriwal will be held accountable and punished for “his criminal negligence and conspiracy”.Meanwhile, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said, “It is now clear that the government exaggerated the demand for oxygen in the city. It was a conspiracy and done to create panic among people during the peak of the second wave. The Delhi government did nothing to augment the oxygen supply. It didn’t get tankers on time and install oxygen plants approved by the Centre. It just blamed the Centre for everything.”However, deputy chief minister Sisodia said that the BJP’s statements were ‘misleading’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-report-fuels-war-of-words-in-delhi-101624658623799.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Owner of tugboat that sank during Tauktae booked||A case of culpable homicide has been registered in Mumbai against the owner of Varaprada tugboat that sank in the Arabian Sea during last month’s Cyclone Tauktae, in which 11 persons were killed, an official said on Friday. Barge P305 and Varaprada -- both support vessels working for the state-run ONGC’s offshore oilfields near Mumbai -- had borne the brunt of the cyclone, which made landfall on Gujarat coast on May 17.“At least 11 personnel, who were working on the tugboat, had died in the incident. During the rescue operation, two of its workmen were rescued by the navy teams,” the official said.A first information report (FIR) was filed under sections 304(2) (culpable homicide) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the tugboat owner on Thursday at the Yellow Gate police station on the complaint of chief engineer of the boat and a survivor, he said.Nobody has been arrested in this connection so far and the probe is underway, he added.A total of 274 crew were reported missing on May 17 (261 from Barge P305 and 13 from Tug Varaprada). While 186 survivors from P305 and two from Varaprada were picked up at sea, 70 bodies were recovered by ships of the Indian Navy and coast guard. Besides, eight bodies were recovered along the coast in Raigad district of Maharashtra, officials had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/owner-of-tugboat-that-sank-during-tauktae-booked-101624657618459.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Political row erupts over Delhi ‘O2 audit’||A political battle has broken out between Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over an interim report by a group under the Supreme Court-appointed panel to audit oxygen utilisation in the Capital -- even as questions remained about whether this version of the report was meant for submission to the court, and whether everyone in the panel had signed off on it.The report suggested there was “gross discrepancy” in recording the requirement of medical oxygen by 183 of Delhi’s hospitals, which asked for 1140MT as opposed to the actual requirement of 209MT. It also assessed the oxygen demand in a meeting on May 13 as 290-400MT at a time when representatives of the state government continued to seek 500MT of oxygen.The Delhi government has said that the report was invalid, and its findings incorrect.“The Supreme Court set up an oxygen audit committee. We spoke to members of the committee. They said that they have not approved or signed any report till now. Then what report is it? Where has it come from? I challenge the BJP to get a report which has been signed and approved by the oxygen audit committee,” Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said.The panel is technically a subgroup headed by AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria. Its other members are Subodh Yadav, a joint secretary in the Jal Shakti ministry, Dr Sandeep Budhiraja from Max Healthcare, Bhupinder S Bhalla, principal secretary, home, Delhi government, and Sanjay Kumar Singh, the controller of explosives at the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO).Dr Guleria could not immediately be reached for comment. In the annexures attached with the report, two of the members — Dr Budhiraja and Bhalla — submitted discordant notes on the procedure and details of the findings. They also could not be reached for comments, but an internal note by Bhalla on Friday evening suggested some of the members of the panel had not approved the report.The BJP was quick to respond to the leaked report. “It is unbelievable to see that Arvind Kejriwal and Delhi government politicised oxygen supply when Covid was at its peak. This is such petty politics. The data presented by Oxygen Audit Committee in the report is shocking,” party’s national spokesperson Sambit Patra said in a press conference.“The demand for four times more oxygen was made by the Delhi government, due to which the oxygen tankers remained on the road. Had this oxygen been used in other states, many lives could have been saved. This is a heinous crime committed by Arvind Kejriwal ji,” he added.Also read | Over 166,000 get Covid-19 jabs in Delhi as drive hits another one-day highThe Delhi CM shot back. “My crime — I fought for the breath of my two crore people. When you were doing an election rally, I was awake all night arranging for oxygen. I fought, pleaded to get oxygen for people. People have lost their loved ones due to lack of oxygen. Don’t call them liars, they are feeling so bad,” he said in a tweet in Hindi.The controversial report marks the latest chapter in a long-running spat between the Union government and the Delhi government that has been fought across the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court. The Delhi government’s position, in the arguments in court, held against the backdrop of the raging second wave of the coronavirus disease pandemic in the Capital, was that the Union government was not allocating it enough oxygen. The Centre’s position was that Delhi’s needs were overstated and that the local government wasn’t able to lift supplies that had been allocated to it.With social media filled with pleas of people and hospitals scrambling for oxygen, the courts stepped in. While the issue was resolved with Delhi finally receiving adequate oxygen, the apex court also constituted an expert panel to look into the usage of the precious medical commodity. The interim findings of the audit subgroup of that panel, now leaked, have become the subject of controversy.In a response in the report itself, the Delhi government describes the panel’s proceedings as “a perfunctory desktop exercise, conducted hurriedly” which resulted in “erroneous entries and even more erroneous conclusions”. Terming the allegation of excess supply “incorrect,” it told the panel that it was “sad and shocking” that the panel arrived as “sweeping conclusions” without lending it an opportunity to explain.The subgroup was constituted by the Supreme Court-appointed 12-member national task force. The task force was set up by the apex court on May 8 when the bench, led by justice Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, called for an immediate oxygen utilisation audit in Delhi. At the same time, the bench also directed that Delhi should get 700 metric tonne (MT) of the life-saving medical input every day despite the Union government’s reluctance.The interim report -- HT has seen a copy -- cited a study by PESO and responses, gathered via Delhi government officials, from 183 hospitals in the national capital regarding their oxygen requirement to observe that while this data claimed actual consumption of oxygen as 1,140 MT on May 12, it turned out to be just 209 MT after correcting faulty reporting by four city hospitals.If the Centre-recommended formula for oxygen allotment was employed, the requirement would have been 289MT and with the Delhi government’s formula, it would have been 391 MT, stated the report.It noted that four hospitals, Singhal Hospital, Aruna Asaf Ali Government Hospital, ESIC Model Hospital and Liferays Hospital erroneously claimed extremely high oxygen consumption with very few beds, “leading to extremely skewed information and significantly higher oxygen requirement for entire state of Delhi”.HT has reached out to the four hospitals and while representatives of two of them did not offer a comment, the others said they did not use liquid medical oxygen and were unaware of what was claimed in the report.The subgroup’s report was submitted to the court by the Union health ministry. An official, who asked not to be named, said the health ministry had no role in the drafting and only “played the role of a messenger”. “A committee cannot directly approach the Supreme Court to submit the report. It was submitted to the health ministry, which, through its appointed nodal officer for the purpose, helped place it before the Supreme Court,” the official said.This person said the committee decided its own methodology and designed the necessary template “that they approached hospitals directly to fill”.The panel met seven times between May 11 and May 21.The panel cited a PESO study that contended that actual requirement of Delhi during the peak of second Covid-19 wave was much less than what was demanded, making other states such as Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir “suffer badly”. The report, prepared after carrying out a study between May 5 and 11, also contended that AAP government was neither auditing its usage of oxygen nor was assessing its realistic demand.The interim report attached documentary replies of the Delhi government to the findings of the subgroup as well as to the PESO report.Disagreeing with the formula used by the subgroup to compute oxygen requirement, the Delhi government, in its communication to the panel, said: “The finding that Delhi received excess oxygen is incorrect. Delhi has never received excess oxygen. Only on May 5, it received 730 MT which was more than its requirement. Moreover, the oxygen requirement is dynamic and as soon as Delhi’s requirement decreased, a proactive communication was sent to the Central government restating its current requirement.”In another letter, it added: “The manner in which the proceedings of the subgroup have been conducted, suggests that the purpose of proceedings was to justify a preconceived and predetermined conclusion and narrative, to recommend a lower quantity of a LMO to Delhi, and to further portray an impression that the assessment by the GNCTD before the Hon’ble High Court of Delhi and the Hon’ble Supreme Court was exaggerated or not genuine.”The Delhi government also disputed the subgroup’s assumption that only 50% of non-ICU beds used oxygen which was not correct in the context of a respiratory disease like Covid-19. “The (audit) committee needs to begin with the GNCTD calculation of 568 MT, which is the scientifically modelled and data-driven estimate (arrived at by the Delhi government) and then points out where it feels that our requirements could be higher or lower. This fact cannot be determined through an armchair paper exercise but through an actual survey on the ground,” it said.It also disputed a minute of the meeting on May 13 when Guleria expressed “anguish” over the fact that the oxygen tankers in Delhi were not able to upload oxygen and were lying idle since oxygen tanks in various hospitals were completely filled. The Delhi government called Guleria’s observations “strange”, pointing out that several SOS calls had been received for tanker supplies for his own institutions, AIIMS-Delhi. “It is only when the system has stabilised that this strange narrative is finding place in the committee of experts,” it said.The Supreme Court is yet to hear this matter after May 6 and the court website, as on Friday, also did not indicate any next date of listing.An internal statement, signed by Bhalla, later refuted excerpts from the subgroup report that was leaked, and said the data on LMO consumption was a mere collation from hospitals and “was not claimed by government of NCT of Delhi”.The statement, which was accessed by HT, listed several other recommendations that Bhalla made as a member of the subgroup and cited examples to support Delhi’s position that the city needed more oxygen (such as supplies for people in home isolation). “Hence, the total oxygen consumption for Delhi was 550 MT around 12-13th May 2021, about 10 days after the peak of Covid-19 in the Capital,” he said. Dr Naresh Trehan, also a part of the 12-member overarching national task force, said he was unaware of the findings of the Delhi audit as the committee directly submits its reports to the Supreme Court without any overview from the National Task Force. “If Guleria did it, it must be reliable,” he said.(With Inputs from Rhythma Kaul, Anonna Dutt, Abhishek Dey and Malavika PM)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/political-row-erupts-over-delhi-o2-audit-101624654208064.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress leaders meet Rahul Gandhi, urge to resolve rift quickly||Amid uncertainty over the Congress high command’s peace plan for the faction-ridden state unit, former party president and Lok Sabha member Rahul Gandhi continued his meetings with Punjab leaders on Friday who urged him to resolve the rift quickly. Rahul held one-to-one meetings with state cabinet ministers Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla and Balbir Singh Sidhu, Rajya Sabha member Shamsher Singh Dullo and MLAs Rana Gurjit Singh, Lakhvir Singh Lakha and Sukhwinder Singh Danny who were summoned to Delhi to share their views on the political situation and suggest steps the party and the government need to take in the run-up to the assembly polls due early next year. ‘No time to talk of change of general’ Mohindra, one of the senior-most Congress leaders in the state, is learnt to have told the former party chief that this is not the time to talk about changing the general as the assembly elections are round the corner and the party needs to devote all its energies on ensuring victory. “He said if the party leadership wanted any change, it should have looked at it two or two-and-a-half years ago. Now is not the time,” sources said on the local government minister’s 30-minute meeting with Rahul. The minister, who is number two in the pecking order in cabinet hierarchy, also conveyed his displeasure over former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu’s repeated statements bad-mouthing the chief minister and the government, telling the central leader that his (former minister’s) remarks have hurt the party’s image in the state. Dullo suggests surgical strike ‘without delay’ While most others said they urged the central leader to resolve differences among the leaders at the earliest, Dullo, a known detractor of Amarinder, told him that the high command will have to carry out a surgical strike without any delay to defuse the present situation and revive the party in the state. “This crisis is the creation of defectors who come with high expectations. The party needs to make use of the experience of traditional Congressmen who have been shoved into a corner, and not the party-hoppers. Also, to strengthen the party, Hindu leaders need to be given due importance, particularly in urban areas,” the former Punjab Congress president said after his meeting. Sharing details of his discussion with the Wayanad MP, Dullo said immediate steps are needed to control sand, illicit liquor and transport mafias, deliver justice in the sacrilege and police firing cases and timely provision of SC scholarships. “I also told him (Rahul) that the office of Punjab Congress has been under lockdown for the past three-four years,” he said. Rana Gurjit said he had a good meeting with Rahul. “I gave my views on what the party needs to do, but cannot share what we talked in the media,” he said, refusing to go into details. MLA Lakha is learnt to have told the former party chief that the high command should make everyone sit together and resolve the situation. “If the party is united, we are sure to repeat victory,” he said. Rahul had met more than 20 ministers, MPs and legislators and most of them from the dissenting group in the first three days of this week. Earlier, a three-member committee set up by Congress president Sonia Gandhi on the Punjab crisis held a series of meetings with 150-odd leaders and has submitted its report. On Wednesday, Rawat said that Sonia would take a decision on the government and organisational rejig by July 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-congress-leaders-meet-rahul-gandhi-urge-to-resolve-rift-quickly-101624652756449.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||2015 police firing: Sukhbir Badal to appear before SIT today||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal will appear before the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing cases on Saturday. The former deputy chief minister will appear for questioning at a Punjab police institute in Sector-32, Chandigarh, it is learnt. Sukhbir, who was the home minister when the Kotkapura firing took place, has been asked to appear with record, if any, before the SIT.This is the second time during the Congress regime that Sukhbir will be quizzed in connection with Kotkapura firing incident. Earlier, the SIT led by former IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh had questioned the SAD chief in November 2018.A chargesheet filed in the court by Kunwar in May 2019 has said that incidents of desecration of Guru Granth Sahib were “a pre-planned handiwork of then deputy CM Sukhbir Badal, then DGP Saini and Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda”. The Kunwar-led SIT had claimed that the post-sacrilege firing incidents at Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan were part of a conspiracy and directions came from the top.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-police-firing-sukhbir-badal-to-appear-before-sittoday-101624652396291.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||First two cases of Delta plus variant surface in Punjab||Two cases of the ‘Delta plus’ variant – a mutated version of the more aggressive B.1.617.2 or ‘Delta’ strain of the Covid-19 that drove the second wave of infections in India – have surfaced in Punjab, according to the Union health ministry. There are 48 cases of this “variant of concern” spread across 11 states, the ministry said on Friday, adding that the maximum (20) cases had been reported from Maharashtra. “While nine case have been detected in Tamil Nadu, seven in Madhya Pradesh, three in Kerala, two in Gujarat, and one case each in Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, and Karnataka,” says Sujit Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), that is involved in genome sequencing of the coronavirus in the country. Identified as B.1.617.2.1, this strain is characterised by the K417N mutation in the spike protein of the virus. The spike protein is what helps the virus infect human cells, and K417N has been associated with immune escape, or evasion, that leaves the virus more immune to vaccines or drugs. “We have received the reports of the samples sent for genome sequencing this evening. The presence of delta plus variant has been confirmed in one case that belongs to Ludhiana,” said state’s nodal officer for Covid Dr Rajesh Bhaskar, adding that the details of the other case are awaited. “The 68- year- old patient, a resident of Jand village in Pakhowal tehsil, had given his samples on June 13. These were sent for genome sequencing to NIV Pune which confirmed the presence of delta plus variant,” added Bhaskar. “The patient, who had no travel history and did not require any hospitalisation, was cured in home isolation. However, as per the Covid protocol, we had conducted the RT-PCR tests of the entire villages and the surrounding area. We have also carried out the vaccination drive in the entire village as well. As we have received the report, further action will be taken,” said Dr Kiran Ahliwalia, Ludhiana civil surgeon. The highly contagious delta variant was behind the second wave in the state. Of 478 samples sent for genome sequencing test in the month of May, the strain was found in 440 samples while the alpha variant (B.1.1.7) of the UK strain was found in 16 samples. Bhaskar said the delta variant was found in 92 % of samples, while alpha variant was found in only 3% of samples. As many as 30 samples have been sent for testing this month and the results are awaited, he added. Senior cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, who is a member of the Punjab government’s Covid taskforce said the state was hit by the two different variants of the virus. “At the beginning of the year, we saw UK variant. The delta variant was witnessed in April and May and it resulted in more hospitalisations.” (with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-two-cases-of-delta-plus-variant-surface-in-punjab-101624651918663.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||2015 police firing case: Officer who landed in controversy during Badal’s quizzing quits as SIT’s legal expert||Former director prosecution, Vijay Singla, on Friday resigned as a legal expert of the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 police firing cases, three days after he landed into a controversy when ex-chief minister Parkash Singh Badal objected to his presence in the team that had come to question him. “I have nothing to gain from this mess. I have conveyed in writing to the SIT chief LK Yadav that I can’t be the legal expert of the team,” Singla told Hindustan Times. Singla had accompanied the three SIT members, additional director general of police (ADGP) LK Yadav, who heads the probe team, Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Aggarwal, and DIG Faridkot Surjit Singh, as a legal expert attached to the SIT. There was high drama when Singla posed the first question to the SAD patriarch Badal.The senior Badal raised strong objections to Singla’s presence, which led to the former official leaving the room, a senior SAD leader claimed. Singla, on his part, had said that he did not ask any question to the former CM, and was stopped by the SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and others before entering the room where Badal was sitting.“SIT has hired me as a legal expert through proper government orders. I accompanied SIT on the request of the SIT head, who wanted me to be there in case of any legal assistance,” he said. SAD leader Bikram Majihia said that the presence of the any person apart of the police officials during quizzing amount to the violation of the high court orders that mandated that the probe in the incident should be impartial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-police-firing-case-officer-who-landed-in-controversy-during-badal-s-quizzing-quits-as-sit-s-legal-expert-101624651377110.html
26-06-2021||Lucknow||Delta-Plus variant in other states: Yogi asks for maximum sampling in Uttar Pradesh||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said Uttar Pradesh must step up alertness over the new Delta- Plus variant as it was comparatively far more virulent than the previous coronavirus strains and several states had started reporting Delta-Plus infections.The UP experts’ committee had presented a detailed report with recommendations for protection from the new variant, including the warning that it may affect comparatively lower age groups, including children, the chief minister said at a high-level Covid-19 review meeting. The state should take all necessary steps, as recommended by the expert committee, to tackle it, he added.“For a detailed and extensive probe of the Delta plus variant, the state should undertake maximum sampling and do genome sequencing of the variant,” he said to officials.He also asked them to “do sampling at railway stations, bus stations and airports of people coming in from other states. Districts should also collect samples.” In accordance with the results of the sampling, mapping of the Delta-Plus affected geographical areas should be done as it would help in protection from the virus, he said.“For genome sequencing, create facilities at KGMU (King George’s Medical University-Lucknow) and BHU (Banaras Hindu University-Varanasi),” Yogi Adityanath said to officials.He asked the officials concerned to consult the UP experts’ committee on Covid and take all necessary safety and other measures without delay. He also called for a public awareness campaign.Talking about the present status of Covid in the state, the chief minister said the daily infection rate in UP had gone below 0.1% and the recovery rate was over 98.5%. The total active Covid cases were 3,423 statewide of which 2,078 patients were in home isolation, he said.In the past 24 hours, 2.69 lakh (269,000) samples were tested and only 226 samples tested positive while 320 patients recovered.Make work plan to take doctors off admin duties: YogiChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday asked officials concerned to make a detailed work plan to take doctors off non-medical duties and replace them there with non-medical youths trained in hospital administration and management.“Begin employing youths with masters in hospital administration/management or those with MBA degree in hospital management. Doctors should be posted only on medical duties. Putting them in other positions compromises their main responsibility and duty,” he said to officials at the Covid-19 review meeeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/deltaplus-variant-in-other-states-yogi-asks-for-maximum-sampling-in-uttar-pradesh-101624650717384.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chargesheet filed against 7 Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen terrorists in arms smuggling case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a chargesheet against seven terrorists of the proscribed terror outfit Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen (TuM), who were arrested in a case of arms and explosives smuggling into India with the help of their handlers in PoK. The chargesheet was filed before a special NIA court in Jammu on Thursday against Mohammad Mustafa Khan, Mohammad Yaseen, Mohammad Farooq, Mohammad Ibrar, Mohammad Javid Khan, Sher Ali (based in Kuwait), and Mohammad Rafiq Nai alias Sultan (based in PoK). An official statement issued by the NIA said that they have been charged under various sections of the Arms Act, the Explosives Act and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). The NIA had taken over the probe in March this year after the Jammu police filed an FIR in December 2020 relating to the arrest of Mohammad Mustafa Khan and recovery of six hand grenades along with ‘incriminating documents’ from his residence. NIA claimed that the seven accused named in the chargesheet were part of a deep-rooted criminal conspiracy by Pakistan-based handlers of TuM and their terror associates based in Poonch and Kuwait to execute terrorist activities and wage war against the Indian state. An absconding accused in the case, Rafiq Nai, and other handlers based in PoK, with assistance of Sher Ali and the other accused living on the Indian side of the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch ‘smuggled’ arms, ammunition, explosives, and narcotics into the Indian territory, the central probe agency said. NIA claimed they were taking advantage of the geography, affinities of religion, culture and other ties cutting across both sides of the LoC. “During the course of investigation, a large cache of arms, ammunition, explosives, narcotics along with flag, posters and other incriminating material belonging to terror outfit TuM, which was hidden at different places in Poonch was recovered,” the NIA said. Further investigation in the case continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chargesheet-filed-against-7-tehreek-ul-mujahideen-terrorists-in-arms-smuggling-case-101624650716296.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||498 more people contract virus in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 498 fresh Covid infections and seven deaths on Friday. The number of patients who were cured in the UT was 871 with active positive cases dropping to 6,157 from the highest ever active cases of 52,848 on May 13. There were 289 cases and three deaths in Kashmir. The Jammu division saw 209 infections and four fatalities. The overall number of people who have recovered reached 3,03,526 prompting the recovery rate to climb to 96.90%. Since the pandemic started, the overall cases in J&K have reached 3,13,974 and the death toll has hit 4,291.Officials said with 82 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 92 in Reasi district. Four districts had single-digit cases.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.21 lakh cases and 1,954 deaths of the total. The Jammu district has the highest number of 1,130 fatalities followed by Srinagar with 824 deaths.Since June 7, the UT has mostly recorded below-20 daily fatalities with lowest four on June 19 and June 23.The second Covid wave peaked in May in the UT with the highest daily cases of 5,443 on May 7 and the highest daily deaths of 73 on May 17.The month of May was most devastating for Jammu and Kashmir recording the highest 1,14,382 Covid-19 cases and 1,625 deaths related to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/498-more-people-contract-virus-in-jk-101624650596401.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||BJP let Jammu down at all-party meet: Panthers Party||A day after PM’s all-party meet at Delhi, members of the Panthers Party led by its chairman and former minister Harsh Dev Singh on Friday staged a vociferous protest and called it a humiliation to the people of Jammu region. After raising slogans against the BJP, Harsh Dev Singh, said, “There was no result of the meeting and it appeared a mere formality. The BJP government had been talking about delimitation followed by assembly elections since 2019. The PM didn’t given any timeline for delimitation and elections. So, what was new in it.” “There was no assurance and timeline on statehood as well. Besides, nothing was said about Jammu region and its people, who had high hopes. The PM kept talking about Dil, Dilli and Dimag ki Duri and kept addressing separatists. It appeared that his sole motive was to hold a meeting with separatists and he did it. Undoubtedly, he decreased Dil and Dimag ki Duri with Kashmir but at the same time increased the wedge with Jammu,” he said. Harsh Dev Singh took a swipe at the BJP representatives from Jammu, who he said, “didn’t utter a single word for Jammu and kept showering accolades on the PM”. “Be it tourism, power or jobs, Jammu people want equal share. It is ironical that Jammu contributes 66% to the power revenue but gets only 40% of it,” he added. “The BJP leaders talk about youth of Jammu, who today feel let down. The way BJP representatives humiliated Jammu and its people, it will cost dearly to the BJP in the coming elections and the Panthers Party will stand with the youth to fight for their cause. We will vanquish BJP in the coming elections,” he added. J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina and former deputy chief ministers — Kavinder Gupta and Nirmal Singh represented Jammu at the all-party meeting. On Thursday evening all-party meeting drew sharp criticism from pro-Jammu parties, including the West Pak refugees, PoJK refugees and the internally displaced Kashmiri Pandits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-let-jammu-down-at-all-party-meet-panthers-party-101624650595814.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||An achievement for us that PM initiated a political dialogue: Altaf Bukhari||My stand has been vindicated, Apni Party president and former minister Altaf Bukhari tells HT’s Mir Ehsan as he talks about how only New Delhi and Prime Minister Modi can restore the statehood and other rights taken away from them. My stand has been vindicated that whatever we will get, it’s from New Delhi and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, neither Washington nor Islamabad. So our party opened the doors for dialogue with New Delhi without setting any conditions. The solution to all our problems lies in a democratic setup. From Day 1, we adopted an honest political approach wherein we expressed our belief that only two main forums — the Parliament and the judiciary — are the custodian of people’s constitutional rights, which were done away with in J&K unilaterally.We pleaded for early hearing by the Supreme Court on Articles 370 and 35-A, statehood, delimitation on merit, constitutional protection for land, jobs and natural resources for J&K residents, policies for youth, better interregional connectivity, and early assembly elections. Our stand has been the same from Day 1. When all other leaders were promising stars and moon to the people of J&K, we wanted restoration of statehood and jobs and land reservations. We were dubbed Kings Party or Team B of the Centre by all those political parties and leaders who now demanded the same things. It may happen by the end of 2021 and completion of delimitation process could be over by August or September end.For us, it’s an achievement that PM Modi and home minister Amit Shah initiated a much-needed political dialogue with all shades of the political spectrum in J&K. I hope this will lead us towards a sustainable and meaningful roadmap that is in the best interest and welfare of the people of J&K. Grant of statehood will restore faith among the people who are hurt after revocation of Article 370 and downgrading of the state to UTs. When Apni Party’s members met with the top leadership last year, that assuaged many pressing socio-political and economic issues and ensured the release of 718 people, including some top political leaders and workers. Even guarantees of jobs and land rights are there, but we want them as constitutional guarantees, and what was what I conveyed to PM Modi on Thursday.Safeguarding the natural resources besides augmentation of infrastructure in education, health, power, Jal Shakti, tourism, hospitality, agriculture, horticulture and industrial sectors.Yes, it should have never happened. The August 5 decisions have left indelible marks on the psyche of the people of Jammu and Kashmir, especially with regard to their special rights on employment under government services; acquisition of immovable property; settlement in the state and, of course, defining such residents.Do you think there is alienation among the people of J&K post-revocation of Article 370?The governor and administration in J&K may have tried their best to deliver, but people still feel alienated and one of the major and justifiable reasons is that they are deprived of their democratic rights to decide their own fate. No bureaucratic set-up can replace or prove to be a dependable substitute to an elected government.Are there any apprehensions on delimitation in J&K?Yes. Leaders wanted elections ahead of the delimitation process in J&K. Here, the process of delimitation is still being viewed as a politically motivated exercise which has raised many concerns in J&K. People are concerned that adjustment of boundaries and description of the extent of parliamentary constituencies have been thrusted to pit one region against other for some political mileage. This serious issue needs to be addressed and this exercise must be based on merit. We have been assured that all parties will get representation even if the party has a single DDC member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/an-achievement-for-us-that-pm-initiated-a-political-dialogue-altaf-bukhari-101624650540020.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 153 fresh Covid-19 infections||Himachal Pradesh recorded 153 fresh Covid infections on Friday, taking the state’s tally to 2,01,363 while the death toll mounted to 3,449 after two more people succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 35 were reported in Chamba, 23 in Kangra, 22 in Mandi, 18 in Bilaspur, 16 in Kullu, 10 in Shimla, nine in Una, seven in Kinnaur and Solan, five in Hamirpur and one in Lahaul-Spiti. Recoveries have reach 1,95,929 after 318 people recuperated while the active cases have come down to 1,956. In terms of the caseload, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 45,761 cases so far followed by Mandi where 27,030 people have been tested positive to date and Shimla with 25,069 cases. Solan has 22,173 cases, Sirmaur 15,301, Hamirpur 14,309, Una 13,245, Bilaspur 12,625, Chamba 11,071, Kullu 8,856, Kinnaur 3,218 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,705.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-153-fresh-covid-19-infections-101624650539024.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Farm economy endangered by massive power cuts: Sukhbir||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Friday said the farm economy of the state had been endangered by the Congress government with massive power cuts and insufficient canal water, threatening to devastate the paddy crop. The SAD chief was here to install new Kharar municipal committee president Jaspreet Kaur Longia in her chair. Party constituency in-charge Ranjit Singh Gill and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra were also present. Talking to mediapersons, Sukhbir said even as the top Congress leadership was engaged in an internal feud with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s chair on a rickety wicket, the farmers of the state had been left to their fate. He said farmers were barely getting four to five hours of power and that to in gaps instead of the promised eight-hour uninterrupted power supply. He said for the first time ever, the canal supply had been disrupted which can lead to destruction of paddy crop over the vast swathes in the Malwa region. Answering a media query, Sukhbir said the chief minister, who had recently approved a police job for the son of Congress legislator Fatehjang Bajwa on compassionate grounds for the alleged service done by late Satnam Singh Bajwa for the nation, should reflect on the letter he had written to Sonia Gandhi on the issue. “In the letter, Amarinder had stated that the Satnam Bajwa had been killed in a gang war connected with smuggling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farm-economy-endangered-by-massive-power-cuts-sukhbir-101624650537489.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra tightens curbs amid Delta Plus Covid cases||Amid cases of Delta Plus variants, the Maharashtra government has decided to impose stricter lockdown norms, reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three. The first two levels, which had maximum relaxations, have been removed till further order, according to a notification issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Friday.The state has found 21 cases of Delta plus variants covering six districts. Of them, nine cases are in Ratnagiri, seven in Jalgaon, two in Mumbai and one case each in Thane, Palghar and Sindhudurg.The change means, malls and theatres will be completely shut across the state again. Section 144 has been imposed and not more than five people can gather at a public place, while movements should be minimal post 5pm. Shops selling essentials can stay open till 4pm daily and those related to non-essentials are allowed to operate only on weekdays. Gyms and salons will be operational only till 4pm, with appointments and without air-conditioners. Restaurants can open till 4pm only on weekdays, after which, only takeaways will be allowed. The decision has been taken, considering emerging cases of Delta plus variants in the state. However, there won’t be any changes for Mumbai as the city already comes under level three category of restrictions, officials said.“Given that the virus causing Covid 19 is undergoing mutations in various geographies, and that these mutations are displaying more transmissibility and potential reductions in monoclonal antibody response, a state-level trigger mandating all administrative units, irrespective of values of the indices of weekly positivity rate and oxygen bed occupancy percentage, to remain at a level not below 3 is to be in operation till withdrawn by specific order of the State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA),” the notification issued by Kunte stated. “New variants like Delta, Delta plus etc. have come to spread and are fuelling the potentiality of imminent (4-6 weeks), more severe third wave with wider geographical area,” the notification said.The state task force and ministry of health and family welfare (MOHFW) have directed the state not to let its guard down, following which it was decided to cut down the relaxations, said Aseem Gupta, secretary, relief and rehabilitation department.“It simply means that of the five-level relaxation plan, we have removed the first two levels having maximum relaxations. It also means all the districts and cities will get maximum relaxations that are provided under the level 3 plan,” Gupta said.“Before the second wave hit the state, cases started rising in Amravati and then it spread across the state. This time we have decided to be more careful considering the Delta plus variant cases have been found in a few districts. We cannot be at peace when there is a threat of a possible third wave looming large,” the relief and rehabilitation secretary said.In its new order the state government further decided that the districts cannot reduce restrictions based on weekly positivity rate. They will have to observe the trend for two weeks, but for increasing restrictions they won’t have to wait for two weeks and the decision can be taken in a few days. “While coming down to a lower level, the district disaster management authority (DDMA) shall look into two weeks’ trend before accepting a lower level of restrictions. When there is an upward trend in the number of positive cases being identified daily and requiring a higher level of restrictions than the current one, DDMA however shall do so without waiting for two weeks’ trends,” says the notification.More importantly, weekly positivity rate, a major criterion for deciding on restriction levels, should be determined only on the basis of RT-PCR tests. This is being done as many districts were also conducting rapid antigen tests (RAT), which were less accurate than RT-PCR, and in that case, ground situation was found to be different from what the figures were saying, officials said. “There are districts which have a 12% positivity rate going by RT-PCR tests and less than 5% going by RAT, which is the reason the change has been adopted,” the relief and rehabilitation secretary said.The state further asked local administrations to push vaccinations in their districts or municipal corporations to 70 per cent of their population, especially of blue collar workers. The state has also emphasised districts to create flying squads to check whether people are following Covid-appropriate behaviour in malls, marriages, restaurants etc. Establishments have also been asked to put up proper ventilation due to the ‘air borne nature of the droplets of the virus’ and hence establishments have to have HEPA filters or proper exhaust fans.Meanwhile, the Thane Municipal Corporation has announced that it will now be a part of level 3 instead of level 2. On June 18, a notification was released by the TMC stating shops, malls and restaurants will remain open all day including weekends owing to the lower positivity rate. “As per the new restrictions, shops and restaurants that fall under non-essential category will be allowed to open only till 4pm on weekdays. Meanwhile, all essential services can remain open on all days including weekends till 4pm,” said Vipin Sharma, commissioner, TMC. Malls and theaters will also remain shut as per guidelines for level 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-tightens-curbs-amid-delta-plus-covid-cases-101624650482536.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Power crisis in state due to PSPCL’s poor management, say engineers||The Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) engineers have termed the power crisis during the ongoing paddy sowing season in the state a failure of the corporation management and have demanded that a career technocrat should be appointed as chairman-cum-managing director of the utility by removing the incumbent, an IAS officer. The Punjab State Electricity Board (PSEB) Engineers’ Association on Friday issued a statement criticising the management and the state government for going against the interests of people of Punjab and that of the power sector. Association president Jasvir Singh Dhiman said, “Due to gross mismanagement, engineers are facing the wrath of people on the ground over irregular supply of electricity. The wrong decisions being taken by the management will cost the consumers dearly as they will result in irregular power supply and higher tariffs.” “Our fears have come true as Punjab is facing an acute power crisis during the peak summer. Due to improper planning, neither sufficient manpower was arranged nor proper material was procured. Now, the management’s claims of adequate power availability stand exposed as recurring power cuts are being imposed. Besides, inadequate power is being supplied to farmers,” he added. “It was due to this mismanagement that two healthy units of the Rupnagar thermal plants have been closed. There is an urgent need to revive these two units. The state government decided to shut down the Rupnagar units without any alternate arrangements going against the Central Electricity Authority (CEA) guidelines and ignoring the warnings of power engineers,” Dhiman said. The association said despite an acute manpower shortage at both plants, all PSPCL thermal plants are providing power at full capacity to the state at this crucial juncture. The private thermal plant at Talwandi Sabo, despite knowing well in advance about the power demand during the paddy sowing season, failed to ensure timely repairs, further pushing the state into a power crisis during the peak demand, it added. A 660 megawatt (MW) unit of the plant has been non-functional for the last 4 months. PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad said the failure of Talwandi Sabo plant to start its unit has caused the crisis. “Penalty was imposed on the plant for its failure to start the unit during the peak season. But we have made adequate arrangements by purchasing power from the grid. The PSPCL is committed to provide 8 hours power supply to farmers,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-crisis-in-state-due-to-pspcl-s-poor-management-say-engineers-101624650481817.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Will file FIR against Rahul, Jakhar, SIT for conspiring against Badals: SAD||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Friday said they will file a police complaint against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar and the special investigation team (SIT) for alleged “political interference” in the Kotkapura firing case as part of a conspiracy to implicate former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal and party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal.Addressing a press conference in Amritsar, the former minister said, “Jakhar let the cat out of the bag by announcing that Rahul Gandhi had issued orders to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to frame the Badal family in the sacrilege case. The vigilance department is practically running the SIT by deputing its officers in the SIT. The vigilance officials are part of the conspiracy and should also be booked.”“We will demand that the officials concerned be booked for disobeying the orders of the high court which specified that only the three-member SIT should be associated with the probe,” he said.Even as the SIT is probing the Kotkapura firing case, it is deliberately taking up the sacrilege case in its investigation, he added. SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha demanded that Jakhar, state cabinet ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa besides senior AAM Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders should be subjected to lie detector test to ascertain how many times they talked to then IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap who led a politically motivated probe into the Kotkapura firing incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-file-fir-against-rahul-jakhar-sit-for-conspiring-against-badals-sad-101624650480717.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Fewer private hospitals booking vaccine doses in Punjab||Fewer private hospitals in Punjab are coming forward to buy Covid-19 vaccine as only 50,000 doses were booked by them in June, according to information procured from the state health department. Principal secretary (health) Hussan Lal said the central officials had informed that private hospitals in the state were expected to get 5.5 lakh doses in June as per the new vaccination policy that came into effect from June 21. “The Centre has asked us to motivate private hospitals to buy vaccines from the 25% quota fixed for them. But their response has not been very enthusiastic. This is probably due to the fact that free doses are increasingly made available,” he added. Under the new norms, the Union government is reserving 25% of the doses for private hospitals keeping in view the past consumption and demand. Another official said another major reason behind private hospitals not coming forward to book vaccines is the capping on the fee of not more than ₹150 per dose. “Earlier, there was no capping and the hospitals were charging ₹300-700 per dose,” he said. Indian Medical Association (IMA) vice-president Dr Navjot Dahiya said, “When the vaccine is easily available free of cost why would someone come to have it in a private hospitals. I urge the state and the Centre to involve us in the free drive as they have done in the first when we were given doses from the state quota,” said Dr Dahiya. On Friday, the state health department officials had a videoconference with the private hospitals in the state to motivate them to book the doses meant for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fewer-private-hospitals-booking-vaccine-doses-in-punjab-101624650476558.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure 8-hr power supply to farmers: CM to PSPCL||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday directed Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to ensure 8-hour uninterrupted power supply to farmers and purchase deficient power from outside the state at any cost to prevent supply disruption in the ongoing paddy sowing season. Chairing a high-level meeting to review the power supply to farmers during the ongoing kharif season, the CM also directed the finance department to release ₹500 crore to the PSPCL to tide over the financial crunch faced amid the pandemic. Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who was present at the meeting, assured that his department would release these funds without delay. Earlier, the PSPCL officials informed the meeting that the corporation was facing a severe financial crunch as a result of slowdown in consumption and revenue collection in the last one year due to the pandemic. Reiterating his government’s commitment to providing continuous 8-hour supply to farmers in Punjab for sowing their crops, the CM directed PSPCL to purchase deficient power, if needed from outside the state at any cost, to meet the government’s commitment to the farmers. There should be no disruption of power supply to the farmers, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-8-hr-power-supply-to-farmers-cm-to-pspcl-101624650236327.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||CM approves ₹1,122 cr for link roads in Punjab||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Friday approved ₹1,122 crore for repair of 8,198 km link roads and directed the Punjab Mandi Board to complete the project by March 31, 2022. The CM ordered the allocation as part of the Link Road Repair Programme 2021-22 (Phase-IV), aimed at strengthening rural infrastructure in the state. After assuming office in March 2017, the Amarinder government had given approval to the Mandi Board for undertaking repair of link roads in 12,581 villages across the state to provide easy access to the farmers for selling their crops in 1,872 mandis. As per the state policy, link roads become due for repair after every six years. Giving details of the link roads/culverts and bridges constructed since April 2017, the secretary, Mandi Board, Ravi Bhagat said of the 64,878 km link roads in the state, repair/upgrade of 34,977 km had been completed in three phases, at a cost of ₹4,112 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cm-approves-rs-1-122-cr-for-link-roads-in-punjab-101624650056359.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 341 new Covid cases, 12 deaths||ChandigarhPunjab on Friday registered 341 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 5,94,279, while 12 more fatalities pushed the death toll to 15,956, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases has dropped to 4,832, it said.Deaths were reported from several districts including Fazilka, Ferozepur and Gurdaspur.Ludhiana reported 43 new cases, followed by 33 in Bathinda and 30 in Amritsar, according to the bulletin. The state’s positivity rate stands at 0.7%.With 768 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 5,73,491 in the state, it said.There are 114 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 373 other critical patients and 1,676 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.It said that 1,06,56,459 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-341-new-covid-cases-12-deaths-101624649936627.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bathinda man drags police, bank to court over freezing of account||The high court has sought response from the Punjab government on a plea alleging freezing of a bank account of a Bathinda resident on instructions from the police. The high court bench of justice HS Madaan acted on a plea of Birbal Singh, who belongs to the Talwandi Sabo. He had told the court that his account with Punjab National Bank was freezed without any intimation and he could not withdraw money even for the treatment of his daughter-in-law, who had contracted Covid-19 in May. Singh, a former sarpanch, has claimed that he was targeted as he belonged to the opposition party and for some time, he was being pressured to join the ruling party. His counsel GS Aulakh had told the HC that there was no court order for freezing of the bank account nor there was any FIR against him. The local station house officer, under whose instructions his account was freezed, had no jurisdiction to pass such an order, he said. Now, no reason is being given for the action even as he represented senior superintendent of police, Bathinda, in June, he had told the court. The response has been sought by July 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bathinda-man-drags-police-bank-to-court-over-freezing-of-account-101624649876167.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Beyond familiar solitudes||A masked man on a bench. Behind, a centuries-old stone tomb. All around, grass and trees. No other human to be seen.Wandering in Lodhi Garden, a day after the reopening of Delhi’s public parks, reacquaints one with its familiar solitudes in a new way. It’s like welcoming home one’s loved one after their long and traumatic stay in the hospital, watching them gradually acclimatise to the life in the house. Relief is tinged with sadness.Perhaps because the evening sky is particularly picturesque, with tiny puffs of clouds scattered about like cotton stuffing ripped out of a pillow, Lodhi Garden is permeated with a more intense beauty. Are we still in that same grief-stricken city of two months ago, where everyone seemed to know of at least one person who died to the coronavirus?A few joggers are showing up here and there in their athletic accessories, their fit figures swathed in sweat. On the Athpula bridge, a woman is photographing the sun setting behind the lake’s fountain.Further along, the famous pink pair of giant bougainvillea trees are in haughty bloom. In the falling darkness, they are looking like two bonfires. The green benches under them that would be filled with romantic couples, in between the two surges, are vacant.Under a far-off tall tree, a man and a woman are sitting on a bench. She’s in a dressy skirt with high heels. He is explaining something with great passion to her, the motions of his arms in synchronisation with the turns of his thoughts—maybe. With nobody around them for great distances, the couple are looking deeply by themselves, as if they were actors staging a play in an empty theatre.Meanwhile, the circular garden with rose beds in front of the tiny Mughal pavilion is empty, except for a large unusual bird with an extraordinarily long beak and a red dot on her head. She is hopping boldly on the grass.Oh, the grass. In some places it stands too tall, an attestation that the park was closed for a long time, and perhaps the gardeners couldn’t trim all the portions. Then there’s the legendary dead tree in front of the Sheesh Gumbad, raising its naked, spindly branches to the sky like the limbs of a mourner frozen in grief. This is the only sight in the sprawling park that appears to mark the tragedy our city is dealing with.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-beyond-familiar-solitudes-101624649717122.html
26-06-2021||Lucknow||Major vaccination drive to be launched in Lucknow’s rural areas from July 1||The Lucknow district administration is set to launch a mega vaccination drive in the rural areas of the state capital from July 1, officials said. The campaign will be similar to the one underway in the urban areas here.“Vaccination is the only way to break the chain of the deadly virus. It’s for the same reason that after the mega vaccination drive in the urban areas, we are now planning a mega drive in the rural areas as well,” Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash said.Initially, the Mal, Malihabad and Mohanlalganj development blocks would be chosen for the drive, the district magistrate said at a meeting held to discuss anti-Covid measures and preparations for the anticipated third wave.“It should be ensured that maximum people in the blocks get vaccinated at the earliest,” the DM said.He also directed the officials to administer around 30,000 vaccine doses in a day, which is 10,000 more than the initial target set early this month.In addition, the DM directed the contract tracing teams to carry out unique contract tracing in Mal, Malihabad and Mohanlalganj to carry out unique contact tracing in the rural areas to keep a check on the virus outbreak.Besides, the DM asked newly elected village heads to dispel the myths related to the Covid vaccine and to ensure strict implementation of Covid protocols.Dr MK Singh, additional chief medical officer/district immunisation officer (DIO), said the massive drive would be launched from July 1 onwards in the development blocks where walk-in vaccination would be facilitated.“We would set up the (vaccination) centres either at the tehsil office or the Panchayat Bhavan. Also, we have made arrangements to publicise the location of the vaccination centres among the people. We would run programmes to resolve vaccine related queries,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/major-vaccination-drive-to-be-launched-in-lucknow-s-rural-areas-from-july-1-101624649516275.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Traffic back in Delhi, even in non-peak hours||Winding snarls are back in the national capital, with several arterial roads witnesssing heavy traffic even during non-peak hours, after lower road occupancy for nearly two months owing to the lockdown imposed during the second wave of the Covid pandemic.Senior Delhi traffic police officials said that, since the national capital started unlocking in phases early this month, the snarls on several arterial roads have broken away from their usual patterns, and are now continuing even during non-peak hours.For instance, during pre-pandemic days, and even after the reopening of the nationwide lockdown last year, traffic jams on arterial roads were usually confined to limited hours — from 9am to 12 noon and then from 4pm to 8pm. However, over the past fortnight, traffic jams on several major stretches have continued beyond the peak rush hours.Sample this: At the ITO intersection, among the busiest in the Capital, traffic volume during the pre-pandemic days was around 250,000 to 300,000 vehicles (during peak hours). Last year, when the city reopened after the Covid-19 lockdown the traffic volume increased marginally to around 325,000 to 340,000, but jams were still limited to the four hours in the morning and four hours in the evening, with relatively smooth flow during the rest of the day.Since June 10, however, when traffic movement resumed after the second lockdown, the traffic volume has been high consistently through the day. A short-period estimate shows that the intersection has been recording around 400,000 vehicles during peak hours, but jams now continue on the stretch for almost the entire day.Complaints received by the traffic department’s control room from June 1 to June 25 show that stretches such as the ITO intersection, Mukarba Chowk, Ring Road (from Hyatt Hotel to AIIMS flyover), Ashram intersection, Britannia Chowk, Kashmere Gate (near ISBT), Rajouri Garden crossing (Najafgarh Road), Dwarka Road (near the Palam flyover) and Outer Ring Road (near Hauz Khas metro station) see traffic jams continuing beyond peak hours. To be sure, some of these stretches have peculiar problems such as ongoing construction work.Officials said while traffic seems to have gone up on all these stretches, the average vehicular volume figures will be released after at least a month’s traffic recordings are studied.The higher volume at odd hours, they said, could be because of flexible work hours allowed by employers due to the Covid-19 pandemic; and it could also be a temporary trend since the lockdown has been lifted after a gap of two months.“Now that markets, offices and economic activities, in general, have come back to normal, traffic jams are expected. But since these are continuing through the day in certain stretches, it could be because people are now venturing out after a long gap. We hope things will normalise after a few weeks,” a traffic official said.The department is not viewing this as a trend yet. “There are some stretches where we have observed increased traffic volume but it will be unfair to say that this has become a trend. We will have to record and study traffic volume for at least a month before we can say for sure that the patterns have changed post-Covid,” another senior traffic official said.Traffic experts said what Delhi is witnessing now is an anomaly, primarily because other modes of public transport are not functioning at their optimum capacity, and people are still wary of using mass transit fearing infection.“Metro is operating only at 50% capacity and other modes of transport are also not very reliable. Anyone who can afford personal transportation would prefer travelling in a safe space, so it is normal to see some deviation in the usual traffic trends. The pandemic has changed the way people travel, but we will need to study it more before establishing trends,” said Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning, School of Planning and Architecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-back-in-delhi-even-in-non-peak-hours-101624649355412.html
26-06-2021||Other||Two held for extortion on Kharar builder’s complaint||The Kharar police have arrested two men for threatening and demanding money from a Kharar-based builder. The complaint was made by Parveen Kumar, who is the owner of Jai Ambika Group and runs a real estate business in Punjab, Rajasthan, and Uttarakhand. The accused have been identified as Harjeet Singh, alias Ganja, and Varinder Singh Goldy, both residents of Kharar. Police said Harjeet Singh and his wife had contested municipal elections from Kharar, but lost.In his complaint, Kumar alleged that the duo called him a few days back and demanded ₹1.5 lakh, claiming that they have links with gangsters and all builders are paying them monthly extortion. Even as Kumar paid the extortion amount, the duo threatened to kill him and again demanded ₹5 lakh. Following this, he contacted police.A trap was laid to catch the duo on Friday, when they came to collect the amount at Shivalik City in Kharar. The two were arrested and later sent to three-day police remand. They have been booked under Sections 384 (extortion), 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extor­tion), 388 (extortion by threat of accusation of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-held-for-extortion-on-kharar-builder-s-complaint-101624649097708.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Girls should learn martial arts for self-defence, says para-athlete Aruna Tanwar||Aruna Tanwar, a 21-year-old para-athlete who has been selected for the Paralympics Tokyo 2021, says she is thrilled to represent India as a taekwando player at the international stage.“If I can inspire other para-athletes to work on their dreams and aim for success, I will be very thrilled. I am working hard to win a medal for my country at the Tokyo games,” she said during her visit to Chandigarh University, where she is a student of Bachelors of Physical Education.Hailing from Dinod village near Bhiwani, Aruna got a wild card entry to Paralympics based on her exemplary and consistent performance over the past few years which included a bronze medal at World Para Taekwondo Championship 2019 in Turkey and another bronze medal at Asian Para Taekwondo Championship 2019 in Jordan.Taking note of Aruna’s achievements, Chandigarh University has introduced a special sports scholarship named after the famous international para-athlete and Arjuna Award recipient Ramesh Tikaram, also known as father of para-badminton. R Tikaram Sports Scholarship will be worth ₹1 crore for para-Olympic players from 2021. In addition, 25 seats under sports category would be reserved for the para-athletes who would be eligible for academic scholarship up to 100% and get access to free hostel accommodation, special diet along with training allowances.“Aruna has become a role model for many, especially girls who are not given equal opportunity as boys by their parents to showcase their talent and get empowered. We want to encourage para-athletes and boost their talent,” said Dr RS Bawa, pro-chancellor of Chandigarh University.Daughter of a driver, Aruna was accompanied by his father Naresh Tanwar and coach Ashok Kumar. Aruna is a recipient of Dhyan Chand sports scholarship which takes care of her academic fees, hostel fees, coaching facility and special diet.Ranked number four in the women’s 49 category, Aruna was born with deformity in both her hands. She was distressed as she couldn’t participate in the World and Asian qualifiers at Jordan due to travel ban owing to the pandemic. “It was really disappointing. But with the efforts of the Para Taekwondo Association of India and Paralympic Committee of India, I was given a wild entry. I am focused on winning a medal for India at the Paralympics,” said a confident Aruna, who is among the eight athletes from eight countries to have been offered the bipartite quotas for Tokyo by IOC and World Taekwondo.She took up the sport at the age of eight and competed in the normal taekwondo category for eight years. She shifted to para taekwondo in 2017 when she was declared not eligible to compete at the international level due to deformity in both hands.“I want every girl to learn martial arts and use it as a tool for self-protection and defend themselves against the bad elements of the society,” said Aruna.Seeing her daughter excel in the sport, Naresh said, “I work as a driver at a chemical factory, so it was difficult for me initially to support my daughter. But due to her willpower and eagerness to play, I decided to take loans apart from spending my savings to support her dream.”Chandigarh University also presented Aruna with a laptop along with a professional taekwondo kit. “In Tokyo, Aruna will face challenge from Ukraine, China and Chinese Taipei players and I am confident that she will win a medal,” said her coach Ashok.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/girls-should-learn-martial-arts-for-self-defence-says-para-athlete-aruna-tanwar-101624649039132.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||15 vehicles vandalised in Chandigarh’s Mauli Jagran||Miscreants armed with rods, sticks and sharp-edged weapons went on a rampage for nearly an hour and a half, damaging at least 15 vehicles, at Mauli Jagran on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. About 15 youths descended upon the locality around 1am, vandalising vehicles parked outside the houses and spreading panic among the residents. They even stole articles from cars after smashing their windowpanes and windshields. The incident was captured in CCTV cameras.Azad, a resident of Mauli Jagran Complex, put the blame on the Midha gang of Rajiv Colony, Sector 17, Panchkula. On his complaint, police arrested three youths, identified as Sanjay, alias Lakhan, 24; Ajay, alias Chuppa, 19; and Vinay, 22, all residents of Mauli Complex. A case under Sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 352 (punishment for assault or criminal force otherwise than on grave provocation), 380 (theft in dwelling house, etc) 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) and 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against seven persons by name along with their unidentified accomplices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/15-vehicles-vandalised-in-chandigarh-s-mauli-jagran-101624648920990.html
26-06-2021||Lucknow||‘Ensure protection of witnesses for free, fair prosecution process’||The state home department has issued stern directives for proper protection of witnesses in criminal cases to ensure free and fair prosecution process and conviction of criminals, said senior home department officials on Friday.In a press note issued by the department, additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said strict enforcement of ‘Sakshi Suraksha Yojana’ (witnesses’ protection scheme) was initiated in 2018 on the directives of the Supreme Court to ensure protection of witnesses.The press note further said the protection of witnesses should be ensured at any cost and the police officials concerned will be held responsible in case of any lapse in its compliance. It stated all district magistrates, police commissioners and district police chiefs had been issued stern directives in this connection.It said DMs and zonal level police officials had been asked to do monthly review meeting of witnesses’ protection applications. It said witness protection committees had been constituted under district judges in every district and district magistrates and police chiefs had been included in the committees as members.A senior police official said district level officials must ensure proper enforcement of witnesses’ protection measures through witness protection cells. Moreover, the protection applications should be disposed of within five working days after analysing security threat. He said it was mandatory to keep the entire proceedings of the committee a secret.The official said the committee could also decide to relocate the witnesses if they felt threat to witnesses’ life at their present whereabouts or locations after analysing the threat perception. Their new locations and identities should be kept a secret keeping in mind the security measures.The home department mentioned in the press note that the protection of witnesses was necessary for free and fair trial of criminal cases as there were major chances of witnesses turning hostile if they lived under fear or were threatened by the accused.The press note said witnesses were eyes and ears of the judicial process and so it was to be ensured that they were not being threatened and proper security cover should be given to them. The home department also asked for proper sensitisation at police station levels about the witnesses’ protection scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ensure-protection-of-witnesses-for-free-fair-prosecution-process-101624648918987.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh tricity logs just one death for second day||The tricity on Friday reported just one fatality due to Covid-19 for the second consecutive day while 60 people tested positive for the virus, up from 57 the previous day.Chandigarh recorded 34 fresh cases, followed by 21 in Mohali district and five in Panchkula. The lone casualty was reported in Mohali. While Panchkula has logged no death for three days, Chandigarh has reported zero fatality in the past two days.Amid a decline in the second wave, the active caseload stands at 331 in Mohali, followed by 241 in Chandigarh and 64 in Panchkula.500 violators fined in UTMore than 500 challans were issued by the teams of three subdivisional magistrates (SDM) in their jurisdictions against people not adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour in Chandigarh on Friday. The drive was conducted on the directions of UT adviser Dharam Pal. Deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar also chaired a meeting with all SDMs to review Covid arrangements in the city. Brar issued directions to them to ensure strict compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour and depute incident commanders for issuing challans to violators.Emphasis was also laid on vaccination, and SDMs were asked to motivate all shop owners and their staff to get jabbed. Market welfare associations can approach their area SDM if they want to organise a camp, as long as the number of persons to be vaccinated is more than 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19chandigarh-tricity-logs-just-one-death-for-second-day-101624648918460.html
26-06-2021||Other||Debate: Beat the cheat, online exams no mean feat||Ethics matterFairness in online exams depends solely on the ethics that candidates carry in their lives. One’s true behaviour comes to fore when we think no one is watching. In these times, we have no option but to hold online exams. To ensure that students’ progress is properly assessed, questions should be framed in such a manner that their analytical and comprehension skills are put to use. Anju Mohan, PanchkulaStudents always find loopholesThere is almost no technological way to reduce or prevent cheating as students these days can always find loopholes to applications and programmes that are aimed at preventing cheating. The most straightforward and foolproof method of reducing or preventing cheating will be to include innovative questions, for which answers cannot be easily found anywhere. Avi Khurana, ChandigarhEncourage higher order thinkingThe Covid crisis has had an unprecedented impact on the education systems. With educations institutes forced to switch to online mode of teaching and assessment, fair evaluation has taken a back seat. Educators must come up with questions that require higher-order thinking to fairly assess students in online exams. Tanya Chadha, Ambala Leave no time for cheatingFor online assessment, students should be tested with multiple-choice questions. There should be a fixed time-limit in which students should be required to submit their answers. This won’t leave any time for cheating. Besides, the questions must be framed in a way that students will have to go through the entire syllabus and get their concepts clear to be able to answer these. Amanpreet Kaur Bains, KuraliSurveillance mustOnline exams are fraught with scope for cheating as a student sitting at home will have multiple means to copy, consult and get guidance from parents, tutors and others. In foreign countries, online exam are carried out under strict surveillance that keep tabs on the response time, eye movements of students etc. This almost negates the possibility of malfeasance. Raghunath Chhabra, ChandigarhInstitutes should care about students, not just imageFor many institutions, online exam protocols to minimise cheating only make it to the sugarcoated speeches of the authorities. Some of them don’t want to put any efforts to explore the options for fair assessment of students. All they care about is the image of their institution and thus turn a blind eye to the unfair means adopted by students so that they can score high marks. However, for the benefit of students, some form of invigilation is a must. Besides, institutions should set multiple sets of question papers, and frame high-order thinking questions to test the students for their intelligence. Prisha Gupta, ChandigarhUnfair means unavoidable even offlineThere is no denying the fact that online exams can hardly match the scrutiny that offline exams allow. But unscrupulous elements find a way to cheat be it online or offline. Many of them manage to cheat even in the presence of invigilators in examination halls. The only way out is to test the students in a way that their actual intelligence and progress is assessed.SC Luthra, Chandigarh No dearth of optionsIn the USA, many schools and universities take online exams through an app called Canvas which offers three main exam formats: essays, tests and online exams. When the exam is in process, the system automatically blocks internet search engines. In the UK, many colleges have been conducting the online exams for students by providing only 72 seconds to answer each question and therefore, it’s really hard for students to look up the answers on the internet within this time. Schools and colleges in India could hold open-book examinations instead of going ahead with normal online exams.Samay Seth, ChandigarhPop quizzes, viva voce for assessment The pandemic has forced us to explore new ways of solving our day-to-day problems. The same must be done in the arena of education. Classes have been shifted online since the pandemic outbreak last year. While there are many benefits of online classes, evaluations pose a challenge. To solve this, schools and colleges must adopt the secure browser technology so that students can’t open any other window when the exam is in process. Besides, teachers could hold pop quizzes and viva voce from time to time to assess the students. Aashita Sood, ChandigarhProctoring best, most common solution The most common solution to check cheating in online exams is to use proctoring software. It is specifically designed to enable students to take online exams securely with features such as automated monitoring, ID verification, and computer lockdown. Vijay Malia, ChandigarhCan’t give invigilation a go byThe only constant in life is change and we grow by adapting to them. Same way, this pandemic brought many changes in all the spheres of our daily lives, especially in the field of education. It has shifted from classroom teaching to online mode. Teachers have tried their best to adapt to new technology but the evaluation system is yet to get fool proof. In this virtual era, with invigilation given a go-by there is a question mark on the fairness of the exam. Arti Sood, ChandigarhObjective type questions for fair, quick assessment Online exams should be of short duration instead of the usual three hours. Students should be asked objective-type questions and be told to answer it within the given time frame. Real-time videography of the candidate while answering questions is a must so that no help can be taken from outside. This will not just make evaluation fair and transparent but also quick. Col TBS Bedi (Retd), MohaliIIT Goa shows the wayIndian Institute of Technology (IIT), Goa, surprised everyone by asking the students to frame their own questions based on what they had grasped through the semester and then it. The method was so unique that the image of the question paper went viral on social media. Our educators just need to get their thinking hats on to solve the problem of cheating in online exams.Khushboo Singla, MohaliConsult all stakeholdersPanjab University and its affiliated institutions are set to start their semester exams soon. This time too, the varsity seems to have done nothing to check unfair means during online exams. After wide-range consultations, the varsity is going ahead with the same old tried and tested method. The irony is that students, who are the most important stakeholders, were not even consulted. Surely, PU could do better.Usha Verma, ChandigarhStudents must self regulate, for their own goodStudents need to regulate themselves and study well before exams. They are our future nation builders. They must not forget their moral values and attempt their online exams in a fair manner. They ought to understand that they are nor preparing for an exam but for the future challenges. They should study and prepare for the future and envision the fact that their career and profession will not excuse them if they cheat.Karan Singh Vinayak, ChandigarhTech to the rescueThe Covid-19 pandemic has forced us to find new ways to run our education system. Many service providers have the know-how of holding online examinations but none can come up with a foolproof solution. So it is very difficult to ensure fairness in online examinations unless the student herself/himself behaves ethically in the process. There should be softwares which would log out the student once the camera detects any unfair activity. The integrity of the online examination can be further safeguarded by lockdown application, which prevents electronic corruption and a student obtaining an unfair advantage. So only advanced technology intervention can ensure a higher level of fairness in the online examinations.Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhOnline exams best option in these timesCheating is everywhere, not only in online examination system. Online exam is the best option in these times of the pandemic. Determination is the key to success. Students should prepare well for their own good.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliStrengthen the moral fibreThe main reason for cheating in exams is the non-serious attitude of students. Get them interested in learning, make them realise the value of education and they will themselves understand the need to put in hard work and not cheat. Apart from exploring various means of technology to check cheating, educators must work towards strengthening students’ moral fiber. Prabhjot Nagpal, ZirakpurTime each questionIn order to ensure that there is no cheating in an online exam, one must ensure that each question has a timer. This way, if the student doesn’t know the answer, she or he will have to move on to the next question without wasting time on unfair means. Gurnoor Grewal, ChandigarhTeach students to remain true to themselves Covid has taught humanity to the world. Along with that, it’s also time we learn how to remain true to ourselves. The exams are being held online to prevent the virus spread. If one does not study wholeheartedly and cheats, one is only cheating onself and one’s dreams and aspirations. Priyam Aggarwal, ChandigarhOnline exams have put integrity at stakeThe ongoing pandemic has badly affected the academic integrity of students. Many solutions can be offered to improve fairness in online tests. Some academic institutions give direct questions in tests, which makes cheating easy. However, in online tests, the questions given should require higher-order thinking. This practice could reduce cheating as answers to such questions are not easily available on the internet. Another great solution for this problem is using remote proctoring applications that have been specifically made to solve this problem and have been proven useful. Saihibb Kaura, via emailTest students on integrity, not on cramming skills There are many ways to assess a student. Merely testing them for their rote-learning abilities is not the way to go about it. Students should be examined for their sharpness, intelligence and also their character. They should be motivated to attempt the papers honestly without external help and made to sign a self-declaration, pledging to not use any unfair means.Subhash Nagpal, ZirakpurUpside to online evaluationAuthentication is at the core of an e-evaluation environment that includes allowing a student to secure access to his/her personal learning space while maintaining the confidentiality and rightful identification. Online portals ensure that a large question bank is compiled and these can be presented to students in a randomised manner. Additionally, it also saves time and effort to prevent paper leaks, as the logistics are automatically resolved due to the secure nature of online assessment. Sanjay Chopra, MohaliAddress the gapsThe pandemic has brought to fore the multiple gaps in our education system. It has helped us realise the need for reforms for the benefit of students. It’s not difficult to find sources teaching ‘How to cheat in online exams’ online. Such sites should be banned. Students should understand that they will only be cheating themselves by cheating in these exams.Abhishek Kumar, ChandigarhCheck duplicity, punish wrongdoersExams should be taken as a test of discerning and presentation rather than a test of memory. Students should be advised to adopt ABC (Accuracy, Brevity and Clarity) as a cardinal principle while writing their exams. There are different ways of ensure fair online exams. As per the strength of teachers in an institution, a group of students should be allotted to a teacher individually for the purpose of fair invigilation. Another method is to use softwares to check plagiarism-cum-duplicity. If the level of similarity exceeds the prescribed limit, then stringent action should be taken against wrongdoers.Vaibhav Sharma, via emailCurbing cheating difficult, not impossibleThe education sector has been badly hit by the pandemic. Universities and colleges across the country have been managing online teaching despite having limited resources and experiences. On the other hand, universities are grasping at a straw to control mass cheating during online examinations. It is a fact that bringing the cheating level to zero especially during online examinations is a tough row to hoe. However, a simple approach may improve the sanctity of online examinations system that includes. There are many open-source platforms available for the proctored examination which universities may customise to meet their requirements. Tejinderpal Singh, ChandigarhMarks shouldn’t be the ultimate aimA secure browser, remote proctoring such as audio or video capturing and IP-based audit logging, remote candidate authentication, data encryption during transit and an exam timer for each question must be incorporated in order to make online exams more secure and efficient in rooting out malpractices. Backtracking and retaking of the exam must be prohibited, score availability should be delayed and the test settings adjusted to end the exam when the student exits or if the time runs out. Varied types of questions that require higher order thinking must be created to allow them to authentically demonstrate their mastery of course content. Stress or fear of failure caused by a self-propelled desire to excel can lead to cheating. Getting a respectable grade or scoring magnificently high should not be the objective. We want our children to grow into adults who are vibrant, stable, creative, justly ambitious, can face life squarely, without inhibitions and complexes and can also celebrate the joys of life with zest.Komal Singh, ChandigarhReader of the weekMake use of technology to check the menace Educators must make use of technology to rein on cheating during online exams. There are a variety of options available. Remote proctoring, with the help of live video streaming or recorded video, can help examiners keep tabs on candidates. Image proctoring option can be useful where internet connectivity is limited. In this, a web camera can be used to capture images of candidates after periodic intervals. Besides, the option of multiple-choice questions (M​CQs) can also be explored. Examiners must randomise the order of questions as well as answers so as to not leave any scope for mass cheating. Setting a tight deadline will also leave students with no time to indulge in unfair means. Besides, Concurrent Login Prevention systems can be used to prevent malicious logins in the exam from different IP addresses. Also, there are mechanisms which let the online test occupy the whole screen, barring candidates from switching screens to hunt for answers during the exam.Utkarsh Khandelwal, Chandigarh What experts feelBetter planningPU should have either gone ahead with offline exams, as was done by GNDU, or have properly brainstormed the various options available to make the online exams foolproof. Mritunjay Kumar, President PUTAContinuous assessment The faculty of engineering carries out continuous assessment of students throughout the semester. All other faculty members can be advised to do the same and give timely feedback to students. Professor JK Goswamy, director, UIET.Innovative models I think universities should work on innovative questions which don’t have readily available answers on internet or in standard text books. It is imperative that the teaching fraternity comes out of the comfort zone of the traditional examination system and look for new innovative models.Parvinder Singh, former controller of examination, PUTest intelligenceDuring exams, real time answers need to be uploaded as is done in case of TOEFL, GRE or CAT. 30% of the question paper must include very difficult questions which require analysis and thorough knowledge of the subject.Nisha Aggarwal, principal, Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42Invigilation mustInvigilation is an integral part of the examination process and must be done regardless of whether it is an online or offline exam. Besides, educators should go for continuous academic assessment of students through assignments, quizzes etc rather than holding one exam at the end of year or semester. Satnam Singh Sandhu Chancellor Chandigarh University, Gharuan||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/debate-beat-the-cheat-online-exams-no-mean-feat-101624648916337.html
26-06-2021||Bangalore||K’taka CM mandates Covid testing for travellers from Maha, Kerala||Bengaluru Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday said that passengers travelling from Maharashtra and Kerala should be subjected to Covid-19 tests and be closely monitored. “The Delta virus in the state is currently under control but (the chief minister) instructed that the situation be closely monitored,” according to a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO), attributing it to Yediyurappa. Though Karnataka has shown a decline in new infections, the Delta Plus variant has raised alarm bells in the state and other parts of the country, adding to fears of another wave of infections. The chief minister also held a meeting with experts, members of his cabinet and other senior officials on the matter at his residence in Bengaluru on Friday. The developments come days after the state government relaxed lockdown restrictions after almost six weeks, facilitating the return to normalcy and kickstarting economic activity. “There are two cases of Delta plus variant, one in Bengaluru and the other in Mysuru. Both are having mild symptoms. The one in Mysuru has completely recovered. There was no severity in both the cases. Primary contacts of these cases have tested negative. Therefore, there is no need to panic about the virus. Genome sequencing is being done everyday to detect new strains,” Dr K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education said in a statement on Friday. The Karnataka government is concerned that travellers from Maharashtra and Kerala, who share borders in the north and south of the state, will spread the virus. “There is a surge in cases in Kerala. Positivity rate is more than 10% there. We need to be cautious as we share borders with this state. Same is the case with Maharashtra. We need to conduct more tests in border areas. We have instructed the district administration to do so,” Sudhakar added. The minister, however, added that there the borders won’t be closed down. Sudhakar also informed that six genome sequencing labs will be set up at Bengaluru, Mysuru, Shivamogga, Hubli, Mangaluru and Vijayapura.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-cm-mandates-covid-testing-for-travellers-from-maha-kerala-101624648855711.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Amrut Awards: Chandigarh adjudged best UT, second overall||Chandigarh has ranked best among the Union Territories and retained second position among all states and UTs, after Orissa, for effective implementation of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) in the country. It has also bagged the smart city award for best UT. However, among individual smart cities, Indore and Surat are the joint winners for their overall development while Uttar Pradesh won the state award. According to information shared by the Chandigarh municipal corporation, the Amrut award ceremony was held online on Friday and presided over by Hardeep Puri, minister of state (independent charge), housing and urban affairs. Amrut is the first focused national water mission that was launched on June 25, 2015, in 500 cities, covering 60% of the urban population. Providing piped water supply and sewerage management is its main focus while stormwater drainage, non-motorised urban transport and green spaces are minor components. “About 20,000 new sewer and water supply connections have been released so far under Amrut projects. The Chandigarh MC has completed 10 out of 12 works and balance two works are likely to be completed by September 31. We have achieved all the reforms required to be carried out under the scheme every year since 2015 and have also been given cash incentive of ₹195 lakh for achieving the milestones with respect to reforms,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav. The 12 projects worth ₹54.09 crore, for which 100% funding was provided by the Centre, include laying of new water supply lines in uncovered areas, laying of additional sewerage system and establishment of water supply testing laboratory. “Through these projects, we are able to provide clean and safe drinking water and good sewerage network system to avoid contamination, especially in rehabilitation colonies, and increase the number of children-friendly green parks in the city,” said Yadav. Smart city awards: No. 1 in cultureThis is the first time when the ministry has given awards to states and UTs for overall performance of smart cities and for their proactive role. Earlier, only the cities were ranked and awarded for their performance under the smart city mission. Yadav, who is also the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) chief executive officer, said: “Except for the 24x7 pan city water supply project, all of the major projects are in advance stages of implementation, which was achieved in the last one year.” There are 37 projects under the CSCL’s ambit. Of around ₹2,000-crore works planned under the mission, it has started implementing projects worth ₹1,225 crore. Among cities, the awards were given across the themes of social aspects, governance, culture, urban environment, sanitation, economy, built environment, water and urban mobility. Chandigarh managed to get the top award only in the theme of culture. It is a joint winner with Indore in the category. In rest of the themes, Chandigarh didn’t fare well and couldn’t break into the top three. Notably, the work of the restoration of the Capitol Complex, a heritage project, was carried out by the UT engineering department and not the MC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amrut-awards-chandigarh-adjudged-best-ut-second-overall-101624648796199.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sets target to vaccinate all by July end||With the aim to vaccinate residents before the possible third wave of Covid-19, the Chandigarh health department on Friday set a target to cover all 7.12 lakh eligible beneficiaries by July end.“As per the latest electoral list, a total of 7,12,000 people in Chandigarh were eligible to take vaccine in the 18+ age group category and special groups, and we aim to administer at least the first dose to all of them by July end. So far, 4,08,353 (58%) residents have taken their first dose,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, Chandigarh.Also, 80,030 (11%) people out of the eligible population have completed their vaccination cycle after getting their second dose, till Friday. Besides, 94.48% of the total healthcare and 94.24% of the total frontline workers have received the first shot.In all, 4,31,853 vaccine doses have been administered to people in Chandigarh, who include a few non-residents, as the health department does not have specific data on locals vaccinated.“We focus on vaccinating people in the age group of 18-44 as their drive started only in May. So far, 1,61,429 beneficiaries in this age group have taken their first shot while 342 of them have already completed their vaccination cycle,” said Dr Kang, adding that the UT health department has started walk-in vaccination facility in all government hospitals and dispensaries to help those who could not book appointment on the Co-WIN app.The health department is also sending 15 mobile vaccination vans to various places in Chandigarh daily, including to urban clusters and rural areas where people can simply walk in and get inoculated. Door-to-door vax in AugustFor helping the elderly population who could not visit the vaccination centres due to their age or other illnesses, the health department will conduct door-to-door vaccination rounds from August 1 to 15.“So far, 79,590 elderly people (above the age of 60) have taken their first dose in Chandigarh, and still some population is left to cover. The door-to-door vaccination will help them in vaccinating the remaining elderly people,” said Dr Kang.Dr Kang also said that vaccines are easily available in government as well as private hospitals, and they are getting regular supply from the central government.“The central government has allocated 2 lakh doses for Chandigarh for July, of which 1.5 lakh will be given to government hospitals. We have enough vaccines in our store to vaccinate the eligible population at the earliest,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sets-target-to-vaccinate-all-by-july-end-101624648676272.html
26-06-2021||Lucknow||UP Dy CM Sharma adopts LU girl who lost her father to Covid-19||Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma on Friday adopted a girl student of Lucknow University who lost her father in the recent Covid-19 pandemic.The deputy CM promised to bear all educational expenses of the girl who is a masters student of Lucknow University.This came as a part of the initiative started by Lucknow University administration to support education of children who lost their parents during the pandemic.“A total of 47 students of Lucknow Univerity lost either one or both their parents in the pandemic. LU VC Alok Kumar Rai has appealed to the teachers and staff of the university to adopt such children to bear their educational expenses,” said LU Spoeksman Durgesh Srivasatav.Earlier, LU VC also adopted a girl student of bachelor course at university who lost her father in the pandemic.According to LU administration 39 teachers, 6 retired teachers and three administrative officials have promised to bear expenses of the orphaned children.Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel has appealed to the administration of all state University to adopt students whoost their parents in the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-dy-cm-sharma-adopts-lu-girl-who-lost-her-father-to-covid19-101624648616294.html
26-06-2021||Bangalore||As B’luru unlocks, air quality falls back to pre-pandemic levels: Data||Bengaluru: As the Covid-induced lockdown is lifted, pollution level in Bengaluru is back to pre-pandemic levels in 2019, thereby indicating vehicular movement as one of the biggest contributors of air pollution across urban centres, according to data. Experts say that lifting of curbs has ushered in a pattern of deceleration and acceleration that it now just takes weeks for a sharp difference in AQI (air quality index, a metric to report daily air quality) as against years earlier.Data from the KSPCB (Karnataka State Pollution Control Board) shows that AQI during the lockdown from April 26, resulted in an improvement of 35.26% as compared to regular days. The AQI on normal days was in the range of 77 to 113, the highest on Mysuru Road, as against a range of 41-55 in May, when the BS Yediyurappa-led government announced a lockdown to contain the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic.“While most people believe that traffic is the biggest source of pollution in Bengaluru, other activities like construction, destruction and the dust that rises with traffic is a huge problem that impacts AQI,” said a technical official at the KSPCB, on condition of anonymity.Bengaluru, at least in the last two decades, has been in a constant state of construction with unrelenting road works, mushrooming high-rise buildings and rising traffic that has resulted in erosion of green cover, lakes and rapidly declining quality of air and water.“There is an increase in the number of cars going to petrol stations as most of them have not been refuelled for more than a month,” said Madhusudhan Anand, the co-founder and chief technical officer (CTO) at Ambee, a start-up that builds hyperlocal environment data and intelligence in real-time globally.Data from Ambee shows that average AQI before lockdown was at 90 which came down to around 60 during the restriction period and has climbed back to 87.The AQI was marginally high even during the lockdown since there was a higher consumption of energy indoors, leading to emission.Places like Nerriga, Handenahalli, Dommasandra, Attibele, Yadavanahalli, Bellandur, Mayasandra, Kugur and Sarjapur have AQI’s as high as nearly 160 post the lockdown.According to KSPCB data, AQI is between moderate and satisfactory across all its real-time monitoring stations.Experts do have their concerns on this analysis as most of KSPCB’s monitoring stations are placed away from the actual high-density traffic.For instance, the air monitoring centre in BTM Layout, one of the most congested localities in Bengaluru, is placed around a canopy of trees near Madiwala lake and away from the main road, which is unlikely to capture the true extent of the pollution.According to KSPCB, in its revised action plan for the control of air pollution in Bengaluru, the city’s AQI has fallen from 107.1 in 2014-15 to 88.1 in 2018-19, that shows a decreasing trend in the five-year annual average.This data has been disputed even by elected representatives, apart from scientists and other experts on the subject.The 41-point KSPCB action plan includes implementation of LPG and bio-fuels, promoting battery operated vehicles, effective disposal of construction debris and operation of the metro among other measures to decrease the harmful pollutants entering the air.Bengaluru’s vehicle population is just shy of the 10 million-mark. The city also has almost all of its roads dug up in the guise of some project of the other, raising clouds of dust, reducing average speeds and keeping vehicles stationary for longer durations that adds to higher emissions, experts said.“Only when it rains, it brings the particulate matter down but the chemical pollutants like sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide and carbon dioxide will be high. Every day we are seeing it increase,” Madhusudhan said.The state government is trying to promote non-motorised transport (NMT) like cycling and walking for short commutes but inadequate infrastructure and dug up footpaths and roads, among other factors, have added to its challenges.Bengaluru’s prowess in Information Technology (IT), start-up ecosystem, aerospace and other infrastructure has given rise to the middle and higher middle-income groups, spurring aspirational possessions like private vehicles, homes, electric appliances among other products that have added to its challenges.The delay in completion of metro, sub-urban rail and even increasing bus services has increased the dependence on private vehicles, which was exacerbated post the pandemic where people have steered clear of public transport for fear of contracting the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/as-b-luru-unlocks-air-quality-falls-back-to-pre-pandemic-levels-data-101624648615673.html
26-06-2021||Other||Kerala women’s panel chief resigns after remark stirs row||ThiruvananthapuramKerala women panel chairperson MC Josephine, who recently landed in controversy for her “then you suffer” remark on a domestic violence victim during a live television show, tendered her resignation on Friday.“MC Josephine has tendered resignation for her callous remarks to a domestic violence victim. Merit and empathy should be the criteria for the appointment of new chairperson,” Kerala BJP chief K Surendran tweeted.Josephine drew flak from all quarters, including supporters of the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) in Kerala, of which she is a central committee member.The incident unfolded when a woman called in the show, a special programme held by a Malayalam channel to lay attention on women experiencing harassment and abuse at home. The woman spoke about her husband and mother-in-law beating her up, and informed that she has not yet registered a complaint with the police or even told a single person about her ordeal at home. Josephine said, “Then you suffer, OK,” and snapped the line.While the state women panel chief attempted to justify her response, she later issued an apology after she and her party came under fire. “I was talking to her with motherly affection. If my words have pained anyone, I regret,” Josephine said, adding that she was angry about women suffering silently.Earlier today, she told news agency ANI that she didn’t make the remark. “There are women who aren’t listening to us. We suggest women file complaints, making the case stronger as we can’t reach everywhere,” Josephine added.However, soon after Josephine stated that she realised she shouldn’t have reacted to the woman’s plight in “such manner,” ANI reported.Both Kerala Congress and state BJP unit demanded action against her. While the women’s wing of state Congress burnt Josephine’s effigy to make their point, K Surendran called for registering a First Information Report (FIR) against her.The incident comes in the wake of three dowry-related deaths reported in one week in Kerala. In one case that happened on June 21, a 23-year-old woman, who married a government official last year, died by suicide. Initial police investigation suggest that her husband allegedly beat her up for months over scorn with the dowry she had brought.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-women-s-panel-chief-resigns-after-remark-stirs-row-101624648075697.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Decision to resume quarrying in Parsik Hill meets with resistance||The Maharsahtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s decision to reopen 102 stone quarries in Navi Mumbai’s Parsik Hill has been met with resistance from environmentalists, who have written to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray cautioning him against the decision. They said the move is detrimental not just to the environment but also the public health of residents living in Vashi, Turbhe, Belapur, Ghansoli, Rabale and Nerul. Thane guardian minister Eknath Shinde had, on June 23, publicly announced the decision after meeting with a delegation of local quarry operators and assuring them that the mines, which were shuttered five years ago, will be re-started to help settle the Navi Mumbai project-affected people (PAP) and float 40,000 jobs. Since 1972, Cidco had been allotting quarries to PAP in lieu of the land acquired for the development of Navi Mumbai.However, quarrying has since been halted on two occasions — once in the mid-90s at the intervention of late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray, and again in 2016, after the forest department ascertained that mining has been done in significantly more than the permissible land. Against the 138 hectares allotted till the year 2026, around 248 hectares had been quarried, the forest department ascertained.“Allowing the mining to resume is simply irresponsible. There are many social welfare schemes under which PAPs can be settled, and we do not have to continue to blast these already plundered hills,” said NatConnect Foundation director BN Kumar, who has written a letter to the CM, suggesting to find alternative sites to fetch stone chips required for construction work.“The government could encourage quarrying on cooperative basis in other parts of the state which are not inhabited, and thus offer gainful employment to the project-affected families,” Kumar said in his June 24 letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray.Nandakumar Pawar, head of NGO Shri Ekavira Aai Pratishthan, has also appealed to the CM to intervene and ensure that the Parsik Hill range is conserved. “Some of the hills have almost entirely been flattened as contractors have overstepped their limits. Cidco is constructing affordable housing projects adjacent to some of the quarries, putting them at risk of landslides. The residents will be directly affected by fugitive emissions from mining activity,” said Pawar.Apart from environmentalists, the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has previously opposed the resumption of Parsik Hill quarrying, citing air pollution concerns. In 2017, under the aegis of the then NMMC chief Dr N Ramasamy, the civic body had filed an affidavit in the National Green Tribunal opposing the Parsik Hill quarrying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-decision-to-resume-quarrying-in-parsik-hill-meets-with-resistance-101624647956372.html
26-06-2021||Other||Antilia case: NIA gets custody of 2 till July 1 to probe source of funds||The special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court on Friday extended the custody of Santosh Shelar and Anand Jadhav – arrested by the federal agency on June 11 in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home and the subsequent murder of the car owner Mansukh Hiran – till July 1.Special judge Prashant Sitre extended the duo’s NIA remand after the agency informed the court that the two were in touch with the other accused in the case through social media. NIA also informed the court that Shelar and Jadhav were arrested from Latur, but before moving to the Marathwada district, had spent time in Delhi and other places outside Maharashtra. NIA’s counsel further said that the duo was provided funds by the other accused in the case, and the agency wants to find out how the money was routed, and with whom were they in touch during the period. The agency sought an extension of their remand claiming that it wants to interrogate Shelar and Jadhav to recover Hiran’s phone, watch, wallet, credit and debit cards.The special court on Friday also remanded former Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane, who too is arrested in the twin cases, back in judicial custody. Mane was arrested by NIA on April 23, and on May 13, he was remanded in judicial custody. He has been lodged in Taloja prison since then. He was again remanded in NIA custody on June 21, as the agency wanted to confront him with the other accused in the case.On February 25, an SUV was found abandoned near Antilia – Ambani’s home – with 20 lose gelatin sticks and a threatening note. On March 5, Hiran was found dead in creek near Mumbra, with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf. NIA took over both the cases and has arrested 10 people. The other accused include controversial ex-police officer Sachin Vaze, his former crime branch colleague Riyazuddin Kazi and ex-encounter specialist Pradeep Sharma. NIA has also arrested former constable Vinayak Shinde who is a life convict in a fake encounter killing case, cricket bookie Naresh Gor, and two others – Satish Mothukari and Manish Soni.Vaze was originally in charge of the investigation of the Antilia case, but was removed after reports emerged of his links with Hiran, who had reported the SUV stolen on February 17. It subsequently emerged that Vaze had borrowed the SUV in November and returned it in early February. NIA has claimed that it was Vaze who had planted the explosives-laden vehicle near Ambani’s residence and the other police officers arrested in the case were allegedly involved in larger conspiracy. NIA further alleged that they got Hiran killed after he refused to take the blame for planting the SUV and getting arrested in the case.According to NIA, Soni was driving the car in which Shelar, Jadhav and Mothukari smothered the 48-year-old trader, along Ghodbunder Road. The Tavera car was owned by Shelar. The four later dumped Hiran’s body in a creek near Mumbra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-case-nia-gets-custody-of-2-till-july-1-to-probe-source-of-funds-101624647897386.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 35 rescued as ceiling of building collapses in Fort||The Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) on Friday morning rescued 35 people after part of a ceiling in ground-plus-four building collapsed in south Mumbai’s Fort Area. No injuries were reported.The building was around 60-years old and the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (Mhada) had given permission to the building for carrying out repair works. A Mhada official said, “There are around 50 tenants including commercial and residential. The building was over 60-year-old and we had given permission for conducting repair works. We will verify whether the repair work, which is ongoing, is being done as per the permission and if it caused the collapse.”Arun Dongre, chief of Mhada’s repair board, said, “The building was not a dilapidated structure and is identified as an A category building in our list. The structure was in a very good condition and we had given permission for repair works.”Local Shiv Sena corporator Sujata Sanap said, “A slab collapsed on the third floor around 6.45am. However, no-one was injured in the incident. We vacated all residents due to safety reasons. All commercial tenants are safe as shops were shut early in the morning.”According to MFB officials, initially 20 persons were rescued and later another 15 persons were vacated safely using the window as the staircase area was blocked. The rescue and evacuation operations were completed by noon, and the work of removing of debris is ongoing. Meanwhile, earlier this month Mhada had declared that in its pre-monsoon survey, 21 of the 14,755 dilapidated buildings in the island city are “extremely dangerous”. It has asked the residents living in the 21 structures to immediately vacate their houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-35-rescued-as-ceiling-of-building-collapses-in-fort-101624647895596.html
26-06-2021||Pune||Centre misusing CBI, ED for politics: Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said they are not worried about Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s residence. Interacting with media at NCP party office in Pune, he said, “The Central government is misusing the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and ED for political agenda, and it’s not new for Maharashtra and other states.”ED on Friday raided Deshmukh’s residence at Nagpur. Reacting to the raid, Pawar said, “There’s nothing new about ED raids; such raids happened previously also. I am sure they would not find anything. As ED did not getting anything, out of frustration they are arresting someone.”Pawar said, “I have been in the political sphere for a long time, but never saw that any political party passed any resolution to start CBI inquiry against opposition party leader. Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) state president Chandrakant Patil passed such resolution in its state level meeting and demanded CBI inquiry against deputy CM Ajit Pawar.”He added, “The BJP is ruling in the Centre and CBI is under the Central government; as it is they are misusing it.”The NCP chief also welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s meeting with Kashmir leaders and said, “It is good that the Central government realised they did nothing in Kashmir despite the promises. Let’s hope that the PM would keep his promises given to all party leaders in Kashmir.”Meanwhile, Pawar is likely to bat for common leadership in the upcoming Lok Sabha election instead of giving single face from opposition parties. Pawar said, “I expressed my opinion very clearly that opposition parties should do alliance along with the Congress. There is a need to have common leadership.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-misusing-cbi-ed-for-politics-sharad-pawar-101624647896222.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||ED raid at Deshmukh’s house: MVA partners slam Centre||Following Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and former home minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday, NCP’s allies in the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) — Shiv Sena and Congress — criticised the Centre, accusing it of misusing central probe agencies for political purpose.Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut described the alleged irregularities of the purchase of Ram Mandir land at Ayodhya as a fit case of probe by ED and Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). He asked BJP’s national executive to pass a resolution seeking such a probe. “If CBI really wants to investigate, then it should investigate the land transaction conducted by the Ayodhya Mayor with the Ram temple trust. This is fit case for investigation,” he said.Raut accused the Centre of lowering the standards of the investigative agencies. “This is all part of vindictive politics. Are ED and CBI your party workers,” questioned Raut, adding, “This has only resulted in tarnishing the name of ED and CBI.”The Sena leader is also facing the ire of ED as his wife Varsha was questioned with regards to money laundering in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case.Deshmukh has been facing the heat of central agencies. Last month, ED registered a criminal case of money laundering against him and CBI has already filed a first information report (FIR) against Deshmukh citing corruption charges.State Congress unit, too, slammed the Centre over the raid. “What is ED trying to search while raiding residence of Deshmukh, as even Sachin Vaze and Param Bir Singh who levelled allegations never said the money was given (to Deshmukh)? If ED feels money was given, why no raids on Vaze and Parambir who supposedly gave money,” asked state Congress spokesman Sachin Sawant. “All national investigative agencies have surrendered their independence before the Modi government and are being used as political weapons against opposition,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-raid-at-deshmukh-s-house-mva-partners-slam-centre-101624647836911.html
26-06-2021||Other||BJP, Cong to agitate today in Maharashtra for OBC quota||Maharashtra will witness state-wide protests on Saturday over the issue of reservation for Other Backward Classes’ (OBC). While the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will stage ‘chakka jam’ (road blockade) and ‘jail bharo’ protests at various places, demanding the restoration of the 27% political reservation for the community, the Congress has declared to hold an agitation against the BJP-led Central government, holding it responsible for the quashing of the quota for the community in the Supreme Court. The party said that the Centre is not providing the census data, which led to the situation.OBCs are on the verge of losing their political reservation in local bodies across Maharashtra as it was quashed by the Apex court last month. The court has ruled that reservation in favour of the OBC community in local bodies should not result in exceeding the 50% cap in quota determined by it. It has also directed the state to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data, based on which, the reservation quota of the community be fixed. It means that no seat will be reserved for the OBC community in the upcoming local bodies comprising municipal corporations, municipal councils, zilla parishads, panchayat samiti and gram panchayats, at least for this year or until the state government completes the entire process. “The OBC community lost the reservation owing to the negligence of the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA (Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi) government. BJP has decided to protest against this government. Around 100,000 workers will hold the ‘jail bharo’ andolan in the state on June 26,” said state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil.Party’s national secretary Pankaja Munde said, “We will be holding ‘chakka jam’ at around 1,000 places on Saturday. The MVA government is misleading the people. The Centre has no role to play in this matter. They [MVA government] are dragging the Centre for political reasons.”To counter the claim, Congress’ state unit released a letter by BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis during his term as chief minister to Rajiv Kumar, the then vice-chairman of NITI Aayog, asking him to direct officials to provide district-level data of Maharashtra with geographical identification particulars, caste category and caste names. The letter was sent on August 1, 2019. “The target of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), BJP’s ideological front, is to abolish reservations, and the Narendra Modi-led Centre is working on the same lines. Fadnavis had sought the empirical data, which was denied by the Centre. We will hold an agitation against BJP’s anti-OBC policy on Saturday,” said state Congress chief Nana Patole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-cong-to-agitate-today-in-maharashtra-for-obc-quota-101624647836194.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||ED traces link of ₹4 crore collected from Mumbai bar owners to Anil Deshmukh||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday claimed that it has traced the trail of ₹4 crore allegedly collected by dismissed assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze from some bar and restaurants owners in Mumbai. This amount allegedly reached companies indirectly linked to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh, ED said.ED officers on Friday raided five places including Deshmukh’s residences in Mumbai and Nagpur. They also questioned Deshmukh’s personal secretary Sanjeev Palande in connection with the money laundering case, at the agency’s south Mumbai office. Sources said that Deshmukh’s house at civil line area in Nagpur was raided at around 7.30am in the morning by a team of ED officers.Speaking to journalists at his Worli residence, Deshmukh said allegations against him are false and that Param Bir Singh levelled the accusation only after being shunted out from Mumbai Police chief’s post for poor handling of Antilia explosives scare case. Deshmukh said he is cooperating with ED.ED officers may also summon Deshmukh soon for questioning.The money laundering case against Deshmukh was filed based on the first information report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against him under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on April 21.CBI had started the probe against Deshmukh after the former Mumbai Police chief alleged that the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader ran an “extortion racket” in Mumbai. On April 21, CBI said it had found “prima facie evidence” against Deshmukh for allegedly misusing his position, and booked him for corruption and criminal conspiracy. Unlike CBI, ED can record statements of any person in a case under section 50 of PMLA and it is admissible as evidence in court.ED has also recorded statement of deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Raju Bhujbal whose name was mentioned by Singh in his letter to CM as witness to the alleged extortion by Deshmukh. Bhujbal is DCP of the establishment unit in Mumbai that keeps vigil on illegal activities in dance bars, pub, clubs, restaurants, hotels, etc.In past ED had also recorded statements of Dr Jaishree Patil, complainant in the CBI case, and some owners of bars, pubs, restaurants in Mumbai.Previously, on April 24, CBI had carried out raids at Deshmukh’s residences in Nagpur and Mumbai as well as Palande’s premises and seized digital devices.The NCP had previously dismissed ED’s case as politically motivated. The party said the allegations levelled by Singh are an attempt to defame the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government.CBI’s case came months after Singh accused Deshmukh of using the Mumbai Police for extortion from bars, hotels, and restaurants. CBI is probing Singh’s allegations as well as Deshmukh’s handing over of important cases to former assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and influencing transfers and postings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-traces-link-of-4-crore-collected-from-mumbai-bar-owners-to-anil-deshmukh-101624647835625.html
26-06-2021||Mumbai||No third front without Congress, says Sharad Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Friday said an opposition front cannot be formed without the Congress. He also said people want an alternative and it is the responsibility of the political leadership to fulfil their expectations.The statement assumes significance in the backdrop of a meeting of leaders from many political parties and civil society members organised by Yashwant Sinha-led Rashtra Manch at Pawar’s Delhi residence early this week. There are speculations that the exercise was to assess possibility of a third front against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“We haven’t met over forming a third front but I am of the view that it can be only with the Congress as part of it. I also believe that a third (opposition) front is necessary and I have also expressed the same,” Pawar said in response to a question related to the meeting at his Delhi residence.He was interacting with reporters in Pune.“People want an alternative and the responsibility of fulfilling their expectation is on the political leadership,” he remarked in a response to a question.Pawar clarified that he has no plans on leading such a front but would work to help formulate it. “I was involved in such activities for many years. Now it’s enough. I will be working to help them, guide them, strengthen them and keep them united,” he said when asked if he would be leading a third front.He also said that the meeting was called to discuss a white paper over resolving farmers issues created after enactment of three contentious legislations. The white paper will be a road map on how to fix the matter as farmers have been agitating at Delhi borders for over six months.The NCP supremo also said it is the right of the Congress to work on strengthening the organisation. He made the statement in response to state Congress chief Nana Patole’s remarks over contesting the upcoming polls alone. “Every party has the right to strengthen its organisation, be it any. We have no complaints as we all say so to boost morale of party cadres. We will welcome it if the Congress is making such efforts. It is their right,” the veteran leader said.Earlier this week, Patole had said his party would fight all the forthcoming elections alone and that the Congress would be the single-largest party in 2024 Assembly polls. This led to friction among the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) as chief minister Uddhav Thackeray was upset with the remarks.Addressing Shiv Sena’s 55th foundation day, Thackeray had on Saturday said, “If we do not offer solutions to people’s problems but only talk about going it alone in politics, people will beat us with footwear. They will not listen to our party-centric, ambitious talk of contesting elections alone.” Though he chose not to name anyone, the remarks were clear that he is not happy with the stand taken by the Congress state unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-third-front-without-congress-says-sharad-pawar-101624647775631.html
26-06-2021||Other||Tug boat that sank in Mumbai High was unfit for voyage: Survivor||Yellow Gate police have said that Glory Shipmanagment – the owner of the ill-fated tug boat Varaprada that capsized during Cyclone Tauktae on May 17 – had not carried out the required maintenance and repairing work, which resulted in the loss of 11 lives.The police have registered a first information report (FIR) against the owner of the tugboat on the basis of a complaint lodged by second engineer Francis K Simon, one of the two survivors of the incident.Speaking to HT, Simon claimed that due to poor maintenance, the boat was not seaworthy and had lost its stability on the fateful night and sank, leading to the deaths of 11 of 13 people on board. The owners were well aware of the boat’s defective condition, he alleged.The police on Thursday night registered an offence under sections 304 (2) (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code against Glory Shipmanagment Pvt Ltd, its managing director Rajesh Kumar Shahi and other unknown accused. Shahi said, “These are is baseless allegations. The vessel was certified by multiple government agencies such as Indian Register of Shipping, ONGC safety audit, Mercantile Marine Department, marine warranty surveyors etc. After their approval, the vessel was sent to ONGC field.”The police visited Simon’s home in Kerala and recorded his statement on Wednesday. He told the police that the tugboat was 34 years old, and it required substantial repairs and maintenance work. But the owner of the boat had allegedly ignored it.“We raised issues related to every defect of the vessel through emails to the owner firm and informed it about the urgent requirement for FSA (formal safety assessment) inspections. A detailed email about the need for urgent repair work of the defects was also sent to the company through the boat’s captain in first week of April, but they did not take cognisance of it,” said Simon.There were several repair and maintenance works on the boat, ranging from welding and painting work, repairing of machines and other parts, which were pending since long, he alleged.“As the rubber packing of the door frame of the engine room was not fixed, the door frame of the exit and steering rooms also had holes and rust and were not watertight. The engine room and steering compartment were flooded with sea water. The crew had to manually throw water out, but due to tidal waves, the two rooms got flooded in no time and the boat lost stability. The boat got tilted at the left side and ultimately sank,” Simon stated in the FIR, of which HT has a copy.“Because of the poor maintenance, the stability of the vessel got compromised and it sank. The company was well aware that the boat was not seaworthy, yet they put it on operation. They showed that the boat is seaworthy only on paper and didn’t carry out actual maintenance,” said the 50-year-old, who held charge as chief engineer of the boat.“Our (boat’s) FSA inspection was due on April 30. A 15-day extension was granted, and two days after expiry of this period, the boat met a tragic end. This is extreme level of ignorance. They did not bother about workers’ lives and also underestimated the power of the cyclone,” said Simon.The FIR stated that the company did not appoint a chief engineer for the tugboat and it was a violation of rules of directorate general of shipping and was also a safety threat. The boat’s renovation survey was not done for five years and the skeleton of the boat or the main part was badly rusted and had many holes. The tugboat’s proper maintenance was also not done as per the rules and standards of Indian Flag and Indian Registered Ship, Simon said in his statement.“Though the boat was 34 years old, it delivers good performance if maintained properly. Age is no factor, quality and regular maintenance are,” he said.The police are in process of contacting the email service provider to retrieve the emails the boat’s captain (died in the incident) had sent to the company raising issues about the defects of the boats and urgent requirement of its repairing. Suhah Hemade, senior inspector of Yellow Gate police station, said, “We have recorded the statements of the two survivors of Varaparada boat and will soon call the boat’s owner for questioning.”On the night of May 16, Varaparada had successfully tugged an engineless accommodation barge, Gal Constructor, with 137 people on board. The barge was approximately 90 nautical miles away from the shore, near an ONGC platform. Varaparada tugged it safely to Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT).After this, it came back near JNPT, but next day when the cyclone arrived, Varaparada’s anchor broke and it started drifting into the sea and later sank.Beside Varaprada, on May 17, a barge named Papaa305 also sank near the Heera Oil Field in the Arabian Sea, killing 75 of the 261 crew members, after Cyclone Tauktae passed by the Mumbai Coast. The Navy and Coast Guard had rescued 186 people on board. Yellow Gate police is investigating a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder in connection with the Papaa305 incident. The master of the barge, who died in the incident, has been named an accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tug-boat-that-sank-in-mumbai-high-was-unfit-for-voyage-survivor-101624647716230.html
26-06-2021||Other||TN cracks down on crimes against women, children||ChennaiThere has been a crackdown on sexual crimes against women and children and a spate of arrests recently in Tamil Nadu, which DMK leaders say have been done on a direction from chief minister MK Stalin’s office, citing the party’s election manifesto that focussed on women’s safety wellbeing. Political observers see the actions as an attempt to improve the DMK’s image for long-term political gains. The string of arrests began when a few school students and alumni began to share their trauma of being sexually abused by commerce teacher G Rajagopalan of Padma Seshadri Bala Bhavan (PSBB) school. His immediate arrest and the school education department swinging into action helped in building confidence among survivors, and it snowballed into a crackdown on institutionalised child sexual abuse with complaints pouring in from across the state. On Friday, Chennai police invoked the Goondas Act against Rajagopalan to detain him for a year. For offences in cybercrime, the police also invoked the Goondas Act against prominent social media person Kishore K Swamy, who was arrested last week on a complaint filed by DMK’s IT wing for his defamatory posts against former chief ministers CN Annadurai and M Karunanidhi. He has been arrested previously including last year on charges of harassing women journalists and politicians, by targeting them on social media. He was out on bail.A day ago, one of Chennai police’s own personnel, a sub-inspector attached to the city’s Madhavaram police station, was arrested under Pocso Act after a girl Whatsapped her complaint directly to the Chennai police commissioner Shankar Jiwal against the accused for abusing her. Her mother was also arrested as an abettor. A few days ago, police arrested self-styled religious guru Siva Sankar Baba who is among half a dozen of teachers and coaches arrested on complaints of child sexual abuse made by school students and alumni. Former AIADMK minister for information and technology M Manikandan has been arrested on several charges, including rape, filed by a Tamil woman who is of Malaysian nationality. A popular Youtuber and gamer, Madan Kumar, was arrested after the cybercrime wing received more than a 100 complaints against his YouTube channel where he uploaded a banned game, PubG. It was accompanied by live commentary where he either verbally abused women players or made derogatory comments against women with other male players. His channel had more than 700,00 subscribers, including minors. Police have been swiftly acting against complaints even if they are made on social media and pursuing the victims to file a police complaint, so that an FIR can be registered to investigate the case against perpetrators. “Usually these accused come out on bail in 10 days. We are giving special attention to that, strengthening evidence and keeping these people away from the society,” said Jiwal. “We are fast-tracking these cases because it is not like a crime of passion. It’s almost like an organised crime where the victim is left with a lot of psychological scars. Even if we get multiple complaints against a single person, none are discouraged.”Two cases including that of Sankar Baba, the founder of Sushil Hari International School, have been transferred to the CB-CID. Investigating police officers of the crimes against women and children wing and the CB-CID have made their phone numbers public to help survivors file complaints by protecting their identity.“He (Stalin) has given a free hand to the police authorities to act on complaints of crimes against women and children and he is personally following it,” said a DMK leader not wishing to be named. “He doesn’t want any delays in taking action. The law enforcement has to take its own course, but he has asked for action to be taken against those who are stalling complainants also. He is personally following up on these cases.”Governor Banwarilal Purohit in his customary address during the 16th legislative assembly on Monday said that the DMK government will launch special initiatives to address all aspects of women’s wellbeing, development and empowerment. “Safety of women from harassment in the workplace, protection against cybercrime and prevention of domestic violence will be prioritised,” the Governor said. “To encourage greater work participation by women, working women’s hostels will be established in every district.”The DMK says that they are planning a legislation to strengthen existing laws on this issue but did not give more details at this stage. “The chief minister is very serious about this. We want to put a stop to this issue,” said DMK MP and spokesperson TKS Elangovan. “Nobody has the authority to insult, degrade another human being. The government will not be a mute spectator to this. The issue is prevalent in all sections, including at the higher officials and ministers level, which is bad for the society.”In the election manifesto, the DMK had announced a slew of welfare and development-related schemes for women, which included introducing special cybercrime police stations to investigate crimes against women. “Cyber police stations will be set up in all districts with technically qualified, trained employees to address the increasing prevalence of cybercrimes against women and children,” the manifesto read.On Monday, the government also released guidelines for ‘students’ safety & protection from sexual violence & protocol for online classes’ applicable to all schools belonging to all educational boards in Tamil Nadu. It includes measures, such as the school education department to set up a state-level “central complaint centre” to offer an alternative complaint mechanism and provide guidance so that all complaints received are addressed appropriately.Political observers say that through this issue, the DMK is reinventing its image. “The DMK is working to be in power for the next 10 years, much like how it was when Narendra Modi was elected in 2014,” said Ramu Manivanan, head of the political science and public administration department, University of Madras. “This is crucial for the DMK to draw the trust of the women vote bank which was cultivated by the AIADMK’s founder M G Ramachandran and his successor J Jayalalithaa.”In the immediate scenario it could help in the local body elections that will be conducted soon for which the DMK held a meeting Friday with their district secretaries as well as with its long-term vision, he said. DMK’s Elangovan, however, said that the party has always supported women. “When Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) was the chief minister, DMK was the first to bring in a legislation that women should have a share in the ancestral property,” he said. “We formed the women self-help groups, we brought in the legislation that 30% of government jobs go to women and we ensured financial empowerment so that they don’t have to be dependent on a man. Until 1976, when education was in the state list before Indira Gandhi amended it to be on the concurrent list, Kalaignar had made education free for women up to postgraduation.”Activists have welcomed DMK’s increased attention to these issues but often point out to selective action as the party continues to be closely associated with Tamil cinema lyricist Vairamuthu who has been accused of sexual harassment by a dozen women. No police complaint has been filed in his case although singer Chinmayi Sripaada registered a complaint with the National Council for Women. In May, after social media backlash against Vairamuthu being conferred the ONV Literary award and against Stalin for congratulating him, the lyricst returned his award. “A commitment to gender equality begins at home,” said Swarna Rajagopalan, political scientist and founder of gender rights-based advocacy group, The Prajnya Trust. “It is a good thing that the government is showing seriousness of intent in following up on specific abuse charges, and also in setting up systems for prevention. A publicly stated commitment is always a welcome point of departure,” said Rajagopalan. “However, this commitment should be demonstrated by the party distancing itself from alleged abusers within its ranks and allies, whether those who are facing harassment allegations or those who have made misogynistic speeches. As suggested by the Prajnya Gender Equality Election Checklist, they should not be nominated or supported again.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tn-cracks-down-on-crimes-against-women-children-101624647715690.html
26-06-2021||Other||How did Mumbai civic body lose this drain of thought?||The condition of Everard nullah in Chunabhatti stands as one of the examples of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) claims that it has completed 104% of the pre-monsoon desilting work on nullahs across the city, said the panel of experts who participated in HT’s annual audit for monsoon preparedness earlier this week. Desilted, cleaned and widened with a free flow of stormwater, Everard nullah has got the maximum marks by HT’s experts’ panel. However, just 100 metres downstream, where a private nullah that runs through the premises of Somaiya Institute and merges with Everard nullah, the site breaks all illusions of Mumbai being ready to handle this year’s monsoon and preventing waterlogging. Clogged with garbage and hardened silt, this private nullah hardly has any flow of water. However, BMC’s explanation for its unkempt state is that this nullah runs through private premises, and hence, is the responsibility of the party concerned to desilt it every monsoon. Authorities claimed that they send the responsible party frequent reminders every monsoon to clean the nullah as well as to widen it, but to no avail. As the nullah caters to the areas of Kurla and Chunabhatti, its impact on waterlogging in these areas is high, according to HT’s panel of experts. A senior civic official from the stormwater drains department, said, “BMC has completed 100% of pre-monsoon desilting and cleaning work at Everard nullah. The other nullah is a private nullah, and the respective property [owner] has not done any work.”As part of HT’s monsoon audit that was conducted on Wednesday, a panel of three experts inspected two nullahs in the eastern suburbs as well as two chronic waterlogging spots – Gandhi Market and Hindmata Junction on Babasaheb Ambedkar Road – in the Island city and graded these spots an average of 1.7 marks out of 5. The experts graded Everard nullah the highest score, averaging 3.83 out of 5, followed by Hindamata junction (1.33). The private nullah got 1 mark out of the total 5, while Gandhi Market was given 0.5 rating. One of the experts on the panel, DK Pathak – who retired in 2009 as deputy engineer of BMC’s stormwater drains department after 33 years of service –said, “The intersection where the private nullah meets Everard nullah is a T junction. Hence the flow of water from the private nullah gets interrupted due to the smooth flow of Everard’s nullah at the 90° angle. If this was a Y junction, the flow from the private nullah would have been smoother.”After multiple projects over the years – since the 2005 deluge –have failed to mitigate waterlogging at Hindamata, BMC is now constructing two underground water-holding silos at the junction, and one at Gandhi Market to deal with the chronic problem. However, according to experts, this is unlikely to put an end to waterlogging at these two chronic flooding spots. Udaykumar Shiroorkar, a retired assistant engineer of BMC, who was a part of HT’s panel of experts, said, “The expenditure is unnecessary, and the civic body needs to weigh its usefulness against its cost. At the most, this will reduce the water receding time by a few hours.” According to Pathak, the storage capacity of tanks at both these places is meagre in comparison to the quantity of water accumulated after a heavy downpour. “Topographically, Hindmata is saucer shaped, and hence, prone to waterlogging. The water receding time from Gandhi Market entirely depends on the cleaning and widening of the successive drains and culverts,” said Pathak. While each of the silos at Hindamata will have a capacity to hold 1,000 cubic metres (1 million litres) of water, the one at Gandhi Market will be able to hold 1,200 cubic metres of water. Water from these silos will be channelled from underground pipes to two other bigger underground silos — one at Pramod Mahajan Udyan on Senapati Bapat Road near Elphinstone station, and one under St Xavier’s ground in Parel. As part of phase 1, construction of these silos and the underground water dispensing system will cost the civic body ₹60 crore. The entire project of construction of five water silos to provide relief from waterlogging, is likely to cost around ₹130 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/how-did-mumbai-civic-body-lose-this-drain-of-thought-101624647535612.html
26-06-2021||Lucknow||After June’s 10 million milestone, UP govt aims at 100 million Covid vaccine doses by Aug 31||The Uttar Pradesh government has raised the bar after having reached the milestone of one crore (10 million) Covid vaccine doses for the month of June six days ahead of schedule.It is now aiming to administer a minimum of 10 lakh (one million) doses each day from July 1 and cross the mark of 10 crore (100 million) doses by August 31. Till Thursday, the state administered 2.9 crore (29 million) vaccine doses, nearly 13% of the total population of the state, according to official statistics.If the state reaches the 10-crore mark by August 31, the total number of doses administered in the state would have covered 43% of the total population (at least one dose).The state government considers UP’s population to be 23 crore. (This includes 20 crore, according to the 2011 Census, plus three crore as per the decadal population rise calculated at the same rate at which population increased between 2001 and 2011).Experts say vaccinating such large numbers will certainly help in protecting people against the virus, even the mutations.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said at a high-level Covid review meeting on Friday: “Vaccination is an effective safety shield against Covid infection. The state government had set the target of giving one crore jabs in June and the target was achieved on June 24, six days ahead and the state has so far given 2.9 crore doses of the vaccine. Forty-two lakh people got both the doses. From July 1, the daily target is a minimum 10 lakh doses each day and we should work according to this target.”Additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal said that the state aimed to reach the 10-crore mark by August 31.With 42 lakh (4.2 million) people having got both doses, it means about 1.8% of UP’s total population is fully vaccinated.Prof Kauser Usman, head of the department of geriatric medicine at King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, said: “We can hope that if a big number, like 1-12 crore, is vaccinated with even the first dose, it will certainly help develop antibodies. People, even if getting sick with Covid, shall have mild symptoms and recover faster.”Regarding the mutants (Delta or Delta-Plus variants of coronavirus), Dr Sheetal Verma, senior faculty at the department of microbiology, KGMU, said: “All vaccines are cross protective. Hence, if mutation happens in the virus, it will cover them also to some extent. We should hope that more people being vaccinated will help face the infection with better preparedness.”The state has already adopted a cluster system mainly in the rural areas and the urban municipal wards to saturate geographic regions with vaccination.“Under the cluster system, the idea is to put a group of villages in a cluster and (treat) a group of municipal wards as clusters and administer all in the eligible age groups in those clusters in a week’s time,” said a senior government official, explaining the system.Yogi Adityanath on Friday said that the cluster system was rolled out in one-third of the development blocks in the state. From July 1, it will be implemented in the entire state.Prelim results of sero-survey indicate high level of antibodies: YogiChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday also mentioned the sero-survey done in UP early this month.He said: “The initial indications of the survey hint at good results. Preliminary results of the survey indicate the presence of a high level of antibodies in the people sample surveyed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/after-june-s-10-million-milestone-up-govt-aims-at-100-million-covid-vaccine-doses-by-aug-31-101624647176236.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sixth pay commission recommendations: Ludhiana dist education office staff starts 4-day pen-down strike||The district education office (secondary and elementary) wore a deserted look on Friday after the ministerial employees of the department went on a four-day pen down strike to protest against the recommendations of the sixth pay commission.The employees are demanding a 2.74 times increase in salaries and pensions, but the pay panel has recommended a hike of 2.54 times, which they said is not acceptable.There are over 80 government employees in both departments, including superintendents and clerical staff. The work at the department remained suspended from 9am to 5pm.Employees in all branches like administrative and accounts raised slogans against the government and demanded a roll back of the pay commission.Their demands include that the government must cover employees recruited after 2004 under the pension scheme, immediate release of the dearness allowance instalment that has been pending for many months, filling all vacant posts in government departments to ease burden on existing employees, revival of all allowances of the ministerial staff that have been stopped and regularisation of jobs of all employees working on contractual basis in the department.Harminder Singh Romi, president of Sanjha Moracha Front, said, “The pen-down strike will continue till June 27 and if the government will not roll back the implementation of sixth commission, then we will intensify our stir.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sixth-pay-commission-recommendations-ludhiana-dist-education-office-staff-starts-4-day-pen-down-strike-101624647122187.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Row over water-sewer tariff: Come Monday, BJP to gherao Cong councillors’ homes in Ludhiana||Demanding reinstatement of water-sewer bill exemption to buildings under 125 square yards, BJP leaders on Friday said they will stage an agitation outside the homes of Congress councillors unless the civic body rolled back its decision. Submitting a memorandum to mayor Balkar Sandhu at the civic body’s Zone D office on Friday, BJP councillors said they will stage protests outside the homes of 62 Congress councillors on Monday. BJP leaders, including councillors’ leader Sunita Rani, local bodies cell in-charge Inder Aggarwal, and councillors Om Prakash Ratra, Surinder Atawal, Yashpal Chaudhary and Annie Sikka, also demanded that the municipal corporation (MC) revoke the 60-70% hike in water-sewer tariff along with the decision of hiring a private firm to recover dues and taxes from residents. Aggarwal said, “Apart from rescinding the exemption, the MC has also increased the slab rates for different categories by up to 60%, which is unacceptable as residents are struggling to make ends meet during the pandemic. The tariff for houses with an area from 126 to 250 square yards has been increased from ₹2,520 to ₹4,200.”As per the MC’s decision at the start of the financial year, only houses with up to 50 square- yard area with only the ground floor are exempted from water-sewer charges. Owners of houses with an area ranging from 51 square yards to 125 square yards will have to shell out ₹2,400 as annual water-sewer charges.Sunita said, “The exemption given to 50 square yards houses is negligible as few houses that fall under the category. The decision to hire a private firm for recovering dues from the residents will encourage ‘gunda raj’ in the city.” District BJP president Pushpinder Singal said the civic body is claiming that the tariff had to be revised to avail a loan from the World Bank to commence surface-based water supply in the city. However, the government should have announced a subsidy, so that the extra burden was not shouldered by residents. “BJP will gherao Congress councillors on Monday, and if our demands are not fulfilled, we will take the agitation a notch higher,” said Singal.On June 17, the BJP had staged a protest outside the zonal office of the MC over the issue. Congress MLA Surinder Dawar and some Congress councillors had also demanded resumption of water-sewer exemption during a meeting with the mayor on Thursday. Mayor Balkar Sandhu said “The BJP is trying to gain political mileage. The proposal to hire a private firm for recovery of dues has already been put on hold. The water-sewer tariff has been approved by the MC general house, and if councillors have an objection they can table a resolution to revise the tariff in the next MC house meeting.” SAD submits memorandum as well Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) councillors led by leader of opposition in MC general house Harbhajan Singh Dang also submitted a memorandum with mayor Balkar Sandhu against revocation of the water-sewer exemption. SAD councillors also condemned the MC’s move to serve ‘absurd’ notices for illegal construction on the basis of new power connections availed by owner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/row-over-water-sewer-tariff-come-monday-bjp-to-gherao-cong-councillors-homes-in-ludhiana-101624647116677.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Special drive in Ludhiana: 75 overloaded vehicles challaned in a day||A day after a road mishap caused due to a truck loaded with jutting out iron rods claimed two lives in Khanna, police on Thursday challaned a whopping 75 overloaded vehicles. Eighty-five vehicles have been challaned for carrying cargo beyond the permitted height or weight over the last two days. Joint commissioner of police (JCP, City) Deepak Pareek said, “We initiated a drive against overloaded vehicles on Wednesday. It has been seen that vehicles carrying iron rods that are protruding outside the confines of the truck usually catalyse road mishaps.” Ten vehicles were challaned on the first day of the drive, which was initiated after a passenger bus rammed into a parked truck on the Ludhiana- Delhi national highway. “As many as 16 challans were issued in Zone 1, 35 in Zone 2, 11 in Zone 3 and 13 in Zone 4, of which 44 challans were issued for the cargo exceeding the stipulated height and 31 for exceeding the weight on Thursday,” the JCP said, adding that the drive is being carried out in areas such as the Jalandhar Bypass, Focal Point, Industrial Area, Sahnewal Chowk, Shiv Chowk, Veer Palace, Samrala Chowk, Gill Road and Transport Nagar.Crackdown on illegal LED lights in cars next Those who have installed illegal LED lights on their vehicles may find themselves in the police’s crosshairs next. “There is a trend among youngsters to get extra LED lights installed in their cars to give their vehicles a fancy appearance. However, these lights could blind commuters for a few seconds, which may cause road mishaps,” the JCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/special-drive-in-ludhiana-75-overloaded-vehicles-challaned-in-one-day-101624646999419.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||No Covid death for 2nd consecutive day in Ludhiana, 43 more test +ve||No new Covid-induced deaths were reported for the second consecutive day in the district, while 43 people tested positive for the virus on Friday. The district’s case count now stands at 86,824, of which 84,304 patients have recovered, 2,080 have succumbed and 440 cases are active. Six patients are on ventilator support in the district. Active cases in the district remained below the 500-mark for the third consecutive day. The last time the active cases had been below the 500-mark was February 24, when the health department had reported 495 active cases.The fresh cases include 13 patients with influenza-like symptoms and 10 patients from outpatient departments. The recovery rate has touched 97.10%, while the death rate has dropped to 2.4%.One black fungus case detectedOne more person was diagnosed with black fungus in the district on Friday. So far, 139 cases of the fungal infection have been detected in the district, of which 33 are active. Eight people have succumbed to the deadly disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-covid-death-for-2nd-consecutive-day-in-ludhiana-43-more-test-ve-101624646997026.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||3 more members of Shubham Mota, Puneet Bains’ gangs land in Ludhiana police’s net||Three weeks after the rivalry between Shubham Mota and Puneet Bains’ gangs spilled onto the streets of Ludhiana, three more gangsters were arrested on Friday. Those arrested are Vishal Gill, Billa Bori and Deepak Dhaliwal. So far, 19 people have been arrested for orchestrating deadly back-to-back attacks on rival gang members, while 28 remain on the run. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 1) Pragya Jain said 18 gangsters had been arrested by the Division Number 3 police, while one had been arrested by the Tibba police.Gang leaders, Bains and Shubham, were lodged in Ludhiana Central Jail when their aides carried out a series of violent attacks across the city. Four cases were lodged against the accused in different police stations. The rivalry between the two groups erupted in February 2020 after Shubham and his aides assaulted Bains. Later, Shubham and his accomplices surrendered before the police. Bains, who was already wanted by the police, was also arrested.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal said the police will question Shubham and Bains. Raids are being carried out to arrest the remaining accused. “Stern action will be taken against those who will provide shelter or help the fugitives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-more-members-of-shubham-mota-puneet-bains-gangs-land-in-ludhiana-police-net-101624646877086.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Woman dupes Ludhiana-based fiancé, his father of ₹35 lakh, 3 booked||A Nagpur-based woman, her brother and an aide have been booked for allegedly duping her fiancé and his father of ₹35 lakh on the pretext of investing in their transport business. The accused are Shweta, her brother Rahul and one Jatin Sharma. In his complaint, Davinder Kumar of GK Vihar of Manakwal Road, said his son had met Shweta on Facebook in 2017. The two became engaged soon after. After the engagement, the accused convinced him to invest in their transport business, which would be based in Nagpur. They assured him that they would send him a cut of the profit every month, the complainant said. Kumar availed a loan of ₹35 lakh to invest in the business. Initially, when the accused did not send him any money, he assumed that they would start sending it once the business was established. After a few months, the accused told him that they had to wind up the business. Upon realising that he had been duped, he lodged a police complaint on December 12. Assistant sub-inspector Kulvir Singh, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been registered under Sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-dupes-ludhiana-based-fianc-his-father-of-35-lakh-3-booked-101624646876110.html
26-06-2021||Other||Three govt medical colleges in Punjab to be networked for better healthcare||To ease access to medical facilities, including in investigation for diagnosis, the Punjab government will computerise and get three Government Medical Colleges (GMCs) at Faridkot, Amritsar and Patiala on a common network. This will centralise information for the GMCs, helping in improving health care delivery processes and systems. The state’s department of medical education and research has entrusted this responsibility to Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, and the project is expected to be completed in a few months. The computerised and networked system will provide fast access to information related to the patient and improve all levels of health facility. To diagnose and treat individual patients effectively, individual care providers and care teams must have access to at least three major types of clinical information. These are the patient’s health record, the rapidly changing medical-evidence base, and orders guiding the process of patient care.  BFUHS vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur said the project comprised three stages, passive, active and hardware installation. “The passive part of this system has already been completed by BFUHS at Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH) at Faridkot as well as at GMC Amritsar. In GMC Patiala, the process is 75% complete. In the active part, tender work has already been materialised by the university and after completion of active phase we will purchase the hardware. The process will be completed in a few months. Respective GMCs are to bear the cost from user charges,” he added. Medical education and research minister OP Soni said that BFUHS was taking these steps to connect with the state-of-the-art e-hospital software of the National Informatics Centre (NIC). “This will provide fast access to information,” he added. NRI DONATES HIGH-END VENTILATOR TO  BFUHS A non-resident of India (NRI) Rajendra Singh Rai from Birmingham, UK, with her Indian associate Herminder Kaur Natt of Chandigarh have donated a high-end ventilator, costing around ₹11 lakh to BFUHS. Dr Raj Bahadur said, “ Sensitive souls like Dr Rai are guided by the almighty. This equipment will ensure that for not less than 10 years, adequate care can be provided to patients in life-threatening situations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-govt-medical-colleges-in-punjab-to-be-networked-for-better-healthcare-101624646756159.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Allowance cut: Doctors’ strike in Ludhiana leaves patients in a lurch||Patients turning up at state-run hospitals in the district were forced to return without treatment on Friday as doctors participated in a statewide day-long strike against the recommendation of the sixth pay commission to de-link non-practising allowance (NPA) from basic pay.On the call of the Punjab Civil Medical Services (PCMS) Association, several services such as outpatient departments (OPDs), inpatient departments (IPDs), unique IDs for persons with disabilities (UDID), Ayushman Bharat - Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY), and elective surgeries remained suspended as around 400 doctors employed at the civil hospitals in Ludhiana, Khanna and Jagraon, and 10 community health centres boycotted work. Government-run dispensaries remained closed as well.At Ludhiana’s civil hospital, members of the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee, comprising general physicians, specialists, rural medical officers, homeopaths, and ayurveda specialists, staged a protest and raised slogans against the government.Patients left high and dry Patients unaware of the doctors’ strike turned up at different hospitals, only to be left high and dry. One such patient, Puja Rana of Field Gunj, who was visiting the dermatology department of the Civil Hospital, said she was asked to return on Monday. A migrant worker, Durgesh Kumar, who had come to the Civil Hospital from Guru Arjan Dev Nagar near Samrala Chowk, complained of an acute stomach ache, but with OPD services suspended received no prescription for his pain. The disgruntled patient said, “I work at a factory and cannot take leave time and again. Why should poor patients pay the price for the government’s decision? They should deny treatment to government officials instead!” Dr Rohit Rampal, who was leading the protests in the district, said, “At a time, when doctors are expecting their allowances to be supplemented for bravely battling the deadly coronavirus pandemic, the government has decided to reduce our salaries.” “NPA comprised 25% of our basic salary. However, the sixth pay commission, which ironically aims to better our pay scale, has reduced the component to 20% of our basic salary and has de-linked NPA from basic salary,” he said. Widespread resentment against govt: Doctor Another member of the PCMS Association Dr Avinash Jindal said, “There is huge resentment against the government’s policies in the health sector. The clerical staff of the health department is already on strike, while employees of the revenue and transport departments are also on protest path against the government.”  “We were hoping that the government would honour us for our service during the pandemic. However, far from offering incentives, the government has deducted our salaries,” Jindal said. Rural Medical Services Association president Dr JP Singh Narula said 592 rural dispensaries had remained closed across the state. “With the issue of dynamic assured career progression (DACP) still pending with the government, the decision to de-link NPA from the basic salary has broken the back of health service providers.” The association’s office-bearers, including joint secretary Rohit Sharma and vice president Ashwani Singh, have handed memorandums to the deputy commissioners of each district of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/allowance-cut-doctors-strike-in-ludhiana-leaves-patients-in-a-lurch-101624646636964.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Village will not take my son’s wife, but I will support, says victim’s father||Twenty days after Vinay Dahiya and Kiran eloped and had a court marriage in Chandigarh last August, against their families’ wishes, a village panchayat was held and it was unanimously decided that the couple be disowned and banned from entering the village again.Their “crime” was that they belonged to the same “gotra (lineage)”and the villagers considered an alliance between those of the same gotra “incestuous”. On Thursday night, at least six men fired on the couple at their flat in Dwarka, killing Dahiya and critically injuring Kiran. Three of the assailants were Kiran’s close family, said police.Dahiya’s father Om Prakash, the village postman, said for eight months since August, nobody in his family had any contact with Dahiya. “It was only in April this year that my son contacted me through his friend and we began talking,” he said.Even though the 54-year-old never approved of his son’s marriage nor considered Kiran as his daughter-in-law, he could not stop himself from meeting her on Friday morning at Venkateshwar hospital in Delhi, where she was admitted with three gunshot wounds.“I knew Kiran since when she was a child but never accepted her as my daughter-in-law because her marriage to my son was against our community’s law. But when she called me today (Friday) morning and said “Papa hume bacha lijiye (Papa, please save us)”, I could not stop myself. I met her at the hospital, touched her head, and blessed her with a speedy recovery. After all, she is my dead son’s wife and she is still unaware about his death,” said Prakash, while waiting outside the Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital mortuary to collect his son’s body after autopsy.On being asked if he and his family would accept Kiran, Om Prakash and his brother Rajender said they will never be able to take her home to the village, as going against the panchayat’s decision “would make their lives hell”.“I will bear all her medical expenses and make sure she lives. Once she is fine, I will respect her decisions and support her in whatever way possible. But taking her back to our village is not an option,” said Prakash.Prakash said nobody knew about their relationship till May-June of 2020, when people first started talking about it.“When I got to know of the affair, I told Kiran’s family that my son was not listening to me and that they were free to take any step. However, nothing was done and on August 12, my son eloped with Kiran. They got married in Chandigarh the next day,” said Prakash.Dahiya’s family said Kiran’s family never created any problems for them even after that. But, after the attack on the couple, they now fear for their lives. “We will approach the local police in Sonepat and seek protection. Kiran’s family may try to harm us,” said Rajender.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dwarka-hate-crime-village-will-not-take-my-son-s-wife-back-but-i-will-support-her-says-victim-s-father-101624646216917.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||84 held after police bust fake international call centre||Eighty-four people, including 12 women, were arrested for allegedly running a fake call centre in east Delhi’s Jagatpuri and duping thousands of the US citizens by reportedly impersonating employees of a leading e-commerce company and offering assistance in solving issues regarding the company’s services, police said on Friday.Police said they seized 93 laptops, four computers and two SUVs, in addition to ₹64.30 lakh cash, from the accused.Police identified Mannu Singh Panwar, who is presently lodged in Haryana’s Bhiwani Jail for his alleged involvement in a murder case, as the brains behind the operation. According to police, Panwar was a liquor vend contractor who was previously arrested in September 2020 for running a similar fake call centre in Gurugram. DCP (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said 30 people were arrested in the Gurugram raid.DCP Sathiyasundaram said that the district’s cyber cell and Jagatpuri police station teams had received information regarding the fake international call centre operating from near Jagatpuri tiles market.“We raided the premises and found that the fraudsters were engaged in using illegal techniques through VoIP calling, and thus causing wrongful loss to the government exchequer and wrongful gain to themselves. They were cheating innocent customers on the pretext of solving their queries. They also threatened the customers by telling them that their social security cards/numbers were hacked,” added the DCP.Explaining the modus operandi, DCP Sathiyasundaram said that the fraudsters used to send a fictitious message to the mobile and e-mails of unsuspecting customer, mentioning the deposit of USD 1,000 to their accounts. When customers called to enquire about the deposit, the accused allegedly informed them that their social security number was hacked and asked them to purchase gift cards to restore it.“Once the victims purchased the gift cards, worth a minimum USD 99, the accused immediately redeemed it and diverted it to their account... We have initiated legal action against the owner of the premises for allowing such illegal activities and violating DDMA’s Covid guidelines. Accordingly, proceedings have also been initiated to seal the premises as per law,” said Sathiyasundaram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/84-held-after-police-bust-fake-international-call-centre-101624646215520.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Over 166,000 get Covid-19 jabs in Delhi as drive hits another one-day high||The state government on Friday administered over 166,000 coronavirus vaccine doses on Friday, the highest in a single day for the third consecutive time, days after the launch of the new phase of inoculations across the country, said a senior government officer.As of 8.30pm on Friday, the state government administered 166,102 vaccine doses, up from 157,086 on Thursday and 109,358 the previous day, showed data from the central government’s CoWin dashboard.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi, while presenting the government’s vaccine bulletin in a video press briefing on Friday, said, “Increasing vaccine centres and providing walk-in options have increased turnout at centres. The younger population — in the 18-45 age group — is eager to get vaccinated and they often bring along the elders in their family, which is contributing to reduced hesitancy and greater turnout.”The Capital currently has 1,374 centres, all of which offer vaccines to all adults in the city, after the state government removed age restrictions for these sites. Most of these sites also allow on-spot registrations.Atishi, the party’s MLA from Kalkaji, however, added that Covaxin doses are limited to those due for their second shot, owing to a shortage of supplies.“Currently, due to limited availability of vaccines, we are offering only a second dose of Covaxin. Under this policy, the government-run centres in the city have 13 days’ stock of Covaxin. The centres also have five days’ stock of Covishield,” she said.So far, 5.45 million people in the city have received at least one dose of the vaccine, of which around 1.66 million have received both doses. Delhi has an adult population of around 15 million, showed government records.VACCINES FOR HOMELESSThe Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (Dusib) on Friday launched a vaccination drive for homeless people in the city, a large number of whom do not have access to requisite documentation to get inoculated.On Friday, a temporary vaccination centre was set up near Nigambodh Ghat in north Delhi, where 150 homeless people were given a dose of Covishield. The area has a cluster of homeless shelters in close proximity. The vaccine site will remain over the weekend too, said a senior official in the Dusib.“Most homeless people do not have documents, so we had to make a special arrangement. Caretakers of the Dusib shelters have been notified as nodal officers and their documents are being used to vaccinate homeless people, after registering them in the concerned shelters. Each nodal officer can provide documents for multiple beneficiaries. The current rules of the Union government allow such special arrangements aimed at boosting vaccination,” said Dusib chairperson Vijay Kumar Bidhuri.The official also said that the government will on Saturday start another centre for the city’s homeless at Dandi Park opposite the Hanuman Mandir in Kashmere Gate.While around 5,200 homeless people live in the 200-odd Dusib sites, the city, according to a survey by the shelters body in 2018, has at least 16,000 homeless people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-166k-get-jabs-in-delhi-as-drive-hits-another-one-day-high-101624645976073.html
26-06-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram wildlife dept rescues 23 turtles; one held||The Gurugram wildlife department rescued 23 turtles and arrested a man for allegedly trying to smuggle the protected reptile in to the city, said officials on Friday.“We were earlier informed that a man was supplying turtles in Gurugram. This week, we got a tip that this man would be coming from Delhi, posing as a delivery executive. We arrested the suspect from MG Road on Wednesday and seized 23 turtles,” said Rajesh Chahal, Gurugram wildlife inspector.“We are trying to find out from where he procured the turtles. From the information we collected so far, it seems that the suspect had been involved in the illegal trade for the past two years,” Chahal added.  An environmental court in Faridabad sent the man to 14-day judicial custody on Thursday, and a case was registered under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act.Officials said they rescued 13 spotted black terrapin turtles and 10 Indian tent turtles from the suspect, and later released them in the Sultanpur Bird Sanctuary. Turtles are protected under Schedule 1 of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. Species that fall under Schedule 1 are given protection from poaching, trading and trafficking. If convicted, the man can face a minimum of three years in jail and a fine of up to ₹1 lakh.They said that cases of illegal trade of turtles and tortoises in Gurugram is not common, and the last case was reported in January 2017. Three Indian star tortoises were seized from a private resort in Sohna.Experts say that illegal turtle trading is usually reported from the Gangetic plains where the reptile is found, but they can also be found near freshwater lakes in the National Capital Region and Haryana.Tito Joseph, programme manager, Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI), said, “Turtle trafficking is a big issue, and such cases are mostly reported from states in the Gangetic plains, and occasionally from Delhi-NCR. People usually catch turtles from the freshwater lakes in this region and sell them in the local markets for consumption purposes.”Turtles are also illegally sold as pets, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gurugram-wildlife-dept-rescues-23-turtles-one-held-101624645916597.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||IIT-Delhi launches affordable Covid testing kit priced at ₹50||The Indian Institute of Technology Delhi (IIT-D) on Friday launched an affordable rapid antigen test kit to detect Covid-19 priced at ₹50, which was developed entirely by its Centre for Biomedical Engineering (CBME) led by professor Harpal Singh. The kit was launched by minister of state for education Sanjay Dhotre, who said the premier institute’s efforts have helped the country in becoming more“self-sufficient” in its fight against the deadly virus. “I am confident that this technology will revolutionise Covid test availability in the country. I am glad to know that the kit has been developed entirely using the internal resources of IIT-Delhi,” he said.IIT-Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao said, “IIT-Delhi first disrupted the RT-PCR market with a ₹399 probe-free RT PCR kit, launched in July 2020. Over 8 million high-quality PPE kits were supplied so far, using the technology developed at IIT-Delhi. Now, the institute is launching a rapid diagnostic kit, costing ₹50, for Covid-19.” “Professor Harpal Singh and his team from the CBME have developed this technology and it has been patented by IIT-Delhi,” he said.The minister also complimented professor Singh and Dr Dinesh Kumar and thanked IIT-Delhi for “helping the nation become atmanirbhar in fighting the pandemic using indigenously developed technologies and made in India products”. Explaining the features of the kit, professor Singh said the kit will be used for in-vitro qualitative detection of SARS-CoV-2 antigen. “SARS-CoV-2 Ag Rapid Test is a colloidal gold enhanced double antibody sandwich immunoassay for the qualitative determination of SARS-CoV-2 antigen in human nasal swabs, throat swabs, and deep sputum samples. It is suitable for the general population screening and diagnosis of Covid-19,” he said.“The identification is based on the monoclonal antibodies specific to the coronavirus antigen. The results obtained are qualitative-based and can be inferred visually with the naked eye. A SARS-CoV-2 positive specimen produces a distinct colour band in the test region… The absence of this coloured band in the test region suggests a negative result,” Singh said.He said the test was “found to be suitable for early Ct values (Ct values between 14 to 32) with a sensitivity of 90%, specificity of 100% and accuracy of 98.99%, and has been certified by the ICMR ( Indian Council for Medical Research)”.The institute in a statement said, “IIT-Delhi has filed a patent application for the developed technology and has awarded the licence to two companies in the country for its commercial roll-out. M/s Dia Sure Immunodiagnostic LLP is now entering the market with this kit, fixing the cost at ₹50 per test.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/iitdelhi-launches-affordable-covid-testing-kit-priced-at-50-101624645915518.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt advises private schools to adopt happiness curriculum||The Delhi government’s Directorate of Education (DoE) has advised all private schools in the national capital to adopt the happiness curriculum to release the anxiety, stress and depression that children may be suffering owing to the situation wrought by the Covid-19 pandemic.In a circular issued to all private schools on Wednesday, the DoE said a writ petition was filed before the Delhi high court last year, seeking directions to the Union government to provide online “mindfulness classes” combining meditation, yoga and relaxation techniques for the benefit of all government and private schools students .The DoE circular said, “The honourable court disposed of the petition with a direction to the Union ministry of education to take a decision, treating this petition as a representation. In pursuance of the same, the ministry constituted a committee, which recommended that for students’ holistic well-being, mini-modules on breathing exercises, mindfulness, meditation, and simple yogasanas may be developed and shared with schools to intersperse with the other lessons during online classes.”The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi had introduced the happiness curriculum in government schools in July 2018. Under the curriculum, nursery and kindergarten students twice a week and students from classes 1 to 8 spend once daily in meditation, storytelling, and activity sessions, followed by question-and-answer sessions.Currently, all schools are shut in the national capital in view of the pandemic and classes are being held online or in semi-online mode.The education directorate said since mindfulness is an integral part of the happiness curriculum, which is already being taught in government schools, private schools should also adopt the curriculum.The directorate has also provided links to the curriculum handbooks, containing sections on mindfulness, and also extended help to train teachers if required.Private schools have welcomed the recommendation.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, said, “While we already have a happiness club in our school since 2016, introducing the Delhi government’s happiness curriculum is a welcome step as it will be beneficial to the overall well-being of students.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-advises-private-schools-to-adopt-happiness-curriculum-for-students-wellbeing-101624645916036.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Man shot dead, wife injured after six men fire on them for marrying against family wishes||In a suspected hate crime, a 23-year-old man was killed and his 19-year-old wife seriously injured after at least six men, including the woman’s three family members, opened fire at them in south-west Delhi’s Amberhai village in Dwarka’s Sector 19 on Thursday night, police said. In all, at least 11 bullets were fired at the husband and wife from two pistols, they said. Police said the couple, Vinay Dahiya and Kiran from Gopalpur village in Haryana’s Sonepat, eloped in August last year and had a court wedding, despite their families strongly opposing the match as they belonged to the same village and the same gotra (lineage). Dahiya’s family members said a marriage between those of the same gotra is prohibited in the village as it is considered “incestuous”.A panchayat held in the village nearly 20 days after their wedding barred the couple from entering the village and their families were directed not to meet or contact the couple, Dahiya’s family said.Soon after their wedding, the couple approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking police protection as they feared for their lives. The court directed the Sonepat police to provide protection, but when HT checked, a senior Sonepat police officer, on condition of anonymity, said the couple never approached them for the protection.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Randhawa could not reached for comment.The couple moved to Delhi and were living in rented accommodations in Amberhai village, police said. Dahiya owned a taxi and was employed by a private airline company. Kiran was pregnant but had a miscarriage two-three days ago, said Dahiya’s father Om Prakash. “Around 8.30pm Thursday, the two were in their first-floor apartment when three to four men came knocking and as soon as Kiran opened the door, they fired at her. At least four bullets were fired, three of which hit Kiran while one hit her husband,” said a police officer, quoting Kiran’s statement. “The injured couple ran for their lives. While Kiran ran towards the terrace, Dahiya rushed outside, with his attackers giving chase. On reaching the terrace, Kiran looked down to see her husband being chased down the lane and she began screaming for help,” said the couple’s landlady Jyoti Mudgal.“I too saw Dahiya running out and three men chasing him. Three or four more men were waiting outside. All of them chased Dahiya and shot him dead outside a boutique shop nearby,” said Mudgal, adding that Kiran scaled the terrace’s iron railing and crossed over to the adjacent building to save herself.Kiran climbed down that building and kept screaming for help. The building’s caretaker, Basanti, saw Kiran bleeding and alerted residents of that building. One of them called the police.“I was shaken to see the woman soaked in blood. She was pleading with us to save her and her husband. A police team arrived soon after and took her to the hospital,” said Basanti. One of the five cameras in the lane caught the men running down the lane. Although the footage is grainy, at least two men can be seen firing guns, police said.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said Dahiya was rushed to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital, where he was declared brought dead. He suffered four gunshot wounds to his chest and abdomen, while Kiran was shot three times in the neck and abdomen. “Kiran’s statement has been recorded. She said her brother Aman, cousin Vicky and uncle Shakti were involved in the attack,” said the DCP. “We have registered a case of murder, attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy at the Dwarka Sector 23 police station and are looking for the attackers, who came in a Scopio SUV owned by Kiran’s uncle Shakti. Her father and another uncle are being questioned,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-shot-dead-wife-injured-after-six-men-fire-on-them-for-marrying-against-family-wishes-101624645857513.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Police yet to find terror link of 4 Kargil students||The Delhi Police special team interrogating four students, arrested from Kargil, Ladakh, on charges of allegedly planning and executing terrorists activities in the national capital, have seized their cell phones and are probing its content for clues.Delhi Police has not issued any statement on Friday, detailing the sections under which the four have been arrested, even as officers familiar with the development said they are yet to find any evidence connecting them to any recent attack, including the low intensity explosion outside the Israel embassy in January this year.In a press statement on Thursday, police had said that Nazir Hussain (26), Zulfikar Ali Wazir (25), Aiaz Hussain (28) and Muzammil Hussain (25), were detained from Kargil for allegedly planning and executing terror attacks in the national capital. They were arrested in a joint operation by the Intelligence Bureau, Kargil police, and the Delhi police special cell and brought to Delhi. Police have not officially mentioned the nature of the attack the four men were allegedly part of or were planning.The four men, who are being interrogated at the special cell’s office in Lodhi Colony, were supposedly traced and identified by the Intelligence Bureau after which the Delhi and Ladakh police were asked to join the operation.A Delhi Police official, who is privy to the case details but did not wish to be named, said, “They were in Delhi when the (Israel embassy) blast happened. After the explosion, their phones were switched off for two days. We are checking the records of the cell phone and interrogating them... We are looking at this and other evidence related to their stay in Delhi.”According to police, the four men were staying at a rented house in north Delhi reportedly to prepare for the civil service examination. One of them was also reportedly preparing for a job in the banking sector. They had returned to their home in Thang village, Kargil, during the start of the lockdown during the fourth wave of the infection, police said.The last terror attack in Delhi was a low-intensity explosion outside the Israel embassy on the evening of January 29, 2020. While no one was injured in the attack, the windowpanes of a few vehicles parked on the road outside the embassy were broken. Police had registered a case under the explosives Act but did not arrest anyone.The case is being investigated by the National Investigation Agency which, on June 15, released photographs of two men, who had allegedly placed the crude bomb on the road outside the embassy in the New Delhi area. The investigating agency also announced a reward of ₹10 lakh for information about them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-yet-to-find-terror-link-of-4-kargil-students-101624645855557.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||DMRC writes to DDMA to allow standing passengers in Metro to control crowding||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has written to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) requesting that standing passengers be allowed on trains so that the capacity of trains may be increased in an effort to avoid crowding outside Metro stations.In their correspondence with the DDMA, DMRC said after the reopening of the Delhi Metro, post the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, passenger intake on trains was limited to 50% of seating capacity. This, the Metro said, allowed the train system to function only at 10-15% of its overall capacity, leading to crowding and long queues outside stations.HT has reported that on Monday evening, long queues were seen outside the Rajiv Chowk, Janpath, Barakhamba, Janakpuri West and other Metro stations and commuters had to wait nearly 30 minutes to gain entry. Delhi Metro, via its social media handles, also confirmed that since reopening, and with offices, markets and other economic operations resuming, the waiting time for a Metro train has gone up to 45-50 minutes on some lines.“When the services resumed in September 2020, after the long lockdown, services were running as per detailed SOP (standard operating procedure) prepared based on guidelines MoHUA (Union ministry of housing and urban affairs). As per the SOP, necessary markings and signage were placed inside stations and on coaches and passengers were allowed seating on alternate seats and standing with social distancing,” the letter read.It added, “In view of the above, in the larger public interest, it is required that Metro services may be allowed to run in accordance with the SOP approved by GoI (government of India) as of now, and relax further once the situation improves.”DMRC also stressed that while these relaxations will help Metro function more efficiently, they assured that all other safety measures to control the spread of Covid, such as thermal scanning, hand sanitisation, wearing face masks, sanitising carry bags and articles, maintaining social distancing on station premises, both on concourse and platforms, regular disinfection of escalators, lifts, trains and handrails shall continue.Senior DMRC officials said under the new Covid guidelines, as passengers are allowed to sit only on alternate seats, Metro is carrying about 25-30 passengers per coach, as against its pre-pandemic capacity of 300 per coach.On Thursday, a delegation of traders also met with DMRC chief Mangu Singh to highlight how long queues outside stations was leading to crowding and traffic jams in markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dmrc-writes-to-ddma-to-allow-standing-passengers-in-metro-to-control-crowding-101624645796221.html
26-06-2021||Delhi||Footfall at monuments remains low in first week of reopening||Footfall at some of the centrally protected monuments in the Capital has remainedunder 10% of its pre-pandemic level, since it reopened its doors to visitors on June 16 after nearly two months of a lockdown that was effected to curb the spread of Covid-19. Taj Mahal, in Uttar Pradesh’s Agra, has, however, fared better, recording around 20% of its daily footfall numbers before the pandemic.Delhi has over 70 monuments under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), including Red Fort, Humayun’s Tomb, Qutab Minar and Purana Qila, which had reopened in July last year following the nationwide lockdown announced in March 2020. This year, they were closed for visitors in April amid a devastating second wave of Covid-19 — fourth for Delhi — that overwhelmed the health care system. ASI officials said they expect footfalls to increase “in the coming weeks”.As per ASI data, since reopening, Humayun’s Tomb saw an average 631 visitors daily. The footfall at Humayun’s Tomb stayed over 400 on seven out of eight days, recording the highest footfall of 775 and 1,770 on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. June 23 saw the lowest footfall, with 365 visitors visiting the tomb, as per data available with the ASI. “In pre-pandemic days, the daily footfall at Humayun’s tomb used to touch 6,000-7,000. On weekends, the number would increase up to 8,000-9,000,” said an ASI official, who did not wish to be quoted.Qutab Minar saw an average 743 visitors daily from June 16 to June 23, seeing 991 and 1,677 daily visitors on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. In the pre-pandemic days, the average footfall at the minaret used to be around 8,000-9,000 while close to 11,000-12,000 people visited the victory tower on weekends.Cumulatively, between June 16 and June 23, Qutab Minar saw the highest number of visitors during the week, with the total visitor count touching 5,947, against Humayun’s Tomb nearly 5,050 visitors.The Red Fort, which re-opened after five months last week, saw fewer visitors -- averaging 152 daily visitors -- compared to other monuments in the city. With the monument closed on Monday, the footfall remained below 200 on six out of eight days. The UNESCO world heritage site saw the most visitors on Sunday when the footfall touched 285.Before the Covid pandemic, the 17th-century fort saw around 6,000-7,000 visitors on a daily basis.The Taj Mahal, which stayed open only for five days due to the weekend lockdown in Uttar Pradesh, saw an footfalls ranging from 2,000-4,000 since it reopened. Before the pandemic, the monument saw around 16,000-17,000 daily visitors, which rose to 20,000-24,000 on weekends and holidays, said officials.“While the footfall was relatively low for the first week, we expect an improvement in the coming weeks. If the Covid situation stays under control, the numbers will go up in a month or two. This was the same scenario when monuments reopened last year after the nationwide lockdown,” said an ASI official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/footfall-at-monuments-remains-low-in-first-week-of-reopening-101624645795524.html
26-06-2021||Lucknow||Guard fires at customer trying to enter bank without mask||A security guard posted at a bank in Bareilly on Friday allegedly fired at a customer who was trying to force his way inside without a mask, said police. The customer, Rajesh Kumar Rathore, 35, was seriously injured and admitted to the district hospital while the guard was taken into custody, said police.Rathore, who is employed as a helper in Northern Railway, visited the bank in the Civil Lines area and entered without wearing face mask. The guard, Keshav Kumar, 45, a resident of Subhash Nagar area, objected to this, saying “entry without mask is not allowed.”A heated argument ensued, after which Rathore left the premises. However, after sometime, he returned to the bank, and this time also tried to enter without wearing a face mask. The duo again entered into heated arguments. And in a fit of rage, the guard shot at Rathore with his licensed double-barrel gun, leaving him badly injured, said cops.Rohit Singh Sajwan, SSP, Bareilly said: “We have arrested the guard and Rathore has been hospitalised. We are investigating the matter. It was found that the guard objected to Rathore’s entry into the bank as he was not wearing a mask. This led to the argument between them, after which the guard shot Rathore in his leg.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guard-fires-at-customer-trying-to-enter-bank-without-mask-101624645015448.html
26-06-2021||Other||I consider everyone from my district as an intellectual, says President Ram Nath Kovind||KANPUR President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday embarked on a train journey to his native village – Paraunkh in Kanpur Dehat, where he interacted with old acquaintances from school days and the early days of his social service.This was the first train journey by an incumbent president in 15 years. The train made two stopovers at Jhinjhak and Roora railway stations of Kanpur Dehat before reaching Kanpur Central around 8 pm. Here, the President and his wife Savita Kovind were greeted by UP governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and state industry minister and Kanpur MLA Satish Mahana. On June 28, the President will board a train at Kanpur Central railway station to reach Lucknow for his two-day visit there. On June 29, he will return to New Delhi on a special flight.As the special Maharaja Express chugged into the small Jhijhank railway station in Kanpur Dehat, the President went down the memory lane. He was humble and cordial with his friends and relatives who were waiting for him at the railway station, where a special pandal was set up. In his brief address at Jhinjhak and Roora railway stations where he met 164 people, the President expressed concern over the moral decline in the society and said it had impacted all areas and progress in life. He said the cover of modernity was an obstacle to the progress of people. “The relationships between son and father, brother and brother and wife and husband were no longer what they used to be earlier,” said Kovind. The President said he learnt a lot from Kanpur. “I am here to seek your blessings; I am from Paraunkh and have lived in Jhijhank. I still know each of the lanes,” he said while addressing the people. Kovind said there was no distance between him and the citizens. “The land of Uttar Pradesh is significant and sacred. Anyone from this land could become the First Citizen,” he said. The President emphasized that people needed to be aware about their rights and responsibilities and should not depend on MPs and MLAs who were there for them for only five years. At Roora railway station, the President said he had a close relationship with this town. “I wanted to come here since long and people kept calling me. But an hour of my visit costs ₹25 lakh and that is why I did not come,” he said. Referring to people calling him an intellectual, Kovind said: “I consider everyone of my district as an intellectual. When I visit central universities as a visitor, I am called an intellectual and then I feel everyone from Kanpur Dehat is an intellectual.” He urged the masses for maximum vaccination against the coronavirus and asked the district magistrate to hold more camps. The President also asked the divisional railway manager to gradually resume train services so that people did not face inconvenience. Officials of the Indian Railways said it was a matter of pride that President was travelling by train. Special arrangements had been made inside the coach so that he could handle his official work. A part of a coach was converted into an office for the President, they said. “Wi-Fi and other facilities are available in the train for the President. There is an office room and a communication protocol which has to be followed,” said an official. The last time a president travelled by train was in 2006 when APJ Abdul Kalam boarded a special train from Delhi to Dehradun to attend the passing-out parade of the Indian Military Academy (IMA) cadets. (Inputs from agency)Reporter: Haidar Naqvi9415406060||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/i-consider-everyone-from-my-district-as-an-intellectual-says-president-ram-nath-kovind-101624642375334.html
26-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal BJP working group meeting begins in Dharamshala||The two-day Himachal Pradesh BJP working group meeting began in Dharamshala on Friday to discuss the party’s strategy for the byelections in a Lok Sabha and two assembly constituencies and 2022 general elections to the state assembly. The byelection to the Mandi Lok Sabha and Fatehpur and Jubbal Kotkhai assembly seats are expected to be announced soon. The byelection in Mandi was necessitated after MP Ram Swaroop Sharma was found dead at his Delhi residence on March 17. The Fatehpur and Jubbal Kotkhai assembly seats fell vacant after Congress legislator and former minister Sujan Singh Pathania and BJP MLA Narinder Bragta died on February 12 and June 5, respectively. The elections have to be held within six months of the seats falling vacant. Senior leaders, including national general secretary BL Santosh, Himachal BJP in-charge Avinash Rai Khanna, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, former chief ministers Shanta Kumar and Prem Kumar Dhumal, minister of state for finance and corporate affairs Anurag Thakur and state party president Suresh Kashyap are attending the meet. The party has chosen Dharamshala as the venue of the meeting due to the political significance Kangra holds in Himachal Pradesh politics. The largest district population-wise sends 15 members to the state assembly and plays a crucial role in deciding which party will form the government in the state. Addressing a press conference here, state BJP’s chief spokesperson Randhir Sharma said objective of the meeting was to prepare a roadmap for party’s functioning in next one and a half years. “Besides the discussion on byelections, the party would prepare an elaborate plan to accomplish the mission repeat in 2022 assembly elections based on the suggestions received during the party’s three-day meet held at Shimla earlier this month,” said Sharma. He said the meeting also reviewed the work done by the party and the government in last three and half years, especially during Covid-19. “The Himachal BJP as well as the state government were hailed by the central leadership for the exceptional services provided to people of the state during Covid under Seva Hi Sangathan programme,” he said. Replying to a query on the probable candidates in the byelections, Sharma said the decision would be taken in the election committee meeting. He expressed confidence that BJP will win the byelections and also the 2022 assembly polls. “The Congress is no challenge for BJP in 2022 polls as the party is a divided house,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-bjp-core-committee-meeting-begins-in-dharamshala-101624606074220.html
