27-06-2021||Lucknow||Pride month: Taking big leap with short film route||The LGBTQI community members in Lucknow have taken the short film route to bring their ‘coming out’ and struggle stories into the public domain. Around 20 films have been made in this series, and another one on Kajal Kiran, a transgender gram pradhan from Bidhnu block, Kanpur Dehat, is in post-production.Four of them — Abeer dealing with self-acceptance, Jatin on family acceptance, Tanzeel on homosexuality and All About Prep on health issues — have been earlier screened at 22nd International AIDS conferences at Amsterdam and won prizes. Besides, I Am What I Am and The Mirror won prizes at the Blued Queered Flick Festival, New Delhi.“Such short films do leave a mark. They opened much-needed dialogues between community, family and society. They sensitively deal with queer issues,” says Sumit Srivastava, an executive director.Tanzeel Ahmed tells us about his film. “It shows how I reconcile my faith into my religion. For me, it was a step ahead to accepting myself with my orientation with more confidence. Also, I was surprised to see my old friends sending me ‘proud of you’ messages. I come from Gorakhpur, so it brought a ray of hope for the people in small towns as well,” he says and adds that now he wants to open a TG Clinic in Lucknow.LGBT activist Yadavendra Singh Darvesh, who directed most of these shorts, says, “After watching them, one guy came out to his family, and I provided counselling to his parents and also screened Jatin’s film for the entire family. The second case was from Bangalore, where a mother of a lesbian girl got in touch with me post-screening of these movies in her city. She wanted to know issues so that she can understand her daughter well.”Ritwik Das, the writer of Kajal Kiran’s short film and member of Awadh Queer Pride Committee, tells that his inspiration was also a show. “I came out of the closet after watching the Satyamev Jayate episode. Listening to Simran ma’am (Sheikh, transwoman) and documentaries shot on Laxmi (Narayan Tripathi, activist) ma’am also inspired me,” he says.A graphic designer by profession and cinematographer for this film Megha Nandi feels that visual medium is the best way to bring a change and impact the mindsets of the people towards understanding the sensitive issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pride-month-taking-big-leap-with-short-film-route-101624818309055.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||Cops briefed about medical emergency protocol ahead of President’s Lucknow visit||: Learning a lesson from the Kanpur tragedy, the Lucknow Commissionerate has issued three traffic control numbers for medical emergency vehicles during President Ram Nath Kovind’s visit to Lucknow on Monday and Tuesday, police officials said.The three numbers issued by the traffic police for medical emergency vehicles are —9454405155, 6389304141 and 6389304242. These numbers were issued to facilitate movement of medical emergency vehicles caught in traffic restrictions due to VIP movement after the incident at Kanpur on Friday night. Vandana Mishra, chairperson of the Kanpur chapter of Indian Industries Association’s women wing had died on way to hospital when her car was held up at Govind Nagar traffic stop due to traffic restrictions during the President’s visit. Mishra suffered from post-Covid complications and needed urgent medical help. Four policemen were suspended on Saturday and an additional DCP-rank police officer has been asked to conduct the inquiry into the incident.A senior traffic police official in Lucknow said the President’s arrival in the city is expected at around 11.30 am on Monday and traffic restrictions will be effective from 9.30 am.The official said all traffic police personnel and other police officers deployed in the VVIP duty have been briefed about the medical emergency protocol and added ambulances will be allowed on the restricted routes.“These mobile numbers that can be dialed for medical emergency vehicles if they are caught in traffic hold-up during VIP movement on Monday and Tuesday,” traffic police official said.The official said the President would spend the night in Lucknow on Monday and will leave on Tuesday morning. The restrictions are likely to be in place till 9 am on Tuesday.Major traffic diversions for small vehicles will be in and around Charbagh railway station, Bandariyabagh crossing, Raj Bhawan, Gold Club crossing and Lal Bahadur Shashtri Marg. He said the traffic diversions for heavy vehicles like buses and trucks will remained enforced in and around Alambagh, Charbagh, Hazratganj, Rana Pratap Marg, Kariapppa crossing and Kunwar Jagdish crossing in cantonment area, Ahimamau, Gandhi Setu, Polytechnic crossing and Kamta Shaheed Path.Moreover, the traffic diversions in the city have been done in many areas to ensure smooth traffic movement across the city, he added.BoxTrain traffic restrictions A senior railway official said the traffic movement of all trains will be restricted on platform number 1, 2 and 3 due to security reasons during the President’s visit. He said all trains scheduled to arriving at these platforms will be diverted on other platforms. The president will be arriving to Lucknow by a special train on Monday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cops-briefed-about-medical-emergency-protocol-ahead-of-president-s-lucknow-visit-101624818069657.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh hospitals gear up for third wave||Amid the possibilities of a third wave of Covid-19, the health authorities have started ramping up medical facilities and infrastructure in the government hospitals to control the case fatality rate (CFR) in Chandigarh.Though the third wave is not expected until next two months, experts feel that ramping up health facilities in hospitals is necessary as the second wave was more severe than the first.Besides adding ICU beds and ventilators in government hospitals, the authorities are focusing on procuring essential drugs and equipment in advance. “Since the supply of Covid-19 essential drugs like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab were erratic during the second wave peak, we have decided to procure all essential drugs in advance. We are also buying oxygen concentrators to avoid shortage during the peak,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, Chandigarh. ‘Could infect more children’“As per health experts, the third wave could infect more children. So we have decided to make the Sector-45 civil hospital as a 42-bed paediatric Covid centre. Of the total beds, 12 will be made available for ICU while 30 will be oxygenated. Essential machines like BiPAP and X-ray machines will also be provided. The department is also hiring paediatricians and support staff to run the centre,” she said.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, said, “Since some of the ventilators are faulty, we are focusing on repairing them and we will be getting more to handle the Covid-19 spike again. Besides, we are adding 30 more ICU beds in the hospital, which will take the total to 100.”Meanwhile, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) is ready to face the Covid-19 surge in case of an emergency. “We have sufficient ICU beds and orders have been placed for buying 20 more ventilators, which will take Covid-reserved ventilators’ count to 100,” said professor Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.Special focus on oxygen plantsLearning from the second wave, the health authorities have now kept their focus on increasing the availability of medical oxygen in city hospitals. “Proposal has been sent to the central government to set up three oxygen generation plants in three UT hospitals, including the civil hospitals in Sector 22, Sector 45 and Manimajra. Two of the three hospitals will soon get approval and at least 200 litres of oxygen per minute will be generated at each plant,” Dr Kang added.Besides, three oxygen plants are being set up at PGIMER, with a capacity of 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute each. Professor Jagat Ram said, “The plants will start functioning in July.”‘Get jabbed to avoid third wave’Health experts said that if people do not adhere to Covid safety protocols and will not wear face masks, especially in public places, a third wave may hit Chandigarh soon. “Looking at the trend and people’s complacency, a third wave may arrive from August to September,” said Dr Kang, while urging people to get vaccinated at the earliest.The department has set the target to administer at least the first dose to all eligible 7.12 lakh citizens by the end of July. Door-to-door vaccination drive is also planned for the senior citizens in August.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-hospitals-gear-up-for-third-wave-101624818068987.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Hot and humid weather to continue in Chandigarh||With monsoon on a “break”, weather is likely to stay hot and humid for another week in Chandigarh. Weather scientists have said monsoon is unlikely to progress towards Delhi and neighbouring states of Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan for at least a week as it was entering a “break spell” from June 29 apart from unfavourable conditions that were not likely to spur it further on its path.This spell, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, will likely get heavy rainfall confined to northeast India and subdued showers in the remaining parts of the country till at least July 5.Amid this dry spell, maximum temperature in Chandigarh went up from Saturday’s 35°C to 37°C on Sunday, and is likely to rise further to 38-39°C in the next three days. Even minimum temperature rose from 22.1°C to 25°C, and is likely to remain around 27-28°C in the coming days.Even as monsoon arrived in Chandigarh on June 13, there has been only one spell of rain since then, with 15.4mm recorded on June 16. However, localised conditions created by high temperatures had led to 4mm rain accompanied by high-speed winds in wee hours of Saturday. According to the weatherman, such localised drizzles and winds may occur again, but the intensity will be weaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hot-and-humid-weather-to-continue-in-chandigarh-101624817951222.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala railway division sends parcel train to Bangladesh||The Ambala Railway Division, for the first time in its history, sent a special parcel train beyond India’s border to Benapole in Bangladesh with cotton yarn on Sunday.This earned the division ₹25.69 lakh for carrying 468 tonnes of freight in collaboration with mgX.com, a subsidiary of MGH Group, a Singapore-based shipping conglomerate, officials said.This train, consisting of 20 parcel vans, was flagged off by Vivek Sharma, senior divisional commercial manager, Himanshu Pant, director and CEO of MGH India, and other railway officials.Sharma said that businessmen in and around Punjab and Haryana have been transporting commodities by road to Bangladesh in small quantities, which is costly for them.“During the lockdown, they could not move goods by road. Then, railway staff and officials approached them and explained the transportation facilities by rail. To move the consignment by goods trains, it is mandatory for farmers and businessmen to mobilise the quantity in bulk,” he said. Officials in a statement said that each van was loaded with 430 cartons , weighing around 23 tonnes and the total weight carried by the special parcel express is around 468 Tonnes.“MGH will be providing end-to-end transportation solution to its customers for exporting yarn, fabrics and FMCG goods from their respective factories across Ludhiana and Baddi to their buyers’ factories in Bangladesh, including the customs clearance on both the sides of the border,” a statement reads.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-railway-division-sends-parcel-train-to-bangladesh-101624817948923.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh bike sharing project delayed once again||The launch of the first phase of the public bicycle sharing project has been delayed once again. It was initially scheduled to start in April this year, but after the firm managing the project failed to comply with the deadline, the Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) gave it a two-month extension. Now, it has again sought more time, citing logistic problems caused by Covid lockdown restrictions.“The firm was facing logistics problems due to lockdown restrictions, which delayed the work. Now, we don’t expect it to be completed before July-end,” a senior CSCL official said.“A major section of the project under the first phase is ready. But, there were some issues with availability and transportation of bicycle parts and other infrastructure. The firm’s consignment of parts was stuck between the manufacturing centre and assembling plant,” the official added. Chief executive officer of the CSCL has even written a demi-official letter to the authorities of a southern state, requesting that the transportation of requisite parts from one state to another is allowed. Using public bikes free, for nowIn the meantime, residents can avail public bicycles free of charge, which were made available under the cycle4change challenge. The challenge ended on May 31, and thereafter, the CSCL had directed the firm to stop charging people. Earlier, ₹10 for an hour and ₹5 for half an hour was being charged.Currently, 225 bicycles, including more than 100 pedal-assisted e-bikes, are available from 25 docking stations spread across the city. The stations include prominent locations such as Rock Garden, high court, Sukhna Lake, PGIMER and Sectors 17, 22, 34, 35 and 43.617 docking stations to be establishedUnder the CSCL’s project, 5,000 bicycles will be provided in the city along with a network of 617 docking stations, giving last mile connectivity to users. The size of the project will make it India’s largest and densest public bike sharing network. The original deadline for the entire project was March 2022. But now, with the first phase delayed by atleast three months, the overall timeline is also likely to be delayed. The project is being developed in four phases of 1,250 cycles and 155 docking stations each where pedal-assisted e-bikes with charging facility will be made available.All bicycles will be GPS-enabled and be monitored from a command-and-control centre with 24X7 helpline facility. The PBSS project is being implemented and operated by the concessionaire M/s Smart Bike Tech Private Limited, Hyderabad, for a period of 10 years on a public-private partnership (PPP) basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-bike-sharing-project-delayed-once-again-101624817890917.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||MANN KI BAAT: PM praises UP’s Tokyo-bound athletes||Athletes from Uttar Pradesh (UP) to be part of contingent for Tokyo Olympics, especially race walker Priyanka Goswami and ace javelin thrower Shivpal Singh, found mention from Prime Minister Narendra Modi who in his Sunday’s radio show ‘Mann ki Baat’ praised their grit and determination and urged the country to boost their confidence.The Tokyo Olympics will be held from July 23 to August 8.While referring to athletes set to be part of the Indian contingent to the Olympic event, the PM picked life stories of Goswami and Singh for special mention, lauding their determination and perseverance.Goswami, who would be competing in the 20km race walk event, comes from a humble background. Her father works as a bus conductor. She qualified for the Olympics during the national championship this February at Ranchi where she also broke the national record.“As a child, Priyanka adored the bag that the medal winners were presented with. It was this fascination that made her participate in the race-walking competition for the first time. Now, she is a big champion,” Modi said in his talk show. Highlighting the consistent efforts of Singh, who hails from Varanasi, the PM said Shivpal’s entire family has been associated with this game. His father, uncle and brother are all proficient in javelin throw.“His commitment and an emotional attachment for the sport, as it is a part of his family tradition, made him qualify for the mega event,” the PM added. Urging people to encourage the athletes, the PM also said that all the athletes have endured “years of toil” and the country should back them without putting them under pressure for the Tokyo Olympics. PM also mentioned Praveen Jadhav, and archer Dipika Kumari. Deepika’s father is an auto rickshaw driver. “We wish all our champions well.”“Chirag Shetty and Sattwik have qualified. Shuttler Sattwik suffered from COVID, and Chirag lost his grandfather to the pandemic, but they have persevered,” he said.He also mentioned about the humble beginnings of defender Bhavani from Tamil Nadu. “When we speak of Olympics, who can forget the legendary Milkha Singh,” the PM said remembering the legendary athlete who succumbed to COVID-19 recently. “We lost him a few days ago. But I had the fortune of speaking to him before he passed away, when I told him that he had led the Indian contingent in the 1964 Tokyo Olympics and he should encourage the current Indian contingent, he agreed. Unfortunately, we lost him before that, the PM said.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that the state drew inspiration from the PM’s encouragement and support to the sports fraternity and adopted a similar approach to promote and foster the sports culture by supporting the talented sportspersons in the state. “The talented players of our state were deprived of adequate resources since long. However, our government is leaving no stone unturned to provide all necessary assets to the sportspersons in order to help them shine nationally and internationally,” the CM said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mann-ki-baat-pm-praises-up-s-tokyo-bound-athletes-101624817828081.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||Covid in Maharashtra: Stricter curbs from Monday||With Maharashtra now adopting level three as the base limit in terms of Covid-19 restrictions, many districts that had started relaxing lockdown restrictions would now roll them back and impose further curbs from Monday, amid reports of the more transmissible Delta Plus variant across the state. The state fears the strain could become more severe in case of a third wave. The Maharashtra government had on Friday decided to reduce the five-level relaxation plan (based on positivity rate and bed occupancy) to three. The first two levels, which had maximum relaxations, were removed till further order.Mumbai would continue to follow the same ongoing restrictions (level three), despite its low positivity and bed occupancy rate, so as to avoid any spurt in Covid-19 cases. The state on Sunday reported 9,974 Covid-19 cases, including 739 in Mumbai, taking the tally to 6,036,821, while the toll stands at 121,286.State surveillance officer Dr Pradeep Awate described the rolling back of relaxations a preventive step. “We are at the descending stage of the second wave and hence do not want to take any chances. Both the Central government and the World Health Organisation (WHO) have advised us to take preventive steps in view of the mutation and we are adhering to them,” he added. This means that in places like Thane, Navi Mumbai and Pune where malls had opened will be shut and shops being allowed to function under regular timings will have to adhere to the 4pm limit.The Chamber of Association of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT), which represents the manufacturing and retail traders, has slammed the step. “Our business has fallen by over 60% and we are not able to sustain in such a restrictive environment. There is no logic in not opening malls and imposing restrictive timings on shopkeepers as we take all necessary precautions to contain the spread of the virus,” said Mitesh Mody, secretary, CAMIT.Mumbai on Sunday recorded 13 deaths, with its toll reaching 15,396. There were 210,866 tests done on Sunday, while the number of recoveries clocked 8,562. The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 122,252.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, said the mutant variant is more lethal than the original one. “This Delta Plus variant is worse and can cause more devastation as it means more virulency as well as hospitalisation of patients,” said Dr Shaikh. “Citizens need to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and even the government needs to strictly enforce punitive actions if it wants to rein in this virus,” said Shaikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-in-maharashtra-stricter-curbs-from-monday-101624817587961.html
27-06-2021||Other||BMC needs to look at more sustainable, timely ways to deal with waterlogging: Mumbaiites||Mumbaiites affected by waterlogged streets every monsoon have one message for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) – while measures are being taken across the city to ease waterlogging woes, not enough is being done in a timely manner. The Opposition has also slammed the civic administration for shoddy pre-monsoon work and the civic body’s failure to learn lessons from the previous waterlogging incidents. On June 23, HT conducted its annual monsoon audit with the help of three experts. HT visited seven spots — three nullahs in the western suburbs and two in the eastern suburbs as well two chronic waterlogging spots in the Island city. The panel of experts comprised senior urban planner and architect Rohit Shinkre, retired deputy engineer of BMC’s stormwater drains department Dilip Kamlakar Pathak and BMC’s retired assistant engineer Udaykumar Shiroorkar.In a two-part series on Friday and Saturday, HT reported the panel’s verdict after the audit. The three experts on HT’s panel concluded that Mumbai is yet again not ready to handle the monsoon. BMC has claimed that it has completed 104% of nullah desilting work across the city. While BMC’s effort to stay ahead of its pre-monsoon work cannot be denied, not enough has been done on ground to prepare the city for the rains.Reacting to HT’s audit report of Mumbai’s monsoon preparedness, Ravi Raja, leader of Opposition in BMC, said, “Like every year, this year too, no cleaning or desilting work have been completed. The BMC claimed to have completed over 100% of desilting work, but on ground only 30-35% of the work is done. We have been demanding for a video-recording of the desilting work, but it has not been done and every year, the taxpayers’ money is being wasted.”In tune with the suggestions presented by experts who were part of HT’s panel for the audit, citizens who have borne the brunt of waterlogging or partnered with BMC in the past to bring solutions to the problem in their areas believe that the civic corporation needs to look at more sustainable ways to deal with the issue, apart from carrying out the routine work of desilting nullahs properly. After the audit, Shinkre said, “I feel that BMC is trying hard to do what it can to make the city monsoon-ready. Much of what can be done in this regard is fairly cosmetic in nature. We need some very deep strategic changes to manage our city and try and address the problems to make the city monsoon-ready.” According to Debi Goenka, executive trustee of non-profit organisation Conservation Action Trust (CAT) the city’s stormwater drains are supposed to cater to monsoon water, but over the years they have doubled up as sewage lines, and dumping grounds. “BMC has been trying to convert natural creeks to canals, with concrete beds and sides, so as to maintain the storm water drains. However, due to this, the water has nowhere to go. With loss of mangroves, sea water is coming more towards the inland areas, aggravating the waterlogging situation during monsoon,” Goenka added. HT’s panel of experts graded the ongoing work for construction of underground water-holding tanks at the chronic flooding spots of Gandhi Market and Hindmata with an average of 0.5 and 1.3 marks out of the total 5, citing the work as expensive in comparison to its utility. Citizens have given HT mixed responses over the work that is being done. Civic activist and Matunga resident Nikhil Desai said, “The type of investment being done by installing huge pumps to drain out water from Gandhi Market area will solve the problem [of waterlogging] and such solutions are welcome. But the implementation has to be quick and smooth.”However, Goenka said, “How many times does Mumbai flood in the monsoon? Five-six times? We would like to see the calculations on the capacity of the underground water-holding tanks being build to mitigate waterlogging at Hindmata and Gandhi Market. For example, have we calculated how much water gets logged in these areas in comparison to the capacity of these underground water-holding tanks?” Other political leaders have slammed BMC for inaction. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator Prabhakar Shinde said, “We have been saying no work has been done. When BJP inspected Somaiya [Everard], Gazdar Bandh and P&T nullahs, we saw that desilting has not been done. Even though the administration claims that 100% of the pre-monsoon work has been completed, in reality, there is no proper work done by the contractor, and hence, waterlogging takes place. There is no supervision over the contractor’s work, and thus it gets ignored. As a result, citizens suffer every year.” Desai said that if the problem of waterlogging in the city needs to be resolved, quick planning and constructions are necessary. “After the 2005 deluge, BMC was to augment the drainage system to 50mm, but that has not happened even till today. Hence, by the time we augment our drains to handling 50mm rainfall on an hourly basis, the need will increase. This will later be a cycle where we will be spending money but won’t get the desired results, “said Desai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bmcneeds-to-look-at-more-sustainable-timely-ways-to-deal-with-waterlogging-mumbaiites-101624817407902.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||NHAI’s ₹700-crore project to decongest Mohali’s Airport Road||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is set to begin work on ₹700-crore greenfield alignment to decongest the Airport Road in Mohali by providing an alternative route to traffic moving from Delhi side to Himachal Pradesh, J&K and parts of Punjab. A greenfield road is built in an area that has never been developed or built up. The 32-kilometre road from IT City Chowk near the Chandigarh International Airport to the Kurali-Chandigarh road will be 60-foot wide and cross Nagiari and Devi Nagar villages among others. It will also help further decongest roads in Chandigarh and Zirakpur.The NHAI has already acquired around 400 acres of land in 28 villages, and compensation ranging from ₹55 lakh to ₹4.12 crore per acre has been announced depending upon whether the land is outside or within the municipal limits.Work to begin in a monthAccording to an NHAI official, who did not wish to be named, Ashoka Buildcon Limited has been finalised to begin work on the project within a month.Mohali district revenue officer (DRO) Gurjinder Singh Benipal said: “Land acquisition process has been completed and we have received ₹100 crore to be given to the landowners of around 10 villages. We will soon disburse the amount.”In February 2020, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari had taken up the matter of an alternative route with Union minister Nitin Gadkari, following which the ministry in its letter had stated that the NHAI was checking the feasibility of a greenfield section. After scrapping the project to widen the 40-km Kharar-Banur-Tepla road in July 2019, the NHAI has come up with this project. The previous project was scrapped owing to its high cost. The NHAI will also widen the 40-km stretch from IT City Chowk to Ambala, via Banur and Tepla, to six lanes.GMADA to widen Airport RoadIn view of heavy traffic and frequent road mishaps, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) is all set to widen a 6-km stretch of the Airport Road starting from Chhat village leading up to Sector 82.At present the stretch has two 33-foot-wide carriageways, which will be widened to 44-foot each. A senior GMDA official said the proposal had been prepared, “but we are waiting for approval from the authorities concerned”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nhais-700-crore-project-to-decongest-mohali-s-airport-road-101624816809478.html
27-06-2021||Noida||No entry without jabs: Noida high-rises, societies to restrict domestic helps||NOIDA: Many high-rises and residential societies in the city have decided to restrict, from July 1, the entry of domestic helps who have not taken at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. While various residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and apartment owners’ associations (AOAs) claimed that they have taken this step to check the Covid-19 spread, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration said that instead of issuing such diktat, the residential bodies need to help such workers get vaccinated.Yogendra Sharma, president of the Federation of Noida RWAs (FONRWA), said that around 25 RWAs and AOAs have decided to not allow domestic helps – who do not have their inoculation certificates – on their premises from July 1. “It’s a welcome move by these associations. Some societies had recently organised vaccination camps for the helps. As the government is providing free vaccination to everyone over 18 years, what is wrong in asking them to have their shots? We can’t deliberately leave our residents exposed to the virus,” he said. Sharma said that most of the RWAs and AOAs in sectors 27, 30, 34, 35, 39, 41, 45, 50, 52, 55, 56, 72, 82, 100 and 104 have made compulsory to have inoculation certificates for the entry of domestic helps and other workers from July 1. Echoing similar views, Rajiv Garg, president of Sector 27 RWA, said that from July 1, the workers will have to produce their vaccination certificates before entering the society premises. However, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that in a recent meeting held with different RWAs and AOAs, they were asked to be proactive in ensuring 100% vaccination of the eligible population in their respective societies and adjacent areas. “We’ve not issued any order to restrict the entries of domestic helps, plumbers, electricians and other mechanics in any society. And, the societies should enable these workers to get the vaccine doses, instead of issuing such orders for them. What the associations should do is that they must help the domestic helps or other workers in getting the slots. If the RWAs or AOAs approach us with the list of such workers, we can also arrange exclusive camps for them in the respective areas,” the DM said. Meanwhile, the domestic helps said that they are facing difficulties in having the shots. Naina Das, a domestic help who works in Sector 27, said that despite standing for hours in the queue at the district hospital on Saturday, she couldn’t get the vaccine dose. “It was a chaos there. I and my three friends – also the domestic helps – failed to get our turn. We’ll try our luck at some other booth on Monday,” she said. Usha Sinha, another help in Sector 104, said that she lost her Aadhaar card while standing in the queue at the vaccination camp in the district hospital. “When my turn came, the vaccination staff asked me to show my Aadhaar card. When I opened my bag, it was not there. Now, I’ll have to get another copy of my Aadhaar card to receive the vaccine dose,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/no-entry-without-jabs-noida-high-rises-societies-to-restrict-domestic-helps-101624816387802.html
27-06-2021||Other||Nappy change can indicate a congenital disease||LUCKNOW: If one of the legs of your new-born isn’t spreading as much as the other from the central point while you change the nappy, it may be a congenital problem called developmental dysplasia of the hip (DDH). “There are several symptoms for DDH but three can be kept in mind by parents. One is movement of leg, second is equal length of both legs and third a family history of DDH,” said prof Ajai Singh, HoD, paediatric orthopaedic at the King George’s Medical University. A webinar ‘Early diagnosis of hip dysplasia: screening and referral guidelines’ was organised by the department of paediatric orthopaedic to mark the hip dysplasia awareness month. KGMU experts discussed screening and referral guidelines for hip dysplasia with paediatricians in the webinar, and also guided them on how to identify it at the very first visit of the child. About 9 or 10 children are born with hip dysplasia among 1000 live births. “The first point a doctor can identify is when parents bring them for vaccination at clinic after 3 or 4 weeks or birth. The aim of this webinar was to make paediatricians aware about hip dysplasia and their responsibility to identify the same,” said Prof Singh. Dr Suresh Chand, assistant professor paediatric orthopaedic KGMU and Dr Shalini Tripathi, additional professor, paediatric orthopaedic, also spoke in the webinar. “If the problem is diagnosed within a few weeks, it can be treated with the help of a strap in a few weeks’ time. If ignored or diagnosed late, a surgery may be required,” said Prof Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nappy-change-can-indicate-a-congenital-disease-101624816328527.html
27-06-2021||Noida||Foreign national among three held for cloning ATM cards in Noida||Noida: A 45-year-old Bulgarian national was among three people arrested by the Noida police on Sunday for allegedly cloning ATM cards and withdrawing money.The suspects were identified as Ruslen (the alleged mastermind who is from Bulgaria), and Ravikar and Komal from Bihar. Police said the three were living in a rented accommodation at a highrise in Sector 75. They were nabbed from Sector 18 following a tip-off from an informant.According to police officials, Ruslen had come to India on May 10, 2019 on a tourist visa and was sent to Tihar jail within a couple of weeks allegedly in connection with a cyber crime. He allegedly met Ravi in jail who was lodged there in connection with a murder case. Ruslen was released on February 1, 2021 after which he had started living in Noida.“He holds a diploma in electronics and is well-versed with cloning technology. He himself prepared the circuits and skimmers, parts for which were ordered from a spy goods website,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.Police said the group allegedly would install the skimmer devices and mini cameras at unmanned ATM kiosks across the National Capital Region. They would collect the data of users, clone their ATM cards and then withdraw money from their bank accounts.“There are more people associated with the operation, including other foreign nationals, and we are working to trace them. The total amount skimmed by the suspects is being verified through bank account details, though it is suspected to be in lakhs,” said a senior police official, on condition of anonymity.Police recovered 28 cloned cards along with laptops, phones, seven skimmer boards, a camera, card readers, a hard drive, several pen drives, multiple tools and other electronic gadgets. The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/foreign-national-among-three-held-for-cloning-atm-cards-in-noida-101624816327859.html
27-06-2021||Noida||Field survey at Dhanauri wetland soon to declare it Ramsar site, says forest dept||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department has decided to seek help from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII) and World Wide Fund for Nature-India (WWF India) to expedite the process for conservation of the Dhanauri wetland and declaring it as a sanctuary — a task pending for several years.Forest officials said that a team of experts from the WWF will conduct a field survey at the wetland soon, so that the Dhanauri wetland can be declared a Ramsar site — a wetland of international importance. Meanwhile, forest officials have written to senior officials for them to seek help from WII to declare Dhanauri as a bird sanctuary.“We are taking help from the WWF India to declare Dhanauri wetland as a Ramsar site or a wetland of international importance. A team of experts from WWF will be visiting Dhanauri wetland in the first week of July to conduct the ground work and expedite the long-pending task,” divisional forest officer, PK Srivastava.Stating that “officially notifying Dhanauri as wetland and declaring it a Ramsar site and a bird sanctuary are the three major tasks pending”, Srivastava added that the district forest department has escalated the request to the higher authorities in the department to approach the premier institute WII.“We have written a letter to the forest conservator, Meerut, urging them to approach the WII, Dehradun, with a proposal for the conservation of Dhanauri wetland. The WII is yet to be approached, though, once roped in, it will help with the official notification of Dhanauri and thereby, a conservation plan,” he said.On being asked the reason for the delay, as it was in 2018 that the divisional forest department first sent a proposal to declare the waterbody as a wetland under Wetland Rules 2017 and later in 2019 to declare it a Ramsar site, officials said that “such work often takes time”.“We had been gathering a lot of information regarding Dhanauri, including its actual size, remote sensing images, number of stakeholders involved, number of farmers that own the land in the zone of influence, etc. This is a tedious task. The Covid-19 pandemic slowed the fieldwork further. Now that we are roping in the expert agencies, we hope that this task will be done soon,” added Srivastava.However, Anand Arya, a Noida-based birder who found the Dhanauri wetland and led a legal battle for its conservation, said that the forest department had been “very lethargic“.“They had been sitting on it for over seven years, when we first approached them for its conservation. As a result, over time this statuary wetland lost its original glory and continues to degrade. It’s high time that something is done in a timely manner and someone is held accountable before this wetland is completely lost,” said Anand Arya.The National Green Tribunal, in a March 2015 order in the case, had ordered to initiate the process of conserving the wetland.Spread over 101 hectares in Greater Noida and once home to over 211 species of birds, the Dhanauri wetland, a major Sarus Crane habitat in Gautam Budh Nagar, has suffered a habitat loss and drop in bird populations over the years.In April this year, the forest department had to rush to fill the wetland using borewells after it ran dry for the first time. In January 2021, the Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) 2021, held by Wetlands International South Asia and the district forest department, found a drop in bird population over four times as compared to 2020. The AWC 2021 found only 1,344 birds against 6,227 birds in January last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/field-survey-at-dhanauri-wetland-soon-to-declare-it-ramsar-site-says-forest-dept-101624816269712.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: No death in Chandigarh for four days||Chandigarh on Sunday reported no death due to Covid-19 for fourth consecutive day, while 15 people tested positive for the virus.The daily infection count in the tricity stood at 33, with 14 cases surfacing in Mohali district and four in Panchkula. In terms of deaths, there was a lone fatality, that of a 49-year-old man from Mansa Devi Complex in Panchkula.Meanwhile, the active caseload dropped to 554 from Saturday’s 594. Mohali has 280 active cases, followed by 203 in Chandigarh and just 71 in Panchkula. Recovery rate is above 98% across the tricity while daily positivity rate is below 1.3%. Amid a decline in the second wave of the pandemic, the tricity had reported the first case of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus on Saturday, raising renewed concerns.According to the World Health Organisation, the Delta variant (B.1.617.2), first identified in India, is spreading in at least 85 nations, and is the “most transmissible of the variants identified so far”. Delta Plus (B.1.617.2.1) is its more virulent version, which has raised concerns about its capability to evade immunity built by vaccination or the previous infection.The first case in the tricity was that of a 35-year-old resident of Chandigarh, whose swab sample along with that of 49 other patients tested positive for Covid-19 since May were sent by the UT health department for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, on June 6. Genome sequencing attempts to draw out the complete genetics of the viruses.“The sample of a 35-year-old man, who is a resident of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, was tested positive for the Delta Plus strain, which is believed to be more transmittable and dangerous. The patient was tested positive for Covid-19 on May 22, and he has recovered from the virus,” Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh, had said.In view of the circulation of the new and more transmissible variant strains in the community, health experts have advised people to adhere to safety protocols and get vaccinated. “Vaccination at the earliest is the only key to protect ourselves from getting infected with these dangerous strains,” said Dr Kang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-no-death-in-chandigarh-for-four-days-101624816269212.html
27-06-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man robbed of ₹1 lakh on pretext of lift in car||Greater Noida: A 30-year-old man was allegedly robbed of ₹1 lakh on Saturday after he got a lift in a car from Greater Noida to Lucknow. The victim, Anivesh Kumar, filed a complaint at Sector Beta 2 police station, police said.“I had reached Pari Chowk around 8:30am to catch a bus for Lucknow. Soon, a car reached the spot and the driver offered me a lift. There were two more persons inside the car,” the victim in his complaint. According to police, on the way, the suspects asked him to hand over the belongings as they would “check” his bag for any illegal thing. The three suspects later snatched ₹4,500 cash and his two debit cards, which were bearing PIN numbers on the back, from him. Rameshwar Kumar, SHO, Beta 2 police station, said the suspects then dumped the victim. “The suspects went to an ATM kiosk and withdrew ₹96,000 in multiple transactions using the debit cards,” he said. The SHO said a case has been registered against the suspects under Section 392 (robbery) of IPC. “A police team has launched a search for the suspects,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-robbed-of-1-lakh-on-pretext-of-lift-in-car-101624816267950.html
27-06-2021||Noida||Noida: After losing loved ones to Covid, people turn to psychiatrists for grief support||The slump in Covid-19 cases may be helping to bring the city back to some sort of normalcy after the second wave ravaged many homes in April and May, but for many their lives had been changed forever.According to official data, 358 people lost their lives to Covid between April 1, 2021 and May 30, 2021 in GB Nagar. The mental toll is unaccounted for.Dr Abhay Singh Tomar, a psychiatrist at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), Greater Noida, has treated at least 100 patients during the second wave. The most common diagnosis is post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), which is associated with severe mental weakness after suffering a loss or accident.“The patient finds themselves getting worried and anxious to save someone who has already passed away. In some cases, they are afraid Covid may infect their family again and they will not be able to save them,” said Dr Tomar.And then there is “survivor’s guilt” where people think they could have done more to save their loved ones.“Sometimes they think that they are the ones who went out and brought the infection home that led to the death, some blame an establishment like a hospital or a doctor.Such issues may result in anxiety or depression,” said Dr Tomar. Dr Ritu Gautam, counsellor at Sharda Hospital, Greater Noida, adds that death due to Covid is more difficult to process for a family member due to the lack of physical presence. Many critical patients were locked away in ICUs making it impossible for the “final goodbye”.“Closure is very important to process grief. In one such case, a woman who lost her husband remains in trauma and guilt as she could not spend his last moments with him,” said Dr Gautam. Noida-based counselling psychologist Simran Luthra has started an online support group for such people. “In the past two months, I have consulted 15 people have sought help to deal with grief caused due to the sudden and unexpected death of their loved one due to Covid,” said Luthra.She adds that in one such case, the person came on the brink of alcoholism. “The complete shock and trauma is triggering repressed issues in some people, like in one case where professional help had to be sought by a man’s friends after he turned to drinking after his father’s death. Mental health issues have become aggravated for those who have already been dealing with it,” she said.Delhi-based psychotherapist Nishi Joshi has been offering grief support.“My youngest patient was a 11-year-old girl who lost her mother, while the oldest was a 60-year-old who lost their son. People who don’t know how to deal with the loss of a loved one are hit with shock within days of diagnosis. This has been a traumatic episode which needs professional help to process,” said Joshi.She added that the stigma around seeking professional help is a deterrent. “In cases where friends or family refer the person to a therapist, there is a lot of resistance seen from them. There needs to be more talk about mental health in order for people to feel more comfortable seeking professional help in case they are unable to handle their mental and emotional health,” said Joshi.Dr Tomar said that timely professional treatment has been helpful in all the cases.“The consultations for most of these cases is still going on as the professional help enables the patients to come to terms with the loss and offers them emotional aid. While the grief remains the same, the mechanism to handle it changes with counselling and therapy sessions,” he said.GB Nagar Chief Medical Officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that while such cases have not been highlighted to the district health department, arrangements will be made for mental health support if needed. “We are not aware of cases where family members of those who died due to Covid have come forward for mental health support. However, if such a request is made to the district health department, arrangements will be made,” said Dr Ohri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-after-losing-loved-ones-to-covid-people-turn-to-psychiatrists-for-grief-support-101624816027888.html
27-06-2021||Other||Priyanka questions central govt over fuel price hikes||Lucknow: Congress national general secretary and UP in-charge Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday questioned the union government on the rising petrol and diesel prices in the country. “In 2013, when crude oil was at US $ 101 per barrel in the international market, then petrol price in India was ₹66 per litre and diesel was at ₹51 per litre. And the government then levied ₹9 per litre and ₹3 per litre tax on petrol and diesel. Now, in 2021 the BJP government is taking ₹33 per litre and ₹32 per litre tax on petrol and diesel. The BJP government has increased excise duty on the two fuels 12 times so far,” she said. Priyanka said that in April 2020, the crude oil price in the international market was the US $ 19 per barrel, yet the BJP government did not extend the benefit to the people. Instead, it was benefitting the oil companies and “filling their pockets”, she said in a statement issued by the UP Congress Committee on Sunday. “Despite the exponential drop in crude oil prices in the international market in comparison to 2013, this government has increased petrol and diesel prices 50 times this year and in 135 districts of the country, petrol prices have crossed ₹100 per litre,” said said. She further said that in 2014, the BJP government realised ₹21.5 lakh crore through taxes on petroleum products and now when the people’s economic condition was not good because of the pandemic, the government extracted ₹4 lakh crore from fuel taxes. “Now, the question arises as to why this government did not extend to the people the benefit of the fallen crude oil prices in the international market? How far is the 300% hike in tax realisation justified,” she said. Priyanka said that in the past seven years, the government realised ₹21.5 lakh crore through taxes on petroleum prices, but what did the people get in return? Why had the government made increased prices and increased taxes on petrol and diesel a means to loot the people, she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/priyanka-questions-central-govt-over-fuel-price-hikes-101624815967903.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||Another Maratha group holds bike rally in south Mumbai||Days after Maratha Kranti Morcha, the umbrella outfit representing the Maratha community, announced a halt on its ongoing silent marches demanding reservation for one month, an outfit, Maratha Kranti Sangharsh Morcha (MKSM), held a bike rally from Somaiya Maidan at Chunabhatti to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in south Mumbai. The MKSM has put forth 10 demands in front of the state and has warned of a massive march on August 9, if the state fails to act upon them. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Prasad Lad, Kalidas Kolambkar and Vinayak Mete of Shiv Sangram, which is an ally of the saffron party, participated in the rally. The demands include review petition in the apex court, sizable provision for SARTHI and Annasaheb Patil Financially Backward Development Corporation, hostels for the youth from the community in every district, recruitment of youth who had secured government jobs from the quota before it was quashed, among others. “The community is not divided, although our way of agitation may be different. We have full faith and respect for Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, but we do not believe in government’s assurances as it has failed to keep them. We held 58 silent marches in 2016-17, after which reservation was given. We believe that the demands cannot be fulfilled without aggressive agitation. If the government fails to respond positively in the next few days, we will have a massive march in Mumbai in the next few weeks,” said Rajan Ghag of MKSM. He said his outfit has no link to any political party and they had invited leaders from all parties. Lad said, “The state has been taking the issue of the reservation very lightly. We are here to warn it that the agitation will be further intensified if quick steps are not taken.” The BJP has been advocating aggressive protest, while its MP Sambhajiraje has sought an amicable solution and urged the community to not resort to the streets. Sambhajiraje Chhatrapati, a descendent of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, is leading the under the umbrella outfit’s agitation for Maratha reservation which was quashed by the apex court on May 5. The MP has stalled the agitation for one month after holding two silent protests in Kolhapur and Nashik on June 17 and 21, respectively. He had expressed satisfaction over the steps taken by the state after a meeting with CM Uddhav Thackeray and other ministers last week. Virendra Pawar of Maratha Kranti Morcha said, “We did not participate in the rally as it is against our principle of avoiding public gathering amid pandemic. Maratha Kranti Morcha is a mass movement and different outfits can have their views on agitation, which is why we did not oppose the rally.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/another-maratha-group-holds-bike-rally-in-south-mumbai-101624815907924.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||Seven dig wall to break into finance firm in Ulhasnagar, arrested||Vitthalwadi police cracked down on a break-in at Muthoot Finance branch at Ulhasnagar late on Saturday. The police arrested seven accused who were trying to break into the branch by digging the wall from an adjacent shop. Police officers apprehended the accused in the act after receiving information about some digging activities being carried out inside the shop next to the branch. “From our sources, we came to know about digging activity in the next shop. They took the shop on rent under the pretext of opening a fruits shop and have been occupying the space since past two-three days. They had started digging to make way to the branch. We found a gas cutter at the spot,” said KP Thorat, senior inspector, Vitthalwadi police station. “The seven accused are from Jharkhand and they had come to the city for the crime. We will be investigating the matter and find out if they indulged in other such crime,” added Thorat. Muthoot Finance did not respond for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/seven-dig-wall-to-break-into-finance-firm-in-ulhasnagar-arrested-101624815727862.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||Andheri railway station to go for makeover soon||Andheri railway station is one step closer to makeover with the approval from the Western Railway (WR) in place and the request for qualification (RFQ) to be floated soon. As part of the makeover, the station will be developed at an estimated cost of ₹218 crore. The station will have improved road, accessibility as well as connectivity to the metro station. The Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) will be redeveloping the station in two phases. In the first phase 4.31 acres of land will be developed and another 2.1 acres of land will see development in second phase. IRSDC has got approval for the project from WR and will call for RFQ for the project after receiving all required approvals for construction.The development will also include commercial development of the station. IRSDC will construct a concourse on the east side of the station that will connect to foot overbridges linking Andheri suburban railway station to Andheri metro station. The commercial development will be done above the concourse level.The entrance of the railway station will have pick-up and drop-off facilities at Versova Marg Road and will connect with skywalks on Swami Nityananda Marg Road. The station building will also have facilities for specially-abled commuters and will have modern amenities including integrated CCTV systems.“IRSDC will be redeveloping Dadar, Kalyan, Thakurli, Bandra, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Thane and Borivli stations in Mumbai. The work across these projects is at different stages and is expected to be completed within the stipulated time frame. The redevelopment of these stations will boost realty prospects and usher a socio-economic transformation,” said SK Lohia, managing director, IRSDC.The redevelopment plans for terminus and stations include building shopping complexes and hotels on the premises to increase non-fare revenue. Earlier, IRSDC had submitted a proposal for development of Lokmanya Tilak Terminus which involved construction of separate departure and arrival wings and adding new railway platforms.WR starts 15-coach locals WR is starting to operate 15-compartment local trains on its slow lines from Monday. The move is expected to increase the carrying capacity of local trains by 25%, WR has stated. The 15-coach train services will be introduced between Andheri and Virar railway stations by converting 25 12-compartment local trains into 15-compartment ones from Monday. The services are introduced after railway platforms on the slow line were extended. The project cost of introducing 15-coach trains was ₹60 crore. “The augmentation will provide additional accommodation to commuters for their convenience and comfort. It will be a huge relief to the commuters when services are opened for all.” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/andheri-railway-station-to-go-for-makeover-soon-101624815667880.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||Igatpuri police raid party in private bungalows, arrest 22 with drugs||Igatpuri police busted a high profile party and found 22 people, including film and television personalities from Bollywood, allegedly consuming drugs, in the wee hours of Sunday. The party was organised in two private bungalows and police allegedly recovered multiple drugs including cocaine, charas and marijuana from the venues.“We have traced a Nigerian national in Mumbai who is suspected to have suppled contraband to the party,” said additional superintendent of police Sharmistha Walavalkar of Nashik Rural.She added, “We have registered three separate cases against the people found at the party — one under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, the second for selling and consuming drugs and a third case is registered for violating Covid-19 norms. The process of arresting the suspects is going on as per their roles found.” Police got information about a high profile party in the bungalows where drugs will be consumed. A police team comprising around 50 personnel raided the bungalows, added Patil. “The party was organised to celebrate the birthday of an individual and many people from Mumbai participated in the party. The people participating in the drug party include four Bollywood and south Indian film actors, a reality TV show contestant and two prominent choreographers,” said Sachin Patil, superintendent of police, Nashik Rural.They all were taken for medical tests in a government hospital and their blood samples were taken to confirm how many consumed cocaine and other drugs. As per preliminary investigation, all appeared to have consumed drugs, added Patil.“Bungalow owners who rent properties for functions or parties in our jurisdiction have already been instructed to inform us and give details including the number of people participating in functions. But the owners did not inform us, so we have also booked them in the case and legal action will be taken against them,” said Walavalkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/igatpuri-police-raid-party-in-private-bungalows-arrest-22-with-drugs-101624815608511.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||Medical students urge PM Modi to help them return to universities in China||After months of attending lectures online, Indian students pursuing medicine from Chinese universities have now approached Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi for help. In a letter addressed to the PM on Saturday, the students have requested the government to intervene and start talks with the Chinese government to help take students back to their respective universities.“We are 25,000 Indian students studying in Chinese universities who have been forced to participate in online classes for the past 17 months because of travel and visa restrictions. Our medical study requires a lot of practical and group work, but our entry to China and our respective universities is banned for the past year-and-a-half and we are suffering every day,” read the letter. According to the rules in China, MBBS students, after completing their five-year medical course, immediately have to complete a 52-week physical internship in assigned hospitals to be awarded their degree. While first-, second- and third-year MBBS students are currently attending lectures online, final-year students are at a loss as their internship can only be completed once the lockdown restrictions are lifted. “What’s worse is that for the past few months, students from China and South Korea have been allowed back on campus and are attending offline classes while the rest of us are struggling with online classes. Most of us have missed practical classes which form a big part of medical studies,” said a student on Twitter. A hashtag, #takeusbacktochina, has been trending on several social media groups for some months now.Earlier this month, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) issued a notice in favour of students studying in international universities who are stuck in India due to the pandemic. MEA issued a notice asking such students to write to its overseas Indian affairs (OIA) office about difficulties in reaching their university. “Indian students studying abroad who are stuck in India owing to Covid-19 pandemic restrictions and mobility issues can send their coordinates, that is, email ID and mobile number to OIA-II Division at emails: us.oia2@mea.gov.in and so1oia2@mea.gov.in,” said the notice on the official website.For the past few months, students across the state have been approaching the state government as well as the Centre via social media, hoping to attract their attention. While many students are waiting for lifting of the temporary ban on international flights to be able to travel to their chosen destination, others have also shared concern over their inability to access visas. “Our request to PM Modi is that the government approach the Chinese government and push for the return of Indian students to China. We are ready to follow all necessary quarantine rules in order to be accepted back at our universities,” states the letter.CA students seek to postpone examAround 6,000 chartered accountancy (CA) students have approached PM Narendra Modi’s office to take cognisance of the upcoming exam CA exam which is scheduled to take place in the offline mode between July 5 and 20. The students have asked PM Modi to direct the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) to postpone these exams by a few weeks until all students are vaccinated. Since many have also been allotted exam centres very far from their city of residence, students have also demanded that ICAI permit students to use their hall ticket as an e-pass to travel, in view of the restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/medical-students-urge-pm-modi-to-help-them-return-to-universities-in-china-101624815607793.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||JEE Adv 2021 information brochure released; exam and admission rules tweaked this year||Even as engineering aspirants are waiting for clarity regarding dates for the pending Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains rounds, the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur released the information brochure for JEE-Advanced (JEE-Adv) 2021 this week. While most rules remain the same, the organising institute has tweaked some eligibility and admission rules keeping the pandemic in mind.For starters, students who cleared JEE Mains in 2020 and could not appear for both the JEE-Adv papers last year due to Covid-related issues, will be allowed to register directly for the JEE-Advanced 2021 exam. “This is a one-time measure valid only for JEE-Adv 2021. These candidates will be considered in addition to and not as part of the total number of candidates who would qualify from JEE-Mains 2021 for appearing in JEE-Adv 2021,” states the information brochure.Until now, an aspirant had to score 75% or more in the Class 12 board exams to be eligible for JEE-Adv but this year, the criteria have been tweaked considering the fact that all school education boards in the country scrapped Class 12 exams this year. “Candidates should have cleared their class 12 exams and should be among the top 2.5 lakh successful candidates including all categories in JEE-Mains 2021,” highlights the brochure.Another change has been introduced to the female quota seats across IITs this year. Unlike last three years when a uniform quota of supernumerary seats was allotted to female candidates across IITs, in 2021-22, this quota will differ from one institute to another. “The number of supernumerary seats in various programs will be decided by individual IITs ensuring that every institute has at least 20% female enrolment in undergraduate programs.”In 2017, the intake of girls in B Tech programmes at IITs was a mere 9.3%. In 2018, the IIT admissions council decided to introduce supernumerary seats, implying new seats created in addition to existing seats, for female students with the addition of 800 (14%) seats across 23 IITs in 2018 while the number stood at 946 (17%) female-only seats across IITs in 2019 and at least 20% of the undergraduate class by 2020.“This specific change in admission rules has been introduced considering that several IITs have already managed to surpass the 20% quota. So this year, IITs that have managed to admit 20% or more female students in certain programs can reduce the intake for those particular courses whereas those where the criteria still have to be met, the intake quota of supernumerary seats can be increased by individual institutes,” said a senior professor from the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur.Since dates for JEE-Mains are yet to be released by the National Testing Agency (NTA), no information on the schedule of JEE-Adv 2021 has been revealed in the information brochure. “Exam dates will be announced soon,” states the information brochure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jee-adv-2021-information-brochure-released-exam-and-admission-rules-tweaked-this-year-101624815487778.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||128 died of black fungus in Mumbai hospitals since Feb||A total of 128 of the 741 diagnosed with mucormycosis or black fungus, since the start of the second Covid-19 wave in February, have died in city hospitals. Forty of the victims were from Mumbai, data shows. Mucormycosis is a serious, but rare fungal infection caused by a group of moulds called mucormycetes. According to doctors, it causes blindness, organ dysfunction, loss of body tissue and can be fatal, if not treated in time. “As the city has several tertiary-care super speciality hospitals that are well-equipped to provide timely treatment to patients who need surgical and medical intervention, we get a large number of patients from outside the city. So far, we have recorded 128 deaths due to mucormycosis in the city, but most of the deceased are from outside Mumbai,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Doctors said most patients from outside Mumbai delay their treatment for mucormycosis (which has an overall mortality rate of 50%), contributing to the fatality rate. “Compared to the first wave of the coronavirus pandemic, there have been more cases of black fungus in the second wave. Most of the patients we receive come in by the time the fungus generally spreads furthermore, including the brain,” said Dr Renuka Bradoo, head of department of ear, nose, throat (ENT), Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, which is also known as Sion Hospital. In May, the hospital recorded around 33% mortality rate. However, with the flattening of the pandemic curve, the number of daily admission of patients with mucormycosis has fallen by almost 40% at major civic-run hospitals. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital, said, “The daily Covid-19 cases started declining from May, so fewer patients are developing post-Covid complications like mucormycosis. The daily admission has dropped to a great extent compared to April.” Currently, 384 active mucormycosis patients are undergoing treatment in Mumbai. Of this, 274 patients are from outside Mumbai and 110 patients are residents of the city. Most patients need three-four weeks for complete recovery. Some patients are kept longer to check on the possible regrowth or further spread of black fungus in other parts of the body. For instance, at present, 112 patients with mucormycosis are undergoing treatment at King Edward Memorial (KEM) Hospital, Parel, which has special wards for fungal treatment. “The treatment takes longer than Covid-19 as they require hospitalisation and surgery. Only 10% of the admitted patients get discharged after full recovery,” said Dr Hetal Marfatia, head of the department, ENT. According to a guideline issued on May 17 by the state’s commissioner of health services and mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), patients with high blood sugar, if required, need to be examined by an ENT specialist for symptoms of mucormycosis. If needed, the patients can also be examined by an ophthalmologist. “The immunity gets compromised in a Covid-19 patient due to some medicines like Tocilizumab and steroids. So when they get exposed to mucor mold, which is commonly found in soil, plants, manure, and decaying fruits and vegetables, it becomes life threatening. It affects the sinuses, brain and lungs,” said Dr Girija Suresh, senior ophthalmic consultant, Fortis Hospital, Mulund. Steroids reduce inflammation in the lungs of Covid-19 infected patients. But it also reduces the immunity and increases the blood sugar levels in the Covid-19 patients. Dr Ajay Doiphode, president, Association of Otolaryngologists (AOI), blamed unregulated usages of steroids that lowers the immunity in the body as one of the primary reasons for the surge in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/128-died-of-black-fungus-in-mumbai-hospitals-since-feb-101624815367881.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Admissions based on Class 12 formula tricky, warn experts||The recent decision by several education boards to scrap Class 12 board exams due to the pandemic and mark students based on the previous year’s performance has invited mixed reactions from different stakeholders. For many, this move to assess students and further admissions based on a formula to derive marks has brought back memories from a decade ago, when admissions to junior college admissions were rocked by formula-based rules for three consecutive years from 2008 to 2010, delaying the admissions process all three years.“Though the education boards feel a similar formula will mean a level playing field for students from all boards, this is not true. Somehow, some students will be at a disadvantage. This year too, I fear a repeat of an admissions process with lots of confusion and ambiguity,” said a former official of the Maharashtra State Board for Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE). Between 2008 and 2010, admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC) seats witnessed a series of new formula-based admissions which led to complaints and furore from several student groups. This was followed by a series of public interest litigations (PILs) filed by aggrieved parents and students, ultimately delaying the admissions process by a few months. In 2008, the state government introduced a 70:30 formula which meant that colleges had to reserve 70% of their seats for local students and the remaining 30% for outsiders. This move was scrapped the same year after receiving flak from students and parents. In 2009, the state government put together a formula to base Class 10 marks of students on a percentile formula during admissions. This move too was scrapped after being quashed by the Apex court. “Every year, the state government was coming up with admission rules that give an upper hand to state board students, under the pretext that other education boards give inflated marks to their students. We spent a good part of 2008 and 2009 just filing petitions in the Bombay high court and the Supreme Court in order to give justice to students from other boards,” said Sudhir Madhani, parent activist. Madhani was one of the many parents who dragged the state government to court every year in 2008, 2009 and 2010 against ‘unrealistic and unfair’ admission formulas. This year, Covid pushed all education boards to rethink their decision of conducting board exams at a time when the country was grappling with a second wave. Scrapping of exams was unanimously accepted by all, but the decision of boards to now base Class 12 marks on a formula is not going down well with parents and students.The approved mechanism for Class 12 students of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) includes a 30:30:40 formula, which takes into account a student’s performance in the last three examinations (the 12th pre-board, the 11th finals, and the 10th board) to settle at a score for the theory component of the examination that could not be held. The theory portion accounts for 70% or 80% of a subject score, with the remainder coming from internal practical tests that most schools managed to complete prior to the outbreak of the second wave of Covid-19. In the case of the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE), the formula will take into consideration the students’ Class 10 ICSE Board exam results, project and practical work in subjects, and best marks obtained in school exams in Class 11 and 12. While the Maharashtra state education board is yet to clarify their stand on how the Class 12 marks will be derived in the absence of the board exams this year, parents are already worried that formula-based marks will put state board students at a disadvantage.“Unlike other education boards, the Maharashtra state board can be very strict in giving marks for internals as well as theory paper and this puts state board students at a disadvantage in comparison with other board students,” said Sudha Shenoy, parent and activist. She added that every year, state board students have lost out on seats in desirable colleges because, in comparison, their counterpart from another education board has scored better. “Even with the new formula that other boards have introduced to derive Class 12 marks this year, our state board students will suffer because internals marks in other boards are higher compared to our schools and this will create a problem when marks will depend on such numbers/scores,” she added. While CBSE and CISCE boards have clarified their stand on Class 12 marks, the Maharashtra state board is yet to bring clarity on this matter. “We have news from some states of parent groups challenging the CBSE evaluation formula, so announcing any decision before understanding the response of the stakeholders will be difficult,” said a state government official. He added that the government will release a decision on this subject soon.Admission formulas2008—The 70:30 admission formulaAccording to this formula, admissions to first-year junior college (FYJC) courses will be divided in a way that local students get more leverage on a college seat as compared to those who don’t belong to that city or state. This move was introduced by the state government to give an advantage to students from that particular city/district on college seats as compared to their fellow students from other cities/states.The government, in a GR, had stated that FYJC colleges will reserve 70% of their seats to local students and the remaining 30% to outsiders. This invited uproar from students across Maharashtra and neighbouring states and after a long court battle, it was finally dropped by the state government and scrapped for good.2009—The percentile formulaAs per this formula put together by the Maharashtra state government, a student’s marks had to be calculated in comparison with the aggregate of the top ten scorers of that particular education board. The idea was to bring parity among first-year junior college (FYJC) aspirants from various education boards.Percentage=100xM/AA—Aggregate percentage of marks received the 10 toppers of a particular boardM—Marks of the student whose percentile is to be calculatedThis formula was challenged by parents of several ICSE and CBSE class 10 students in the Bombay high court, and a six-month-long battle ensued. The state government also took the matter to the Supreme Court only to be eventually quashed by the apex court2010—Best-five policyAccording to this formula introduced and implemented by the Maharashtra state government, where the five best scores out of six subjects in class 10 exams will be considered for the final percentage. In 2010, this formula was originally introduced for Maharashtra state board students only, and eventually, after a series of petitions, the same formula was extended to class 10 students from all education boards and is applicable during FYJC admissions to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-admissions-based-on-class-12-formula-tricky-warn-experts-101624815247843.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||Withdraw cases lodged against farmers for protest marches: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday demanded the withdrawal of cases registered against farmers during their protest marches on June 26 to mark seven months of their agitation against the Centre's three farm laws.SKM, the umbrella body of farmer bodies spearheading the agitation, said the Chandigarh police has booked several farmer leaders on several charges.Farmers on Saturday marched towards the Raj Bhavan in different states to submit memoranda, addressed to the president, and to governors to mark seven months of protests against the Centre's three farm laws."In Chandigarh, it is reported that FIRs have been filed against several SKM leaders and many other protestors under IPC sections 147, 148, 149, 186, 188, 332 and 353," the SKM said in a statement.It alleged that after barricading the roads, the "police also resorted to using water cannons and lathicharge on the protestors"."On top of this kind of undemocratic and authoritarian behaviour, cases are now being filed against SKM leaders. Samyukt Kisan Morcha condemns this and demands that the FIRs be withdrawn immediately and unconditionally," it said.In many places, farmers were not allowed to even take out rallies to Raj Bhavans and there were detention and lock-ins of SKM leaders, it said."SKM condemns this and points out that this itself is an illustration of the failure of democracy and the undeclared emergency that we are going though," it said in the statement.Noting that cases have been filed against 15 farmers in Hisar who had taken part in a protest against a BJP meeting on June 25, the SKM said the FIRs should be withdrawn immediately.The farmers started their stir against the contentious farm laws in November by camping at Singhu border between Delhi and Haryana, besides at Tikri and Ghazipur borders.The protesting farmers have demanded the withdrawal of the Centre's farm laws and that a new law be made to guarantee minimum support price (MSP) for their crops.The protesting farmers will mark Monday "Kisan Mazdoor Bhaichara Diwas" at Sunehra protest site near the Haryana-Rajasthan border, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/withdraw-cases-lodged-against-farmers-for-protest-marches-samyukt-kisan-morcha-101624814992796.html
27-06-2021||Other||Legal intervention needed to protect interest of customers of wedding industry||New Delhi: The pandemic has exposed the unfair contract terms deployed by wedding businesses to deny refunds to consumers who were forced to cancel their bookings on account of Covid-19.The nationwide lockdown last year as well as the lockdowns and restrictions on large gatherings imposed by state governments during the second wave of the pandemic this year, have led to many families having to postpone the wedding and cancel their bookings. The subsequent refusal by venue owners to return their money, has led to considerable distress among consumers in different parts of the country.The consumer complaints in this regard reveal several exploitative practices, requiring the intervention of the consumer protection regulator- -the Central Consumer Protection Authority- constituted under the Consumer Protection Act of 2019.First and foremost, a booking amount should be a small percentage of the total charge for the venue. Instead, it is found that most of these wedding halls are collecting the entire amount in advance, several months before the wedding date. These are not small amounts and run into lakhs to rupees. Second, they incorporate contract terms that are highly prejudicial to consumer interest. For example, they say that these booking deposits are non-refundable. Some say that the consumer forfeits the right to a refund in case of cancellation or even change of date! There are also clauses that impose a hefty cancellation charge. Some of them even give the businesses the right to cancel the booking and give the hall to someone else and also retain the advance paid by the consumer! In short, the contracts are heavily loaded against consumers and restrict their rights given under the Consumer Protection Act.These arbitrary clauses are mostly not read out or explained to the consumer at the time of booking. But even if consumers are informed of these conditions, they have no option but to accept them, because it is impossible to find a venue that does not impose such discriminatory conditions.Consumers can of course seek the help of the consumer courts to get back their money from venue owners, but given the large number of complaints that such denial of refunds have generated, this is a fit case for the Central Consumer Protection Authority to take up. In fact, there is an urgent need for the authority to quickly investigate into these cases, formulate a clear policy vis-à-vis refunds, declare all those unfair contract terms as illegal and unenforceable and also ensure that these contracts are in future fair to both parties.The new Consumer Protection Act of 2019 recognises the need to protect consumers from unfair terms in consumer contracts and defines what constitutes an ‘unfair contract’. Accordingly, “Imposing on the consumer any unreasonable charge, obligation or condition which puts such consumer to disadvantage” is an unfair contract. Similarly, “Imposing any penalty on the consumer, for the breach of contract thereof which is wholly disproportionate to the loss occurred due to such breach to the other party to the contract” is an unfair contract and therefore a violation of the consumer’s right to a fair deal.I must mention that last year, the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) in the United Kingdom investigated into similar complaints of wedding businesses using unfair contracts to limit their liability in respect of refunds, following cancellation of bookings due to Covid-19. It then issued a ‘Guidance’ on the topic to ‘help consumers understand their rights and help businesses treat consumers fairly’. Subsequently, in an open letter to the wedding sector on September 7, 2020, CMA explained what terms were unfair under the law and said such clauses in the contracts of wedding businesses were unenforceable. CMA also asked businesses to examine their contracts and ensure that they meet the requirements of law. “Where businesses do not comply with consumer law, they risk action by the CMA or any other enforcer under the consumer protection law, such as local authority trading standards services”, the letter said. CMA has also issued Guidance to businesses on how to write fair contracts and avoid unfair contract terms.There is need for similar intervention here too, to protect consumer interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/legal-intervention-needed-to-protect-interest-of-customers-of-wedding-industry-101624815127827.html
27-06-2021||Other||Dombivli family organises online wedding for couple in Canada||A Dombivli-based family, who waited for two long years to get their Canada-based son married, finally organised the ceremony online, as he could not fly to the city due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. The Chaudhari family, residing at Bhopar, Dombivli (East), invited a priest to the house and sent all the necessary items for the ceremony to Canada, All the wedding rituals for the groom Bhushan Chaudhari, 30, and bride Mandeep Kaur, 28, who are based at Canada on Saturday evening, were performed online. “My son Bhushan left for Canada for higher studies seven years ago. After his studies, he got a job and citizenship there. He met Mandeep Kaur in Canada and both decided to get married. In October 2019 the families met. The wedding was planned in 2020. However, due to the pandemic, they could not fly to Dombivli neither we could go to Canada,” said Hiraman Chaudhari, 63, father of the groom. The bride’s family who are based in Amritsar also came to Dombivli for the ceremony. “The marriage was postponed several times in the past two years. We decided to do it online as there was no other option. We sent all the necessary items for the rituals including clothes to them through courier and called the priest at home to do the rituals online,” added Chaudhari. The family also arranged a photographer to capture the moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dombivli-family-organises-online-wedding-for-couple-in-canada-101624815067796.html
27-06-2021||Other||One more held for murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankad||Police have arrested one more suspect on Saturday in connection with the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankad, who was allegedly beaten to death by two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar and at least 12 other men at Chhatrasal Stadium in May. Police, on Sunday, said with this, the total number of people arrested in Dhankar’s murder case has reached 12, while non-bailable warrants have been issued against six more suspects, who are still evading arrest. The suspect arrested on Saturday has been identified as 22-year-old Gourav Lora--a wrestler by profession and also a close aide of Kumar. Lora was with Kumar and was involved in the alleged attack on Dhankad and his two friends, including Sonu Mahal, who is said to be a relative of wanted gangster Sandeep alias Kala Jatheri, said police.“We arrested Lora from Delhi around 9.30pm on Saturday. He was produced before a court, that remanded him to our custody for two days. Interrogation of Lora is important to recover the stick he used to assault Dhankad and the clothes he was wearing at the time of the attack,” said deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj.Police said after the alleged attack on Dhankar, Lora had been hiding at various places in Delhi and Haryana. The investigating team had been conducting searches to nab him. On June 26, the team received inputs that Lora was in Delhi and arrested him.The police, however, did not divulge the area from where he was nabbed, neither the reason behind his presence in Delhi. Police said Kumar and his associates allegedly assaulted Dhankar and two of his friends at the stadium on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 with hockey sticks, baseball bats and other blunt weapons, over an alleged property dispute. Dhankar eventually succumbed to the injuries. The police claim Kumar is the “main culprit and mastermind” of the murder and said there is electronic evidence where Kumar and his associates can be seen beating Dhankar. A Delhi court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Kumar, who was arrested on May 23, along with co-accused Ajay Kumar Sehrawat, till July 9. So far, Kumar has been in police custody for 10 days and under judicial custody for 23 days. Kumar was recently shifted to Tihar prison from Mandoli jail, following apprehensions that he may be attacked by accomplices of Kala Jatheri, who are lodged in the same jail, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-more-held-for-murder-of-wrestler-sagar-dhankad-101624814887784.html
27-06-2021||Gurugram||SMC seeks district admin’s help to prevent illegal encroachments in Aravallis||After razing illegal encroachments from Raisina village in the Aravallis, the Sohna Municipal Council (SMC) will now write to the Gurugram administration seeking help to prevent new encroachments there, officials said on Sunday. Last week, the SMC had razed nine illegal constructions built in farmhouses in the Aravallis.Sandeep Malik, executive officer, SMC, said, “We will write to the district administration, seeking cooperation from all departments concerned to stop fresh illegal encroachments in the Aravallis. The farmhouses that are already constructed have electricity and water connections but are illegal as those have been built on the Aravalli land. Because of other connections available with them, it becomes difficult for us to demolish these illegal structures.”He added that “monitoring becomes easy” if other departments like forest, power, water, and revenue also keep a check on such illegal encroachments. The letter is being drafted and will be sent this week.The SMC has been receiving complaints of fresh encroachments, such as construction of walls, in the past two months, Malik added. Earlier this month, the authority had sent notices to 15 such farmhouse owners, and nine of the structures were demolished last week.According to records submitted in the National Green Tribunal (NGT), there are 434 illegally constructed farmhouses in the Aravallis in Gurugram.During the lockdown due to the second wave of Covid-19 in the past two months, cases of encroachments have increased in the Aravallis of Gurugram and Faridabad. Gurugram forest department officials say every week, they receive an average of two complaints of fresh illegal encroachments being made in the Aravallis.Recently, the forest department closed an illegal route constructed through the forest near Damdama in the Sohna forest range. The department has also formed a 30-member team to check illegal encroachments in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/smc-seeks-district-admin-s-help-to-prevent-illegal-encroachments-in-aravallis-101624814829844.html
27-06-2021||Other||Rapid Metro case: HSVP transfers ₹1,925 to escrow account||A payment of ₹1,925 was received in an escrow account for the Rapid Rail project, following directions from the Supreme Court earlier this year, officials of the erstwhile concessionaire said on Sunday.Officials of the Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Ltd (IL&FS), which developed and operated the Rapid Metro in Gurugram on Sunday received the payment from the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), as “interim termination payment”. A spokesperson for IL&FS spokesperson said that the money would be paid to the banks that financed the project, namely Andhra Bank, PNB, Indian Overseas Bank, Indian Bank, Punjab & Sindh Bank, UCO Bank, Bank of India and Dena Bank (presently Bank of Baroda), Corporation Bank, Central Bank of India and IIFC (UK) Ltd. The Gurugram Rapid Metro project was developed by IL&FS through its subsidiary special purpose vehicles (SPVs), Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon Limited (RMGL) and Rapid Metro Rail Gurgaon South Limited (RMGSL), between 2009 and 2013.The spokesperson said that all the banks were partners in either of the subsidiaries. Ajit Balaji Joshi, the chief administrator of HSVP, said that they had deposited the money in an escrow amount as per the directions of the Supreme Court. “This matter is in arbitration and money has been deposited in the escrow account as per the order of Supreme Court,” he said. The case pertains to litigation between IL&FS and HSVP over the operation of the Rapid Metro rail project, which came to halt due to lack of traffic on the route. IL&FS officials said that due to multiple unmet obligations, they had terminated the concession agreement and demanded termination payments as per the agreement, in case of default by HSVP. The HSVP, however, disputed the contention and challenged the matter in the Punjab and Haryana high court. The high court ruled in September 2019 that operation and maintenance of the metro link be handed over to HSVP and directed the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) to carry out a financial audit of total debt due. The court also ruled that the HSVP must transfer 80% of the debt due, as determined by the CAG, to an escrow account. In September 2020, the auditors determined the debt to be ₹2,407 crore and the high court took note of the same on September 28, 2020, said IL&FS officials. The HSVP, however, raised several objections to the CAG audit report.The concessionaire, IL&FS, then moved the Supreme Court, seeking termination payments from the HSVP, after the authority failed to pay an amount of ₹1,925 crore amounting to 80% of the debt due of ₹2,407 crore, as per the CAG audit. On March 26, 2021, the Supreme Court ruled against the HSVP and directed the authority to deposit ₹1,925 crore within three months. The IL&FS spokesperson described the development as “unprecedented” and said it would greatly boost the morale of infrastructure and project development companies across the country.“The Supreme Court ruling on March 26, 2021, followed by HSVP’s compliance with the order and transfer of the payable amount to the IL&FS Group entities, will go a long way in protecting the interest of stakeholders and lenders in the Indian infrastructure sector. This ruling will also set a precedence for other projects wherein infrastructure companies, including IL&FS, are seeking payment of their legitimate dues and enforceability of valid contracts and concession agreements with various state governments,” the company spokesperson said.Appropriation of any amount from the escrow account shall be subject to further orders of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal or other competent legal authority, as per the order, and the same would be duly complied with by IL&FS, the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rapid-metro-case-hsvp-transfers-1-925-to-escrow-account-101624814828504.html
27-06-2021||Gurugram||7 MCG XENs served notices over misconduct in street lighting projects||The additional commissioner of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), Rohtash Bishnoi, served notices to at least seven MCG executive engineers (XENs) on Sunday for “disobedience of lawful orders”. The XENs sanctioned and allotted projects amounting to ₹1 crore — all related to streetlighting — without taking necessary approvals from senior officials, according to the MCG officials.Either the additional MCG commissioner or the XEN (electrical wing) has the power to sanction, approve, or allot projects related to streetlighting. Taking cognisance of this, Bishnoi served notices to the officers concerned, asking them to explain their actions in writing, before any disciplinary action was initiated against them.“It has been observed that you (seven XENs) are exercising the powers which are not conferred upon you, and this way, you are abusing your official position in the MCG... This act on your part is an act of unbecoming behaviour of an officer, gross moral misconduct, indiscipline and disorderly behaviour. Before any action is initiated, you are hereby reprimanded to stop preparing the estimates and executing all works related to the street lighting and all electricity and further to handover the ongoing works to the XEN (electrical) concerned,” excerpts of Bishnoi’s order read.Bishnoi’s order further states that it is “abundantly clear that an administrative approval and work allotment for all works pertaining to street lighting and electric works, amounting up to a sum of ₹1 crore, is to process through concerned XEN electrical, superintending engineer, chief engineer, joint commissioner, or additional commissioner”.However, as per the available records of the MCG, the seven XENs in question were found to be preparing all estimates, and also executing works concerning street lighting, and other electric works on their own instead of putting up such projects for administrative and financial sanctions to the senior officials or the XEN (electrical) for approval.XEN (electrical) also served noticeBishnoi also served a notice to the XEN (electrical) on Sunday. During a field visit on Friday morning, he found that streetlights were turned on in Sector 38, Khandsa Road, and adjoining sectors. Stating that it was a wastage of electricity and finances, Bishnoi, in his notice, told the XEN that “he is neither carrying out proper monitoring or supervising street lighting”.His order further stated that the MCG’s agency, looking after operation and maintenance of streetlights, is also not working properly. Bishnoi has directed the XEN to improve the supervision of his staff and issue a notice to the agency concerned, and also impose a penalty against it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/7-mcg-xens-served-notices-over-misconduct-in-street-lighting-projects-101624814828943.html
27-06-2021||Gurugram||MCG goes ahead with waste-to-wonder project||Officials of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram on Sunday said that the civic body is continuing with its work on a waste-to-wonder project at the Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Park in Sector 17, despite residents’ objections.According to officials, MCG commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja visited the site and said that around 30 structures, based on the theme of automobiles, will be developed from junk and erected in the park. Ahuja visited the park on Friday evening for a site inspection.Ahuja said that the project will cost around ₹2.5 crore and structures, such as ships, buses, trains, helicopters, cars, bikes, aeroplanes, cycles, UFOs, vehicles from Batman superhero movies, swings, tricycles and a statue of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, will be placed in the park.“The waste-to-wonder project will also have six selfie points and a food court will also be developed around the park. After the completion of this project, people will get a better place to visit in Gurugram and it will attract tourists not only from different parts of the country, but also from abroad,” said Ahuja, in an official release issued by the civic body following his visit.In August last year, taking inspiration from the waste-to-wonder park set up at Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi, the MCG decided to develop a similar project for Gurugram as well. The waste-to-wonder project in Delhi opened in February 2019 and has replicas of the Seven Wonders of the World, all of which are made from scrap.MCG officials privy to the matter said that of the 30 structures, construction of 29 are nearing completion while work on a solitary structure is at a nascent stage. The structures have been developed using items such as pipes, metals, rusted iron and old vehicle parts, among other junk materials.Residents of sectors 14 and 17 have been protesting against MCG’s project ever since the park was reopened on June 2 after Covid-19 restrictions were lifted after a gap of two months. The park is located adjacent to Sector 14 and falls under Sector 17.Residents said that during April and May, when the park was closed for the public, the park became heavily concretised and also many trees were axed to make space for the structures.The residents’ welfare association (RWA) of Sector 14 also filed a petition on the matter at the Punjab and Haryana high court, the hearing of which is scheduled to take place on June 29.“Similar to the Sarai Kale Khan project, the MCG should have developed the waste-to-wonder project on barren land instead of axing a large number of trees and removing shrubs and grass to develop it in Netaji Subhas Park. Given the city’s green cover is already in a major crisis, the MCG should have developed it on areas where encroachment is common so that government land remains preserved,” said Sanjeev Agrawal, a member of the Sector 14 RWA.He said that the park has been a popular walking spot for residents of Old Gurugram over the past three decades, but it has “lost its charm” due to the project.“Walkers no longer want to visit the park as paths have narrowed or blocked due to the waste-to-wonder project and the absence of greenery has also made several patches dusty. Due to these reasons, we are pursuing the matter legally in the high court and hoping for a decision in our favour,” said Agrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-goes-ahead-with-waste-to-wonder-project-101624814769158.html
27-06-2021||Other||Car mechanic held with 500 gm heroin worth ₹75 lakh||New Delhi A car mechanic from Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly, who allegedly turned into a drug supplier to earn quick money, was allegedly arrested in Nand Nagri with 500 grams of heroin, worth around ₹75 lakh in international market, the police said on Sunday.Mohammad Ishaq’s arrest came after the narcotics cell team, which caught three alleged drug peddlers, including a couple, from Bawana with half a kilogram of heroin last month, followed the supply trail to Bareilly and identified him as a key supplier of the contraband in Delhi, said deputy commissioner of police (crime and narcotic cell) Chinmoy Biswal.Police said that they were developing their case against Ishaq’s illegal activities when on June 22, the narcotic cell team received information that Ishaq would be coming to Nand Nagri to deliver heroin to a drug dealer. Police said they laid a trap and caught him with 500 grams of heroin on June 23. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered and Ishaq was arrested, they said.During the interrogation, DCP Biswal said, Ishaq allegedly revealed that he started his career as a car mechanic and previously worked in Bengaluru, Jaipur and in UP’s Rampur. “Last year, Ishaq came in touch with one Bareilly-based drug supplier and joined his drug trafficking network. He was introduced to some Delhi-based habitual drug peddlers, including Mohammad Tabrej, who was involved in 18 cases and was arrested last month with his wife and associate, along with 500 grams of heroin,” said the DCP.DCP Biswal said that Ishaq, who visited Delhi once every week to allegedly deliver heroin to clients, always travelled in buses to avoid getting caught and delivered the consignments mostly in the evening. To avoid arrest, Ishaq also never disclosed his real name to the clients.“His interrogation has given us certain important leads on which our team is working to bust the entire supply network and catch people involved in it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/car-mechanic-held-with-500-gm-heroin-worth-75-lakh-101624814707774.html
27-06-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka logs 3,604 new cases, 89 deaths||After over four months, Covid-19 related fatalities in Karnataka dipped below the hundred mark with 89 being reported on Sunday while 3,604 fresh cases took the overall tally to 28,34,630, the Health department said.The death toll rose to 34,743 with 89 being reported on Sunday.The number of active cases stood at 1,01,042 whie the total discharges went up to 26,98,822 with the recovery of 7,699 people.Bengaluru Urban district logged the highest number of cases at 788 and 11 deaths.The city has so far reported 12,11,430 infections and 15,581 deaths. There were 63,473 active cases.Mysuru district remained the second major Covid hotspot with 478 new cases while it was on the top in terms of fatalities with 15 deaths.Dakshina Kannada added 454 infections and 15 Covid related deaths.According to the health bulletin, Hassan reported 322 infections, followed by Shivamogga (177), Belagavi (143), Chikkamagaluru (126), Davangere (118), Tumakuru (116), Kodagu (115), Mandya (109) and Kolar (101).Infections were reported in other districts as well including Ballari, Bengaluru Rural, Chamarajanagar, Dharwad, Udupi and Uttara Kannada.The department said there were eight deaths in Ballari, six each in Dharwad and Belagavi, five in Shivamogga, four each in Kolar and Hassan.Fatalities were reported in 10 other districts as well.There were zero fatalities in Bagalkote, Bidar, Chikkaballapura, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Kalaburagi, Ramanagara, Uttara Kannada, Vijayapura and Yadgir.The state conducted 1,64,636 Covid tests including 1,25,566 RT-PCR tests and other methods.So far 3.38 crore tests have been done cumulatively, the department added.As many as 2.17 crore inoculations have been achieved in the state comprising first and second dose of vaccine including 1,00,036 on Sunday.The positivity rate for the day was 2.18 per cent and Case Fatality Rate was 2.46 per cent, the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid-19-karnataka-logs-3-604-new-cases-89-deaths-101624814172160.html
27-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: Two youths died in road mishap||Two youths on Sunday morning died after their bike hit a road divider on Bhikhua More on National Highway 30 under the Fatuha police station area. Their bodies were sent for autopsy to the NMCH, police said.The deceased persons were identified as Sanskar and Sourabh. “The police also recovered the damaged motorcycle from the spot,” said SHO Manoj Kumar Singh.The accident occurred around 8.30am. The duo was moving towards the highway and Sanskar started rash driving, following which he lost control and badly hit a road divider. Both persons died on the spot and their faces were badly damaged, police said.On getting information, a police team from Fatuha rushed to the spot and sent bodies for autopsy. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-two-youths-died-in-road-mishap-101624814047742.html
27-06-2021||Other||Bihar: Bodies of woman, daughter found||Narkatiaganj railway police Sunday recovered the bodies of a woman and her daughter from near a railway track at Khairpokhara railway station in West Champaran. The woman had allegedly eloped with her lover from Chaturbagaha village under the Yadavpur police station area in Gopalganj district on June 22 and took her daughter along. A case of abduction was registered against a named accused by the woman’s husband. The deceased woman’s mother Pujanti Devi said that Rekha Kumari and her daughter went missing from her in-law’s house during a wedding ceremony on June 22. “We were looking for her when we came to know about her death,” Devi said. Nausad Ahmed, a co-villager, said that Kumari was having an affair with one Sanjay Sah, a resident of Bairiyatand village. “She got married to Sandeep Sah in 2018 and had two daughters with him,” he said.Police said the circumstantial evidence suggested that Rekha and her daughter were murdered. “The bodies were handed over to the family members after postmortem examination. Investigation into the matter is on,” said Ashok Kumar Singh, superintendent of rail police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-bodies-of-woman-daughter-found-101624813988281.html
27-06-2021||Patna||Educational institutions in Bihar likely to reopen after July 6: Minister||Educational institutions in the state will reopen in a phased manner after July 6 if the Covid-19 situation remained stable, Education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said on Sunday. Officials of the education department said that they have planned a phase-wise reopening of educational institutions while keeping Covid-19 safety protocols in mind.“In the first phase, universities and colleges will be allowed to function with 50% students along with other safety measures. In the next phase, senior secondary and secondary classes will resume, followed by junior classes. We already have designed catch up course to compensate for the learning loss among students,” said an official of the education department.All government and private educational institutions across the state are facing closure since April 5..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/educational-institutions-in-bihar-likely-to-reopen-after-july-6-minister-101624813987700.html
27-06-2021||Other||East Champaran: Three kids drowned in separate incidents||Three children were drowned in separate incidents at two villages of East Champaran district on Sunday. Two children died after a boat carrying four children to their village at Sarangpur village under capsized in a low-lying area filled with water. “The children had gone to the other side of the village in a country-made boat for cutting grass for their livestock when the incident occurred,” said Kalim Khan, the officer- in-charge of the Kesariya police station. While two other children swam to safety, the remaining two drowned, police said. In another incident, a three-year-old boy drowned after he fell in a pond while playing at Madhubani village in Fenhara block on Sunday, said an official at the disaster management control room in Motihari..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/east-champaran-three-kids-drowned-in-separate-incidents-101624813928859.html
27-06-2021||Other||Notorious UP-based interstate liquor smuggler held in Kaimur||The Kaimur police on Saturday night arrested an interstate liquor smuggler and his three associates from National Highway-2 under Durgawati police station, officials said on Sunday.According to the police, liquor smuggler Arun Singh made Varanasi his base for large scale smuggling of truckloads of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) in bordering districts of Bihar. Despite continuous efforts, he was successfully operating the illegal business after liquor ban was imposed in Bihar, superintendent of police (SP) Rakesh Kumar said.“On a tip-off about Singh returning to Varanasi via NH-2, a Kaimur police team was on high alert in bordering Durgawati police station area. Singh’s SUV was intercepted and he was arrested with his three associates. The SUV and truck that delivered the IMFL in Rohtas on Friday was seized and one of his main agents in Bihar was arrested,” the SP said. Police, however, denied disclosing the names of the other arrested persons in interest of the ongoing investigation.Police was tracing the identity and location of other key members of the racket from the mobile phones seized from Singh and his associates, the SP said, adding that raids were carried out in coordination with police of concerned districts to arrest them.As per available information, Singh earlier owned a brick kiln business in Varanasi. He took to illegal liquor smuggling after it was banned in Bihar in April, 2016, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/notorious-up-based-interstate-liquor-smuggler-held-in-kaimur-101624813928250.html
27-06-2021||Patna||SHO axed over dereliction of duty||Station house officer of Ramkrishna Nagar was suspended on charge of dereliction of duty on Sunday after two constables of the same police station were arrested a few days ago for taking ₹4,000 as extortion money from a hotel owner.According to a press release issued by the SSP office, after Rajeshwar Prasaad’s suspension, Jahangir Alam Khan has been made the new SHO of Ramkrishna Nagar police station. Meanwhile, Chaitanand Jha has been made the new SHO of the Didarganj police station. A few days ago, the vigilance team had arrested the then SHO of Didarganj police station Rajesh Kumar and constable Vivek Kumar for allegedly taking a bribe of ₹60,000 from a sand trader..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/sho-axed-over-dereliction-of-duty-101624813927690.html
27-06-2021||Patna||STET 2019 candidates not satisfied over inclusion of previously qualified teachers in 7th pay commission, threaten to move HC||The secondary teachers’ eligibility test (STET) 2019 qualified candidates, who staged a protest last week due to their names not mentioned in the merit list, have expressed dissatisfaction over the state education department’s decision to include previously qualified STET teachers in the 7th phase of the recruitment. Gaurav Dipanker, state president of BEd Qualified Candidates Struggle Committee, said, “We will move Patna high court on Monday as we are not satisfied with the decision. Our main concern is to get jobs in the current phase of recruitment rather than getting assurance for future recruitment. We are already struggling for three years as we took the exam thrice.” Meanwhile, TET Shikshak Sangh (TSS) has also come up in support of the protesting candidates. Amit Vikram, the state convener of TSS, said, “The appointment authorities are entrusted with the responsibility of preparing the merit list, but the Bihar School Examination Board itself declared students included or excluded from the merit list, which was against the laid norms. Besides, marks obtained by candidates in their intermediate, graduation and BEd exam is given weightage during merit list preparation.” “We urge the government to opt the fair and transparent way of teachers’ recruitment else we would move the high court for seeking justice,” he addedAs per a report submitted by the review committee on Saturday, STET certificates issued with effect from February 11, 2011, will remain valid for lifelong as NCTE has asked all states to take necessary actions in terms of validity extension.“Candidates who have qualified STET exam whether in 2011 or 2019 will be eligible for recruitment in the seventh phase as well as in future recruitments. The appointment authorities constituted under district boards and civic bodies would prepare a merit list for the appointment of teachers,” the report said. A four-member review committee was constituted on June 22 to assess the cases of candidates who had qualified STET 2011 but their certificates were not being considered valid for the appointment and also those who qualified STET 2019 but their names did not figure on the merit list.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/stet-2019-candidates-not-satisfied-over-inclusion-of-previously-qualified-teachers-in-7th-pay-commission-threaten-to-move-hc-101624813867749.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh accuses BJP of adopting unethical tactics in UP district panchayat chiefs’ polls||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday accused the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the state of adopting “undemocratic” and “unethical” tactics over the zila panchayat chief elections scheduled on July 3.In a statement, the SP chief said that the way the BJP “prevented” certain candidates from filing their nominations has hurt the sanctity of the elections. “This is a conspiracy for the murder of democracy. Even in Varanasi and Gorakhpur, the BJP was badly defeated in the district panchayat members’ polls (held in April). And now the unopposed election of the BJP nominees is no less than a miracle. The BJP proved once again that it does not respect the public mandate,” the former chief minister said.In the last four years the BJP had betrayed the people at every step, all essential items saw a steep price rise, law and order was demolished, and thousands lost their lives under “corona mismanagement”, he alleged.“The people will teach the party a lesson in the 2022 UP assembly polls,” he said.On the other hand, Uttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh has hit back at the Samajwadi Party (SP) for making allegations about his party in connection with the district panchayat chairpersons’ poll nominations. “Facing a certain defeat, the SP leaders are now blaming BJP though their leader has found a way to shun owning defeat by blaming district party chiefs,” he said in Bundelkhand. “They who abused each democratic institution, are now talking ethics and morality. When SP leaders were indoors at the height of Covid surge, the BJP cadres were out, helping the poor and needy,” the state BJP chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-accuses-bjp-of-adopting-unethical-tactics-in-up-district-panchayat-chiefs-polls-101624813808244.html
27-06-2021||Other||Body of missing YouTuber fished out of the Yamuna||New Delhi: The body of a 24-year-old YouTuber was found in the Yamuna river in north Delhi’s Civil Lines on Friday, two days after she left her home in Burari and went missing, the police said, adding that they have got a CCTV camera’s footage in which she is seen jumping off the Signature Bridge. No case has been registered so far.A senior police officer said on June 24, the woman’s father approached the police and filed a complaint saying that his daughter left home in the morning but did not return till late night. Her cellphone was also not reachable.On the morning of June 26, a woman’s body was found in the Yamuna near Kudesia Ghat close to Kashmere Gate. Her identity was established as the woman whose missing complaint was filed by her father, the officer said.“We checked the CCTV cameras and found that the woman had de-boarded an auto-rickshaw at the Signature Bridge. The camera captured her jumping off the bridge around 3.30 pm on June 24. She was first seen climbing the railing of the bridge, but failed. She then climbed over gaps in the railing and jumped off the bridge. Her body was sent to a government hospital’s mortuary for autopsy,” the officer added.During the enquiry, the officer said, it was learnt that the woman had started a coffee shop in north Delhi’s Vijay Nagar in partnership with her friends. On June 24, she left home and reached the coffee shop, that was inaugurated just a couple of days ago. She had an argument with her business partners, following which she left the place in an auto. From there she directly went to the Signature Bridge and jumped into the river. Further enquiry into the matter was on.The police said that the woman was active on social media, especially YouTube where she made inspirational videos.(If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Helplines: Fortis Stress Helpline: 8376804102, Sumaitri: 01123389090, Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/body-of-missing-youtuber-fished-out-of-the-yamuna-101624813687786.html
27-06-2021||Pune||MSEDCL Pune faces pending power bills worth ₹679 crore||MSEDCL Pune region authorities are facing non-payment of power bills estimated to be worth ₹679 crore. The Covid-19 crisis and its economic impact ranging from job losses to loss of livelihood has resulted in non-payment of dues by several citizens during the district since 2020. The MSEDCL authorities have begun a drive to recover unpaid power bills from domestic, commercial and industrial consumers and the intensified drive will be carried out on Saturday and Sundays besides all the weekdays. The agency has also started disconnecting power supply to consumers who have not paid their bills for several months. The MSEDCL in its release said that in the five districts under Pune region — Pune, Solapur, Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli — there are 13.86 lakh consumers who have not paid their bill from April 2020 to January 2021 their supply was not discontinued despite not paying the power bills. The MEDCL PRO office stated that the defaulters must pay their arrears at the earliest by either logging onto the website for online payment or visit their nearest MSEDCL billing payment centres to avoid further action. The authorities have maintained that the MSEDCL was facing several challenges like financial issues in carrying out its work due to lack of revenues. It further said that the financial position of MSEDCL was precarious and strict option was the only alternative left before them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-pune-faces-pending-power-bills-worth-rs-679-crore-101624812427587.html
27-06-2021||Kolkata||Debanjan Deb: Saga of conman who spent his money to run fake vaccination camps||Debanjan Deb was the epitome of success. The coveted IAS tag behind his name, a blue beacon car to ride on, social media posts which showed him off posing with the citys power elite at various functions, were all his to flaunt.Earlier this year when a Tagore bust in North Kolkata was unveiled by a local library, the plaque below had a list of dignitaries who were present or were involved in siting the bust. Alongside the inscribed names of a member of parliament, state legislators and other dignitaries, was Deb's name, with the job description of 'joint secretary' to the government of West Bengal.For his classmates at the citys Taki House school, he was a backbench boy to be proud of.However, when news broke on television channels that Deb was a conman, who had held fake vaccination camps and duped people into believing he was an IAS officer and a top official with Kolkata Municipal Corporation, his friends and neighbours were stunned.Celebrities and politicians with whom he had posted pictures on social media started scrambling to distance themselves from the man, who they said"We used to call Debanjan, Debu. He was a very mediocre student. A timid boy who never got into any mischief. When we heard he had gone up in life, we were happy and proud who could imagine that he had actually transformed into a smooth-talking conman," Deb's classmate, in Taki House in Sealdah, who did not wish to be named told PTI."It seems like a dream which went awry and turned into a nightmare, the classmate added. Now none of his friends or neighbours want to own up to being close to him. He has disgraced us, our school we feel jittery about telling anyone we knew him," the friend said wryly.His father Manoranjan Deb, a retired deputy collector of the state excise department, has taken to bed in shock and refuses to meet anyone, while neighbours have effectively boycotted the family.Deb completed his graduation in Zoology from Charuchandra college and took admission for a masters degree in Genetics at Calcutta University which he never completed. Things started taking a new turn in 2014 when Deb appeared for the civil services examinations."Debanjan could not crack the UPSC preliminary examinations but told his parents that he was successful and will be travelling for probationer training," said a police officer investigating the cases against the 28-year-old conman, which now range from cheating to attempt to murder as his fake vaccination camos have administered injections on some 2,000 people, the after effects of which are yet to be ascertained.Instead of travelling to Mussoorie for his training, Deb went to work with an event management firm and during that stint came out with a few song albums. In 2017, he was back and told his parents that his training was over and he had gained a place in the state secretariat.Last year, after the outbreak of the pandemic, the young 'IAS officer' started procuring sanitisers, masks, PPEs, gloves and rented a few rooms at a club in Taltala to run his business."He had made good profit in dealing in goods them and in the process started meeting officer-in-charges of several police stations, a few politicians and other influential people," the police officer said.To build a rapport with politicians and top functionaries he started donating consignments of masks, sanitisers and PPE kits, very often in the presence of a local leader. Invariably he would tell politicians, top bureaucrats and policemen that he was a social worker. Photographs of such functions tarted appearing on his social media posts, which took care to use the term "public servant" to describe him. However, to the public at large he let it be known that he was an IAS officer, a claim he did not make either on his facebook or twitter account.He went to great lengths to establish his identity as a government official, printing fake letterheads and identity cards. Even fake email accounts resembling Kolkata municipal corporation accounts were set up. While KMC uses kmcgov.in, Deb used kmcgov.org.Fake bank accounts too were opened using forged identity cards of Kolkata Corporation officials, which were used to rout payments.He opened a new "Urban Planning and Development" company and set up an office in Kasba where he office to resemble a KMC office."He not only printed several documents bearing fake KMC logos, he also managed to have made writing pad having the state government's Biswa Bangla logo as well as holograms of the civic body," the police officer said.Everything could have continued to run its course for some more time, but for his mistake in inviting actress and TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty to take the anti-Covid jab at one of the free vaccination camps run by him. The actress suspected it was a fake for some reason and alerted Kolkata Municipal Corporation officials, who soon found out that Deb was an imposter and had him arrested.While the police officers investigating him say that they understand his desire to make money through his company or gain a fake social standing by posing as an IAS officer, they are still clueless why he did is "charitable free vaccination camps" spending money out of his pocket in buying anti-biotics which were injected and hiring nurses and doctors for the job.Psychologist Debasish Chakraborty who has studied similar cases, says that there is a category of individuals who are willing to run the risk of getting into serious trouble merely to get a kick out of duping people."It's a form of pleasure seeing people giving you respect and attention even through false means. This seems to be true in Debanjan's case," Chakraborty told PTI. This seems to have led Deb to appear as a social worker and start Covid- 19 vaccination camps free of cost to all, the psychologist said."He was not even bothered about the medical risks associated with injecting antibiotics like Amikacin, an antibiotic medication used for a number of bacterial infections. He had become desperate for the fame which was not his," Chakraborty said. PTI SCH JRC JRC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/debanjan-deb-saga-of-conman-who-spent-his-money-to-run-fake-vaccination-camps-101624811028455.html
27-06-2021||Pune||Pirangut fire: 20 days after incident, families await compensation||The kin of the 17 deceased workers in the June 7 fire incident at SVS Acqua Technologies Company in Pirangut are still awaiting financial compensation from the company, state, and Central government. “The company gave us cheques for ₹10 lakh compensation through insurance of each deceased person. In our case, I made both my children as the nominees. The company has given us all four cheques worth ₹2.5 lakh - two that have to be submitted on July 4 and two in December. But we doubt these cheques will get encashed,” said Ulhas Gonde, who lost his wife in the fire. While the relatives are struggling with the compensation, the company has plans of staying in operation for a long time in the future. Either that or the company is making false promises to the deceased people’s relatives. “Someone sent a message saying the company has promised one family member per deceased with employment in their company on a permanent basis. ESI (insurance) letter has to be filled and submitted in the insurance company’s office in Baner. We got a call saying the cheques are ready, but we have not yet found it within us to go back there and collect,” said Somnath Ghodake who lost his elder sister in the fire. The local administration, on the other hand, is yet to receive the amount from the state government which had promised ₹5 lakh to the next of kin of all deceased in the fire accident. There is also no update from the Prime Minister’s disaster relief fund which had promised ₹2 lakh to the next of kin of each deceased. “We have received ₹1 lakh per person, but we have not issued cheques yet. The remaining amount got sanction last week and we are hoping that it will reflect in the bank account by this week. The cheques for the total amount of ₹5 lakh will be issued immediately afterwards. For the Prime minister’s national relief fund, we have sent all the required information but have not heard back from them,” said Abhay Chavan, tehsildar of Mulshi. The paperwork for land acquisition for a fire station, for which the Mulshi industrial association and the Pune metropolitan region development authority (PMRDA) have been making efforts, is also yet to see the light of day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pirangut-fire-20-days-after-incident-families-await-compensation-101624811647567.html
27-06-2021||Jaipur||Quit India Movement anniversary: Rajasthan govt to honour all freedom fighters from state||Going beyond a directive by the Centre, the Rajasthan government on Sunday said it will honour all freedom fighters in the state who made a significant contribution to the independence struggle to commemorate the Quit India Movement.According to an official statement, the Union home ministry had asked the state government to honour only two freedom fighters. However, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has decided to honour all freedom fighters in the state, the statement said.The General Administration Department has issued instructions to honour the freedom fighters at their residence by the concerned district collector, additional district collector or sub-divisional officer in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.On August 9, 1942, the Quit India Movement was launched under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi which resulted in freedom of the country from British rule five years later on August 15, 1947.Last year on August 9, the Rajasthan government had honoured 29 freedom fighters in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/quit-india-movement-anniversary-rajasthan-govt-to-honour-all-freedom-fighters-from-state-101624810766783.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||UP district panchayat chiefs’ polls: BJP, Opposition trade barbs after controversy over nominations||The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Opposition fired verbal volleys at each other on Sunday after Saturday’s controversy-hit nominations for the zila panchayat chairpersons’ polls.While the BJP looked to have the upper hand in a majority of the 75 districts, the Opposition, which has accused the ruling party of “foul play”, sought to portray it as BJP’s “desperate bid” to make an impression ahead of the 2022 UP assembly polls.The zila panchayat chairpersons are elected by zila panchayat ward members. In April, maximum ward members backed by SP had won the polls and the BJP now looked to make amends in the elections for the zila panchayat chairpersons. The scene would be a little clearer on June 29, the last date for the withdrawal of nominations. Political observers are expecting several “withdrawals”. The final picture would be officially known on July 3, the voting and counting day. As of now, the BJP looked set to win unopposed in at least 17 districts, the SP in its bastion of Etawah even as the Opposition-backed zila panchayat members were holding press meets to talk of the alleged “irregular practices” by the administration. “The BJP is headed for a landslide win, a trailer ahead of the 2022 UP polls. The SP was unable to find candidates and workers in several places and that’s why it even expelled district chiefs at 11 places, majority of them in places where they were unable to put up candidates,” said UP BJP spokesman Manish Shukla. Dismissing the charge, SP MLC Udaiveer Singh said, “The BJP has read the writing on the wall. Just wait for a few months when people will finally show the door to this government.” The BSP that had backed candidates for zila panchayat ward members’ polls, surprisingly didn’t put up candidates for zila panchayat chairpersons’ posts, even in places like Ghaziabad and Moradabad where it had several zila panchayat ward members. The Congress put up just one candidate in the state – in Rae Bareli, the Lok Sabha constituency of party chief Sonia Gandhi as it looked like a straight contest between SP and BJP in Amethi, another Congress bastion that BJP wrested in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “The manner in which Opposition candidates were beaten up, prevented from filing nominations is shocking,” UP Congress Committee (UPCC) Ajay Kumar Lallu alleged. Police arrested several SP workers in Mahoba who had come prepared to wave black flags at visiting UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh.In Unnao, images of party MP Sakshi Maharaj blessing rebel Arun Singh, who filed his nomination as independent despite being hurriedly replaced by the BJP, embarrassed the ruling party.In Etah, both BJP and SP got two candidates each to file the nomination. There are 41 districts where there is a straight contest primarily between BJP and SP though in 11 other districts, a three-way contest is likely, provided there are no withdrawals in these districts by Tuesday. A maximum five candidates are in the fray in Bhadohi. UP BJP chief hits out at SPUttar Pradesh BJP chief Swatantra Dev has hit out at the Samajwadi Party (SP) for making allegations about his party in connection with the district panchayat chairpersons’ poll nominations. “Facing a certain defeat, the SP leaders are now blaming BJP though their leader has found a way to shun owning defeat by blaming district party chiefs,” he said in Bundelkhand. “They who abused each democratic institution, are now talking ethics and morality. When SP leaders were indoors at the height of Covid surge, the BJP cadres were out, helping the poor and needy,” the state chief added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-district-panchayat-chiefs-polls-bjp-opposition-trade-barbs-after-controversy-over-nominations-101624810448166.html
27-06-2021||Other||Chandigarh cop among 3 held for killing Mohali-based man||Four days after the body of a 45-year-old Punjab-origin man was recovered from an SUV, the Kurukshetra police have arrested three people – including a constable of the Chandigarh Police on murder charges.Police said accused are constable Manjeet Singh, of Devigarh village, Pradeep Kumar and Sukhpal Singh, of Kheri Raju Singh village in Patiala, Punjab.Kurukshetra DSP Narender Singh said that during interrogation, the accused confessed that they killed Sandeep Singh, of Mohali, over a financial dispute with Manjeet.As per the complaint filed by Sandeep’s wife Kuldeep Kaur, her husband was a commission agent and a property dealer and had agricultural land at the native village in Ferozepur, Punjab.On June 21, her husband received a phone call from Manjeet, who belongs to Devigarh village in Patiala. She said that on June 23, around 7pm she spoke to Sandeep over the phone and he told her that he was with Manjeet and they will reach Chandigarh in two hours but he did not come and his mobile phone was switched off.On June 24, his body was recovered from his SUV near Bodhani canal in Pehowa district.The DSP said during interrogation, Manjeet told the police that due to his bad service record, his increments were stopped.Two years ago, he had met Sandeep who told him to pay ₹10 lakh for help in getting his pending increments as he has links with top officials.He said that one-an-a-half-year ago, he gave Sandeep ₹10 lakh but neither did the latter approach any official nor return the money.On June 23, Manjeet, with the help of his friends, killed Sandeep with his licensed pistol, dumped the body in his car and fled.Police team led by investigation officer Dharambir arrested the three accused and they were produced in court which sent them to police remand, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-cop-among-3-held-for-killing-mohali-based-man-101624810328015.html
27-06-2021||Other||Two cops injured as miscreants attack police party in Karnal||Two officials of the Karnal police sustained injuries as some miscreants allegedly attacked them near Nissing village in district.The police team had received information about possibility of a clash between two groups. When the police tried to stop them, they attacked the cops, damaged the official vehicle and fled the spot.The injured cops were rushed to hospital and were discharged after first aid.Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said they got information that members of two groups may clash following their posts on social media and cops reached the spot.Some miscreants attacked them and two cops sustained minor injuries. According to the police, an FIR has been registered under Section 323 and 353 of the IPC against unknown accused and investigation is on to arrest them.Police have also rounded up some people for interrogation.7 BOOKED FOR MISBEHAVING WITH COPSIn another incident, the Karnal police have booked seven people for allegedly misbehaving with cops during the night domination at Basthali village in district.The cops alleged that the accused were under the influence of liquor, parked their car in the middle of the road and were abusing each other near the police checkpost.When police tried to pacify them, they misbehaved with the cops and abused them.As per the complaint filed by cops, accused Sanjeev Kumar, Ranjit Singh, Sumit Kumar, Ravi, Shishpal, Surender Kumar and Narender Kumar allegedly clashed with the police.They have been booked under Sections 353, 332 and 160 of the IPC and Sections 72 C(a) of the Excise Act.SIX BOOKED FOR MANHANDLING COPS
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Lockdown extended in Haryana till July 5, varsity campuses to remain open||Extending the lockdown on account of Covid-19 spread by another week till July 5, the Haryana government on Sunday allowed opening of university campuses for research scholars.An order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said the university campuses will be open for laboratory classes, remedial classes and doubt classes while following Covid-appropriate behaviour.However, anganwadi centres and creches under the women and child development department will continue to remain shut till July 31.Relaxations granted earlier will remain in force. These include allowing corporate offices to open in full attendance subject to adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour, opening of religious places with 50 persons at one time.Also, clubhouses, restaurants and bars of golf course will continue to remain open with 50% seating capacity from 10am to 10pm. Swimming pools and spas will continue to remain closed.All shops will continue to operate from 9am to 8pm; and restaurants and bars including those in hotels and malls will be allowed to open from 10am to 10pm with 50% seating capacity.Timings for shopping malls will remain the 10am to 8pm. The permissible gatherings in weddings and funerals will continue to be up to 50 persons.In open spaces, gatherings will be allowed with a ceiling of 50 persons. Gyms will continue to remain open from 6am to 8pm with 50% capacity after adopting requisite social distancing norms.All production units, establishments and industries will continue to function as per the previous orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lockdown-extended-in-haryana-till-july-5-varsity-campuses-to-remain-open-101624810090693.html
27-06-2021||Other||Dry spell in Haryana worries paddy growers||The extended dry spell and deficit rainfall in the past week has become a cause of worry for paddy growers of Haryana.As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the rainfall in state remained 5.7mm against the normal 12.8mm between June 17 and 23. The dry spell has led to extra burden on groundwater as the farmers are pumping out more groundwater to keep the crop alive in lack of rains and with the maximum day temperature being around 40°C.In more worry to the farmers, the Meteorological Centre, Chandigarh has predicted no rain in most districts of Haryana in the next three days and scattered showers in some places on July 1. According to the IMD report, the state has received 49.5mm rainfall since June 27. This is higher than the normal 38.9mm and last year’s 47.7mm but experts said that most of the rainfall occurred before beginning of paddy transplantation (June 15).The last two weeks largely remained dry in most paddy growing belts of the northern districts of Haryana and farmers were largely dependent on tubewells for irrigation.The farmers said the electricity supply of eight hours to agriculture feeders is insufficient as they are depending on tubewell water.Delayed monsoon has affected marginal and small farmers most as they do not have tubewells installed. “We are waiting for rain to start transplantation on our two acre land as the irrigation department did not open water in irrigation canals,” said farmer Raghubir Singh, of Karnal’s Nilokheri.Farmer Jai Singh, of Bhootmajra village in Kurukshetra, said, “I transplanted paddy on two acre and now the crop is dying due to lack of water. The tubewell water is not sufficient to irrigate the entire crop.”“In the lack of rain, I have decided to sow the remaining two acre using direct seeding method,” he added.Dr ML Khichar, agrometeorologist at Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, in a statement, said monsoon winds are not able to move down towards Haryana as the monsoon turf is moving up towards the Himalayan foothills in north. “Favourable conditions for activation of monsoon winds are likely to form only after the next five to seven days. The weather in Haryana is likely to be generally variable but dry till July 2,” he said.However, deputy director agriculture department Karam Chand said as of now, there was no major impact of the dry spell on paddy transplantation and farmers having no irrigation source can go for DSR method.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dry-spell-in-haryana-worries-paddy-growers-101624810033137.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s daily Covid cases steady at close to 10,000 for fourth straight day||Maharashtra’s daily caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) remained steady at close to 10,000 for a fourth straight day as the state on Sunday saw 9,974 fresh cases, a health department bulletin showed. With this latest single-day rise in cases, Maharashtra’s cumulative caseload has risen to 6,036,821 including 121,826 coronavirus related fatalities, of which 143 were reported on Sunday. A further 262 reconciled deaths were also added to the state’s Covid-19 death toll.On June 24, 25 and 26, Maharashtra saw 9,844; 9,677 and 9,812 new Covid-19 cases respectively along with a daily death toll of 197, 156 and 179 from Thursday to Saturday. On June 23, 10,066 people tested positive while 163 lives were lost due to the viral disease.Also Read | Maharashtra vaccinates record 731,181 people in a daySunday’s data also showed that 8,562 more patients have recovered from the infection, taking total number of recoveries to 5,790,113 or 95.91% of the total positive cases. The number of samples tested on the day stood at 210,866 thus giving a test positivity rate (TPR) of 4.73%. Total 41,042,198 samples have been tested across Maharashtra till now.The state’s capital city of Mumbai witnessed a rise in its fresh Covid-19 infections, reporting 739 new cases as against 648 on June 26. Daily death toll in the city was recorded at 13, down from 15 a day ago. With this, the cumulative infection tally in the country’s financial capital has risen to 720,349, of which 15,396 have resulted in deaths.Also Read | Covid 3rd wave: Why is Maharashtra at greater risk? Centre explainsOn Friday, the Maharashtra government announced stricter norms in the state amid rising number of Covid-19 cases due to the Delta Plus variant. The government has removed the first two levels from the state’s five-level relaxation plan, till further orders. Maximum relaxations were allowed in districts under the first two levels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-daily-covid-cases-steady-at-close-to-10-000-for-fourth-straight-day-101624809185490.html
27-06-2021||Gurugram||Khattar urges Jaishankar once more to ensure release of Vishal Jood||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said he will meet Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar to seek his intervention to secure the release of Vishal Jood from the New South Wales prison in Australia, according to a news report by news agency PTI.Haryana CM seeks Centre’s help to free Vishal Jood from Australian jailJood, who hails from Haryana’s Karnal, was arrested for his involvement in suspected ‘hate crimes’ on April 16. He has been charged with “three counts of affray, three counts of armed with intent to commit an indictable offence, two counts of destroying or damage property AUD 5,000 and AUD 15,000 (DV) and assault occasioning actual bodily harm in company of other(s),” by the local police for assaulting members of the Sikh community near Harris Park. The police said that Jood was also arrested for his role in another incident on February 28 where members of the Sikh community protesting against the farm laws were attacked in Harris Park.ऑस्ट्रेलिया की जेल में बंद हरियाणवी युवक विशाल जूड की तत्काल रिहाई के लिए मुख्यमंत्री श्री मनोहर लाल ने विदेश मंत्री श्री एस.जयशंकर से बात की और मामले में तत्काल हस्तक्षेप करने की अपील की। विदेश मंत्री ने ऑस्ट्रेलियन एंबेसी को भारत की चिंता से अवगत कराया है।The Haryana government, however, says that Jood was implicated in a false case and was attacked when he tried to protect the tricolour.विशाल के समर्थन में ऑस्ट्रेलिया में काफी प्रदर्शन भी हो रहे हैं। विशाल के समर्थकों का दावा है कि देश विरोधी कुछ ताकतों ने विशाल जूड से मारपीट की और बाद में आस्ट्रेलिया सरकार से मिलकर झूठे केस में फंसाकर जेल भिजवा दिया था।“For the honour of the Tricolour in Sydney, Haryana's young Vishal Jood fought firmly with anti-national forces and did not allow the Tricolour to be insulted. There are also a lot of demonstrations taking place in Australia in support of Vishal. Vishal's supporters claim that some anti-national forces beat him up and later implicated him in a false case after which he was sent to jail,” Haryana’s directorate of information, public relations and languages department tweeted on Wednesday.Khattar also said that he would urge the Australian High Commission to intervene and release Jood immediately. He said continuous efforts are going on to secure the release of Jood. The chief minister has also come under pressure from the Ror community in Karnal. Jood belongs to the Ror community and members of the community held protests in Karnal and Kurukshetra demanding his release, according to a report by HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khattar-urges-jaishankar-once-more-to-ensure-release-of-vishal-jood-101624809413718.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Khattar to meet Jaishankar over Kurukshetra youth Vishal Jood’s release||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday said that he will meet Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar again regarding the release of Kurukshetra youth Vishal Jood.Khattar, who held a virtual meeting with NRIs living in Australia and NGO representatives, said he will urge the Australian high commission to intervene in the matter and ensure Vishal’s safety.Jood, who went Down Under on a student visa was detained for alleged hate speech and involvement in clash with the Sikh community in Sydney.The CM said he has already spoken to Jaishankar, who has assured full cooperation from his ministry and the Indian high commission in Australia regarding Vishal’s release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khattar-to-meet-jaishankar-over-kurukshetra-youth-vishal-jood-s-release-101624809849306.html
27-06-2021||Other||Warring posts Akalis’ video alleging illegal mining; all muck, says Manpreet||Bathinda Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring on Sunday joined the Akalis in opposing and taking potshots at Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and his aide’s alleged support to illegal mining in Bathinda.Warring posted videos that former Akali MLA Sarup Chand Singla had shot a video of mining, purportedly being carried out illegally at a thermal power plant compound on Sunday morning. The videos were shared from his verified Twitter handle and on the Facebook page. Later, Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu also retweeted Warring’s videos. Singla added instead of sand, fly ash of non-functional coal-based power generation facility is being used for developmental works in the city. “Sand and earth is also being excavated without any government authorisation, at the behest of Manpreet Badal and his brother-in-law, Jaijeet Singh Johal,” he alleged. Demanding a fair probe, the Akali leader also claimed that a bid was made to attack him while he making the video of the illegal mining. Warring, however, tagged chief minister Amarinder Singh with a demand to take action against the people who are behind all this. “These are the people who are pulling Congress down,” tweeted Warring.In a written statement, Manpreet’s office rubbished all charges that Singla has levelled. The communiqué was silent on Warring’s allegations.Senior deputy mayor Ashok Pradhan said Singla was misleading the public by creating confusion between fly ash and sand. “Construction material for development work is being used as per prescribed standards. There is no complaint from any quarter about the quality of work being done. If any laxity is found, payment to contractors will be stopped,” said Pradhan. There was no clarity on who is using fly ash of the thermal plant.Lehra Mohabbat-based thermal plant DP Garg chief engineer, who also has the charge of Bathinda’s unused power plant, did not respond to calls and text messages.Deputy commissioner B Srinivasan said huge stock of fly ash is lying in dykes spread over 800-acre and its commercial use lies with the thermal plant management. “There are no sand deposits in or around the thermal plant. The administration has not received any complaint of any mining activity, but I will get the matter examined,” the DC added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/warring-posts-akalis-video-alleging-illegal-mining-all-muck-says-manpreet-101624809548181.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||Pan-India law against religious conversion required, says prominent seer||Swami Yatindranand Giri, mahamandaleshwar of the Juna Akhara, has demanded a pan-India anti-religious conversion law, population control bill and a review of the Constitution. Giri is in Lucknow where he will attend an event on Monday. [Mahamandaleshwar is a title used by some Hindu monks of the Dashanami order of renunciates founded by the Adi Shankaracharya. When a person is called mahamandaleshwar, it means he has been elevated by his peers to the highest level of traditional, Hindu spiritual leadership.] “An anti-conversion law is need of the hour. We need such a law throughout the country to check this menace of conversion,” said Giri. Raising the issue of the recent arrest of two people by the Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorism (ATS) squad on the charges of carrying out a conversion racket, Giri said: “Such conversions are going on a large scale throughout the country.” “We need to create awareness among masses about conversion by allurement,” he added. Giri advocated parents educating their children about “these conversion activities”. He stressed on abolition of the caste system, which was “also responsible to some extent for conversions”. Besides, he emphasised on the need to introduce a pollution control bill. “Most of the problems are due to the increasing population of the country. I have been requesting successive governments to bring a population control bill,” Giri said. He called for a two-child policy and making its violation a criminal offence. “Even the population of the entire Europe combined together is much less than India’s population. In such a scenario, how can you expect things to improve?” he said He also said, “There is a need to review the Constitution. The existing Constitution does not address issues that are relevant today.” “A new Parliament building is being constructed. Before it becomes functional, there must be a review of the Constitution,” he added. On the controversy over allopathic medicines and Ayurveda in the context of Yoga guru Baba Ramdev’s recent statement on allopathy, Giri said: “No one is ruling out the efficacy of modern medicines. But allopathy doctors have always tried to run down Ayurveda.” “It has been proved on several occasions and even in this pandemic that Ayurveda is no less important than allopathy,” said Giri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/panindia-law-against-conversion-required-says-prominent-seer-101624808528115.html
27-06-2021||Pune||Three doctors in police custody for loan fraud case||Three doctors from Ahmednagar were remanded to police custody of Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Saturday for helping a man from Ahmednagar cheat a co-operative bank into giving him a loan of ₹22 crore. Bhaskar Rakhmaji Sinare (50), Vinodkumar Annasaheb Shrikhande (49), and Ravindra Daulatrao Kawade (52), all residents of Ahemednagar. The three doctors collectively got an amount of ₹6.04 crore for helping a businessman secure a loan. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Pandharinath Salve (56) official of Nagar Urban Co-operative Bank Limited, Ahmednagar. “They planned with around 20 others to get a loan worth ₹22 crore passed from the Pimpri-Chinchwad branch of the bank headquartered in Ahmednagar. The bank was told that the loan was for industrial purpose, for extension to a company owned by Baban Chavan (one of the accused). A part of the plan to show that the extension was built on a land that the doctors sold to Chavan for ₹9 crore when it is valued at ₹2 crore,” said senior police inspector Vasant Babar of the Economic offence wing of Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch. The doctors were arrested from Ahmednagar on Friday evening and produced in Pimpri court on Saturday. They were remanded to police custody till June 30 by the court, according to public prosecutor Vaishali Patil of Pimpri court. “It is suspected that Chavan used the rest of the amount to clear his earlier loans and to pay the others to help him secure the loan,” said PI Babar. The accused include senior bank officials and Chavan’s company employees. One doctor named Nilesh Vishwasrao Shelke (47) is already in police custody in the case. Among the 20 others booked in the case, four are out on bail, nine have anticipatory bail, two are dead, and five others, including the main accused, are yet to be arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-doctors-in-police-custody-for-loan-fraud-case-101624806787214.html
27-06-2021||Pune||Woman duped of ₹23 lakh in chit fund||Three people, including a woman, were booked by Pune police on Saturday for duping a woman of ₹23 lakh in a local chit fund that she had invested in Bopodi. The complainant, Jyoti Agarwal (47), a housewife from Pune, was duped of ₹23,74,999 in a chit fund that she invested in 2015 in Pune. The woman had invested ₹47,49,998 through various instalments since December 2015. The three people told the complainant that the returns on the investment would help her make financial gains. Over the period of time, the woman received some amount. However, ₹23,74,999 of the total investment remained unreturned, according to her complaint. The accused are owner of Shiba Chit Fund company, according to police sub inspector Amol Bhosale. “On the 5th of every month the amount was set up for auctioned whoever quoted the lowest amount, would get that amount and the remaining amount was distributed equally among the members. Besides the main beneficiary for the month, everyone had to pay 5 per cent of the distributed amount to the owners. The owners have disappeared since the lockdown and stopped returning the monthly investment,” said PSI Bhosale. The woman was the first to lodge a complaint, but others will be recording their statements too, the officer said. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-duped-of-23-lakh-in-chit-fund-101624806727134.html
27-06-2021||Pune||PMC to undertake trial run of EV for garbage collection||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to explore options to procure electrical-vehicles (EV) for solid waste transportation for solid waste management. State-owned Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) will provide four vehicles for trial run in coming weeks. It is the first such trial run in the country to use EV for solid waste. The city generates more than 2,100 tons of solid waste and is collected and transported to solid waste processing plants which are located in different parts of the city. The PMC motor vehicle department spends around ₹90 crore per year for the maintenance of vehicles which includes fuel, repair, maintenance, and staff salary. Mahesh Doiphode, deputy commissioner of vehicle department of PMC said, “EESL approached us and showed interest to provide EV to carry waste. At present, we are using 200 ‘ghanta gadis’ to collect garbage in different parts of the city. There are 200 such ‘ghanta gadis’ in operation.” He further said, “As per discussion with company officials, they are ready to provide EV for trial basis to use to collect waste in the city. After the performance, we will make a decision to procure it or not.” According to officials, Due to the increasing fuel prices, PMC is seriously conserving to increase the share of outsourced vehicles. The share of outsourced vehicles is around 30 per cent and the PMC wants to increase it up to 40 per cent. If the EV model will give us good results, it will also help us to cut expenses on fuel. Right now, PMC spends around ₹40 crore on fuel. Ajit Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of solid waste department said, “It will be helpful to us. But I will decide after trial. The company will provide us ghanta gadi.” EESL is promoted by the Ministry of Power, Government of India as a Joint Venture of four reputed public- sector undertakings NTPC Limited, Power Finance Corporation Limited, REC Limited and Powergrid Corporation of India Limited. Deepak Kokate, regional manager of EESL said, “We have selected PMC as it has already started a program to purchase EV. So, we have decided to provide four vehicles for trail run for two weeks. It has the capacity to carry five tons of garbage load. It will save 25 per cent on overall expenses including fuel and maintenance. We will provide four vehicles to PMC for a trial run.” “After successful implementation of the project, it will be implemented across the city. National Institute for Transforming India (NIITI) Aayog is going to monitor a pilot project, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-undertake-trial-run-of-ev-for-garbage-collection-101624806667202.html
27-06-2021||Pune||Mega plantation of 500 native trees by Anandvan, forest department||Anandvan Mitra Mandal and the Maharashtra Forest department jointly organized a mega tree plantation drive near Antulenagar, Pisoli and planted 500 native plants in the barren landscape on Sunday morning. The drive had volunteers from different parts of Pune ranging from toddlers to seniors from different parts of the city and district who participated in this plantation program. Mandal, one of India’s prominent green conservations is a ‘Public Charitable Trust’ based in Pune, with the core objective of increasing people’s awareness about Environment, Wildlife, Climate Change and Forest worldwide and to work towards it. Anandvan president Praveen Kumar Anand said, “We are so glad to see that concept of the urban forest gaining a lot of momentum and it’s spreading wildly in the minds of people. Last, but not least Anandvan Mitra Mandal thanks all the volunteers of all age groups, who helped us in the drive and made this event a big hit and it aims to create more urban forests and help the world the help against climate change.” Colonel (Retd) Pramod Kulkarni, founders of Vidyashilp School participated in the drive and also promised to maintain the plants and nourish them. Anandvan has been focusing on converting the barren forestlands into rich biodiversity for more than a decade through people’s participation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mega-plantation-of-500-native-trees-by-anandvan-forest-department-101624806607238.html
27-06-2021||Pune||Mohammadwadi gets second citizens’ park through citizens’ initiative||The citizens of Mohammadwadi led by Gemini co-operative housing society and local corporator Pramod alias Nana Bhangire launched the second citizen park in a public amenity plot located along the main road in the area on Sunday. The citizens’ garden is a second such initiative as part of the communitarian efforts being undertaken by local residents to increase green cover in the area. The area falls under the reserve forest zone and had been witnessed rapid urbanisation and massive tree cutting during past one decade. Corporator Bhangire said “We are creating some of the best parks in Pune in Mohammadwadi through citizens’ initiative. The funds for the project have been sanctioned but due to Covid-19 the work of the first park was stuck and will not get a boost. Similarly, the current plot at Gemini society will be transformed into garden. We have appealed to the citizens to protect the gardens as part of their own responsibility and as public representative, we have backed the project with whatever is required from the PMC.” Social worker Atik Pathan of Gemini society said, “It was a long time wish that citizens’ park be developed on amenity space. In a short span of time this space will be transformed into a state-of-the-art joggers’ park with flora and fauna taking into account the rich biodiversity and reserve forest area of their location into consideration as the area comes under forest zone. We have received strong support from the area corporator for this national mission of increasing green cover in Mohammadwadi by establishing a unique plan in the most urbanized set up of the city.” Area resident Pravin Suryavanshi said, “An absence of open spaces in the area has further aggravated the environment problem leading to congestion and pollution. Mohammadwadi can emerge one of the model areas of smart city development and development of public parks with the sole objective of preserving the forest cover and environment will help the citizens fight against Covid-19.” Green warrior Pravin Kumar said “The initiative of the people will lead to increase in forest cover and fight challenges like climate change which is drastically affecting the globe.” The plush area which houses societies comprising Gemini, Imperial, Raheja Vista, Elena, Ganga Florentina and several other residential societies houses a population of over 4,000. Ganga Kingston society has already petitioned the ministry of environment to declare the area as an ecologically fragile zone and increase tree count and forest cover in the area. The area is also home to the country’s prominent citizen forest named ‘Anandvan’ which is home to several rare species of birds like peacocks and trees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mohammadwadi-gets-second-citizens-park-through-citizens-initiative-101624806547188.html
27-06-2021||Pune||Serious crimes rise in city in comparison to 2020||The city has witnessed as many as 139 cases of attempted murder from January to June in comparison to only 44 cases in 2020. During the last six months, 38 cases of murders were reported in the city while the figure was around 36 last year. The number of serious crime cases has left citizens worried in the city. The crime under the category of attempt to murder has seen an increase at the time when a sustained crackdown has been launched against organised crime and nearly 30 organised crime gangs have been incarcerated by the orders of Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta. Also, the city has seen a rise in the number of body offences causing injuries using weapons for 2021. The city has seen around 530 offences lodged till the end of May while the number of offences was around 410 last year. According to the crime branch officials, the main reason behind attempt to murder cases have been trivial issues like staring and public insult. Old rivalry between clashing groups is also one of the factors behind rise in murderous attacks between the groups inimical to each other. Additional commissioner of police (crime) Ashok Morale said “There was a strict lockdown last year and people did not venture out but this time citizens are moving across the city despite restrictions which is of concern for the police. Also, we have solved most of the murder cases and complete investigation is being done for the serious crimes as the investigation is still in progress.” Slum pockets located in Bibvewadi, Kondhwa, Hadapsar, Bhavani peth, Yerawada, Wanowrie and Sinhagad road witnessed serious group clashes where rival gangs attacked each other as eight such criminals on police record have been killed during last year. Factors like domestic disputes, poverty, job losses and other insecurities are also being considered as probable caused behind the rise in crimes by the police. The city police have also applied Maharashtra Control of Organised crime act (MCOCA) to more than 30 gangs operational in the city to send a stern message to the criminals that no nonsense would be tolerated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/serious-crimes-rise-in-city-in-comparison-to-2020-101624806488668.html
27-06-2021||Other||Hand over ₹15 cr tramadol seizure case to NCB: SAD||AMRITSAR The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Sunday demanded that the ₹15 crore medical drug seizure case that the Amritsar rural police had registered be handed over to the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). On May 28, police had seized tramadol capsules of ₹15 crore from a Himachal Pradesh-based pharmaceutical firm. Addressing a press conference, senior SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha said a case should also be registered against former Punjab Police IGP Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh for his alleged involvement with one of the accused in the drug smuggling case. Valtoha’s allegation comes after the rural police added the name of Congress’ former district president Rajiv Bhagat, who switched to the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) two months ago, as an accused in the drug case. Valtoha alleged, “Bhagat is close associate of Kunwar Vijay Partap. He was made AAP’s in-charge from Amritsar-West constituency after he paid a huge bribe to the senior AAP leadership. This should also be probed. It needs to be established if Bhagat had used drug money, at the instance of Kunwar Vijay Pratap. Police must probe the call detail record between the two.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hand-over-rs-15-cr-tramadol-seizure-case-to-ncb-sad-101624805587752.html
27-06-2021||Dehradun||Amid dip in Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand govt to revive tourism sector||Amid the decline in Covid-19 cases, the Uttarakhand government is planning to revive the tourism sector in the state. In this regard, it has plans to promote the trekking and ‘workation’ concept and link them to the local communities living near such treks and remote areas, officials said. On the directions of secretary tourism Dilip Jawalkar, a team from Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB) will conduct an on-site inspection of the Trekking Traction Model Community Centre at Agroda village situated in Uttarkashi. Jawalkar said, “To provide better facilities to the tourists and endorse the scheme, especially in the rural area of Uttarakhand, an inspection is being conducted by the team to see the work in the first phase. We are committed to empowering the local people in the state by developing the Trekking Traction Scheme which will strengthen the rural economy and self-employment in the state. This will also develop the workcation model and promote long stays of tourists in our offbeats locations.”Additional Chief Executive Officer (ACEO) Adventure Tourism, Colonel Ashwin Pundir, who is also leading the inspection team, said the objective of this scheme is to create residential facilities for tourists in remote rural areas with the potential for trekking tourism which can result in giving new heights to adventure tourism in Uttarakhand. “We have notified 73 villages in six districts under which 13 such centres will be developed in similar to Agroda Trekking Centre in Bhatwadi block of Uttarkashi. Useful equipment for trekking, including hospital, shops, will be provided in the community centre.”“Director Infrastructure UTDB, LK Deepak Khanduri; Uttarkashi district magistrate, Mayur Dixit; Uttarkashi district tourism officer, Prakash Khatri; and other officials from Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam are members of the team who will be present during the inspection,” Pundir added.Pundir said applicants selected under the Trekking Traction scheme will be given a subsidy of ₹60,000 for the construction of new rooms with attached toilets. “ ₹25,000 per room will be given for furnishing the already existing rooms. This will be permitted only after an evaluation which will be done by a committee, after the recommendation of the district magistrate. The grant amount will be sent directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. So far, 73 villages have been notified in six districts under which 13 such models are notified”, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/amid-dip-in-covid-19-cases-uttarakhand-govt-to-revive-tourism-sector-101624805167621.html
27-06-2021||Other||11 Patiala villages 100% vaccinated against Covid||Patiala Eleven villages in the district have vaccinated their entire populations to give a huge fillip to the administration’s drive to fight the Covid virus. Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said the district administration had started with villages having vaccine coverage of 40% or above to improve their vaccination percentage. “I hope these 11 villages would inspire others too and the state will be saved from the third wave of the pandemic. I expect to meet our target of 100% coverage of the entire rural population of 18+ age in one-and-a-half months,” he added. The eleven villages that have met the target are Khokh, Mungo and Wazidri in Bhadson; Sainserwal, Theri, Shekhupura, Rasolpura Jora in Kauli (Patiala); Dudhan Sadhan in Dudhan Sadhan; Rampur Dugal in Patran; Ajit Nagar and Talwandi Kothe in Samana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/11-patiala-villages-100-vaccinated-against-covid-101624804990641.html
27-06-2021||Other||Tehsildar, reader indicted for selling Nabha plot at throwaway rates in 2013||Patiala Deputy commissioner Kumar Amit has written to the state revenue department to take action against tehsildar Jagsir Singh, posted in Ludhiana, and his reader Sandeep Kumar for violation of court orders and shoddy auction of a property at throwaway prices to a person known to them in 2013. The DC’s recommendation comes after additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Preeti Yadav’s inquiry report indicted Jagsir and Sandeep. The case relates to the auction of a plot on August 19, 2013, on the directions of the Nabha civil court. The court had ordered the tehsildar to auction 175 square yard of a 492 square yard plot of M/s Banarsi Dass Ram Chand. According to the ADC’s inquiry report, the two officials sold the entire plot for a ₹17.2 lakh, whereas the then market rate was over ₹70 lakh. Bidder Harjinder Singh deposited ₹4.3 lakh as 25% of the auction amount with tehsildar Jagsir, who submitted a receipt to this effect. After controversy erupted over the illegality, another court cancelled the auction. The matter came to light when a computer operator, appointed on contract, Amanjot Singh, turned a whistle blower. Officials, however, in league with the purchaser got a First Information Report (FIR) registered against Amanjot and got him sacked. In another twist, the then Punjab DGP Suresh Arora shifted the probe in the plot auction case to the vigilance bureau.The vigilance cancelled the FIR against Amanjot and started departmental proceedings against erring police officials for lodging a wrong case against him. The vigilance also asked the revenue department to conduct a departmental probe against the then Nabha tehsildar Jagsir and his clerk Sandeep. This probe was marked to ADC Preeti. Probing the charges against the two revenue officials, the ADC’s inquiry report submitted to the DC states that it had been proven that officials overstepped their power and auctioned the entire plot in violation of court order. Her report also notes that the accused had destroyed the auction record, so that the truth wouldn’t come out.The whistle blower Amanjot said, “I paid the price of being honest, and faced a false FIR for working as rules. Initially, the accused also tempted me to join them in the misdeed, but I stayed true to my principles. I hope that the department takes strict action against both the officials.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tehsildar-reader-indicted-for-selling-nabha-plot-at-throwaway-rates-in-2013-101624804690738.html
27-06-2021||Other||Celebrated environmentalist and former university V-C killed in Odisha||Dhrubaraj Naik, 83, former vice-chancellor of a state university in Odisha as well as a renowned environmentalist was hacked to death by an inebriated miscreant at his house in western Odisha district of Jharsuguda, officials said. As per the police, Naik refused to give ₹100 to the intruder.Police officials in Jharsuguda said the miscreant entered the residence of the former Sambalpur University vice-chancellor when he was not there. Upon his arrival at around 12.30 pm, the culprit demanded ₹100.“The youth entered the former V-C’s bedroom when he was not there. The youth named Rimit Dura, 20, seemed to be drunk and kept demanding ₹100. When Naik came home at 12.30 pm, he confronted the youth for trespassing into the house. He then asked his son-in-law to call up the police. This seems to have enraged the miscreant who hacked him with the axe that he was carrying and left him bleeding profusely at the spot,” said Jharsuguda SP Bikash Chandra Dash.Naik was rushed to a private hospital in Jharsuguda, where he succumbed to injuries during treatment.Police arrested Durua from a nearby forest after two hours of search and are interrogating him about his motive for murder. Police officials said as the youth was into the timber business, Naik may have been opposing his felling of trees.Naik, a prominent academician of western Odisha, was appointed the vice-chancellor of Sambalpur University in June 1998 and served till July 2001. A gold medallist in M.Sc.(Zoology) from Banaras Hindu University (BHU), Naik went on to head the Zoology department at Utkal University where he retired in June 1998.His research interests included cytophysiology and immunohistochemistry of the pituitary gland from fish to mammals, and localization of (then newly discovered) neuropeptides (having Morphin-like action), such as Enkephalins and Endorphins in the brain of vertebrate animals. He was selected by the UGC in 1979 to undertake advanced training as a visiting scientist at the University of North Carolina, USA, under the Indo-US Exchange Programme (Fulbright-Hay Programme).A keen lover of nature, Naik reforested the bald Andhari hill and the forest around it in Jharsauguda district after his retirement. Though Andhari was a dense forest and a habitat for wild animals, in the 80s it lost most of its 1,000-hectare tree cover due to indiscriminate felling of trees. Guided by him, Naik’s son and local villagers initiated the conservation of the Andhari forest with community participation.In 2013, the Andhari Vana Suraksha Samiti, started by him, was given the ‘Prakriti Mitra’ award. In 2012, he was appointed as the honorary Wildlife Warden for the Jharsuguda district. ‘Doordarshan’ produced and telecast a documentary film depicting the life and works of Dr Naik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/celebrated-environmentalist-and-former-university-v-c-killed-in-odisha-101624804629304.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||HC allows widow of constable to get part of benefits claimed by daughters||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Mumbai Police to disburse the monetary compensatory benefit accrued in the name of a deceased police official who succumbed to Covid in May 2020 between his second wife and two daughters from his first wife, who passed away before him. The second wife approached the court after the married daughters of the deceased constable’s first wife claimed rights to the ₹50 lakh compensation as well as the pension and gratuity benefits of their father as a result of which the benefits were withheld.The court appointed a mediator to ensure that the feuding women reached a consensus and settled the matter amicably. After mediation, the second wife agreed to let the married daughters have a share in the compensation and other post-death benefits. However, the HC ordered that a part of the post-death benefits be deposited with the court till final orders. The division bench of justice S C Gupte and justice M S Karnik while hearing the petition of Rekha Khandait, the wife of deceased head constable Jayant Khandait who was attached to the traffic education department, Byculla and succumbed to Covid on May 26, 2020, was informed by advocates Rushabh Sheth and Pratibha Rupnawar, that she was the second wife of the deceased constable and had a son too.The advocates informed the court that after the death of the head constable, the police decided to process the ₹50 lakh compensation and other benefits accruing to his family. However, when Rekha applied for it, the married daughters of the deceased constable also claimed a right to the benefits like the government aid, payout from the Mumbai Police Foundation Trust as well as 7th Pay arrears, Death-cum-Retirement Gratuity, General Provident Fund, Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme Amount, Group Insurance Scheme and Leave Encashment dues.It was submitted that the second wife had a right to the benefits accruing in the name of the constable but in light of the claims by the two daughters the payouts had been withheld which was resulting in the widow being unable to take care of herself and her son.In an earlier hearing on March 25, another bench of HC after hearing the submissions had appointed advocate Rajiv Patil as a mediator and asked the disputing women to settle the matter amicably.On June 19, Patil informed the bench that the women had reached a settlement and had agreed to share the benefits accruing in the name of the deceased head constable.After hearing the terms of the settlement, the court, in its order allowed the widow to receive the pension. The compensation amounts were to be shared equitably among the three women. The court however ordered that while the two daughters would be entitled to claim half of the post-death benefits, the other half would be deposited in fixed deposits by the court which would be renewed from time to time till the case was finally decided.The bench, while allowing the second wife and daughters to apply for succession certificate, restrained the state from appointing anyone from the relatives till the matter was decided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-allows-widow-of-constable-to-get-part-of-benefits-claimed-by-daughters-101624802466773.html
27-06-2021||Patna||Famous archaeological site in Bihar faces threat of erosion||Chirand, an archaeological site located on the banks of the river Ganga in Bihar’s Saran district, is once again under the threat of erosion and losing its existence as the water level in the river is rising due to heavy rains, officials said. Concerned with the loss of the rare archaeological site, Chirand Vikas Parishad, a group of heritage enthusiasts, wrote to the state archaeology department on Saturday and requested to take measures to prevent the erosion.“A big chunk of the archaeological site has already been eroded and devoured by the Ganga in the past few days. And during a visit to the site on Ganga Dussehra on June 21, we found that it’s under the threat again. River Ganga is swelling up and might inundate riverbanks any day,” said Sriram Tiwari, secretary of the Chirand Vikas Parishad.“We have written a letter today to the state archaeology department to take action. We are expecting some response in a few days.”Chirand site is considered rare among the archaeological sites across the country because of the rare pieces of evidence related to the growth of human civilisation there. The mound located at the site contains archaeological evidence of a step-by-step evolution of civilisation from the Neolithic age to the Pala age.“During the excavations conducted there in the 1960s, settlements and buildings of Kushan age were unearthed. However, these days, the buildings and walls are covered with thick grass and bushes. Bricks are coming out of walls while the ancient age pots, which can still be seen intact in walls, are being trampled by cattle and human beings,” Tiwari said.State archaeology director Karuna Kumari could not be contacted despite repeated efforts.Another state archaeology official, based on anonymity, said two monument attendants have been deputed at the Chirand site to take care of the maintenance work. “But they never send the status report of the site and monument,” he said.CP Sinha, former KP Jaiswal Research Institute director, said Chirand need immediate conservation works. “It’s the only site in the state where we can witness the gradual growth of civilisation consecutively. One can see there the crops cultivated by Neolithic people and the kind of huts they used to build,” he said. The site had also yielded evidence of the copper and iron age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/famous-archaeological-site-in-bihar-faces-threat-of-erosion-101624801867323.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||AIMIM to contest on 100 seats in UP assembly elections, announces Owaisi||The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) will contest 100 seats of Uttar Pradesh in the assembly elections, to be held next year, party chief Asaduddin Owaisi announced on Sunday. "Party has begun the selection process of candidates," said Owaisi in a tweet in Hindi.In the same tweet, Owaisi also confirmed that his party "will fight the elections in alliance with Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha", a coalition of small parties including the AIMIM and Omprakash Rajbhar’s SBSP. "We are not talking to any other party or alliance regarding elections," he also said.The legislative assembly of 403 seats is slated to hold polls in 2022.The Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha includes Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) led by Om Prakash Rajbhar, Jan Adhikar Party led by Babu Singh Kushwaha, Rashtriya Uday Party led by Babu Rampal, Rashtriya Upekshit Samaj Party led by Premchanda Prajapati and Janata Kranti Party led by Anil Singh Chauhan.Earlier, AIMIM called upon all ‘secular’ parties, including the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Delhi, to join hands in Uttar Pradesh to stop the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) from retaining power in the state.In January this year, Owaisi visited Varanasi, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi is the current member of Parliament. During the visit, Owaisi said that his party and Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha will put up a strong fight against the BJP.In the 2017 assembly elections, the AIMIM fielded candidates on 38 seats, however, it failed to win any seat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aimim-to-contest-on-100-seats-in-up-assembly-elections-announces-owaisi-101624800038350.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||Sachin’s consistency, Dhoni’s calmness and Virat’s transformation: Harini’s life lessons||“When I began in 2006, did I think I will reach here...definitely not,” smiles Harini PN Rana, a sports media and management professional who has been shattering the glass ceiling, and how! Recently, she has been selected as one of 40 girls to be chosen from a list of 45 countries for 100% Cricket Future Leaders Program, which enables girls to take up leadership roles in cricket.Rana’s story has been one of perseverance, belief, consistency and hard work; right from the beginning. She started working as a reporter, and became India’s second female sports editor of a TV news channel, while still under the age of 30. And in her illustrious career, she has reported from 14 countries, witnessed some of the biggest sporting moments live, and interacted with top athletes across the world. “In my life, one thing lead to another and that makes be believe more strongly in the power of my dreams and hard work,” she says, recalling the very start of her professional journey in 2000s. “In my school days, in 1999, my spiritual mentor sent me to watch the Cricket World Cup in England, which exposed me to the sport industry,” she recalls, adding how sports was never looked at as a “parameter of success” and how her journey was laden with “rejection, failures, self-doubt, heart breaks, challenges, and gender bias”. Feeling grateful to leaders, who spotted her merit, she shares how she has covered marquee sport moments such as World Cup, Olympics, Commonwealth Games and more. “My dual experience of media and management played a key role in my selection to represent India at the ICC programme. I’ve been doubted with my understanding of the game, and its boardroom functioning. I’ve also experienced the highs of breaking a big story, interviewing legends, reporting on stories that have caused a shift in power corridors of the sport ecosystem. But over the years, I realised, we must let our work do the talking,” says Rana, who is Mumbai-based, and had also covered the 26/11 terror strike for over 40 hours non-stop. And her interactions with some of the top sportspersons has come with some beautiful life learnings. Rana says she has learned “consistency and hard work from Sachin Tendulkar”, and how to be “neutral through the highs and lows from MS Dhoni”. She adds: “The best part of covering sport is having conversations with athletes, administrators beyond the camera. I learnt to never giving up on my dreams from Sania Mirza, physical and mental transformation from Virat Kohli, moving a team to chase common goal like Rohit Sharma, mental toughness from Leander Paes and so many more... In fact, my life’s first peach iced tea was with Sachin at his restaurant, where I went to interview his business partner but ended up interviewing Sachin himself!” Taking her recent selection as a “huge honour and responsibility”, Rana says, “It’s not often that you get an opportunity to represent your country at an international arena, and make it to a list where cricket’s governing body looks at the selected members as talent that has the potential to be future leaders in world cricket. As an Indian, I feel proud that I’ve an opportunity to represent our great nation along with 28 other countries. I’m a girl who had nothing to lose and looked at every constraint as a catalyst to chase my dreams more aggressively. And I always strongly believed in letting my work do the talking,” she concludes. Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sachins-consistency-dhoni-s-calmness-and-virat-s-transformation-harini-s-life-lessons-101624799767910.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 89 fresh cases, positivity rate dips to 0.12%||Delhi’s reported 89 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Sunday as the positivity rate dropped to 0.12%, according to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Delhi has recorded 1.43 million cases so far. Delhi recorded 85 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday which was the lowest number of daily cases recorded this year. The city also reported 4 deaths which pushed the death toll in the Capital to 24,965.Delhi also reported 285 recoveries which pushed the total recoveries to 1.40 million. The Capital following the decrease in number of fresh cases has allowed weddings at banquets, marriage halls and hotels with 50 people in attendance starting Monday. The government has also allowed reopening of gyms and yoga centres at 50% capacity. These relaxations will come into force from 5am June 28. Schools, colleges and educational institutes, cinemas, multiplexes, swimming pools, and entertainment and amusement parks will however remain closed.Delhi conducted 74,198 tests in the last 24 hours out of which 54,297 tests were RT-PCR tests. Delhi has conducted 21.27 million tests so far. The city has 1,568 positive cases. Delhi has vaccinated 207,557 people in the last 24 hours. At least, 172,659 people received their first dose of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours while 34,898 people received their second dose. At least 7.33 million people have received 1 dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, out of which 1.70 million people have received their first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-89-fresh-cases-positivity-rate-dips-to-012-101624798854391.html
27-06-2021||Other||15 villages of Bastar’s Dantewada remain unaffected from Covid-19||Owing to awareness among the tribals and other preventive measures, fifteen villages of Bastar’s Dantewada district in Chhattisgarh have remained unaffected by Covid-19 since the onset of the pandemic last year, officials said.Officials claimed that after the villagers locked their villages and also quarantined residents who came from other states to contain the spread of the virus. This is how the villagers have been operating ever since the pandemic started last year, they said.“After the Covid-19 started in March last year, the first thing we did was lock our village and there was no entry for outsiders. Secondly, if a village resident returned from other states, we quarantined him/her outside the village. Thirdly, we spread awareness among the villagers not to come in contact with any outsiders,” said sarpanch of Jaram village, Somru Ram Kawashi. Jaram was one of the fifteen villages which remain unaffected by the pandemic.The other villages which remain unaffected from the pandemic include Khuchepal, Taneli, Mullare, Kutarem, Jihakorta, Koderipal, Munga, Narenar, ChoteGadam, Pratabgiri, Kidiriras, Phursampurkhurd, Vasanpur, Jaram and Pundari.All these villagers are Maoist-affected and the population is between 300 to 1000.The district administration also took various precautions with the help of villagers since the initial days of Covid-19.“The villagers were made aware of signs and symptoms, mode of transmission of the disease and precautions to be taken during the pandemic. Also, people are made aware of the screening centre and treatment centre of Covid-19. Panchayat-wise teams are deployed to monitor and screen people for Covid-19 who come from outside the state and keep them in institutional quarantine. We ensured that the residents of these villages must get all essential items during the lockdown,” said Dantewada collector Deepak Soni.Villagers believe that information given by the district administration regarding signs and symptoms, mode of transmission of the disease and other information helped them. Also, villagers helped other people of the village to spread awareness about the Covid-19 in their local language.“In our village, with the help of others, we barred entry of outsiders and followed Covid-19 guidelines. Now, the vaccination has also started. We are proud that our villages remained unaffected from the pandemic,” said Dilip Bhogami, resident of Pundari village.District officials said in these villages, active case surveillance is being conducted periodically and Covid-19 vaccines have been given to residents.“The district administration has made arrangement and provided local employment to the villagers in their respective villages through various government schemes like MGNREGA, self-help groups, and Shaheed Mahendra Karma Tendupatta Sangrahak Samajik Suraksha Yojana,” said Soni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-villages-of-bastar-s-dantewada-remain-unaffected-from-covid19-101624798027539.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||Romance Delhi in rains, far away from the madding crowds||Monsoon is knocking at the doors of Delhi, finally! Wondering how to venture out to unwind and yet stay safe by ditching the crowded spots such as markets and malls? We suggest some lesser known historical monuments that provide the perfect serenity to soak in, as you recuperate from the second wave and try to keep anxiety at bay by being under the open sky. Pir Ghaib — the missing saint Situated right behind the Hindu Rao hospital premises is the Pir Ghaib structure and baoli. The baoli today has little water and a tunnel that was present in the area is no longer accessible. For those visiting, Joydeep Dey, from Dastan Stories to Tell, who conducts walks to heritage places, says, “The name literally means a saint who went missing. The legend of it being named Pir is because some say during medieval times it was the abode of a fakir. The other story goes that the place was a shikargah (hunting lodge) of Feroz Shah Tughlaq. It has two storeys and people say it was also used as an observatory, for some of its remains can be seen. During 1857, it was the only source of water for the British soldiers, hence in fear that the mutineers may poison it, they had a guard who’d look after the structure.” Where: Hindu Rao Hospital Complex, Civil LinesAdham Khan and a filmi linkThe tomb of Adham Khan — son of Mughal emperor Akbar’s wet nurse Maham Anga — was built after Khan was executed for a murder. Visitors may remember Khan’s character from the movie Jodhaa Akbar (2008). But the place, popular for the expansive view of Mehrauli and the Qutub Minar, is not remembered for Khan. Ramit Mitra, from DelhiByFoot Adventures, says, “Such is the tale of time, if you ask a person in Mehrauli where this tomb is, they wouldn’t know. But mention ‘bhool bhulaiya of Mehrauli’ and they will immediately point it out to you! The tomb, like most Mughal-era tombs, was raised on a platform and the space beneath it had chambers, leading from one to another. In the long passage of history, people got lost after entering those chambers or felt scared, as they grew bat and bird infested. And soon locals started calling it the ‘bhool bhulaiya’ or the labyrinth.” Where: Seth Sarai, Mehrauli Isa Khan and his tombDedicated to Isa Khan Niyazi, a minister of Sher Shah Suri in the 16th century, the mausoleum will delight history buffs. “Isa Khan’s tomb is the most exquisite of the early tombs in the city. Built of red sandstone, it has beautiful tile, plaster and stone work. There is calligraphy on the structure which speaks of Isa Khan, and the ceiling is magnificent,” says Ratish Nanda, from the Aga Khan Trust for Culture.Abu Sufiyan, from Purani Dilli Walo Ki Baatein, a cultural platform, adds, “Whenever I am in this place, I can easily imagine how splendid it would have been. The tiles even today tell of the grandeur of that time. The best part is, though it is situated inside the Humayun’s tomb complex, it is relatively desolate and allows the peace and quiet people would be seeking today.” Where: Humayun’s Tomb Complex, Nizamuddin EastFor a romantic sunset at Adilabad FortManaging to remain elusive for years with very little footfall, Adilabad Fort, built by Mohammed-bin-Tughlaq, is one of the few structures remaining of Tughlaq-era architecture. Lack of proper signage and access has kept this monument away from the limelight but it is the perfect place for a quiet evening for a view of the sunset.“Adilabad Fort regained its charm when the ASI repaired it around 2010-11. Inside the small fortress the ASI’s horticulture division has laid out lawns and gardens with extensive flower beds etc. It is an interesting place to view its gargantuan neighbour, the fort-city of Tughlaqabad. One of the prime reasons we still take people for a visit to the fort,” says Mitra.Where: Tughlakabad Institutional AreaDjinns, fairies and Feroz Shah Kotla fortSituated between the old and new cities of Delhi, Feroz Shah Kotla fort was constructed by Sultan Feroz Shah Tughlaq, as part of his capital Firozabad. But what makes this fort a must visit is the fact that people believe it is home to supernatural forces! “It is one of the few places where one can find calm in the chaos of Delhi. Many believers come here to write letters to djinns and fairies and unburden their hearts, believing their problems will be solved,” says Asif Khan Dehlvi, of Delhi Karavan. And the Ashoka pillar inside the fort forms a unique link between the Mauryan Empire of 3rd century BC, and the Delhi Sultanate of the 14th century AD. The pillar, one of the many set up by Mauryan emperor Ashoka across his realm, was found in Ambala and brought to Delhi by Tughlaq and set up in the fort. “All tourists we take to the fort, talk about the serenity of spending the evenings, watching the sun go down on the Capital and being enriched by the history that has stood the test of time,” adds Dehlvi.Where: Balmiki Basti, Vikram NagarAuthor tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/romance-delhi-in-rains-far-away-from-the-madding-crowds-101624796633641.html
27-06-2021||Patna||Tejashwi reaches out to Chirag again, tells him to join Bihar opposition||The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav reached out to Lok Janshakti Party chief (LJP) Chirag Paswan in an attempt to make the leader join the opposition in Bihar. Tejashwi Yadav said that Chirag can take forward Ram Vilas Paswan’s legacy if he joins the ‘existential fight’ against MS Golwalkar’s ideology. Golwalkar was a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh leader and its second chief.Tejashwi's comments regarding Golwalkar also come after Chirag Paswan said that the BJP’s silence is hurtful regarding the recent leadership trouble in the LJP. “The silence definitely hurts. I expected them to be a little more vocal. There are rumours that the local or state unit of BJP may be involved in this,” Chirag said while speaking to Hindustan Times during an episode of The Interview. Chirag and Tejashwi: A tale of two Bihar GenNext leadersTejashwi during the interview lashed out at the rebel LJP leaders Pashupati Kumar Paras, Prince Raj, Chandan Singh, Veena Devi and Mehboob Ali Kaiser claiming that they have betrayed what Ram Vilas Paswan stood for. These leaders declared Pashupati Kumar Paras as the party’s national president and ousted Paswan from his post earlier this month. Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla has recognised the Paras-led faction as the leader of the LJP. From leadership aspirations to losing LJP, how Chirag Paswan got outmaneuveredChirag during the interview said that Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar always worked to harm the LJP. “This is a problem with the JD(U). Not just me, Nitish worked against my father as well. They have a problem with they cannot see a Dalit leadership evolving. The creation of the Dalit-Mahadalit idea is an example of that,” Chirag said.“It is obvious but maybe he is not directly involved in this but if his partymen were involved in this and he remained silent that clearly shows you are supporting them. Definitely, yes, it is Nitish Kumar and his party men who have targeted not only my party but also my family members,” Chirag further explained.Ram Vilas Paswan: A man who bridged political divisions“Ram Vilas Paswan was a socialist and a firm believer in the idea of social justice throughout his life. He fought caste supremacy, poverty and inequality during his political journey. The real tribute to him would be carrying forward his values and legacy and which is possible only when if Chirag joins this existential fight against Golwalkar’s 'bunch of thoughts',” Tejashwi was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Tejashwi also said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) abandoned its old allies after returning to power in the state as well as after 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Yadav also said that the RJD has always stood beside LJP. He recounted that in 2009 when LJP did not have a single MLA after losing the 2009 elections Lalu Prasad Yadav sent him to the Rajya Sabha from the Rashtriya Janata Dal quota. Tejashwi Yadav also announced that the RJD will celebrate Ram Vilas Paswan’s death anniversary on July 5 to commemorate his contribution to the state.Tejashwi’s decision to celebrate the late Union minister’s birth anniversary comes amid Chirag Paswan’s decision to begin Ashirwad Yatra to celebrate the birth anniversary of his late father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tejashwi-asks-chirag-to-abandon-bunch-of-thoughts-tells-him-join-opposition-101624793502556.html
27-06-2021||Patna||‘Bihar govt to fall in 2-3 months’, claims Tejashwi Yadav, NDA rejects theory||Bihar’s leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s claim, made on Friday, that the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government would fall in the next two to three months has been rejected by the ruling alliance and it has targeted the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader instead for remaining missing from his constituency during the pandemic.Yadav made the sensational claim during a visit to his assembly constituency of Raghopur, where he was shown black flags by the Pappu Yaday-led Jan Adhikar Party (JAP) workers for his continued absence during the pandemic. They had earlier put up a banner declaring the MLA had gone “missing” from his constituency. The RJD’s leader’s statement comes close on the heels of the factional feud in the Lok Janshakti Party and ahead of RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s return to state capital in July.RJD’s ally Congress said Tejashwi’s statement “carried weight”. “The leader of the opposition’s claim carries weight. NDA leaders are in touch with us as they are not pleased with the government,” party leader Kuntal Krishna said.However, the ruling Janata Dal –United (JD-U) dismissed Yadav’s claim. “No power in the world can bring down Nitish Kumar’s government for five years. If Tejashwi Yadav is claiming to be in touch with some JD-U MLAs, then many RJD MLAs are in touch with us. But, at this time we will not say anything more than this because politics is also considered a game of possibilities,” said JD-U MLC Upendra Kushwaha. The JD (U) had earlier claimed that Congress MLAs in the state are ready to defect. BJP leader and spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel suggested that Tejashwi first needed to sort out questions over his own leadership. “Yadav has nothing to do with the people of Bihar or the people of his own area. The people of the area had even put up a poster of the missing MLA. When people needed them, they did not go... and now they have come. They are dreaming that the government is going to fall in two to three months. But his dream will remain a dream,” said Patel.Yadav has been targeting the state government recently over the discrepancies in Bihar teachers’ recruitment examination result and claimed that it was a result of Nitish Kumar promoting corrupt officials. “No work can be done in Bihar without a scam. There is corruption in all departments including health, education, road construction,” he said, while commenting on the incident, where a young man was allegedly given an empty injection in the name of a Covid-19 vaccine jab in Chapra. BJP MP and former Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi said, “Tejashwi Yadav has made his political intentions clear with his statement against taking the anti-coronavirus vaccine. In fact, the political agenda of Rahul Gandhi’s disciple Tejashwi Yadav and other opposition parties is to prove that the vaccination campaign is a failure. It is [done] only to defame the government.” Though Yadav’s statement has set the political scene abuzz, political experts do not give it much importance. “This is true that he did not visit his constituency after the elections and the people there are particularly angry with him and have started showing their displeasure. Yadav might have said these things to soothe their anger,” said Gyanandera Yadav, an associate professor and head of the sociology department at College of Commerce in Patna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-to-fall-in-2-3-months-claims-tejashwi-yadav-nda-rejects-theory-101624784225366.html
27-06-2021||Bangalore||13-year-old Karnataka boy diagnosed with rare post-Covid brain disease: Report||A 13-year-old boy in Davangere district of Karnataka has been diagnosed with a rare post-Covid-19 complication that affects the brain, which doctors have said is the first such case in the state and the second in the country, according to a report. The News Minute reported that the patient has Acute Necrotizing Encephalopathy of Childhood (ANEC) and has been in hospital for the last eight days ago.NK Kalappanavar, the director of the SS Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre, said when the boy was examined by doctors they found that his brain was inactive. He was put on ventilator support for three days and after he showed signs of improvement he was taken off the machine, The News Minute said.Also read | Post-Covid complication: 15 die of blood clotting in 20 days at RIMS"The patient requires one more week's treatment. We need to examine how severely his brain is damaged once he recovers," Kalappanavar said during a joint press conference with Davangere's deputy commissioner Mahantesh Belagi. "The treatment is very costly as each injection costs anywhere between ₹75,000 and ₹1 lakh for every child weighing around 30kg," he was quoted as saying by the digital news platform.Also read | Institutional reform is key to post-Covid-19 national recoveryAccording to the National Institutes of Health under the US department of health & human services, ANEC is a rare disease characterised by brain damage that usually follows an acute febrile disease, mostly viral infections. It is caused by environmental factors as well as genetic factors."The symptoms of the viral infection (fever, respiratory infection, and gastroenteritis, among others) are followed by seizures, disturbance of consciousness that may rapidly progress to a coma, liver problems, and neurological deficits," it said.Also read | Post-Covid complications: MIS-C cases reported among children in Noida and GhaziabadDoctors across the country have said people who have recovered from Covid-19 have complained of high-grade fever, lung fibrosis, mucormycosis (Black Fungus) and other bacterial infections. Some Covid-19 patients have also been admitted to intensive care units (ICUs) after recovering from Covid-19. Many have died as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/13yearold-karnataka-boy-diagnosed-with-rare-post-covid-brain-disease-report-101624780677466.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||More delay in Covid vaccine 'Sputnik V' roll-out in Delhi-NCR||The roll-out of Russian Covid-19 vaccine 'Sputnik V' at various private hospitals in the Delhi-NCR region has been delayed again, officials said on Sunday."We do not have a clarity on the dates of the vaccine roll-out," a spokesman of Apollo Hospitals said.Indraprastha Apollo here had earlier said that it would tentatively start administering the two-dose vaccine by June 25.An official of Madhukar Rainbow Children's Hospital said the facility has also not received Sputnik V doses so far from Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy's Laboratories, the marketing partner for the vaccine in the country. "There is a delay on the part of the suppliers. They have not shared any specific reason for it. I think it could be related to the supply of both the doses together," he said.Sputnik V uses two different viruses that cause the common cold (adenovirus) in humans. The two doses, given 21 days apart, are different and not interchangeable.Fortis Healthcare, which had said that it would make Sputnik V available at its Gurgaon and Mohali hospitals, has also not started administering the Russian vaccine to people so far.The Centre has fixed the price of the vaccine at ₹1,145 per dose. The maximum price of Covishield for private COVID-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) has been fixed at RS 780 per dose, while that of Covaxin at ₹1,410 per dose.Russia's Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology has developed the vaccine and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) is marketing it globally.Dr Reddy's Laboratories has been importing the shots from Russia. Over a period of time, the vaccine is also going to be manufactured in India. According to Gamaleya and the RDIF, Sputnik V has demonstrated an efficacy rate of 92 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-delay-in-covid-vaccine-sputnik-v-roll-out-in-delhincr-101624778958810.html
27-06-2021||Patna||Bihar forms 4 panels to improve health of beleaguered higher education||The Bihar state higher education council (BSHEC) has constituted four different committees comprising vice chancellors and experts to undertake sweeping reforms in state’s beleaguered higher education. A decision to this effect was taken following a meeting of the SHEC, chaired by education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary, officials said.The first of the four, academic reforms committee, comprising vice chancellors (VCs) of the Central University of South Bihar (CUSB), Patna University, director higher education, Patna Women’s College principal, state project officer and an expert, will provide academic inputs to the education council for preparation of the state higher education plan by reviewing the curriculum.Besides, it will also suggest academic reforms, viz. implementation of semester system, choice-based credit system etc. The semester system, started at the post-graduation level in Bihar, remains half-baked, while at the under-graduate level it is still a non-starter despite several attempts. The committee will also give inputs for mainstreaming of vocational education, which is suffering due to lack of facilities and quality faculty support.The second committee will aim to find ways to boost accreditation of state institutions, assessed under the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) norms. Bihar has barely 100 colleges out of 250 constituent units that are accredited with most of them in B or C grade. None of the state universities managed A grade, which could be won by only seven colleges. There are only seven colleges in the A grade. Under the new education policy, NAAC accreditation is a basic requirement, linked to funding. Several state institutions have slipped further in new rankings due to the stringent NAAC norms. For example, a NAAC report released earlier this year said Patna’s BN College slipped to C grade from B++ due to “many of the faculty members being actively engaged in political activities of the state that affects the academic work of the college”.The third committee will focus on stimulating the academic environment and developing a database of all the universities and colleges on quality parameters to identify gaps, and work for their removal by adopting best practices shared by national and international experts. The fourth committee will prepare the roadmap and action plan for implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) – 2020.With an aim to improve the gross enrolment ratio (GER) and quality in higher education centres, the BSHEC was constituted as a basic requirement under the national higher education mission (Rashtriya Uchchatara Shiksha Abhiyan or RUSA). The BSHEC has been given the responsibility of suggesting a roadmap for implementation of the new education policy (NEP) in the higher education sphere.Social analyst and former head of department of economics, Patna University, professor NK Choudhary said that adhocism at the top was at the core of all the problems. “Putting the right people in the leadership role will solve a lot of problems, which unfortunately is not happening. Higher education needs vision and continuity. Hopefully, this will also be addressed. The large-scale vacancies in the universities and colleges also need to be filled at the earliest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-forms-4-panels-to-improve-health-of-beleaguered-higher-education-101624777024784.html
27-06-2021||Jaipur||Religious places marriage halls to reopen, market timings extended in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government on Saturday gave further relaxations from restrictions imposed to curb the second wave of coronavirus in the state by extending hours of operation for markets and allowing marriage ceremonies and reopening of religious places with restrictions. Public transport and movement of private vehicles have also been given the green signal with certain conditions in the new guidelines called Unlock 3.0, which will be effective from June 28. Markets or commercial establishments such as gyms and restaurants, where at least 60% of the workforce has received at least the first dose of coronavirus vaccine, will be allowed to stay open for additional 3 hours till 7 pm. Marriage ceremonies will be allowed in banquet halls from July 1 with presence of no more than 40 guests but the ban on taking out marriage processions, holding feasts and disc jockeys will continue as per the guidelines. The government offices will now be allowed to open till 6 pm, while business establishments, where employees have been vaccinated, can remain open till 7 pm. Full physical attendance will be allowed in government offices with less than 25 staff members and 50% for the rest. In offices, where 60% of the personnel have received the first dose of the vaccine, 100% staff will be allowed to attend to work physically. The office hours will be from 9:30 am to 6 pm. The guidelines have also allowed the operation of city/mini buses if the driver and conductor have got at least the first dose of the vaccine. Similarly, private vehicles will be allowed to ply from 5 am to 8 pm except for Sundays. Public parks will also be open to all from 5 am to 8 am. Night curfew in the state will be in effect from 8 pm to 5 am on weekdays and on the weekend, it will begin on Saturday 8 pm and end at 5 am on Monday.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that vaccination was the only effective way to prevent coronavirus but reminded people of the experts’ view that threat from the new variants of the virus remained. He therefore advised adherence to the Covid containment protocols such as wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing to protect against the possible third wave of the disease. Rajasthan recorded five more coronavirus deaths and 141 fresh cases on Saturday, taking the total number of fatalities and infections in the state to 8,910 and 951,967, respectively. The number of active cases at present is 1,839, in the state, according to a health department bulletin. Of the fresh cases, the maximum 37 were reported from Alwar, followed by 20 from Jaipur, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/religious-places-marriage-halls-to-reopen-market-timings-extended-in-rajasthan-101624761363126.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||This Bareilly man gave dignity to the departed in second wave of Covid-19||He gave dignity to the dead when there was despondency all around during the second wave of Covid-19 and many people could not even say a final goodbye to their loved ones.Mohammed Ghizaal Siddiqui battled the pandemic situation in his own way while doctors, paramedical staff and other frontline workers also did so with firm determination.Siddiqui, a general merchant who is in his late fifties and hails from Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly district, says he performed around 385 burials and cremations during the Islamic holy month of Ramzan, which started on April 13, coinciding with the peak of the Covid second wave.He is perhaps the only person in UP to have performed the last rites of such a large number of people in the second wave.The task of giving dignity to the departed, especially unclaimed bodies is not new to Siddiqui, who says he has been doing it for the last 38 years.But the number of bodies he had to lay to rest during the second wave made the pandemic experience much grimmer for him.“In the last 38 years, I have handled more than 7000 unclaimed dead bodies, including the ones whose family members couldn’t afford giving the last rites to their loved ones, but this situation was different. In a mere 30 days during Ramzan, I gave burials to around 345 bodies and performed the cremation of around 40. I would pray to Allah to not to make me see this horrific phase again in my life,” says Siddiqui as he goes through the records of the bodies at his office in the Quila locality of Bareilly.Initially, he says, he never thought that he would have to lend a helping hand to the families of the Covid-19 patients. “But when I saw people in such a helpless state that they couldn’t perform the last rites of their loved ones, I thought if not me, then who else would (do it) and I decided to lend a helping hand to the family members of Covid patients,” he says.Siddiqui also says the peak 30 days starting from April 12 are still fresh in his memory when he used to get around 20 to 30 calls for assistance daily and about 10-12 of the callers sought help for performing the last rites of their loved ones.“There were situations when all the family members were in isolation or hospitalized. In some situations, all members of the family were dead. In a majority of the instances, no family member turned up to perform the last rites,” says Siddiqui.In particular, one instance from Shahmatganj locality of Bareilly moved Siddiqui to the core. He received a distress call from two Muslim sisters, asking for help in performing the last rites of their father and brother who passed away due to Covid-19. “Their mother was hospitalised and the father and the brother were dead. There was no one to attend the bodies. I then attended the bodies and gave them a decent burial,” he recalls.He says he is thankful to his wife Sufiya and his children for supporting him throughout.“During the initial days of service to the patients who died due to Covid, I called my wife and said I did not want to risk their (family’s) lives, hence I would be residing in isolation at another house of ours for a few days. But my wife’s reply moved me. She said: nothing could harm us since you are serving humanity. Please come and stay with us, we will take all precautions to keep us all safe,” he recalled.Sufiya Ghizaal, Siddiqui’s wife, says she made sure that the clothes were handled carefully and washed thoroughly in hot water.“In that entire phase, we also made sure that we took proper steam (inhalation), wore mask and followed other precautionary measures,” she adds.She also says this phase was terrifying for her as well even though she had been seeing her husband attending unclaimed bodies for the past three decades.Siddiqui also thanked the people of Bareilly who helped him from behind the scenes in bearing all the expenses of his noble work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/this-bareilly-man-gave-dignity-to-the-departed-in-second-wave-of-covid19-101624742581786.html
27-06-2021||Other||Four civilians injured in grenade attack in Srinagar||Four civilians were injured in a grenade attack by terrorists on a joint patrol party of Jammu and Kashmir Police and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) team at Barbar Shah in Srinagar on Saturday.According to the Jammu and Kashmir Police, the incident took place at around 6 pm in the evening.“The grenade missed the intended target and exploded on road. In this incident, four civilians got injured and were evacuated to a nearby hospital for the treatment of their injuries,” the police said.A case has been registered in the matter under relevant sections of the law, it said.The area has been cordoned and searches in the area is going on. The investigation into the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-civilians-injured-in-grenade-attack-in-srinagar-101624742041760.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||UP district panchayat chiefs’ polls: Nomination day reveals shifting political loyalties||The nomination day scenes for the zila panchayat chairpersons’ elections on Saturday revealed interesting insights — from missing candidates or proposers to unopposed nomination, from rebels to political loyalties that shifted by the hour. The election is scheduled on July 3.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may have the upper hand by getting maximum zila panchayat chairpersons elected, many of them “unopposed” in key districts like Gorakhpur and Varanasi.On the other hand, the opposition Samajwadi Party (SP) complained that its candidates were prevented from filing nominations. The BJP had fallen behind the Samajwadi Party in the first round of the rural panchayat polls held in April for ward members. It appeared to be looking to make amends now in the zila panchayat chairpersons’ polls where many independents went with the ruling party. Senior ministers and BJP functionaries remained present for the nomination even as SP too got its senior leaders like Ram Govind Chaudhary to be there.Amid allegations of foul play in at least 12 districts, the SP candidates “failed” to show up for nomination or their proposers went ‘missing.’ At several of these places, the BJP workers had an altercation with Opposition members, mostly SP, who, political observers said, had dominated the opposition space in the run-up to the 2022 UP assembly polls. Dismissing allegations of foul play, UP BJP spokesman Manish Shukla said, “The Samajwadi Party couldn’t even find candidates in nearly 25 places. The BJP is of course set for a big win as SP’s claims lie hollow.”The SP expelled its chiefs in 11 districts after the nomination period and several BJP leaders were seen sharing the expulsion letter of the party that they claimed was proof of the SP not being able to even keep its candidates together.These polls also showcased possible allies for assembly elections.“So, while SP-RLD combination looked set to continue its alliance for the 2022 UP polls, and BJP and Apna Dal’s alliance too looks firm, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party’s (SBSP) chief and former UP minister Om Prakash Rajbhar’s backing of the Samajwadi Party is an interesting development because SBSP is planning to set up a front of small parties against the BJP,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran journalist and political observer. The BJP that left two seats for its ally Apna Dal (Sonelal), didn’t contest Etawah, the SP bastion. The BSP didn’t file nomination even in seats like Moradabad where 11 zila panchayat ward members backed by it had won in the first round of the rural polls, said locals. “Even in Ghaziabad, where also several ward members backed by BSP had won, the party didn’t file nominations for the zila panchayat chairpersons’ poll,” a local politician claimed. In Banda, the BSP’s nomination was reportedly cancelled, claimed locals. In Baghpat, the RLD candidate switched sides to the BJP and then came back to the RLD fold in a few hours of political drama. In Unnao, the BJP candidate Shakun Singh was up against not just the SP candidate, but also against party rebel Arun Singh who filed his nomination as an independent.Relatives of some party lawmakers accompanied him for the nomination, making it clear that the sudden withdrawal of his candidature by the BJP and his replacement with wife of a slain lawmaker hadn’t gone down well with Arun Singh, a zila panchayat ward member considered close to the family of four-time former MLA Kuldeep Sengar, who has been expelled from BJP and disqualified from the assembly after his conviction in a rape case. The rape survivor’s appeal against his nomination had forced the BJP to effect the last-minute change, party leaders said. In Hathras, the BJP fielded Seema Upadhyaya, the wife of former BSP minister Ramvir Upadhaya. In Kanpur, the party chose Swapnil Varun, the daughter of Kamal Rani Varun who was a minister in the Yogi Adityanath government and had died of Covid-19 last year. Swapnil had recently met chief minister Yogi Adityanath after which it was clear that she was being considered.In Amroha, the party fielded former MP Kanwar Singh Tanwar’s son Lalit Tanwar who is set to be elected unopposed after the cancellation of SP nominee Shakeena Begum’s nomination on technical grounds. In Chitrakoot, BJP candidate Ashok Jatav was likely to be elected unopposed as no candidate filed nomination.Samajwadi Party leader Sachin Yadav, son of former UP minister Narendra Singh Yadav, joined the BJP in Farrukhabad from where BJP decided to back Sachin’s sister Monica Yadav, ex-wife of SP leader Dharmendra Yadav, as an independent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-district-panchayat-chiefs-polls-nomination-day-reveals-shifting-political-loyalties-101624741501672.html
27-06-2021||Other||J&K plans first survey of nomadic population||The Jammu and Kashmir government is all set to hold its first survey of the nomadic population, with an aim to chalk out plans for the socio-economic development of different tribes.Officials said the survey will serve as a baseline for allocation of funds for different schemes planned to cover this population, especially those who go for long migration.Tribal affairs secretary Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said the tribal affairs department, in collaboration with the district administration and district planning and statistics organisation, has initiated the survey with set deadlines for completion of various stages.“A common format developed for the survey includes details related to migration route, family particulars, educational status, health and animal husbandry facilities, livelihood and skilling requirement among other parameters. On completion of the survey, the details will be digitised and smart cards, having complete family details, will be provided to the nomads. The smart cards will help extend a range of facilities to the tribal migratory population,” said Choudhary.It was informed that based on the survey, a range of different facilities will be provided by the department which include transit facilities , livestock services, healthcare, education, livelihood initiatives, essential services and infrastructure. The plan also includes capacity building of the nomadic population.Choudhry said, “This survey will cover intra-district, inter-district, inter-province and inter-UT/ state. A list of 14 major migratory routes was discussed in a recent meeting and district teams were asked to minutely work on the migratory routes and suggest facilities required for the population. The department is also coordinating with districts in Ladakh, Punjab and Himachal for information on inter-state/UT migration.”He said during the survey, the officials will conduct a host of studies on tribal culture, art, languages, traditional practices, livelihood measures, education and socio-economic conditions. The survey is likely to be completed by July 31, 2021, and the tribal affairs department has earmarked a budget of ₹3 crore for the survey.Founder, tribal research and cultural foundation, Javeed Rahi termed it a good step, however, he said he has doubts that the survey will be over by July 31. “It’s not so easy to conduct the survey when most of the tribals are up in the mountains.”Rahi, who has worked with the tribals, said that as per the 2011 census, the population of tribals in J&K was around 20 lakh. “At least 30% of them go for full or semi-migration. Some even go for one month. In general, this is a good step that needs to be appreciated and the department should involve all the stakeholders to complete survey.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-plans-first-survey-of-nomadic-population-101624740902320.html
27-06-2021||Other||Satyen Vaidya takes oath as addl judge of HP high court||Satyen Vaidya was sworn in as additional judge of the high court of Himachal Pradesh on Saturday. He was administered the oath of office by chief justice L Narayana Swamy.The judges of the high court, including Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, Justice Sureshwar Thakur, Justice Vivek Singh Thakur, Justice Sandeep Sharma, Justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia, Justice Anoop Chitkara and Justice Jyotsana Rewal Dua were present on the occasion.Registrar General Virender Singh conducted the proceedings. He read out the warrant of appointment issued by the President of India, appointing Satyen Vaidya as additional judge of the high court.Born on December 22, 1963, in Mandi, Vaidya did his schooling from Government School Lalpani, Shimla, and graduation from Government College, Sanjauli, in 1983 and subsequently got a law degree from Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, in 1986.He enrolled as an advocate in the year 1986 and started practising in district courts in Shimla till 2009 and thereafter he shifted to the high court of Himachal Pradesh where he practiced law in civil, criminal, constitutional, service and arbitration matters. He has done an extensive work in arbitration and mediation matters apart from being amicus curiae in several cases at the high court. He was designated as senior advocate in 2015.Adhering to the instructions issued for containment of the spread of Covid-19, only a limited number of persons were present on the occasion and the others joined the oath ceremony proceedings on virtual platform.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/satyen-vaidya-takes-oath-as-addl-judge-of-hp-high-court-101624740721554.html
27-06-2021||Other||Omar demands statehood before polls||National Conference (NC) chief Farooq Abdullah on Saturday said there was “a level of mistrust” in Jammu and Kashmir and it was for the Centre to remove it, even as his son and former chief minister Omar Abdullah, who is the NC vice-president, demanded restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s statehood before holding Assembly polls.Speaking to reporters upon their return from Delhi after attending an all-party meet convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on J&K, Omar Abdullah on Saturday said they will continue to agitate over the revocation of Article 370 like the Bharatiya Janata Party did for the Ram Temple issue. He said during the all-party meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the parties – NC, Peoples Democratic Party and Communist Party of India (M) – which are part of Peoples’ Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) talked about the agenda of the alliance before Modi.“We didn’t talk about anything that was outside the agenda of the Gupkar Alliance. The alliance said that we don’t accept changes of August 5, 2019 and whatever needs to be done to undo that, we will do that constitutionally, politically legally and peacefully,” said Omar.Leaders from BJP, Congress, J&K Apni Party and People’s Conference also participated in the meeting – the first political outreach since BJP government’s abrogation of the special status of J&K under Article 370 on August 5, 2019 and the splitting of the region into two union territories – J&K and Ladakh.As the centre brought changes in J&K, it restricted people in J&K to their homes by imposing curfew and snapping communication channels to prevent large scale protests against the move. All the mainstream political leaders including the Abdullahs and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti were put under detention for months.Following the decisions, a bunch of petitions are pending before the Supreme Court against the effective abrogation of Article 370.“I don’t believe that just because the issue (of revocation of Article 370) is sub-judice or it is before the Supreme Court that it is not a subject for discussion. Unfortunately, these words (not to discuss because it was sub-judice) were taken by two people – (Congress leader) Ghulam Nabi Azad and (former PDP leader) Muzaffar Beig – during the meeting,” he said.“Of course it is subject for discussion. It was talked about in our DDC polls. We will continue to agitate the matter legally, constitutionally and peacefully. That is our right and we will exercise that right,” he said.Omar said that even though so many matters are before the Supreme Court, does that mean we stop talking over them.“For the longest time Babri Masjid demolition was in front of the Supreme Court, did BJP stop talking about it. They continued to press their agenda on Ram Temple and therefore even if the matter (of Article 370) is before the Supreme Court that does not stop us from stating our point of view and we will continue to do that,” he said.“In plain words, Farooq Abdullah as well as Mehbooba Mufti told the prime minister that BJP took 70 years to fulfill their agenda of revoking Article 370. And if we took 70 weeks or 70 months or whatever time to reverse that we will not back down from that mission. We told the prime minister and he was listening,” he said.Omar said that they won’t deceive people by telling them that they will get it reversed during this government. “If we said that we will get a reversal of August-5 decisions from Modi, that would be deceiving people. Those who took it away, shall we tell people that we will get it back from them,” he said.“But before the speech of the prime minister, (Congress leader) Ghulam Nabi Azad saab talked on our behalf. He told the meeting that we don’t accept this timeline of delimitation first, then elections and then statehood. We accept statehood after delimitation and then elections. Return statehood if elections are to be held,” he said.He said that the NC has authorised Dr Farooq Abdullah to take a view on the delimitation commission as and when necessary. “There has been no fresh approach from the commission to the party. And when it makes an approach, Dr Farooq Saab has been authorized to take a view,” he said.Farooq on plebisciteFarooq Abdullah said, “I made it very clear (in the meeting) that the first prime minister of India (Jawharlal Nehru) promised us a plebiscite but went back on it. Before (1996) elections, Narasimha Raoji promised us autonomy. He said ‘sky is the limit but not independence’. We said we have never asked for independence, we have asked for autonomy. He promised us on the floor of the house. Where is that?I said frankly there is a level of mistrust and that mistrust has to be removed. How you remove it, you have to take that call. That is why even Dr Karan Singh today has said that statehood must be brought forward. So let’s not jump and see what they do. How do they remove that mistrust or will they continue that mistrust.”Ball in Centre’s court now, says J&K Congress president Mir post post PM’s APM 
27-06-2021||Lucknow||President Ram Nath Kovind for giving impetus to technical education||Looking to give an impetus to technical education, President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday assured cooperation and even central government assistance to a number of ideas and proposals mooted by the vice chancellors of Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University (CSJMU) and the Harcourt Butler Technical University (HBTU) and IIT-Kanpur director during his one-on-one meetings with these academicians. Both CSJMU and HBTU are in Kanpur.CSJMU vice-chancellor Prof Vinay Kumar Pathak claimed that he had proposed to the President to set up an ancient science and technology centre of excellence on the campus to help modern students to understand the richness of ancient Indian science and technology.“President Kovind agreed to help us from the Centre and also from the state… The President also said Kanpur University should grow by leaps and bounds and he is there to help us take varsity to new heights,” said Prof Pathak, adding that he was congratulated by the President on being appointed vice chancellor in April this year.In his discussion, President Kovind told Prof Pathak that he, too, is an alumnus of CSJMU Kanpur and had also contributed ₹1 lakh last year, like many other old pupils. He said the alumni should come forward to help their alma mater in whatever way they could to take the institution to new heights.Prof Samsher, vice chancellor of HBTU, said that he proposed central university status for HBTU, which would celebrate its centenary this November.“HBTU centenary celebrations will be held on November 25 and I have invited him to grace the occasion as the chief guest. President Kovind received the letter of invitation and asked me to get in touch with his office for the formalities,” said Prof Samsher.HBTU vice chancellor said he briefed the President about the progress of the institution and how it had contributed to technical education in the state.“It was here I seized the opportunity to invite President to be our guest during the centenary celebrations and requested him to help in granting central university status to the institute during the big occasion,” he said.Indian Institute of Technology-Kanpur director Prof Abhay Karandikar, after meeting the President, tweeted, “Briefed him about upcoming School of Medical Research and Technology. He showed keen interest in the project and wished good luck.”He further tweeted, “Discussed various innovations that IIT Kanpur has done recently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/president-kovind-for-giving-impetus-to-technical-education-101624740301708.html
27-06-2021||Other||Article 370 won’t return till doomsday: Raina||President of Jammu and Kashmir Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit, Ravinder Raina, one of the 14 participants at the Prime Minister’s all party meeting, on Saturday said that restoration of Article 370 in the union territory was “next to impossible” and that “it won’t return till doomsday.” He advised the Kashmir-based parties like National Conference and People’s Conference to wake up to the reality and forget about return of Article 370. Addressing mediapersons here after returning from Delhi, Raina said, “After abrogation of Article 370, both PM and Home Minister have amply clarified that full statehood will be restored when the situation normalises in Jammu and Kashmir. As far as Kashmiri leaders are concerned, if they are dreaming of restoration of Article 370, which gave birth to separatism, terrorism and Pakistan’s evil designs in J&K and which was responsible for killing of hundreds of innocents, it is next to impossible. Till doomsday it (Article 370) will not be restored”. In a clear reference to Kashmir-centric parties and mainstream Kashmiri leaders, Raina said “registered political parties should forget about it (Article 370) and contest elections in right earnest for the welfare of the people of J&K”. To another query, he said, “there was a political deadlock in J&K for the past over two years. PM’s initiative has ended this deadlock and he has said that we need strong J&K and strong India. Therefore, it is a clear message to all that we all have to work for the welfare of the people of J&K”. Besdies Raina, former deputy chief ministers, Nirmal Singh and Kavinder Gupta also attended the June 24 all-party meeting. He also clarified that Ladakh was now a separate UT with separate LG and that was the truth. Asked about the statement of senior Congress leader P Chidambaram that the Centre wants to hold assembly elections before restoring the statehood to J&K, Raina said, “He was not in the meeting but there are some leaders in the Congress who are making anti-national statements. They should stop making anti-national statements.” He also claimed that during the all-party meeting, the J&K BJP demanded de-freezing of some of the seats reserved for PoJK areas in the J&K Assembly. “We are separately raising this issue with delimitation commission chairperson Justice (retd) RP Desai shortly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/article-370-won-t-return-till-doomsday-raina-101624739941828.html
27-06-2021||Other||With 342 new cases, J&K reports lowest daily count in 3 months||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded the lowest daily Covid-19 cases in about three months with 342 fresh infections and five deaths. The last time the UT had witnessed such a low count was on March 29.Besides, 864 patients also recovered from the disease, taking the active case count down to 5,630. Kashmir valley reported 235 cases and one death while the Jammu division saw 107 infections and four fatalities. The cumulative count of recoveries has reached 3,04,390, taking the recovery rate to 96.84 %.So far, J&K has recorded 3,14,316 infections and 4,296 deaths.Officials said that 46,705 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours in the UT. So far, 9.77 million tests have been conducted.Officials said with 84 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections followed by 29 in Pulwama. Four districts had single-digit cases.So far 42.69 lakh vaccine doses have been administered in the union territory with over 18,600 doses being administered on Saturday. Srinagar and Kupwara districts in Kashmir are at the bottom of the list in terms of vaccination with just 56% of their population above 45 years of age getting inoculated. Advisor to Lieutenant Governor Baseer Ahmad Khan directed the officers to evolve a mechanism to intensify vaccination and cover the maximum number of people, particularly in Srinagar and Kupwara districts.“Accelerate awareness programmes in areas which are registering low vaccination. Teams should be specifically constituted to educate the people about the benefits of vaccination and for clearing doubts due to rumour mongering,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-342-new-cases-j-k-reports-lowest-daily-count-in-3-months-101624739462153.html
27-06-2021||Other||With wounds that never heal, Kashmir’s torture victims struggle for a normal life||Khursheed, 45, from South Kashmir lives alone in his two- room house after his wife, his only family, left him on the pretext that he is “impotent” and “incapable of getting her pregnant”. Khursheed, who had got married in his late 40s, is a victim of the forces’ torture. He had turned sterile after he was brutalised at a torture centre in Srinagar during an interrogation in 2002. He is among thousands of Kashmiris left disabled post the torture by forces as well as militants. Lost eye sight, dislocated joints, fractures, stomach ailments, nephrological problems, impotency and sexual problems, internal organ injury, cardiac problems, hypertension, urinary incontinence, complete/partial paralysis, amputations, deformity, nerve damage are some of the impacts on the health of 1,200 torture survivors from four districts of Kashmir, a study carried out by the Jammu Kashmir Coalition of Civil Society (JKCCS) found. The report endorsed by former UN special rapporteur Juan E Mendez says “torture emerges as part of a routine (which is) intrinsic to the very existence of the Indian State in Kashmir.” Among hundreds of case studies that it mentions, is Mohammad Syed of Maisuma in Srinagar. Twenty-four-year-old Syed was arrested in the 1990s for the first time and taken to an interrogation centre in Jammu, where he was kept for two-and-a-half months. This was followed by detention in Kathua Jail and then in Nainital Jail, Allahabad, where he was detained for 14 months before being finally brought to Satwari interrogation centre in Jammu. Syed has said that interrogators there would “beat them with anything they could find”. He adds that he is “unaware as to what hit him in the eye due to which he lost complete vision in his left eye”. Syed has had six surgeries already, but infection spread to his other eye as well, leaving the carpet-weaver completely blind. He now depends on donations for survival. The victims revealed to JKCCS that torture of Kashmiri prisoners was not limited to physical beating only. Many victims have spoken about Srinagar’s infamous interrogation centre PAPA 2, where over 350 inmates were provided a single bathroom where they were allowed to go only once in 24 hours. The report includes accounts of people who said they would take medications “to induce constipation.” Silence and the endless pursuit for helpAmong 432 cases that JKCCS followed, only 27 had reached out to the State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) for help. This means not even 7% of torture victims muster courage to ask for justice in Kashmir. Among them, just 20 people had got any recommendations of help from SHRC. Among those who got recommendations, most haven not been endorsed by the government. In 2017, as per JKCCS, 75% of these recommendations were rejected by the then state government. Khurram Parvez, a human rights activist based in Kashmir, says India has “institutionalised” torture in Kashmir. “India signed the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (UNCAT) in 1987. It has been 34 years, but it has still not ratified that convention,” he said, adding that India is among only four of 81 signatories to the convention to not ratify it. Other three include Brunei, Haiti, and Sudan. In 2010, the Lok Sabha had passed the Prevention of Torture Bill but till date, there has been no nod to it. Khurram adds that not passing such a bill reflects “Indian government’s commitment to torture.” He adds that while parts in India have witnessed police brutality and torture at different instances, in Kashmir “torture is a never-ending process.” Calling torture is an “institutional tool of Indian government” for state oppression, he says that not even once has Indian government made any effort to rehabilitate all these torture survivors. Parvez adds that inaction towards torture in a community increases the acceptability of violence among its people. On legality of torture, Parvez says there is no law in India which allows torture. “But what allows perpetration of it at grassroots level is the absence of any law to criminalise it,” he adds. He suggests that ratifying UN convention by criminalising torture would be a step towards preventing more persecution. “This should be done by bringing a law in the Parliament as well as in legislative assemblies across India,” he says, adding that recurring income and health support to disabled torture victims should be also provided, besides holding the torture criminals guilty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-wounds-that-never-heal-kashmir-s-torture-victims-struggle-for-a-normal-life-101624739221540.html
27-06-2021||Other||Eying 2022 HP assembly polls, BJP plans massive outreach drives||Eying the 2022 assembly elections, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s Himachal unit is set to launch a massive public outreach programme on the completion of four years in power, besides extensive cadre training programmes at the village level. In its two-day meet, which concluded in Dharamshala on Saturday, the BJP working group, an extended core group of top leaders, mulled over strengthen the party structure at the grassroots level.BJP’s chief spokesperson Randhir Sharma said first of all, the party is geared up for byelections to Mandi Lok Sabha and the assembly segments of Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai, which may be announced anytime soon.“The party has already deputed incharges and co-incharges for these segments and they have toured the areas and met the local leaders,” said Sharma.As per the report submitted by them, the atmosphere is favourable towards BJP and the party will win all three byelections, he added.He said on the organisational front, the party had decided to conduct training of party office-bearers and workers in July, August and September.These trainings will be organised virtually at state, district and block-level and then at the village level.First of all, the state working committee will hold a meeting virtually on June 30. Then meetings of district working committees will be held from July 1 to 15 and block working committees from July 16 to 30, said Sharma.One important decision taken by the party, Sharma said, is to organise conferences of elected representatives of Panchayati Raj Institution and Urban Local Bodies.“In these conferences, titled as “Panch Parmeshwar Sammelan”, the elected representatives will be apprised of the party as well as government programmes so that they participate in the development process more actively,” said Sharma.He said a meeting of party media in-charges and spokespersons will be held in July.“The government will be completing four years in power in December and the party has decided to launch a massive public outreach programme to publicise the achievements of state and central government among the masses on the occasion,” he said.Police probing incident involving Dharamshala MLAReplying to a query, Sharma said police were investigating the incident involving Dharamshala legislator Vishal Nehria, whose wife has accused him of physical and mental torture.“It will be too early to say anything. Whatever action is warranted at this juncture is to be taken by police,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eying-2022-hp-assembly-polls-bjp-plans-massive-outreach-drives-101624738981591.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||BJP councillor joins AAP, Gopal Rai says more to come||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) councillor Rajkumar Ballan from Brahmapuri ward 47-E in Ghonda assembly constituency joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday. Senior AAP leader and Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai, who inducted him into the party, said several other councillors of the BJP and Congress are also slated to join AAP which will help its prospects in the upcoming MCD polls. Ballan said he was fed up with BJP’s “revenge politics”. “I started to smell dictatorship in BJP. So I joined AAP,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bjp-councillor-joins-aap-gopal-rai-says-more-to-come-101624738166795.html
27-06-2021||Other||184 new cases, 6 deaths in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh recorded 184 fresh Covid-19 infections on Saturday taking the state’s tally to 2,01,547 while the death toll mounted to 3,455 after six more people succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 37 were reported in Shimla, 28 in Chamba, 25 each in Kangra and Kullu, 24 in Mandi, 17 in Hamirpur, seven in Kinnaur, six in Solan five in Sirmaur, three each in Bilaspur and Una and two in Lahaul-Spiti. Recoveries reached 1,96,178 after 249 people recuperated while the active cases came down to 1,885. In terms of the caseload, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 45,786 cases followed by Mandi where 27,054 people have been tested positive to date and Shimla with 25,106 cases. Solan has 22,179 cases, Sirmaur 15,306, Hamirpur 14,326, Una 13,250, Bilaspur 12,628, Chamba 11,099, Kullu 8,881, Kinnaur 3,225 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,707.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/184-new-cases-6-deaths-in-himachal-101624738621839.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Hookah party: Three Ludhiana jail officials suspended||Ludhiana Three jail officials, including an assistant superintendent, have been suspended for booze and hookah party by inmates in the Ludhiana Central Jail.The prison department has suspended assistant superintendent Abrul Hamid, two warders Harpal Singh and Rupinder Singh. A departmental inquiry has been also marked against the trio.Officials found that when the inmates were having booze and hookah party in the prison, jail officials were on duty. Either they were negligent or the party was organised with their consent, officials said. After the video, recorded by the inmates, went viral on social networking sites, additional director general of police (ADGP, Prisons) PK Sinha marked an inquiry. Following the investigation, the police lodged an FIR against gangster Manwinder Singh, alias Nikka Jattan, Abhishek Kumar, Parminder Singh, Bharti Singh, Kewal Krishan and Maninder Singh and others.According to the jail officials, the video was recorded in first week of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hookah-party-three-ludhiana-jail-officials-suspended-101624738441534.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||60-year-old woman succumbs to virus in Ludhiana, 32 test +ve||A 60-year-old woman succumbed to the coronavirus disease, while 32 people tested positive for the virus here on Saturday. The woman, who lost the battle to the virus, was a resident of Shimlapuri. She had been admitted to the civil hospital in Ludhiana, where she breathed her last. With the deadly second wave of the virus ebbing, the district had not reported any fatalities on June 24 and June 25.The district’s case count now stands at 86,856, of which 84,346 patients have recovered, 2,081 have succumbed and 429 cases remain active. Five patients are on ventilator support in the district. Active cases in the district remained below the 500-mark for the fourth consecutive day. The last time the active cases had been below the 500-mark was February 24, when the health department had reported 495 active cases.The fresh cases include 16 patients with influenza-like symptoms and 10 patients from outpatient departments. The recovery rate has touched 97.11, while the death rate has dropped to 2.4%. Meanwhile, 17,219 people were vaccinated.Another black fungus case detectedYet another black fungus case was diagnosed at the district hospital on Saturday, which has pushed the district’s tally to 140. At present, 34 cases are active in the district, while eight people have succumbed to the deadly disease in the district so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/60yearold-woman-succumbs-to-virus-in-ludhiana-32-test-ve-101624738261629.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Graft case: Sangrur ex-jail superintendent sent to judicial custody||A local court sent former Sangrur jail superintendent Balwinder Singh to 14-day judicial custody on Saturday. Singh was arrested from Bathinda district on Thursday and the court had sent him to a day’s police remand. On January 8, Sangrur police booked then district jail superintendent, his deputy and a warder for taking bribe to prolong the stay of two prisoners in hospital on the basis of “false” reports despite them having completed their Covid-19 isolation period.The accused, Balwinder Singh, his deputy Amar Singh, warder Gurpartap Singh were booked under Section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, Section 52 A of the Prison Act and Sections 51 and 56 of the Disaster Management Act at Sangrur police station city-1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/graft-case-sangrur-ex-jail-superintendent-sent-to-judicial-custody-101624738201988.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Traders, restaurateurs rejoice as Sunday lockdown lifted in Ludhiana||In a major relief to long-suffering traders and restaurateurs, the administration lifted the Sunday lockdown after two months amid dwindling coronavirus cases in the district on Saturday. As per the latest directions, all essential and non-essential shops can remain open during the curfew relaxation period from 5am to 7.30pm. With the curfew being gradually relaxed across the district, traders and restaurateurs had been lobbying for easing of the Sunday lockdown as a bulk of their sale usually takes place on Sunday. Wholesale traders had been one of the worst affected sectors due to the Sunday restrictions as customers from different districts and states would only visit the wholesale markets in the old city areas such as Chaura Bazar, Akalgarh Market, and AC Market on Sunday. Special markets used to be put up in the areas in anticipation of the Sunday rush in the pre-Covid era. Chaura Bazar shopkeepers’ association general secretary Gurcharan Singh Chann said, “This is a major relief for traders as 30-35% business takes place on Sunday in wholesale markets. However, business is unlikely to pick up pace immediately as our clients have also suffered financial setbacks during the lockdown.” Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal general secretary Sunil Mehra said while the announcement will help businesses to inch towards normalcy, a relief package should also be announced for traders who have suffered significant losses.” Earlier this week, representatives of the Beopar Mandal had threatened to raise a stir unless Sunday restrictions were lifted. Representatives of the Hotel and Restaurant Association said the decision will certainly improve businesses, but things will not come back on track until bars are allowed to open. The association’s president Amarvir Singh said, “There will be 40 to 50% increase in restaurants’ footfall due to this decision.” The weekend lockdown had come into force on April 26. However, night curfew from 8pm to 5am is still in place in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/traders-restaurateurs-rejoice-as-sunday-lockdown-lifted-in-ludhiana-101624738141248.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||UPPCL seeks immediate assistance of ₹12,000 cr from Yogi Adityanath govt||The Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) on Saturday presented a long wish-list to chief minister Yogi Adityanath during a high-level meeting convened by him at his official residence.The corporation requested him to bail it out of a financial crisis by injecting a powerful dose of financial assistance.It said that it required financial assistance of ₹18,000 crore during the current financial year and ₹12,000 crore immediately to bridge the cash gap caused by various factors, including non-payment of electricity bills by government departments.The chief minister held the meeting to review the financial status of UPPCL and its subsidiary distribution companies (discoms). Energy minister Shrikant Sharma, chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, additional chief secretary (energy) Alok Sinha, additional chief secretary (finance) Radha Chauhan, chairman M Devraj and managing director Pankaj Kumar were among those present in the meeting. The CM, according to an official who attended the meeting, directed the officials to find ways to pull UPPCL out of the immediate financial crisis, but at the same time he also asked the UPPCL to increase its income by plugging in leakages and improving billing efficiency.In a detailed presentation made to the CM, the energy department officials pointed out that UPPCL’s cumulative deficit stood at ₹90,500 crore which included ₹81,612.07 crore debt liabilities and ₹24,461 crore power purchase liabilities. The corporation, it was told, also had to pay ₹3,000 crore to the coal companies.“The UPPCL needs an immediate financial assistance of ₹12,000 from the government to have cash flow,” it was said in the presentation.The officials sought the CM’s help for payment of ₹9,847 power dues pending against various government departments. It was told that the urban development department alone had bills worth ₹4808 crore pending against it.The officials requested the CM that the remaining amount of ₹2,850 crore in the ₹14,500 crore budget sanctioned to the energy department for 2021-22 be released. The UPPCL said that it would require additional government funds of ₹20,681 crore because power tariff, as directed by the government, was not increased this year.UPPCL also enumerated its achievements to the chief minister in the presentation. The corporation, the officials said, met the highest power demand for 23,867 MW on September 16, 2020 against the previous highest demand for 16,110 MW recorded on March 31, 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uppcl-seeks-immediate-assistance-of-12-000-cr-from-yogi-adityanath-govt-101624738082813.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||R-day violence: Court grants interim protection from arrest to Lakha Sidhana||A Delhi court on Saturday granted interim protection from arrest to gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana in connection with his alleged involvement in the Red Fort violence on Republic Day.On January 26, protesting farmers had clashed with police during their tractor rally and stormed into the Red Fort, hoisting religious flags on its domes and injuring scores of policemen. Fearing arrest, Sidhana moved Delhi’s Tis Hazari court seeking anticipatory bail in the case, with his counsel asserting that he has no role to play in the incident. Additional sessions judge Neelofer Abida Perveen posted the matter for July 3 and directed the police to not arrest him until then. This came after police sought more time to make submissions on his pre-arrest bail plea. Sidhana had earlier denied involvement in the Republic Day violence. Several cases had been registered against him in Punjab and he was jailed many times. He had also unsuccessfully contested the 2012 state assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rday-violence-court-grants-interim-protection-from-arrest-to-lakha-sidhana-101624738081601.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Neglected for years, ₹7-cr facelift to revive historic Phul Fort’s glory||After losing its sheen to years of official neglect and widespread encroachments, the state archaeology department has taken up the maiden conservation of more than 350-year-old historic Phul Fort attributed to the founder of the legendry Phulkian misl or dynasty.Located about 40km from the district headquarters in Rampura subdivision, Chaudhary Phul had originally constructed a mud fort around 1640 AD. It was strengthened later.Phul village was established by the warrior that paved way for the expansion of Phulkian rule in the modern states of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan.Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh is a scion of the Phulkian misl lineage. His forefather Baba Ala Singh, who established the Patiala principality, was Phul’s grandson.Assistant professor of history at Government Rajindra College in Bathinda Kulwinder Kaur said descendants of Sikh warrior Baba Phul later established the erstwhile princely states of Patiala, Jind and Nabha.“Phulkian misl had a huge significance in the Sikh history. The dynasty ruled Malwa belt for centuries,” she said.Director of the department of cultural affairs, archaeology and museums Kanwalpreet Kaur Brar said conservation work has been allotted to protect the heritage site. She said offices of the block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) and water supply in the fort will be relocated.According to the chief engineer of the state archaeology department Yogesh Gupta, ₹7 crore would be spent for the restoration work.A spot visit on Saturday speaks volumes of neglect of the heritage site by the state archaeology department. Of the four bastions, two have vanished and most part of the structure has crumbled.The fort is surrounded by about 20 shops rented by the Rampura municipal council and a sizeable portion of the fort area has been encroached upon by residents.Official sources said there is no plan to declare it a protected monument as it will require a strict implementation of rules of removing encroachments and prior approval of the local body for any kind of construction in the vicinity of the fort.As the state agencies failed to take up any restoration work, a group of local youth formed the Phulkian Riyasat Society in 2018 to conserve the crumbled building. They spent ₹16 lakh on the facelift. However, the volunteers erred and a part of the fort lost its vintage value.Society president Hussan Sharma said urinal pots were installed on the main gate and the fort was used as a garbage dump site.“Aghast over the gross neglect, we used cement, concrete and painted few parts of the fort. When a top Bathinda district official in 2018 sensitised us against the use of any modern construction material, we stopped all activities. Later, with the support of the local Congress legislator and revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar, restoration work has started,” said Sharma.Volunteers said the BDPO office should be converted into a museum and archived information about the clan should be displayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/neglected-for-years-rs-7-cr-facelift-to-revive-historic-phul-fort-s-glory-101624737963762.html
27-06-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Jeevtronics’ product is critical care intervention for masses||It’s a “cranks and batteries” startup that at the core is leveraging a desperate need in rural India to deliver solutions that will “light up” the country with “life”. The macro view has a social hue that colours the endeavour with deep sense of service to those not yet in the power zone of tech innovation.Cue Denmark’s midfielder Christian Eriksen collapsing in the stadium while playing a Euro 2020 game with Finland. He has suffered a cardiac arrest when he received urgent medical attention, including CPR, and was awake within 20 minutes as he left the stadium on a stretcher.Eriksen was indeed fortunate to have his teammates and medical team “fully aware and equipped” about medical treatment needed in such conditions.If Eriksen was doing a kickabout in rural India, it’s likely he would not have survived; unless of course, Jeevtronics’ ‘SanMitra 1000 HCT’ was at hand.Jeevtronics, a cardiac innovation-based company from Pune, has designed a novel hand-cranked defibrillator that will deliver a bi-phasic shock to the heart with less than 15 seconds of cranking. It’s the flagship product from an innovation assembly line that has also cranked out, what the founder claims, is the “Only solar lamp company whose product has been in operations for four years without a battery change - the world’s longest-lasting solar-powered home lamps.”That is Ashish Gawade, who along with, Aniruddha Atre, are the Pune entrepreneurs with the “US exposure” (see graphic), that are behind Jeevtronics.The two defining phrases the duo like to drop when speaking about themselves are: “technological innovation” and “bottom of pyramid”.Getting one to reach the other is what the Jeevtronics journey has been about.In the beginning…Inspired by Swami Vijnananand at the Manashakti Centre, Gawade decided to do something for the underprivileged population in India. He returned to India from the US in 2006, and started working for Cummins India. While on the job, he figured out major problems in the rural areas of the country, including regions adjacent to major cities like Pune and Mumbai. In 2008, Gawade and Atre decided to foray into entrepreneurship. Atre stayed back in the US and provided technical support for products to be launched. He returned to India in 2010.Says Gawade, “Our social enterprise is called, “Bottom of Pyramid Energy and Environmental Innovations”. We had planned to work in areas of rural electrification in an environmentally friendly manner and our first initiative was to provide a green low-cost power source for “un-electrified” or “under-electrified” homes. We had developed a human-powered pedal generator named “Chakra”. When solar lamps were introduced, demand for our product contracted. We then decided to launch our own “Prakhar” lamps and other devices which could be powered by both, solar and human power.” Cue the longest longest-lasting solar-powered home lamps quote.Enter the defibrillatorWhile working on the solar powered lamps, Gawade and Atre realised that there are other problems faced by the rural population due to a lack of electricity or irregular power supply. Enter the life-saving defibrillator.As per the Jeevtronics early research, a defibrillator is a critical instrument in ICUs and ambulances.A patient can be saved if the shock is delivered within 10 minutes of the cardiac attack.Considering the short span of this life-saving window, defibrillators should ideally be available in ambulances, primary health care centres and other small hospitals in rural and urban regions of our country.Atre said, “In India, these devices are majorly imported, and many small nursing homes use refurbished devices to meet the regulation requirements. Due to a lack of defibrillators the casualty rate in India is three to four times higher when compared to developed countries. Global norms require one defibrillator per three ICU beds, however, in India, we have one such device per 50 or 100 ICU beds. Hence, we decided to make low-cost and robust defibrillators to address the needs of the rural population.”In August 2013, Jeevtronics – Jeev meaning life, coupled with electronics and engineering-based innovation – was cranked into life.“We developed the world’s first dual powered (grid+ hand cranked) defibrillator, which is reliable and works even in areas without electricity,” Atre adds.Called the ‘SanMitra 1000 HCT’, USPs include the claims that it does not require any battery changes, ever. “Thereby making it the world’s total cost of ownership defibrillator,” Atre points out.In addition, Jeevtronics has developed a made-in-India ambulance grade defibrillator. “We have named it as Jeevtronics ‘SanMitra 1000 HCT EMS’, which has been tested at ARAI and will be priced at fraction of the cost of MNC brands,” Atre added.The duo said, “Devices like defibrillators are mostly used by the nurses or other medical staff in a very critical condition and less by the highly-qualified specialists and doctors. Hence, while designing the device, we had to keep this factor in mind and we came up with a very simple and easy-to-use interface.”Capital gainsTotal capital raised in form of loans and grants has been ₹6 crore, including a Biotech Ignition Grant (BIG) of ₹50 lakh by DBT-BIRAC, Government of India. Current revenue as per Gawade is ₹1.1 crore.“We have turned revenue positive and booked a modest profit this year. We are looking forward to raising funding for further expansion and sales of our products in India and abroad,” said Gawade.“The Jeevtronics SanMitra Defibrillator was donated by Jeevtronics to AIIMS Nagpur for use in Covid patients on December 19, 2020. It was received and installed in the Covid ward of AIIMS Nagpur in January 2021. Since January it has been used in several Covid patients and has proved extremely useful during the times of this pandemic during resuscitation of several patients,” said Dr Amrusha Raipure, associate professor, Department of Anaesthesiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Nagpur.The several medical accreditations and certifications on the Jeevtronics’ resume include, the Slovak National Accreditation Service (SNAS) Europe; the National Accreditation Board for Certification Bodies (NABCB) India’ and the International Accreditation Service (USA). The ISO13485 certification is important for implementing and maintaining quality standard of medical devices.Jeevtronics’ manufacturingThe total production capacity of Jeevtronics’ manufacturing unit in Karvenagar is eight units per day. Jeevtronics also has four patents for its technology. The unit employs 14 people currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-jeevtronics-product-is-critical-care-intervention-for-the-masses-101624737844041.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Nine years on, probe launched into missing head constable’s disappearance in Ludhiana||In a peculiar incident, the district police learnt that one of their own had been missing for around nine years only after they initiated the procedure to dismiss the head constable from service for prolonged absence from duty. The head constable, identified as Ranjit Singh, 50, who was deputed at Police Lines, had gone missing on August 16, 2012, under mysterious circumstances. The FIR has been lodged on the complaint of his wife Seema. The couple have three children and lived in Rishi Nagar.“On August 16, 2012, my husband left for work, but did not return. When I informed the police, instead of lodging a missing person’s complaint, they made me run from one police station to another. All this to no avail,” said Seema.Disappointed by the inaction, she went to live with her parents in Jammu. However, the police personnel kept contacting her to inform that her husband was not reporting to work. “Instead of looking for my husband, they kept informing me about his absence from duty, though I had told them about my husband’s disappearance.”It was only on February 18, 2020, that the PAU police station lodged a missing person’s report, she said.Seema said that when she received intimation from the police department that they had initiated the procedure to dismiss her husband for being absent for so long, she submitted a complaint to Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal. On the top official’s directions, the PAU police lodged an FIR under Section 346 (wrongful confinement in secret) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and initiated a probe.Sub-inspector Jaskamal Singh said the police are trying to trace the head constable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nine-years-on-probe-launched-into-missing-head-constable-s-disappearance-in-ludhiana-101624737781383.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Delta plus variant: Centre asks state govt to take up intensive containment measures||After Punjab reported two cases of the “delta plus” variant, the centre has asked the state government to follow intensive containment measures. Delta plus is a mutated version of the more aggressive B.1.617.2 or delta strain of the Covid-19 that drove the second wave of infections in India. In a letter to Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan, Union ministry of health and family welfare secretary Rajesh Bhushan has asked the state to take immediate containment measures and send maximum samples to the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genome Sequencing Consortia (INSACOG) for testing, besides prompt tracing as well as vaccine coverage.Bhushan said characteristics of the “variant of concern” include increased transmissibility, stronger binding to receptors of lungs and cells and potential reduction in monoclonal antibody response.Meanwhile, hectic activity was witnessed in the health department in Ludhiana on Saturday a day after the confirmed presence of delta plus variant in a 68-year-old patient. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and civil surgeon Dr Kiran Ahluwalia held a virtual meeting with the health department officials in which modalities were discussed to contain the spread of the new variant. The health teams were sent to Jand and Latala villages for intensifying testing.District epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Bhagat said besides contact tracing, intensive testing will be carried out at Latala village where the son of the 68-year-old patient runs a mechanic shop.“As we received the report on Friday, we will conduct fresh testing of the people in the area. Vigorous contact tracing will be carried out to track the people with whom the patient had come in contact with. More samples collected from the area and will be sent for gnome testing,” said Dr Bhagat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delta-plus-variant-centre-asks-state-govt-to-take-up-intensive-containment-measures-101624737723988.html
27-06-2021||Other||Kullu scuffle: Report indicts 3 HP cops for indiscipline, DGP issues advisory||Deputy inspector general of police (DIG), central range, Madhusudan has submitted a preliminary fact-finding report with respect to an ugly spat between senior police officers in Himachal Pradesh’s Kullu district during Union cabinet minister Nitin Gadkari’s visit on June 23. The DGP office, said a preliminary report regarding the scuffle was received on Saturday and the same is being examined. The five-page report has indicted superintendent of police Gaurav Singh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s security in-charge additional superintendent of police Brijesh Sood and CM’s personal security officer Balwant Thakur for indiscipline, it is learnt. “The report is confidential,” said Madhusudan while refusing to divulge any details. Director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Kundu issued an advisory to IPS and HPS officials to “always remain calm and poised” while interacting with other fellow officers and the general public and to ensure high standards of professionalism and graceful conduct. After studying the report, the yellow book (government of India guidelines on security protocol to highly vulnerable persons) and other evidence on record, the PHQ will send a report in the matter to the state government, said the DGP’s office. The incident has occurred near the Bhuntar airport. In videos that surfaced on social media, Gaurav Singh is seen slapping Brijesh Sood. At this, Balwant Singh kicked the SP. The DGP, in a two-page advisory, said, “There is no gainsaying that the image of the HP Police has taken a beating after the recent incident of an ugly spat between senior police officers in front of dignitaries at Kullu.” “It is also obvious that it has undone the cumulative good work by the HP Police during the last one year,” it added. Not only has the incident become viral on social media, it has also elicited a negative and highly uncharitable public response, the advisory said. All efforts in ensuring better service delivery to the public, all the unprecedented drug seizures and all the effort put into fighting the COVID-19 pandemic by the Himachal Pradesh Police have been overshadowed by visible public sparring, it added. The advisory further stated, “Such conduct is totally unwarranted and undesirable. It is unprofessional to the point of dereliction of duty and also raises issues of compromises in the VVIP security.”(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kullu-scuffle-report-indicts-3-hp-cops-for-indiscipline-dgp-issues-advisory-101624737721743.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||62-year-old man found bludgeoned to death in Ludhiana||Residents were shocked to stumble upon the body of an elderly person lying in a pool of blood in Dr Ambedkar Nagar of Model Town late on Friday.The victim, identified as Tarsem Lal, alias Baba, 62, had been living alone in a rented accommodation.Police said the assailants and the victim had been drinking alcohol before the murder took place. A blood-soaked wooden log was found near the body, they said, adding that the victim was bludgeoned to death.Vinod Kumar, who found the body, said that he was passing by the victim’s house when he saw Tarsem lying on the floor. He raised the alarm and informed the police.Inspector Inderjit Singh, station house officer at the Model Town police station, said that Tarsem had been living in the area for a long time. As per the neighbours, they had never seen any relative or kin visit him. Tarsem used to work at a dhaba outside the railway station, but after lockdown was imposed in the city, he would stay in his room and cook food for labourers.A case under Section 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/62yearold-man-found-bludgeoned-to-death-in-ludhiana-101624737661431.html
27-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana industry gets 3-month breather on enhancement fee||After getting a three-month breather on the deadline to pay enhancement fee, Focal Point Phase-7 industrial units have sought an interest waiver from Punjab Small Industries and Exports Corporation (PSIEC). Reportedly, the PSIEC has issued notices to around 700 allottees in Phase 7 asking them to shell out ₹830 per square yard (including interest) as enhancement fee for the plots. Industrialists, however, contend that the principal enhancement amount is ₹68 per square yard.Now, that the deadline to pay the fee has been extended from June 30 to September 30, the industry is pushing the government to waive off interest on pending payment.Focal Point Phase 8 Industrial Association president OP Bassi said, “Had the deadline not been extended, industrialists would have had to pay the enhancement fee with an added 21% compound interest with retrospective effect from 2016, when the notices were first served. However, the government should waive off the interest being charged on pending fee in this time of crisis. Even under the amnesty scheme of the government, 15% interest on pending payment is being charged, which is not acceptable.”Industrialists rued that the government had already collected 100% anticipatory enhancement from the industry, while allotting plots and notices had been served yet again for recovery of fee. Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisation (FICO) president Gurmeet Singh Kular said six years ago, the department had issued notices for recovery of ₹249 per square yard as enhancement charges but the matter was finally settled at ₹24 per square yard. “The government should waive off the interest. The industry is happy to pay the principal amount. This additional financial burden will burden industrialists, who are already reeling due to the pandemic.” Focal Point Phase 8 Industrial Association chairperson Rajnish Ahuja said the industry is in talks with the government for waiving off the interest. PSIEC chairperson Gurpreet Gogi said the industry will get at least three months extension and this period might be extended further. “A proposal for one-time Settlement (OTS) of enhancement fee has been forwarded to the government by the department for waiving off interest. The final decision has to be taken by the government,” said Gogi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/enhancement-fee-ludhiana-industry-gets-3-month-breather-on-deadline-seeks-interest-waiver-101624737483324.html
27-06-2021||Other||Now, Punjab IELTS coaching centres can open doors for vaccinated students||Students hoping to settle or study abroad have reason to cheer as the state government has allowed centres providing International English Language Testing System (IELTS) coaching to resume physical classes for students who can furnish vaccination certificates. The coaching centres had been shut down on April 20 after the state registered a significant surge in cases. The government’s decision has been hailed by coaching centre owners, who are raring to get business back on track. A coaching centre owner, who did not wish to be named, said, “We have already informed students about resumption of physical classes and are getting our premises sanitised. Only students with vaccination certificates will be allowed to take offline classes, others will continue with virtual classes.” Students have been directed to wear masks and maintain social distancing in classrooms and on the premises. There are around 750 assorted coaching institutes in the district, the majority of which are located in Feroze Gandhi Market, near the ISBT, Model Town, Sector 32, Khanna, Doraha, Samrala and Macchiwara.Sunil Misra, owner of Kirpal IELTS Coaching Institute, Model Town, said, “We have around 65 IELTS aspirants who have been taking online classes. All our students are eager to attend physical classes. Students who have received the first dose of vaccination can start Monday.” The pandemic has hit the once highly profitable coaching business. Misra says he had around 120 students last year but there was a dip in enrolment this year due to the online mode of teaching.These institutes polish IELTS aspirants in four spheres — reading, writing, speaking and listening. After a nationwide lockdown was imposed last years, coaching centres were allowed to resume business in October when authorities had allowed schools to reopen for classes 9 to 12 with parents’ consent.Meanwhile, coaching institutes preparing students for entrance examinations such the joint entrance examination (JEE), national eligibility-cum-entrance test (NEET) and others qualifying examinations have decided to request the state government to also allow them to reopen their institutes.Tejpreet Singh, co-founder and chief operating officer, Edusquare, said, “The government must allow other coaching institutes to reopen as well as students respond better to physical classes than online classes. Last year, we had over 700 students, only 450 remain this year. We, too, have to pay rent, salaries and maintain infrastructure in the institute and resumption of physical classes will help us break even.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-ludhiana-ielts-coaching-centres-can-open-doors-for-vaccinated-students-101624737481888.html
27-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana: PSPCL’s nodal complaint centre inaugurated||Punjab food, civil supplies, and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurated the 24x7 PSPCL nodal complaint centre on Hambran Road and flagged off the complaint handling vehicle on Saturday.During the inaugural ceremony, Ashu said that the centre would ensure timely resolution of power-related consumer complaints. The fully equipped complaint handling vehicle will facilitate an uninterrupted power supply to the consumers, he added.He informed that a sub-divisional office would come up at 500 square yards of MC land, beside the fire station on Hambran Road. The centre will benefit more than 65,000 consumers of Haibowal Kalan, Haibowal Khurd, Partap Singh Wala, Dairy Complex, Hambran Road, Balloke, Jassian Road, Chuharpur, Ladian, Rishi Nagar, and other adjoining areas.He added that for timely redressal of power-related complaints, two sub-divisional officers and other staff would be deputed there. The minister informed that the area residents, earlier, used to go to the PSPCL’s Sarabha Nagar office to pay bills and redressal of complaints.LED bulbs distributedOn this occasion, Ashu also distributed LED bulbs to general consumers under the PSPCL Kifayati LED Bulb Yojana 2021 and highlighted the benefits of using energy-efficient appliances.He informed that under this scheme, the general public can purchase LED bulbs worth ₹70 at ₹30, and all below the poverty line or scheduled caste or backward class consumers can get the same at ₹15. The beneficiaries can avail of the benefit by showing their Aadhar cards. Each family will get two bulbs under the scheme. He said that special camps would be organised in different parts of Ludhiana so that everyone can avail of the benefit and contribute to energy conservation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianapspcls-nodal-complaint-centre-inaugurated-101624737425196.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||PM Modi writes to kin of BJP workers who died due to Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has written letters to the families of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers who died in Uttar Pradesh due to Covid-19.“Individual letters are being sent to cadres from the PM office,” a BJP leader said, adding that the gesture indicated the party’s leadership’s continued focus on the state. The move comes in the midst of a BJP campaign in UP to connect with families of those party workers and citizens who lost their lives due to Covid-19.The prime minister’s letters were sent separately to each family. Modi, who is also the Varanasi MP, has recalled the contribution of the party workers and added that he felt their loss. Three ministers and seven party lawmakers, their family members and countless cadres succumbed to Covid-19 since March 2020 in UP. Though the letters are reaching the intended recipients now, they are dated June 9, just a week after the party’s national general secretary BL Santhosh had first arrived on a fire-fighting mission to UP, where assembly elections are due early next year. After Santhosh’s first visit, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev had begun undertaking visits to cadres’ homes across the state. The UP government has also begun accommodating cadres to various commissions and boards. The party, BJP leaders said, has also fielded family members of deceased functionaries in the zila panchayat chairpersons’ elections. “The party’s outreach campaign to cadre homes by state BJP leadership will continue. In each of these visits, we are telling the cadre that though their loss is irreplaceable, the party is there with them,” a BJP worker said. Praising the PM’s move, the UP BJP chief tweeted, “We aren’t just a political party. We are a family.” “That’s why the PM has sent letters to share grief of family members who lost their loved ones,” he said.Some BJP workers like Dilip Srivastava, a party corporator from Indiranagar in Lucknow, also organised a function to pray for those who died of Covid-19. Several BJP leaders, including former minister Rajendra Tiwari and party spokesman Hero Bajpai, were present.The BJP has also made preparations for the 78th edition of PM’s radio talk show Mann ki Baat on Sunday.“Now, on the last Sunday of each month, the party workers would hear the PM’s radio talk at the booth level,” a BJP leader said. BJP national president JP Nadda has shared a letter sent to him by one Anand Swaroop Dwivedi praising PM’s talk show.“The BJP chief has urged cadres to hear Mann ki Baat at a booth level worker’s place,” a BJP leader said, describing the party’s plan to build an emotional connect with cadres in an election year.CAPTION: BJP corporator Dilip Srivastava organised a function in memory of cadres who lost their lives during the Covid surge. Cadres lit a lamp in memory of the dead. Several BJP leaders attended it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pmmodi-writes-to-kin-of-bjp-workers-who-died-due-to-covid-19-in-uttar-pradesh-101624737424194.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Political interference delayed justice for 6 yrs: Sidhu||Taking a dig at Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal over his statement against the probe into post-sacrilege police firing cases, Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu said it was political interference that delayed the justice for six years.Replying to Sukhbir’s tweet in which the former deputy chief minister accused Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh of implicating the SAD leadership in false cases at the alleged instance of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Sidhu Tweeted: “6 Yrs since sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib Ji. No Justice in 2 yrs of your rule. No Justice in the following 4.5 yrs.. Today, New SIT inches closer to Justice for Punjab’s Soul & you cry of political interference. Political interference was that which delayed Justice by 6 yrs (sic).” The Amritsar East legislator also tagged Sukhbir’s tweet.After posting this Tweet, Sidhu also criticised the Captain Amarinder Singh-led government for “failing to deliver justice”.Sukhbir, who was quizzed by the SIT probing Kotkapura firing case, tweeted: “While farmers suffer, CM is busy keeping Gandhi family happy & has accepted @RahulGandhi’s directive to implicate SAD leadership in false cases. New SIT formed after old one was indicted over political interference, is being run by state vigilance dept,so nothing has changed” (sic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/political-interference-delayed-justice-for-6-yrs-sidhu-101624737421330.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Actor Mita Vasisht interacts with Chitkara varsity BEd students int’l school teachers||Chitkara University’s college of education in association with Chitkara International School, Chandigarh, organised an educational webinar on ‘teacher as an artist’ for its bachelor of education students and in-house teachers. Actor, director and writer Mita Vasisht joined the session that was moderated by Niyati Chitkara, director, Chitkara Schools. The theme of the session was emerging relevance of theatre and performing arts in quality education. Vasisht spoke on how theatre-based education, with a strong focus on non-verbal communication, self-expression, voice-over and voice modulation, body language, dialogue and content delivery, and creativity on the part of instructors can be useful in the classroom.She emphasised the extensive functionality of ‘role-play’ as a tool for teaching and learning, the contribution of theatrics towards the development of students’ communication skills and cognitive abilities, the role of cinema (Edutainment) in changing the educational landscape for the better, and the significance of theatre in instilling the virtues of compassion, cooperation, authenticity, and responsibility in the youth of the nation. Touching upon her journey as an educationist and her experiences of playing a wide range of characters in movies and television such as Teeba in City Stigma, Trishna in Kahaani Ghar Ghar Ki and Mandira Mathur in Criminal Justice, Vasisht reiterated and reaffirmed her faith in supplementing the traditional classrooms with activities based on performing arts, theatre and cinema. Madhu Chitkara, pro-chancellor, Chitkara University, said, “Evoking a passion for learning in students requires teachers to be creative, ingenious and positively offbeat in a way that captivates the interest of students and addresses the varying needs of all kinds of learners. Theatre-based education could very well be employed for targeting all kinds of skills with and beyond the cognitive ones. In a world as fast as ours, these skills could surely help youngsters in paving their own path to success.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/actor-mita-vasisht-interacts-with-chitkara-varsity-bed-students-int-l-school-teachers-101624737302844.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports 308 new cases, 15 more deaths||ChandigarhPunjab on Saturday registered 308 fresh Covid cases, which took the tally to 5,94,586, while 15 more fatalities pushed the toll to 15,979 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active cases has dropped to 4,376, it said.Deaths were reported from several districts including Amritsar, Faridkot and Ferozepur.Bathinda reported 37 new cases, followed by 32 in Ludhiana and 24 in Hoshiarpur, according to the bulletin. The state’s positivity rate stands at 0.63%.With 740 recoveries, the number of cured persons has reached 5,74,231 in Punjab, according to the bulletin.There are 120 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 373 other critical patients and 1,628 are on oxygen support, it said.The bulletin said that 1,07,12,980 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-308-new-cases-15-more-deaths-101624737241766.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya Vision-2047 gets premier focus as PM Modi reviews temple town’s development plan||As the Uttar Pradesh government made a presentation about the development of Ayodhya before Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a virtual meeting on Saturday, he said development of the temple town should be done as per Ayodhya Vision-2047 when India celebrates 100 years of independence.It was also stated that the development of Ayodhya should be done as a city of the future providing glimpses of a complete India to pilgrims and tourists visiting the temple town in the coming years.Although the state government did not give any further details of Ayodhya Vision-2047, those aware of the matter revealed that the prime minister said Ayodhya should be developed in a manner that would put the temple town on the centre stage of the world as a modern city while maintaining its ancient cultural heritage and glory.He said development should be carried out in a timebound manner and the works that could be completed by 2022 should be given priority.He also said students of fine arts from states should be invited to the temple town to make art works of different places.“Yes, Ayodhya Vision-2047 is a vision for development of Ayodhya in coming years. It coincides with the completion of 100 years of independence. It has nothing to do with the timeline for construction of the Ram temple,” said an official spokesman.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, speaking at the review meeting, said the state government was committed to giving greater dimensions to the development of Ayodhya and bestowing on the temple town the identity of an international spiritual city. He assured the PM that the state government would follow directives/suggestions of the Union government about the development of Ayodhya.About the vision document, the spokesman said it provided for putting up indicators about shops/markets and public places in different languages in the temple town, keeping in view the visit of international visitors. It provides for development of public places in a manner that would project the temple town as the city of Ram with depiction of Ramayan’s characters. It also envisions development of public places and crossings in the temple town drawing inspiration from the characters of the Ramayana.It provides for use of the latest technology for development of the temple town. It also proposes competitions for designs for the development kunds (water bodies) there. It has been pointed out that there were 108 ‘kunds’ in the town and that they needed to be restored.It also provides for development of an app to provide the latest information about temples and public facilities there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ayodhya-vision-2047-gets-premier-focus-as-pm-modi-reviews-temple-town-s-development-plan-101624736642253.html
27-06-2021||Other||As power demand peaks, another 540MW private plant conks out||Patiala Even as power demand is at its peak due to the ongoing paddy season, another 540MW has gone out of the system with GVK thermal plant at Goindwal (Tarn Taran district) non-operational since midnight on Friday. Another 660MW generation facility at Talwandi Sabo Power Plant (TSPL) has been non-operational since March.Power engineers see this as yet another instance of the laxity of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) in dealing with Independent Power Plants (IPPs). For the record, IIPs are now producing only 2,560MW of power against their installed capacity of 3,920MW.“For the entire year, consumers bear the fixed cost expense of these plants for not drawing power. When power from these plants is actually needed, some go out of operation. We have already demanded revision of Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) in favour of consumers,” engineers have been maintaining this stance for a long time. They add that the PPAs were so badly drafted that there was no penal provision for outages in peak season. On Friday, the PSEB Engineer Association had also accused the PSPCL management of bringing about a power crisis in the state.For now, the PSPCL is meeting rising power demand by mainly procuring from the grid and making other arrangements.Paramjit Singh, director (generation), PSPCL said, “We hope that GVK will be operational by Saturday midnight. The PSPCL management has directed TSPL to operationalise its unit at the earliest.”PSPCL SUPPLIES RECORD 3,029 LAKH UNITSEven with the generation from private power plants hit, PSPCL achieved record power supply of 3,029 lakh units on June 25 (Friday). PSPCL chairman and managing director A Venu Prasad said, “The previous record of power supply was 3,018 lakh units on July 2, 2020. PSPCL had purchased 216 lakh units from own sources and another 929MW from power exchange to meet demand. We are prepared to supply up to 13,700MW to the state.”He added that over 8-hour power supply was ensured to Amritsar, Sangrur, Bathinda and Faridkot districts. He appealed to PSPCL’s agitating employees to end their protest against staff and material shortage, etc, in the larger interest of farmers and power consumers, especially as the covid-19 pandemic raged on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-power-demand-peaks-another-540mw-private-plant-conks-out-101624735682033.html
27-06-2021||Other||‘BJP using agencies to trouble leaders of Maharashtra’s ruling parties’||Following raids on properties of former home minister Anil Deshmukh by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the arrest of his private secretaries, the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has slammed the Centre. On Friday, ED conducted raids for around nine hours at multiple places related to Deshmukh in Mumbai and Nagpur. The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is trying to misuse Central investigation agencies to create trouble for Deshmukh as well as the three-party state government. “Allegations were made against Deshmukh owing to personal grudges. The Central agencies are harassing him by using those allegations. Earlier, the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation) conducted raids but could not find anything against him. Now by reopening 10-15-year-old cases and pointing out errors, ED is trying to trouble him. Deshmukh and other MVA ministers are being targeted deliberately,” said state NCP chief Jayant Patil. Sanjay Raut, the Member of Parliament (MP) from Shiv Sena – NCP’s ally in the state – said that it has become a regular practice to harass MVA leaders by the means of Central agencies. Raut said, “Harassing leaders with the help of central agencies is not new anymore. Yesterday, NCP chief Sharad Pawar already commented on this. Be it Shiv Sena or NCP we all are being harassed. However, MVA is strong enough. We will see what needs to be done.”Another MVA ally, the Congress, termed the raids an attempt to finish political opponents. “We are clearly of the view that the action by the Central agencies is based on vengeance and is an attempt to finish political opponents,” said senior Congress leader and Public Works Department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan.Deshmukh is facing a probe after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh accused him of extorting establishments in Mumbai. Singh made the allegations in an eight-page letter to the chief minister on March 20, three days after his transfer from his post to the Maharashtra home guards as the commandant general for allegedly mishandling the Antilia case, in which 20 lose gelatin sticks were found in a car near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s home.After the raids, Deshmukh on Friday told the media that he was falsely implicated. “Singh made false allegations against me only after he was transferred from the Mumbai Police commissioner’s post. Why didn’t he make the allegations while holding the post?” Deshmukh told reporters on Friday evening. He also said that the gelatin sticks were planted and Mansukh Hiran – the owner of the car found near Antilia – was murdered when Singh was the Mumbai Police chief. Five police officers – Sachin Vaze, Riyazuddin Kazi, Vinayak Shinde, Prakash Dhumal and Sunil Mane – were associated with the crime intelligence unit (CIU) at the Mumbai Police commissionerate and directly reporting to Singh. He was removed from the top cop’s position as his role was suspicious in the Antilia case, alleged Deshmukh.Singh’s letter accused Deshmukh of giving Vaze – police officer held in the Antilia case – a target of collecting ₹100-crore a month from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours, among several other allegations. Deshmukh stepped down as the state home minister on April 5, following a CBI probe order against him by the high court (HC).In response to the allegations, BJP said that the probe has started on HC’s order and it has no role to play in the case. “Singh was appointed as Mumbai Police chief by MVA government. The officer appointed by them made the allegations, based on which probe against Deshmukh was initiated. BJP has not played any role, as the probe by the Central agencies began following HC’s order,” said state BJP vice-president Madhav Bhandari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-using-agencies-to-trouble-leaders-of-maharashtra-s-ruling-parties-101624735380633.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra vaccinates record 731,181 people in a day||Maharashtra on Saturday set a record of 731,181 vaccinations in a day as it recorded 9,812 fresh Covid-19 infections, pushing the count to 6,026,847. Active cases slightly increased to 121,251 as 8,752 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours. The state saw 179 casualties, taking the toll to 120,881. Kolhapur reported the highest toll with 30 deaths. The district recorded 21 deaths, while the city reported nine fatalities. It was followed by Mumbai with 15 deaths.“We have achieved another milestone by administering 731,181 doses in a day. This is the most vaccinations in a day in the state till date. The state is achieving a milestone in vaccination every day. Yesterday, we crossed the 30,000,000 mark of vaccination doses,” said Dr Pradeep Vyas, additional chief secretary, health department.The state has achieved 31,027,027 vaccinations so far.Mumbai also reported its single-day highest of 154,226 vaccinations on Saturday, according to the data of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). A total of 869 prisoners in Arthur Road Jail are also included, followed by the majority being 106,780 from the 18-44 age group. Overall, 5,093,485 citizens have been vaccinated in the city.Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases have hit a plateau in the state and are not going down. For the past 20 days, they are in the range of 8,000 to 10,000 cases. This has concerned the state in the backdrop of 21 Delta Plus variant cases found in six districts. The state is on alert as the transmissibility and virulence of the new variant is more than any other variants and a threat of a possible third wave, the officials said.The average daily cases in the past 26 days was also recorded at 10,835. However, it is far less than May, when the average daily cases was 36,820, according to the figures released by the state health department.State health minister Rajesh Tope, too, has expressed his concern over stagnation. “The daily cases have hit a plateau and are not going down. It is a cause of concern for us as they are stagnant between 8,000 and 10,000,” Tope on Wednesday.As a preventive measure, the state government imposed stricter norms by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three. The first two levels having maximum relaxations have been removed till further order, according to a notification issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Friday.“New variants like Delta, Delta plus etc. have come to spread and are fuelling the potentiality of imminent (4-6 weeks), more severe third wave across a wider geographical area,” the notification further mentioned.“The stagnancy in daily cases is the effect of unlocking and relaxations provided across the state. In such a scenario, strict implementation of the existing lockdown restrictions is very important. Since, the state government has reduced relaxation levels on Friday, the daily cases are likely to start reducing in the eight to ten days,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force and director, critical care, Fortis Hospital, Mulund.According to the fresh notification, malls and theatres have been completely shut across the state once again. Section 144 has become applicable and not more than five people can gather at a public place, while movements should be minimal post 5pm. Shops selling essentials can stay open till 4 pm on a daily basis and those related to non-essentials are allowed to operate only on weekdays. Gyms, saloons will be operational only till 4 pm, with appointments and without air-conditioners. Restaurants can open till 4 pm only on weekdays, after which, only takeaways will be allowed.(inputs from Mehul Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vaccinates-record-731-181-people-in-a-day-101624735200669.html
27-06-2021||Other||BJP, Congress hold protests across Maharashtra for OBC quota||Demanding restoration of the 27% political reservation for the OBC (Other Backward Class) community in local government bodies, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) resorted to ‘chakka jam’ (road blockade) and ‘jail bharo’ (voluntary arrest) protests at various places on Saturday.The Congress, too, held state-wide protests against the BJP-led Central government, blaming it for the Supreme Court’s decision to quash OBC reservation. The party alleged that the Centre did not provide census data, which led to the quashing of the quota.OBCs are on the verge of losing their political reservation in all local bodies across the state after the Apex court in a verdict directed the Maharashtra government to appoint a dedicated commission for collecting empirical data and fix the reservation of the community based on it. No seat can be reserved for the community in the upcoming local bodies until the state completes the entire process.The BJP held protests at many places, including Mumbai, Thane, Pune and Nagpur, which saw the participation of all senior state leaders from the party. Former BJP minister Ashish Shelar and others were detained by the police for holding a road blockade at Mulund toll naka.Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis was detained briefly by the police after he held a protest in Nagpur. While addressing a gathering, he said, “OBC reservation was abolished owing to the incompetence of the state government. Despite that, the MVA (Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi) government is blaming the Narendra Modi-led BJP government in the Centre. If elected back to power, I’ll ensure that the reservation is restored or else will retire from politics.” He was responding to the claims made by the Congress that the Centre is not providing census data which led to the situation. On Friday, the Congress had released a letter written by Fadnavis on August 1, 2019 – during his tenure as CM – to NITI Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar, asking the latter to direct officials to provide district-level data of Maharashtra with geographical identification particulars, caste category and names.At a protest in Thane, Leader of Opposition in legislative Council Pravin Darekar has alleged that state minister Chhagan Bhujbal failed to provide justice to the OBC community in Maharashtra. Around 150 BJP workers staged rasta roko (road blockade) at Anand Nagar toll naka on Saturday morning. Later the local police dispersed the crowd. “Bhujbal claims to be the leader of the OBC community. But he has failed in meeting their demands despite being part of the cabinet. He should submit his resignation as they [the state government] have failed to safeguard the reservation for OBCs, among many things, forcing the BJP to go into protest mode. The failure of the state government is evident in the issue of Maratha reservation as well,” said Darekar. In Navi Mumbai and Panvel, the BJP held chakka jam. Legislator Prashant Thakur said, “The state government has failed totally on all fronts. It has an agenda and is working accordingly to deny us our rights. There is no justice even for OBCs. The state has failed to get the legal order for reservations and announced elections.” Congress held protests at Mumbai, Thane, Navi Mumbai and Nanded, among other places. Senior Congress leader Chandrakant Handore, who was leading a protest in Mumbai, said, “The Central government didn’t provide empirical data to the Supreme Court deliberately when BJP was in power. Now OBC reservation has been quashed, and only the Modi-led Central government is responsible for this.”The Navi Mumbai unit of the party held protests at Congress Bhavan in Vashi as well as its Nerul office. Indian National Trade Union Congress’ (INTUC) Navi Mumbai president Ravindra Sawant said, “Had the Central government given the census data required, the Supreme Court would not have quashed the OBC reservation quota in local bodies.” Darekar has slammed the Congress for protesting. “I am surprised that the Congress is also protesting, aren’t they a part of MVA? They can take up the issue in the Parliament. All that the Congress is doing is drama through these protests,” he said. Meanwhile, an all-party OBC brainstorming meeting has also been called by Congress leader and state minister Vijay Wadettiwar in Pune Saturday. Bhujbal, while addressing the meeting, said, “Empirical data is absolutely necessary to resolve the issue of OBC reservation. It is not anyone’s personal property. The Central government should immediately provide the data as it is difficult for the state to collect it during the pandemic.”(With inputs from Ankita G Menon, G Mohiuddin Jeddy)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-congress-hold-protests-across-maharashtra-for-obc-quota-101624735141333.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||₹30mn allotted for setting up e-learning parks in 120 govt colleges in rural areas||Now, the students in government colleges located in the rural pockets of Uttar Pradesh will be able to access free high-speed internet at the e-learning parks being developed by the higher education department. The effort aims at modernising the infrastructure of higher education institutes in rural areas.As per a letter written to the director of higher education department by Yogendra Dutt Tripathi, special secretary on June 25, Governor of UP Anandiben Patel has cleared a budget of ₹30 million for the project. HT has a copy of the letter.According to the plan, the higher education department will develop e-learning parks in 120 of the 170 government colleges in the state. A majority of these 120 colleges are located in the rural pockets where several students from the nearby areas peruse their higher education. The e-learning park will have a high-speed internet facility which can be accessed by the students for free to look for online study material, join webinars and get information about the latest developments in their subjects.The e-learning parks will be established in the libraries of these colleges. Each park will have at least one updated desktop computer, a printer and a high-speed internet connection with a router, as per the letter.The need for such a facility was felt during the Covid-19 pandemic. In absence of high-speed internet, it was difficult for students in rural pockets to continue their education online.It has been advised that principals of the college will look over the operation of the e-learning park. The principals have also been asked to inform students about the lab and encourage them to use it. The Governor has also ordered to open the e-learning park till 8pm in areas of very poor or no internet connection to ensure maximum students avail the facility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/30mn-allotted-for-setting-up-e-learning-parks-in-120-govt-colleges-in-rural-areas-101624734842007.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||Film featuring Study Hall Educational Foundation wins Emmy||A film featuring Study Hall Educational Foundation (SHEF) has won the Emmy Award for outstanding daytime non-fiction special. The film also features Prerna Girls School, a unit of SHEF, highlighting the organisation’s work to empower adolescent girls through education.The YouTube original “creators for change” also features Michelle Obama and YouTuber Prajakta Koli (MostlySane) to create a dynamic content moment to spark a conversation around the global state of girls’ education.Dr Urvashi Sahni, founder and CEO SHEF says, “All of us at SHEF, students and teachers are delighted at this global recognition of our efforts. We hope it leads to an increasing impact on our pedagogy and belief that education is the place to create egalitarian mindsets in everyone. Thank you Girls Opportunity Alliance, Michelle Obama and our own Prajakta Koli for helping us to amplify our voice and work.”The Emmy is considered one of the four major entertainment awards in the United States, the others being the Grammy (for music), the Oscar (Academy Award) (for film), and the Tony (for theatre) and is also considered equivalent to Oscars in television, she said.Prajakta Koli along with Liza Koshy, an American comedian and YouTuber and Thembe Mahlaba (Pap Culture) highlight the work being done globally to help further girls’ education in India, Vietnam, and Namibia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/film-featuring-study-hall-educational-foundation-wins-emmy-101624734720631.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||Oxygen audit panel report not final, says subgroup chief Dr Guleria||A report by a group under the Supreme Court-appointed panel to audit medical oxygen use in Delhi is an interim document and not the final word, AIIMS director and chairman of the subgroup Dr Randeep Guleria said on Saturday, indicating that claims of a fourfold exaggeration in demand by the Capital were inaccurate.A political row has erupted between the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) over the interim report. The report suggested there was “gross discrepancy” in recording the requirement of medical oxygen by 183 of Delhi’s hospitals, which asked for 1,140MT as opposed to the actual requirement of 209MT.Dr Guleria said the controversy over exaggerated demand was unnecessary as the requirement of medical oxygen was dynamic in nature, adding that the report by the subgroup he heads was interim and people should wait for the final version. “The final report will cover all terms of references,” he told Hindustan Times. He added that the report only talked about how much oxygen was needed and how much was used by hospitals, which was dynamic at the time.Also Read| 'Fight over, can we do some work?': Kejriwal to Centre amid row over oxygenAccording to an NDTV report, when asked if the report was exaggerated four times, Dr Guleria said: “I don’t think we could say that.” The Delhi government has said that the report is invalid, and its findings incorrect. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday the acute shortage of oxygen during Covid-19’s fourth wave in the national capital was real, even as he appealed for an end to the political controversy and for everyone to work together.The panel is a subgroup headed by Dr Guleria. Its other members are Subodh Yadav, a joint secretary in the Jal Shakti ministry, Dr Sandeep Budhiraja from Max Healthcare, Bhupinder S Bhalla, principal secretary, home, Delhi government, and Sanjay Kumar Singh, the controller of explosives at the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO).In the annexures attached with the report, two of the members — Dr Budhiraja and Bhalla — submitted discordant notes on the procedure and details of the findings. An internal note by Bhalla on Friday evening suggested some members of the panel had not approved the report.“It’s an interim report and it’s subjudice. It has been given to the court; we have submitted it as was required. It’s an ongoing process and it’s difficult to say what the final report will actually say,” Dr Guleria told news agency ANI. “Oxygen requirement and what was actually used has been shown and discrepancy has been there. It is not correct to say that it was less or more, because that is something which is dynamic,” he added.Also Read| Oxygen report fuels war of words in Delhi“The matter is in the Supreme Court. We need to wait and see what the top court says about it. Undercounting of active cases and other factors need to be considered,” he told NDTV.Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta on Saturday demanded Kejriwal’s apology for “oxygen mismanagement” and said his government “exaggerated” consumption of the life-saving gas.The report marks the latest chapter in a spat between the Centre and the Delhi government. The Delhi government’s position was that the Union government was not allocating it enough oxygen. The Centre’s position was that Delhi’s needs were overstated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-audit-panel-report-not-final-says-subgroup-chief-dr-guleria-101624733686951.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column:Infuse life with joy, self-contentment||“Taking joy in living is a woman’s best cosmetic.” I recently came across this quote and it immediately struck a chord with me. The quote is not exclusive to women but applies to humanity as a whole. Indeed, it is imperative to be comfortable with oneself, to forgive oneself, and yet, keep striving towards growth. Self-contentment and joy should always be our lives’ basic ingredient. Contrary to popular perception, contentment and the need to progress can coexist.While joy can and does come from external sources, it will not last unless we feel it within as well. At times, we may not be able to feel the joy, but staying on the chosen path and keeping up with our duties can help spark joy with time. While working as a therapist, I would suggest my clients to stay put and go with the flow, and that the feeling of joy will eventually have to follow. Consider an employee who might not ‘feel like’ going to a monthly office get-together on a particular instance, but, dresses up and shows up with a smile anyhow. Chances are that they will not regret it and will pat their back for taking the decision later. A simpler analogy is that we usually don’t ‘feel like’ exercising, at least not till we develop a habit. But, every time, once we begin to do it, we feel good. Action does have immense power, to change our mindset, to put things in focus, and to shift our perspective. Another way to infuse joy in life is carving in some ‘me time’ as well. A friend once asked what should be done during this me time. It so happens that we have become so accustomed to our routines and of always being occupied that spare moments invoke a dread. This was felt by many of us during lockdown, self-isolation and quarantine. Me time is very subjective. While one may use it to reflect and ponder, another may use it for zumba and while some may like to flip through old photo albums, another may enjoy watching TV. It is like a call to find our calling.Also, we have a duty towards ourselves, which is recovering from our mistakes. Dwelling in guilt or repentance does not offer anything. For instance, often in the middle of a heated situation, I remind myself that I have cent percent right to my mental wellbeing. It may not solve the problem at hand immediately, but definitely strengthens my capacity to deal with it, because, instead of a reaction, I automatically choose a response.Last but not the least, if one’s thought process seems to be going haywire, and there is no meaning or sense to life, it is always worthwhile to talk about it, whether to a professional or a trusted friend. But talk one must. Keeping emotions bottled up is a sure-shot recipe for distress. As said by Audre Lorde, an American writer and feminist, “When we speak, we are afraid our words will not be heard or welcomed. But when we are silent, we are still afraid, so it is better to speak.” Sharing one’s joys and sorrows is essential to one’s psychological survival. So, to keep my joie-de-vivre alive, I make it a point to enjoy my own company, to accept and love myself, and, to keep in touch with friends and family. I hope you do, too.reemaban@gmail.comThe writer works as an assistant professor (psychology) at Rajiv Gandhi Govt College in Saha (Ambala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-infuse-life-with-joy-selfcontentment-101624734601203.html
27-06-2021||Other||15 farmers booked in Hisar||The Hisar police on Saturday have booked 15 farmers for allegedly creating a ruckus outside BJP’s Hisar office during the party’s June 24 meeting.Police booked the farmers on charges of mischief causing damage, rioting and unlawful assembly.In his complaint, BJP’s Hisar district secretary Krishan Khatana said a group of protesters including Sandeep and Virender, of Bichpari village, created disturbance and torn banners and posters of the BJP near the BJP office in Sector 14.On call of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a group of farmers had gathered outside the BJP office as the local party leaders participated in the state executive body meeting online in Hisar.Despite police barricade, farmers took an alternative route and reached in front of the BJP office and tore banners and posters put up near the party office.BJP leaders including deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa and Hisar MLA Kamal Gupta had attended a meeting held in Chandigarh on Saturday via video conferencing.Local BKU leader Shamsher Nambardar said police had wrongly registered case against the farmers and they will devise a strategy to oppose the police case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-farmers-booked-in-hisar-101624734481231.html
27-06-2021||Other||Missing Karnal man’s body recovered from canal, family alleges honour killing||The body of a missing youth, Ricky (25), of Amupur village in Karnal, was recovered from a canal in Sonepat. Family of the deceased held a protest in Karnal demanding arrest of the accused involved in the case.Karnal police said the Sonepat police have registered a case of murder against unknown accused and family of the deceased suspect it to be a case of honour killing.Family of the deceased said that Ricky had developed an affair with a girl from Chamar Khera village and the family of the girl was against the relationship.They alleged that on June 19, the deceased had allegedly received a call from the girl and had gone to meet her but did not return.Six days later, his body was recovered from a canal near Kharkhoda in Sonepat and his hands and legs were tied with ropes.Baljit Singh, in-charge of Karnal Sadar police station, said that during investigation it was found that the girl had committed suicide last week and on complaint of her family, an FIR was registered under Sections 376 and 306 of the IPC against Ricky.Body of the deceased has been handed over to the family and the police said the cause of death will be ascertained in the postmortem report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/missing-karnal-man-s-body-recovered-from-canal-family-alleges-honour-killing-101624734301164.html
27-06-2021||Other||Karnal to have 34km ring road under Bharatmala project||In a major relief to residents of Karnal and nearby villages the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has given green signal for construction of 34km outer ring road for Karnal.The project has been approved under NHAI’s Bharatmala project and the detailed project report has already been proposed.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the estimated cost of the project will be ₹1,766 crore and ₹973 crore will be spent for acquisition of around 215 hectare land from 23 villages including Kunjpura, Subhari, Shamgarh, Dadupar, Jhanjhari, Kurali, Ranwar, Samalkha, Bijna, Ganjo Garhi, Darad, Salaru, Taprana, Danyalpur, Neval, Chhaprakheda, Suhana, Sheikhpura, Barota, Kutel, Unchasamana, Kharkali, Jhimarhedi and Bijna will be covered under this ring road.He said that the width and length of this six lane road will be 34km and 60m, respectively.The project will have a logistic park on around 125 acre near Ganjo Garhi village. A flyover of 2.1km along with the railway road in Karnal will also be constructed.Briefing about the proposed DPR, the DC said the first alignment of the ring road will be between Bastara toll plaza to Karnal Lake and will be connecting major highway including Karnal-Meerut road, Kunjpura road, Indri-Karnal road with NH-44 and will also connect western bypass near Barota village in district.Officials monitoring the project said 50% of the acquired land cost will be paid by the state government and the remaining will be borne by the Centre.The process of land acquisition will start soon after the final approval of the DPR and there is a strong possibility that the work on this project will start by end of this year. The project will take around 30 months for completion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/karnal-to-have-34km-ring-road-under-bharatmala-project-101624734121125.html
27-06-2021||Other||Police let off 4 teens who fled without paying for car fuel||Tarn Taran Police on Saturday let off four teens, accused of driving away without paying ₹4,100 for diesel at a petrol station on the Tarn Taran-Amritsar Road about 4pm on Thursday. The four belong to Amritsar City, with two of them studying in Class 10 and the other two in Class 11. Police said the boys were going to Amritsar after purchasing the second-hand car through an online marketplace. Tarn Taran City station house officer (SHO) Varinder Singh Khosa said, “They told us that they had indulged in this serious mischief to save money for pizzas. The father of one of the boys is a transporter. The petrol pump involved was Roshan Lal Fuel Station.”“The owner of the fuel station complained at the Tarn Taran City police station soon after the incident. We examined the CCTV and based on the car’s registration number, the boys were traced to their homes in Amritsar on Thursday itself,” said a spokesperson of Tarn Taran police.He added, “The boys were brought to Tarn Taran on Friday. We allowed them to go home with their parents considering their age. On Saturday, the parents and the boys were again called to issue a warning. The petrol pump owner has also got his money.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-let-off-4-teens-who-fled-without-paying-for-car-fuel-101624734061236.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Land records at click of button in every district of Haryana||Modern revenue record rooms in every district headquarter of Haryana will be ready in the next two months. With digitisation of the age-old revenue records, citizens can now conveniently access them at the click of a button, said additional chief secretary (ACS) and financial commissioner (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal after a review meeting with deputy commissioners on Saturday.Kaushal said that chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has approved a ₹77 crore project to digitise the record rooms of revenue offices across state. About ₹44 crore is being spent to set up modern record rooms at district-level.“The revenue department is inundated with lakhs of files and papers, some even dating back to 1870. Under the new initiative, important revenue records and documents are being scanned, catalogued and kept in digital boxes in modern record rooms. These records can be accessed at will by the citizens. About 92% of the documents have been scanned so far,” Kaushal said.The ACS said the department is also planning to remove irrelevant columns in the land records and a committee set up to examine this will submit its report in the next 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/land-records-at-click-of-button-in-every-district-of-haryana-101624733881831.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gadkari gives nod for 11 Haryana projects||Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari has given his nod for 11 road projects put up by the Haryana government.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday flew to Manali to discuss these projects with Gadkari.An official spokesperson said that all the projects were accepted by the Union minister. The projects include construction of new national highway (NH) starting from Faridabad bypass and ending at Eastern Peripheral Expressway interchange near Chainsa village, construction of East-West Expressway from Dabwali to Panipat, Pehowa-Kurukshetra road up to NH-44, construction of vehicular underpass on Panipat-Jalandhar NH-44, construction of underpass on Panchkula-Yamunanagar NH, construction of underpasses on Delhi-Agra NH, Bilaspur Chowk, Kapdiwas, Bawal Chowk and near Rathiwas Budkha on NH-48, construction of interchange on Eastern Peripheral Expressway to link Palwal-Aligarh NH-334D in Palwal.Khattar assured the Union minister that necessary support for taking possession of land at Khatiwas village in Charkhi Dadri for construction of Ismailabad-Narnaul expressway will be provided.He assured to remove encroachments on the Faridabad bypass so that construction of DND-Sohana Expressway is expedited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gadkari-gives-nod-for-11-haryana-projects-101624733581285.html
27-06-2021||Other||Resign for failure to maintain law and order: Punjab BJP prez asks CM||Chandigarh Punjab Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Ashwani Sharma on Saturday said the increasing attacks on the party leaders and workers will not be tolerated. “Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh should resign from his position for failing to maintain law and order in the state, as he also has the home portfolio,” he claimed, adding that he condemned the attack on Narinder Parmer, state vice-president of BJP in Batala on Friday. “It is not farmers who are attacking us, but it is the goons of the Congress, who are trying to play a script of loot, and anarchy,” he alleged. “Unfortunately, the Congress has stooped to a new low and has created an atmosphere similar to the 1975 Emergency in the country,” he said, adding that the murderous attack on Parmar took place when he had gone to attend a function in Batala on the occasion of 46th year of Emergency. Sharma also accused the CM of playing politics of blood and deceit. “He (Amarinder) is nervous at the response the BJP is getting. To scuttle our plans, he sends goons in the garb of farmers to attack and muffle our voice. We will, however, not cow down,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/resign-for-failure-to-maintain-law-and-order-punjab-bjp-prez-asks-cm-101624733521227.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||MONSOON FURY: Several villages marooned as rivers flow above danger mark in UP||: Hundreds of villages in northwestern parts of Uttar Pradesh 9UP) were cut off from district headquarters due to rise in river water levels following heavy monsoon rains in recent days. At several places’ ready paddy crop in the fields were submerged and several hectares of land near riverbanks was eroded due to strong water flow. UP has recorded 147.8 mm rainfall this month so far, which is 114 per cent above normal, as per Indian Metrological Department (IMD) data. Three major rivers including Ganga, Ram Ganga and Sharda were flowing close to the danger mark on Saturday, as per updates provided by Flood Management Information System Centre (FMISC). Sharda river in Pallia, Lakihmpur was flowing 0.1 meter above the danger mark while Ram Ganga was flowing 0.5 meter above danger mark in Moradabad. The Ganga at Kachala in Badaun was flowing 0.1meters above danger mark, as per the update. Most of the villages affected by flooding are located in low lying terai region like Mordabad, Sambhal, Amroha though parts of Rampur, Pilibhit and areas of Lakhimpur, Shravasti and Balrampur that borders Nepal, officials said. “Some villages in Thakurdwar, Kanth and Bilari have been affected largely been affected by rise in water level of Ram Ganga river which passes through the district,” district magistrate, Moradabad Shailendra Kumar said. Rise of water level in Sharda river, which passes through parts of Pilibhit and Lakhimpur Khiri have caused flooding in low lying areas. In Moradabad region at least 48 villages, under the Sadar area, have been affected due to flooding. In Pilibhit, villagers of some 28 villages located in north and east of the district have been separated from the district headquarter and in Lakhimpur Kheri district nearly 58 villages have been hit. A dozen villages each in Shravasti and Balrampur have also been cut off due to rains in last 24 hours. Officials said the exact damage caused by flooding was yet to be assessed. “We have set up around 34 flood relief posts in vulnerable areas. These posts are coordinating with the district administration to provide relief to people in affected villages,” said district magistrate of Shravasti, TK Shibu. “The state level disaster management team has also been pressed in for relief work. The teams are working in tandem with other departments. The situation is being handled well by our teams,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/monsoon-fury-several-villages-marooned-as-rivers-flow-above-danger-mark-in-up-101624733460581.html
27-06-2021||Other||SIT just a political stunt ahead of 2022 polls, says justice Zora (retd)||Ludhiana With the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe into the Kotkapura firing case grabbing headlines, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader, justice Zora Singh (retd), claimed that the new SIT was just a political stunt. “The state government does not want to act against the accused and the SIT is a mere political stunt ahead of the assembly elections next year,” said the retired judge, who submitted the first report on the incident. He was in town to attend a meeting of office-bearers of the AAP legal cell; he is the president of the legal wing. Accusing the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) of being hand-in-glove with each other, he claimed, “The new SIT will come out with a similar report which was submitted by the panel I led.” He added, “The police and the state government have been trying to destroy evidence, and did not even cooperate fully with my panel. No CCTV footage was provided to us even when the DC had stated on record that cameras were installed at the site, and were functional two days before the incident. The government failed to interrogate persons, including cops, named in our report.”“If the government makes the report public, even a layman will know who was responsible for the incident. My commission did 90% of the work and the government just needed to interrogate the persons involved,” he claimed, adding that he was contemplating handing over his report to Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. The retired judge claimed that the culprits will be jailed, if the AAP assumed power in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sit-just-a-political-stunt-ahead-of-2022-polls-says-justice-zora-retd-101624733161160.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||Feeding birds from balcony is nuisance to neighbours: Mumbai court||The Mumbai city civil court recently restrained the family of an animal activist from feeding birds from the balcony of their house in Worli, holding that it was a nuisance to neighbours.“The grains may contain insects and the fact that when the birds come for eating grains, their droppings and humming sound, that too thrice a day, would be a nuisance for any reasonable man and particularly to the neighbour,” said city civil judge AH Laddhad.The court, however, added, “No doubt the act of defendant (the animal activist) of feeding birds and other creatures of nature is compassionate deed, which is highly appreciable and respectable, but at the same time, care needs to be taken that such act should not cause nuisance to human beings, more particular neighbours,” the court added.Dilip Shah and his wife, residents of Venus Cooperative Housing Society in Worli, filed a suit against Jigisha Thakore and Padma Thakore, who resided in a flat just above them. The couple, in their 2011 suit, urged the court to restrain Thakores from feeding birds in the balcony of their flat. Shah claimed that Thakore had erected a platform outside their balcony to feed grain and water to birds and that the grains would fall in their house. The couple also claimed that pigeon droppings would fall on the window, causing foul smell and odour. The applicants also said the grains fed to birds were full of insects, which would also fall in their balcony. They also claimed that apart from disturbing their sleep, the bird feeding was also leading to skin issues for them.The application stated that Shahs had requested Thakore family to stop feeding birds in the balcony and the society had also passed a resolution restraining members from feeding birds in their balcony, but since Thakores were undeterred, the applicants were compelled to move the city civil court suing Thakores and the housing society.Thakore family, in response to the suit, claimed Shahs and their domestic helps had been causing pain and suffering to the birds by hitting metal tray to shoo off the birds when they come to eat. This, Thakores claimed, is a crime under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. They also claimed that since Shah and his servants hit the feed tray, the grains fell everywhere. This, they added, caused panic in birds. The defendants further added that they had been requesting the society to allot a special place for feeding birds but it has not been done.The court after hearing both sides observed that, “This is really very unfortunate for the act of kindness the defendant has to beg. The society is also party to the present suit. If possible they should consider the request of the defendant by allocating particular place for bird feeding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/feeding-birds-from-balcony-is-nuisance-to-neighbours-mumbai-court-101624733100622.html
27-06-2021||Mumbai||After NCB grilling, Iqbal Kaskar back in Thane jail||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday returned Iqbal Kaskar, brother of fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim, to Thane jail after interrogating him for a day in connection with a drug trafficking case.NCB had on June 15 arrested seven persons from Mumbai and Thane and seized 17.3 kilograms of hashish from them. Preliminary probe had revealed that two of the arrested accused — Rajvinder Singh and Gurmit Singh — had travelled from Punjab to Mumbai on bikes, purportedly carrying the contraband in their backpacks. Investigation in the case has revealed that one of the seven arrested accused, Shabbir Shaikh, was Kaskar’s close aide, following which the probing agency took his custody on Friday from Thane jail, where he has been lodged in an extortion case.In 2015, both Kaskar and Shaikh were arrested by JJ Marg police for allegedly assaulting a real estate broker after he refused to fulfil their demand of ₹3 lakh protection money, said a NCB officer. After coming out on bail, Shaikh got involved in drug trafficking and Kaskar had allegedly contacted him from jail many times, said the NCB officer. The officer added that the agency will decide whether to rope in Kaskar as an accused in the drug trafficking case or not, after evaluating evidence.Kaskar, deported from the United Arab Emirates in 2003, was arrested by the anti-extortion cell of Thane Police on September 18, 2017, along with two of his accomplices — Mumtaz Shaikh and Israr Sayyed — for allegedly extorting ₹30 lakh from a Thane-based builder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-ncb-grilling-iqbal-kaskar-back-in-thane-jail-101624733041601.html
27-06-2021||Lucknow||Customers show faith as dine-in resumes||As the dine-in resumed from June 21, the restaurants in the state capital reported good response from the Lucknowites. Currently, food joints are allowed to function on weekdays till 9 pm with 50% capacity and they are shut for dine-in on Saturdays and Sundays due to corona curfew. The past week projected an encouraging response from the city foodies who turned-up in good numbers. “It’s great to be back in business but as we have to close by 9 pm, so definitely we are losing on the night business which is usually our peak hour. If we are allowed to open on Saturdays and Sundays for dine-in, with proper Covid-protocols, then we will be able to revive our businesses much faster,” says Manoj Bachani of Richi Rich restaurant. College student Yash Srivastava, while sipping his coffee at his favourite Rovers Café in Hazratganj, share that he came all the way from Indira Nagar to taste a piping-hot cuppa at his favourite food joint which is now open for dine-in. Clubs in the state capital are back in action. “We have ensured that the entire staff is vaccinated for the safety of our patrons. Now we are functional till 10 pm as per new excise department circular. It does not restrict us to close on any day but since restaurants are not allowed dine-in on Saturday-Sunday, so we are operating only on five days,” says Oudh Gymkhana Club secretary Ashok Agarwal. The plush lounges are slowly making a comeback too. “At Vibhuti Khand circuit, I hope by first week of July most of us will restart operations. In our complex, Farzi Café, My Bar, Firefly and Vintage Machine are already functional. We are opening from July 1. Hopefully, the weekend closure and 10 pm (only for restro-bars) restriction will be removed which is the major business period,” says Gaurav Singh partner of Boombox. The Flying Saucer Café, in the same locality, is also opening its doors from June 28. Kamli Bristo that was launched for public in April this year and immediately closed due to partial corona curfew is also staging a comeback in July. Hilton Garden Inn’s head of F&B operations Akash Rathod informs that, with 50% permissible capacity, they have closed the week with nearly sold-out occupancy at their restaurant. “We are requesting guests to get reservations done so that they don’t have to wait. The dine-in turnout was phenomenon,” he adds. For safety reasons and drive-in experiences foodies are opting for dining at suburban joints as well. “We have people driving in from main city for an open ambience food experience. We are offering a pre-fixed menu that people are enjoying to the hilt. We even have guests coming for a weekend stay with food packages combined,” said Ramada Lucknow’s deputy general manager Amitesh Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/customers-show-faith-as-dine-in-resumes-101624733041069.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Petrol price breaches ₹100 per litre in Mohali||For the first time in the tricity’s history, petrol prices crossed the ₹100 per litre mark, reaching ₹100.20 in Mohali district on Saturday.This comes after fuel prices were hiked for the fourteenth time this month. With this, Punjab became one of the 11 states and union territories in the country where the price of petrol has gone into three digits.Fuel remains most expensive in Mohali, with even diesel priced at ₹91.58 per litre. In Panchkula, petrol is available for ₹95.63 and diesel for ₹89.05, followed by ₹94.35 and ₹88.29, respectively, in Chandigarh.“This is unprecedented. Before 2021, a price of even ₹80 per litre was considered excessive,” said Ashwinder Mongia, president, Mohali Petroleum Dealers Association, while blaming the central and state governments for “exploiting the common man”. “Petrol pumps in Punjab are suffering huge losses due to the price disparity with Chandigarh. This is not a viable business anymore. We will consider holding protests to catch the attention of the authorities. The government must start imposing GST on fuel to regularise the taxes,” he said.The rising diesel prices have transporters in the tricity worried too. BL Sharma, general secretary, Chandigarh Transport Association, said: “Prices of daily use items and vegetables are likely to rise if this trend continues. At present, many transporters are operating on losses due to the scarcity of work, but once the pandemic situation improves, the prices will go up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/petrol-price-breaches-100-per-litre-in-mohali-101624732921072.html
27-06-2021||Other||After 36 years, SGPC reprints book on 1984 anti-Sikh violence||Amritsar The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has reprinted a book on 1984 anti-Sikh violence that rocked the country. Authored by journalist late Surjit Singh Sokhi, the SGPC had first published the Punjabi book titled ‘Sikhan Da Qataleam’ (Massacre of Sikhs) in June 1985 in four volumes.As these volumes were never printed again, only one copy of the book was available with the Sikh Reference Library that functions on the premises of the Golden Temple. All volumes have been clubbed in the latest edition. Releasing the book along with senior vice-president Surjit Singh Bhitewad; honourary chief secretary Harjinder Singh Dhami; members Bhai Ram Singh; Bhai Manjit Singh and incharge (literature) Gurmeet Singh, SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said, “The year 1984 gave unforgettable wounds to the Sikhs.”“After the Indian Army’s attack on the Sri Harmandar Sahib (Golden Temple) and the Akal Takht in June 1984, massacre of Sikhs was carried out in November 1984 across the country, including Delhi, which the community can never forget. This is the brutality that has proved to be a permanent disgrace for the then Congress government,” she said.“Sokhi has done a remarkable and historic job of recording, in this book, information gathered from eyewitnesses of the November 1984 Sikh genocide,” she added. The SGPC president added that the Dharam Prachar Committee has made an effort to make people, across the world, aware of the particulars of this shameful ‘genocide’ against the Sikhs by compiling the book’s four parts. “This book will keep alive the atrocities perpetrated on the Sikh community by the then Congress government,” she added.Bhitewad and Dhami said, “It is a historic resource for future generations, which will continue to educate the youth on the atrocities perpetrated on the Sikhs.” The SGPC is also reprinting the ‘White Paper’ it issued on the Operation Bluestar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-36-years-sgpc-reprints-book-on-1984-anti-sikh-violence-101624732861278.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh tricity reports first Delta Plus case||Amid a decline in the second wave of the pandemic, the tricity on Saturday reported the first case of the Delta Plus variant of the coronavirus, raising renewed concerns. The World Health Organisation on Friday revealed that the Delta variant (B.1.617.2), first identified in India, is spreading in at least 85 nations, terming it the “most transmissible of the variants identified so far.” Delta Plus (B.1.617.2.1) is its more virulent version, which has raised concerns about its capability to evade immunity built by vaccination or the previous infection.According to the Centre, over 50 cases of Delta Plus variant have been detected in at least 12 states in the country, with Maharashtra reporting the highest number of 22. Two cases have been reported in Punjab as well, while none has surfaced in Haryana so far. The first case in the tricity is that of a 35-year-old resident of Chandigarh, whose swab sample along with that of 49 other patients tested positive for Covid-19 since May were sent by the UT health department for genome sequencing to the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, on June 6. Genome sequencing attempts to draw out the complete genetics of the viruses.“The sample of a 35-year-old man, who is a resident of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, was tested positive for the Delta Plus strain, which is believed to be more transmittable and dangerous. The patient was tested positive for Covid-19 on May 22, and he has recovered from the virus,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, health services, Chandigarh.Officials said the man and all his family members, including two senior citizens and a child, had reported mild symptoms of the disease in May, but none was hospitalised. All have fully recovered, even as no one was vaccinated at the time of contracting the virus.Now, the department has sent samples of the man’s four family members for genome sequencing. “For the past few days, no case of Covid-19 has been detected at Vikas Nagar in Mauli Jagran, but we will step up testing in that area as well as across the city to diagnose positive patients at the earliest,” said Dr Kang.66% samples test positive for Delta variant According to reports received by the health department on Saturday, variants of concern have been detected in 35 out of the 50 samples. Besides the one Delta Plus strain, the Delta strain (B.1.617.2) was found in 33 samples and the UK or Alpha strain (B.1.1.1.7) in one sample. Even last week, 61% of 25 samples of patients tested positive from May 5 to 24 at the PGIMER — a period that saw the second wave peaking in Chandigarh — had tested positive for the Delta variant. Meanwhile, the Chandigarh department is awaiting results of 29 samples sent on June 22. In view of the circulation of the new and more transmissible variant strains in the community, health experts have advised people to adhere to safety protocols and get vaccinated.“Vaccination at the earliest is the only key to protect ourselves from getting infected with these dangerous strains,” said Dr Kang.Prof Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER, Chandigarh, said: “Citizens are advised to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. They must wear masks and should follow social distancing norms in public places. This will help in controlling the spread of variants.”Two patients succumb, 57 test +veMeanwhile, the tricity reported two fatalities due to Covid-19 on Saturday while 57 people tested positive for it.Twenty cases each surfaced in Chandigarh and Mohali, followed by 17 in Panchkula. The two deaths were reported from Mohali and Panchkula. Chandigarh has recorded no fatality for the past three days.The tricity’s active caseload has come down to 594 from Friday’s 636. As many as 303 cases remain active in Mohali, followed by 220 in Chandigarh and 71 in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19chandigarh-tricity-reports-first-delta-plus-case-101624732742286.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Wake up before all great Neptune’s ocean empties||‘To err is human...’ is a timeless adage. It seems human beings have grown fond of their follies and have an unfortunate penchant for repeating them. We are rudely shaken out of this complacency over and over again by some calamity or the other, yet we always sink back into our old habits. Poet and satirist Alexander Pope’s prophecy, “Sole judge of truth in endless error hurled” rings true , especially when it comes to the water crisis, which is looming large on a global scale. However, we seem to be intent on turning a blind eye to it. Each morning the cleaning fever grips our colony. The educated seem putty in the hands of their maids. Pipes are connected to taps, the motor is turned on and a water canon is aimed at each nook and corner: swish-swash, broom-broom. Heaven forbid that a mobile call or passerby interrupt, as an animated gossip session ensues with the free-flowing pipe abandoned. Sheer wastage! The concatenation effect is so strong that the entire neighbourhood is engulfed in no time. While the floors and kitchen slabs gleam in homes, the mucky puddles outside the gate are nobody’s concern. Poor pedestrians have to hopscotch their way or fume silently as a passing vehicle drenches them in a muddy spray. That’s not all, stagnant water attracts stray animals and is a breeding ground for all sorts of germs and pests. As far as the damage to street roads or creation of potholes is concerned, one can always blame authorities. Where a bucket or two would suffice, we splurge significantly more. Moreover, these days almost every house has a fleet of vehicles and a hired help is employed to scrub it. The omniscient water pipe makes an appearance and all vehicles are unscrupulously doused. A liberal rub of detergent, followed by high-pressure spray would certainly leave vehicle shiny and spick and span, but few can empathise with the aftermath. Why not visit a washing station instead? Resources will be recycled and wastage minimised. A swipe on your vehicle, akin to a caress, will certainly be a loving gesture as well as exercise for our limbs.Any protest falls on deaf ears. Reasoning is lost in the “dreary desert sand of dead habit” and one is labelled reclusive and unsociable. Try hard as one may, it is impossible to make people understand.Potable water inundating the streets and going down the drain is a colossal waste! The water crisis is not just an issue to be raised in global summits or national symposia but it is the common man’s concern as well. Not so long ago, everyone was running frantically from pillar to post to procure life-saving oxygen. The pandemic is a clarion call for humanity to mend its ways. While ‘all great Neptune’s ocean’ could not wash Macbeth’s hands, at the current pace, we will pretty soon not be left even with the proverbial chullu bhar water to drown in.kalrasuruchi@yahoo.com The writer teaches English at Hindu Girls College, Jagadhri||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-wake-up-before-all-great-neptune-s-ocean-empties-101624732741088.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: Dear doctor, dear no more||“What is there to celebrate?” my colleague had shot back when I mentioned that Doctor’s Day (July 1) was just around the corner. Clearly, he was not yet over the ill-considered remarks of an acquaintance.The latter had begged my friend to arrange an ICU bed for his father whose oxygen levels had dipped dangerously after contracting Covid. My doctor friend had taken great pains to have him admitted to a private hospital despite a scarcity of beds. A week later, after his father had passed away, the same acquaintance was seen accusing doctors of unnecessarily putting patients on ventilators and expensive drugs to make money. He scathingly called them “maut ke saudagar.”The epithet, “merchants of death”, had me thinking and took me back to my introduction to this ‘merchandise.” I was a third-year medical student in the midst of a rigorous month-long maternity duty. Sadly, the lesson was delivered by a set of triplets born two months too early. They were tiny, under 800g each. The first was stillborn, the second gasped and turned blue, while the third died 15 minutes later, despite our fervent attempts to save her. For months after the incident, I was jolted out of my sleep by the weak whimpering of the preemies who had died before they were expected to be born.I was told that the guilt and grief of losing a patient hits the hardest the first time around and then it gradually becomes easier to process. However, the truth is that doctors lose a part of themselves with each patient that passes away in their care. Thus, I was apprehensive when the government recently recruited medical students to carry out Covid duties. Apart from the danger of being exposed to the infection, I wondered how they would cope with the turmoil. They may possibly become cynical, suffer from post-traumatic stress syndrome, or be scarred for life as they watch medical science kneel before the might of a tiny non-organism. More importantly, I deliberated on whether it was fair to toss them into situations that may cause emotional and psychological distress before they had developed the requisite resilience?A deluge of assaultsI was struggling with these thoughts when reports of assaults on medical professionals started pouring in. The trickle quickly transformed into a deluge. Petrified, I spoke to a friend, who said it was simple mathematics. In the first wave there were fewer patients and fewer deaths, and hence fewer assaults. With an increase in mortality during the second wave, there were bound to be more dissatisfied people who needed a target for their frustration and grief. Health professionals being ‘frontline warriors’ are an easy target. Irresponsible statements by the government and self-styled healers adds fuel to the fire.Health professionals will continue to be assaulted till the time the perpetrators are not punished. Sadly, even if the miscreants are arrested, they are seldom charged. The conviction rate for mob fury, arson, assault, lynching and even murder is abysmally low in our country. Laws are in place but until they are used, they will not be a deterrent and transgressors will continue to do what they can get away with it.Social psychologists need to delve into reasons for this trend of violence against doctors. In most cases, money will emerge as the common denominator. If the monetary factor is taken out of the equation, the dissatisfaction will be considerably less. We as a society save for marriages, education, houses and vacations, but few account for expenditure on disease and disability. This unpreparedness can be blamed on false promises of “free healthcare” made by successive governments. So, when sickness strikes, funds have to be borrowed or re-purposed. It is pertinent to mention here that the ‘free’ state-run hospitals are considered incompetent and are often the last resort. Even government officials are notorious for preferring privately run hospitals for their kith and kin. If the high and mighty cannot trust the system they have put in place, then how can the common man do so.Unrealistic expectations Earlier, small nursing homes were the backbone of the healthcare system in India. These were typically set up on loans by couples who worked day and night to provide patient care at nominal rates. Due to different laws and accreditation rules, they are slowly being replaced by swanky corporate hospitals, which have better facilities under one roof. Setting up a tertiary care centre that meets the requisite guidelines costs money, which will inevitably be recovered from the patients. In such a scenario, the state is being high handed in fixing impossible rates for the private sector to function in. If the government with all its paraphernalia cannot provide reasonable healthcare to the masses, how does it expect individuals to do so?Medical professionals have faced the brunt of the Covid catastrophe. They have been subjected to the risk of exhaustion, illness and death. They have suffered moral distress while prioritising patients for ventilators and risked legal liability when asked to work beyond their core competency. They have been demeaned, discriminated against and have had their integrity doubted. There have been instances where they have been asked to vacate their homes in lieu of Covid duty. Let us ponder on that this Doctor’s Day.dr_manjugupta@icloud.comThe writer is a Gharaunda-based gynaecologist . Views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-dear-doctor-dear-no-more-101624732561140.html
27-06-2021||Other||For unemployed six-day fasting teacher atop mobile tower; it’s either job or death||Patiala At a time the state’s politics has been centered around jobs and compassion, Surinderpal Singh, 36, is ready to die to get a bit of both, for himself and his 12,000 fellow unemployed, protesting ETT-TET qualified teachers. Having climbed atop a 260-foot mobile tower near Leela Bhawan in the city 98 days ago, he has been on a fast unto death for the past six days. His condition could yet become a talking point in the corridors of power. Unemployed Elementary Teachers’ Training (ETT)-Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) have been demanding a state government notification for recruitment for 12,000 vacant posts of this cadre. They are also seeking an increase in the age ceiling to 42 years, and that the government should only consider ETT teachers, while filling posts in its primary schools. The condition of Surinderpal, of Bianpur village in Gurdaspur district, deteriorated on Saturday with blood level dropping to 40mg/deciliter, following which other protesters tried persuading him to come down, but he refused to yield. “I did not climb up to come down without the government giving it in writing that it will accept our demands and will deliver on these in a specified time,” Surenderpal, who has eaten only what other protesters brought to him atop the tower said. For answering nature’s call, he had a pot with him, yet took only the bare minimum of food to avoid inconveniencing anyone. Last week, he had sought permission from the state government to kill himself. His father, Paras Ram, 80, who still works as a salesman in the local vegetable market, said, “It is fearful to see my well-educated and qualified son start such a tough struggle to get a job for himself and for others.” “Previously, I wanted him to stay atop the mobile tower till the government me their demands. Now, however, I fear for his life. I want him to come down and then continue the fight for his rights,” a tearful father said, adding that he had spoken to his son over phone three days ago. Deep Banarsi, the leader of ETT-TET qualified unions, said they have been trying to convince Surinderpal to come down for days, but he had put his life in danger for deaf and dumb government authorities.“We are sending other members atop on a rotational basis to take stock of his health. We believe that he is now at a stage where he does not fear death. At 260-ft, the weather gets extremely harsh (cold) at night and you have to limit your water, food intake to avoid urinating or passing stool,” Banarsi added. Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said, “I have held over 15 meetings with the union and also arranged their meetings with top officials and the education minister. We are aware of the deteriorating health of Surinderpal and are in talks to get him to climb down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-unemployed-six-day-fasting-teacher-atop-mobile-tower-it-s-either-job-or-death-101624732501067.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||PU dental students asked to report back to campus by June 28||The students of second, third and fourth year of Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) and postgraduate students have been asked to report back to Panjab University’s Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital.However, some have raised concerns over the decision and expressed inability to return to campus in such a short period of time as they will have to travel from other states.According to a recent notice issued by the institute, BDS first year students have not been asked yet, however, they will be informed accordingly. This comes after PU last week allowed the undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students of dental college to return to campus to take their exams.“Those who have to travel from other states are facing problems and they may not come within the given time,” students said.The issue was also raised by the representatives of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), who even wrote to vice-chancellor Raj Kumar on Wednesday. They have urged him to give at least 21 days to students of the dental institute to return from their homes and arrange for their stay before taking the exams.According to the advisory issued by the Dental Council of India (DCI) in May for the conduct of examinations, the universities concerned can decide the time and the method of the examination taking into consideration the pandemic situation in their areas.PU students’ welfare dean SK Tomar said, “All eligible students will be given hostel accommodation.”Send-up exams from June 29 The send-up exams (theory) for BDS second year will be held from June 29 in the offline mode as per the datesheet issued by the dental institute on Saturday. The send-up exams (practical) are scheduled to be held from July 7.Meanwhile, dental institute principal Hemant Batra said, “Many students have already returned, and we are expecting more to come. If any student faces any issue, he/she should talk to us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-dental-students-asked-to-report-back-to-campus-by-june-28-101624732381148.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Elderly couple hurt as gusty winds uproot tree in Chandigarh||Two senior citizens were injured as a tree, uprooted by gusty winds and rain, crashed on their house in Sector 15 here on Saturday.A thunderstorm hit the city around 3am on Saturday, followed by 4mm rain and winds blowing up to 89km/hour.As per the couple’s neighbours, the mango tree fell over the house of KK Garg and his wife Sunita Garg, who are both in their sixties.Mahesh Garg, who lives in the house adjacent to the elderly couple’s, said, “When the storm was raging around 3.30am, Sunita came outside to pick up their scooter which had got blown over by the high-speed winds. That is when a tree got uprooted and crashed on the house and her, fracturing Sunita’s leg. A piece of shattered glass from a window, which was broken in the incident, injured KK Garg’s head.”The woman is currently undergoing treatment at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.Partly cloudy weather ahead The India Meteorological Department has predicted partly cloudy weather in the coming days and unlikelihood of such storms. Maximum temperature of the city came down to 35°C on Saturday from 38.5°C on Saturday. The minimum temperature dropped to 22.1°C on Saturday from Friday’s 27.9°C. In the next three days, mercury will hover between 37°C and 38°C, while the minimum temperature will be around 23°C.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/eldery-couple-hurt-as-gusty-winds-uproot-tree-in-chandigarh-101624732321235.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Paediatric beds, more oxygen plants to combat third wave in Ambala||Gearing up for a possible third wave of coronavirus, the Ambala hospitals will soon come up with more paediatric beds and oxygen plants, deputy commissioner Vikram Singh said on Saturday.Addressing a press conference at his office, he said that other than the existing supply, “the sub-divisional hospitals in Cantonment and Naraingarh will soon have a 1,000 LPM (litres per minute) and 500 LPM pressure swing absorption (PSA) O2 plants, along with a 100 LPM plant at the community health centre (CHC) Chaurmastpur.”The civil work of the plants will be carried out by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the installation will be undertaken by Hytes, a Union government agency, except at Naraingarh where Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will install it.On the delay in the construction of the plant in Cantt, the DC said that it was due to issues over its base and shed structure that had been resolved and the ready-to-install plant would come up at the hospital soon.He further said, “We have proposed a 6 MT LMO plant at the district hospital in the city, 0.7 MT plants at civil hospital in Naraingarh, and at CHCs in Barara and Mullana, 0.5 MT plants at CHCs in Chourmastpur and Shahzadpur.”Civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh said that as per the guidelines from the state government, oxygen concentrators will also be reserved at all hospitals in the district. “For paediatric patients, 25 beds each have been reserved at civil hospitals in Cantt and City. We have an estimated population of 4 lakh in the category,” Dr Singh said.Kingfisher Resorts to get “safe” tagA day after Hindustan Times reported on the administration’s plan to recognise and award “fully vaccinated” tag to villages and identify commercial establishments with vaccinated employees, Haryana Tourism’s Kingfisher Resorts on NH-44 will become the first in the district to get a safe tag.“We have introduced a ‘We are vaccinated sticker’ to certify such premises. We will also award government departments for such achievement. Our Red Cross department has all its employees vaccinated. We expect that at least 2-3 villages will get the same tag by Monday,” the DC told the reporters.When could the whole district be expected to receive the first jab, the DC said that it would be possible around September.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid19-paediatric-beds-more-oxygen-plants-to-combat-third-wave-in-ambala-101624732261642.html
27-06-2021||Gurugram||MCG reclaims 70 acres by removing illegal constructions||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) reclaimed over 70 acres of its land by razing illegal structures in Baliawas village and Laxman Vihar, as per a release issued by the civic body on Saturday.At Baliawas village, located near the Gurugram-Faridabad border, the MCG demolished an illegal sports academy and reclaimed 70 acres of government land. The sports academy had been illegally operating since 2008, said officials.Five earthmover machines were used in the drive and 150 police personnel accompanied the enforcement team of the MCG for the drive, in which around 70 acres were being used for cricket and football grounds, a sports academy, and an unauthorised boundary wall were reclaimed.The MCG also erected ownership boards, to warn people of action in case of illegal encroachments. MCG officials said that there was no untoward incident.After reclaiming civic land, MCG’s horticulture wing started the process of planting saplings on the vacant plot.In the other drive, MCG officials demolished an under-construction apartment that being built illegally on 200 square yards at RK Enclave Society in Laxman Vihar Phase 2, under heavy police presence.Hitesh Dahiya, an assistant engineer, enforcement, MCG, said that all illegal flats were demolished and illegally built ramps in front of the houses in the surrounding area were also demolished.“Officials have been directed to remove all illegal encroachments from MCG plots so that these could be used better. Various types of civic amenities can be developed on these lands for the public or the same can be used to increase the revenue of the MCG by developing commercial buildings on them,” said Mukesh Kumar Ahuja, commissioner, MCG.The MCG commissioner said that it is mandatory to get building plans approved before starting any construction within MCG limits. Any construction done without approval will be considered unauthorised and action will be taken against the violator as per the law, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-reclaims-70-acres-by-removing-illegal-constructions-101624731900462.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt decides to take over private schools for violating RTE norms||The Delhi government has decided to take over the management of a private aided school in Punjabi Bagh after receiving complaints from parents about arbitrary extra fees allegedly being charged in violation of the Right to Education (RTE) act, 2009.In a statement issued on Saturday, the government alleged that Swami Sivananda Memorial School in Punjabi Bagh was also deliberately failing its students and asking them to repeat the same grade. “Taking into account the complaints of parents, Delhi government constituted an inquiry committee for this matter. The committee found inadequacies in the functioning of the school and found that the issues raised by parents about the school are true. Upon presenting the report, the school management was given a chance to defend itself but they were unable to give any reasonable answers about the anomalies in its functioning,” the statement read.“Considering the inadequacies and complaints which were found to be correct, Delhi government has decided to initiate the process of taking over the school management as per the provisions of Delhi School Education Act of 1973,” the statement added.Ashok Rao, general secretary of the society that runs school, denied all allegations and said that the management did not receive any communication from the Delhi government till Saturday evening. “The school has not changed any extra fees from parents. What government is referring to as extra are charges parents willingly accepted to pay for some additional facilities. Besides, the school did not fail anyone deliberately. If we were failing students like that, we would not have had 500-plus enrollment that we have currently.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-decides-to-take-over-private-schools-for-violating-rte-norms-101624731720502.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 85 Covid-19 cases, fewest in over 420 days||The city on Saturday reported just 85 new cases of Covid-19, the fewest in a day since April 30 last year, and the second time in a week that the city added less than 100 fresh infections.The city has now added an average of 110 new cases a day over the past week, the lowest in 427 days, going back to end-April last year, before even the first surge of infections hit the Capital.The test positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive — also dropped to an all-time low of 0.12%. Experts regard the positivity rate as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection, and the World Health Organization (WHO) says that an outbreak can be considered to be under control in a region when this number is below 5% for a two-week period.In Delhi, the positivity rate has stayed below this threshold for 37 days and below 1% for 27 days, shows data shared by the state government.The positivity rate remained below 1% for 82 consecutive days between end-December and mid-March.Meanwhile, nine more people died of the infection on Saturday, showed the state government’s health bulletin. The city has added fewer than 10 fatalities of the infection for five consecutive days now.The number of people with the infection in city hospitals stands at just over 1,000. At the peak of the fourth wave in Delhi, there were over 20,000 people in hospitals, as per the data shared by the Delhi government.“Once a large proportion of the people have been exposed to the infection, it becomes endemic, occurring in small numbers in pockets. Such low level of infection is only possible when endemic levels have been reached. Delhi along with places like Maharashtra and Punjab that saw the explosion of cases initially have reached the endemic levels and the entire country is likely to follow soon, probably by mid-July,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/capital-adds-85-covid-19-cases-fewest-in-over-420-days-101624731721129.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Over 200,000 get jabs in a day for 1st time in Delhi||The Capital administered over 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine shots for the first time on Saturday, as the city edged closer to its target of 300,000 jabs, with inoculations breaching daily records for three days in a row.On Saturday, 207,494 vaccine doses were administered in the city as of 10pm, showed the Centre’s CoWin dashboard.The city’s vaccination programme picked up pace June 21 onwards after a switch in the national policy, with the Centre providing free doses for all.The number of vaccination sites was increased, centres opened up for all adults, while walk-ins were allowed for those in the 18-45 age group.So far, 5.62 million people in the city have got at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, while 1.7 million have received both doses.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi on Friday said, “Walk-in vaccinations are allowed in all centres in the city... The pace of jabs is increasing with each day.”Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also acknowledged Saturday’s vaccination peak.“Vaccination in Delhi is happening at a record pace! For the last three days we have vaccinated more than 1.5 lakh beneficiaries. Today, surpassing all previous records - Delhi has vaccinated 2,05,170 persons today! This is how we are going to protect Delhi from the 3rd wave!” Sisodia tweeted around 7pm. The number of jabs increased in the evening.Over 82% of the vaccines administered on Friday were in people between the age of 18 and 45, showed government data.Atishi added, “At least 45 lakh [4.5 million] doses should be given to Delhi in July at the rate of 1.5 lakh per day, so that we can vaccinate the people of Delhi as soon as possible and save them from a third wave.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-200k-get-jabs-in-a-day-for-1st-time-in-delhi-101624731661474.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||Relief for gyms, banquet halls in new unlock plan||Gyms, yoga institutes and banquet halls in Delhi will be allowed to open with restrictions from Monday, as part of phased relaxations by the state disaster management authority, while cinema halls and spas will stay shut for at least another week.“The owners of the gymnasiums, yoga institutes, banquet halls, marriage halls and hotels shall be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour...,” said the order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Saturday evening.Banquet halls will only be allowed to open for weddings, the DDMA’s rules said. Weddings will now be allowed with up to 50 people, if taking place in a banquet hall. However, if a wedding is being held in court or at home, the existing cap of 20 persons remains in place, said the order.Cinema halls, auditoriums, schools, colleges and entertainment parks continue to stay shut, while sports complexes and swimming pools may only be used by sportspersons training for national or international events.All social, religious, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, festival related and other gatherings and congregations will remain prohibited.With regard to the Delhi Metro’s request for “further relaxations” to tackle overcrowding at stations, the DDMA maintained status quo on the rules for the popular public transit service.At present, Metro trains can operate with only 50% of the seating capacity, while no standing passengers are allowed.Last week, DDMA allowed parks, golf clubs, outdoor yoga and public gardens to reopen, while bars were allowed to operate at 50% capacity.Markets, standalone and neighbourhood shops, malls, state-run buses, weekly markets in the city are already open, with regulations in place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/relief-for-gyms-banquet-halls-in-new-unlock-plan-101624731600428.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||Nobody should be short of oxygen in third wave, says Delhi CM Kejriwal||A day after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) sparred over an interim report on Delhi’s oxygen requirement during the second Covid-19 wave, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged the central government to work together “so that no one is short of oxygen in the third wave”.“If your fight over oxygen is over, can we get back to work? Let’s make such a system together so that no one suffers due to lack of oxygen in the third wave. In the second wave, people faced a severe shortage of medical oxygen. Now this should not happen in the third wave. If we fight amongst ourselves, then corona will win. If we fight together, the country will win,” Kejriwal said in a tweet in Hindi on Saturday.Also Read| Oxygen audit panel report not final, says subgroup chief Dr GuleriaA political battle broke out between Delhi’s AAP government and the BJP on Friday over an interim report by a subgroup under the Supreme Court-appointed panel to audit oxygen utilisation in the Capital. This, even as questions remained about whether this version of the report was meant for submission to the court, and whether everyone in the panel had signed off on it. The report said Delhi’s administrations and hospitals exaggerated the demand for medical oxygen, which the BJP drew on to attack the CM.On Saturday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia slammed the BJP-led central government and called it “Bharatiya Jhagda Party”. In a tweet in Hindi on Saturday, Sisodia said: “The leaders of Bharatiya Jhagda Party only know how to fight. They are concerned neither about [the availability of] oxygen nor about the third wave. When the third wave will hit the country, then they will move to some other state to fight elections [and] make people quarrel among each other. Once the election is over, they will again resume attacking and fighting with the elected governments in different states.”The Delhi BJP, in its response, said the AAP leaders refuse to be held accountable for anything. “The problem with AAP leaders is that they refuse to be accountable. Ever since the report prepared by the SC-mandated committee highlighted how the Kejriwal government failed to handle the oxygen crisis in Delhi, the AAP leaders have been raising irrelevant issues to avoid a reply on the main issues pointed by the committee,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.Also Read| BJP slams Delhi government for ‘exaggerating’ oxygen requirementThe report suggested there was “gross discrepancy” in recording the requirement of medical oxygen by 183 of Delhi’s hospitals, claiming that the government projected an oxygen demand of 1,140MT as opposed to the actual requirement of 209MT. It also assessed the oxygen demand in a meeting on May 13 as 290-400MT, at a time when representatives of the state government continued to seek 500MT of oxygen.The Delhi government has said that the report was invalid, and its findings incorrect. In a tweet in Hindi on Friday, the Delhi CM said: “My crime — I fought for the breath of my two crore people. When you were doing an election rally, I was awake all night arranging for oxygen. I fought, pleaded to get oxygen for people. People have lost their loved ones due to lack of oxygen. Don’t call them liars, they are feeling so bad.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nobody-should-be-short-of-oxygen-in-third-wave-says-delhi-cm-kejriwal-101624731361020.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai kicks off plantation drive||State environment minister Gopal Rai on Saturday kickstarted a three-month plantation drive from Garhi Mandu, which is one of the largest plantation sites in the city, and said the drive will be undertaken in all the 70 assembly constituencies from Sunday.“We have organised a large-scale plantation drive in the city to increase Delhi’s green cover and control pollution. After the 2020 elections, we decided that 20 million saplings would be planted in the next five years. We have thus decided to plant 3.5 million saplings this year,” said Rai addressing the media on Saturday.He added, “The Van Mahotsav started today (Saturday) from Garhi Mandu and will run for the next 15 days. The deputy chief minister, cabinet ministers and Vidhan Sabha speaker will lead this movement in various parts of the city.”Rai said for this drive, the government has stressed on planting medical plants along with adaptive native varieties.“We urge all agencies and the public to come forward and participate in the plantation drive. This will not only help us control pollution levels but also increase greenery for future generations,” Rai said.Meanwhile, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) also started its mass plantation drive on Saturday as part of the ‘Van Mahotsav’, setting a target of planting 3,850 saplings, and five lakh shrubs this monsoon.On Saturday morning, NDMC chairperson Dharmendra, secretary B M Mishra and other senior officials, along with some morning walkers, planted saplings of kalpvriksh, putranjiva, amaltas and other indigenous varieties of trees across Nehru Park.Other areas where saplings were planted are Safdarjung Road, Palika Niketan, RK Puram sector-10, Lodi Garden, Shankar Road, Talkatora Garden, Pandara Road, Jai Singh Road, Central Park Connaught Place, Lodi Colony, Teen Murti Marg, Maharishi Raman Marg, Moti Bagh, and Mandir Marg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-environment-minister-gopal-rai-kicks-off-plantation-drive-in-capital-101624731301000.html
27-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt launches three-stage teaching-learning action plan for its schools||Re-connect with students, provide emotional support and bridge learning gaps, and then begin academic activities — this was a three-stage action plan Delhi government released on Saturday for the ongoing academic sessions for nursery till Class 12 in all its schools, while reiterating that schools in the national capital will continue to remain closed till further orders, in view of the covid-19 pandemic. The government also said it will regularly assess students using “innovative methods”.Schools in the national capital have mostly been closed since last March in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the teaching-learning process has shifted to online or hybrid modes in that time. Institutions reopened briefly for classes 9 to 12 between January and February only for remedial classes, practical work, and pre-boards/mid-term examinations, and the government later ordered schools to close when the second wave of the pandemic hit in April.According to the action plan released by the Delhi government’s directorate of education (DoE), in the first stage, between June 28 and July 3, schools will start reconnecting with students. During this time, teachers and heads of schools will contact students and parents, update contact details, set up WhatsApp groups and prepare a list of students without smartphones or cellphones.In the second stage, between July 5 and July 31, schools will provide emotional support to students and try to bridge learning gaps, the government said in a statement.Emphasising the importance of providing emotional support, Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia said, “The learning loss has been massive due to the onset of the pandemic. This year, we not only need to reduce learning loss but also provide deep emotional support to our children. They need to be mentally prepared for any teaching-learning activities.”The third stage will begin from August 2, when schools start conducting regular subject-wise online classes and also provide worksheets and hard copies of assignments to the students who do not have access to digital devices or internet connectivity. “Students who have difficulty accessing digital devices will be provided short notes capturing the points of their online classes. These notes can be collected by the parents from the school on a weekly basis. Similarly, the parents who do not have smartphones can collect the worksheets on a weekly basis from the school of their child,” a circular issued by the DoE said.The Delhi government also that it will assess students every month using an “innovative approach” to understand their participation and learning levels. “The nature of these assessments will be based on project/activity/assignment. It shall assess the foundational competencies, effective knowledge, understanding, critical thinking, analytical approach, problem-solving, and creativity, etc using the content of the month as reference,” the DoE circular added.Principals of Delhi government schools welcomed the action plan.“It’s good that the government is planning to first provide emotional support to students before starting the teaching-learning process. This is necessary, considering the emotional trauma they went through during the second Covid-19 wave,” said Dr Devinder, principal of a government school in Rouse Avenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-three-stage-teaching-learning-action-plan-for-its-schools-101624731300398.html
27-06-2021||Jaipur||Contact tracing started in Bikaner to check spread of delta plus variant of Covid-19: Minister||Rajasthan Health Minister Raghu Sharma on Saturday said the state government is vigilant about the delta plus variant of coronavirus, for whose detection contact tracing has been started in Bikaner and micro containment zones created to thwart its spread.The minister’s comments came in the wake of a woman in Bikaner found infected with the new variant.Contact tracing has been started on a large scale in Bikaner and micro containment zones created so that there is no spread of the infection, he said in a statement.The Health Minister said according to a data released by the Centre, 48 patients have been found infected with the variant in 11 states of the country.Genome sequencing is being done at 10 places in the country. The work of genome sequencing has started at Jaipur’s SMS Medical College, he said, adding that samples are being tested to know more about the new variant so that treatment protocol could be fixed.Sharma also inspected facilities at a hospital here.He said better medical facilities were being provided by strengthening the infrastructure at all hospitals for children ahead of the possible third wave of coronavirus.The minister said on Friday, over 10 lakh people were administered coronavirus vaccine in the state.The state has achieved the capacity to administer more than 15 lakh vaccinations per day, he said, adding that over 2.30 crore people have been vaccinated in Rajasthan so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/contact-tracing-started-in-bikaner-to-check-spread-of-delta-plus-variant-of-covid-19-minister-101624727551809.html
27-06-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: When film-making resembled like theatre rehearsals...||The writing process of “Nautanki Saala” started sometime during the end of May 2012. Actually, the project did not have an official title then and we were going ahead with the literal Hindi translation of the original French movie (named ‘Après Vous’) “Pehle Aap”. I shifted to Mumbai since I knew that this was now a concrete project in hand. Also, this was the first project wherein a rough shooting schedule was already drawn up. So, there was a deadline to meet. That was because the actors had been finalised on the basis of the original film and they were kind enough to place their trust in us — writers. Rohan just told me to go with the flow and continue creating scenes without moving away from the story of the original film. Also, time was of the essence as the actors had already given their dates. My friends had planned a weeklong vacation long before I had signed this film. But I looked at it like a perfect writing getaway. They would go out during the day, I would stay in the room and write non-stop. By the time they returned, it would usually be late and even I would get a chance to take a break and unwind. I managed to write the entire flow of events of the film during the week and sent it to Rohan. It was a mixed document. Some scenes had dialogues. Others only had a scene description. I did this as I wanted him to have an idea of the complete picture as soon as possible. Even he responded well and resent the document to me, breaking it down in sequences. I knew the basic theory of screenwriting, that it had three main parts – introduction, conflict and resolution. I also knew that as a rule of thumb these three were also divided in percentages and that the “conflict” part would take up most of the pages of a script. To be honest, while writing my previous scripts, I used to start well but lose my way somewhere in the middle, and then try to salvage the end hurriedly. I was still developing my craft. Since I had a ready film handy while writing this script, I did not face that issue. But the breakdown of the script in sequences just opened my eyes to a different way of writing scripts – one that I tend to follow now. Rohan and my co-writer Charudutt Acharya, introduced me to the eight-sequence approach to writing. It follows the three-act structure, but it further divides the script into smaller, manageable sequences. Also, writing in a film writing software helped in leaps and bounds. I had read a few screenplays before so I knew the syntax. But, actually using a software instead of a normal word processor made me write faster. And I finished the entire script, complete with dialogues and song situations in the coming week. Once the script was ready, I took a printout and felt happy that I was able to write nearly a hundred and twenty pages! There was a problem with that too though. It meant that the film was most likely longer than it should have been. Usually one page is about a minute or seventy-five seconds of screen-time. Plus, there were four songs in the film. So, this was already a hundred-and-fifty-minute-long film. So, one of the most important part of the next draft was to edit it. To do this, Charu, Rohan and I sat in one room and connected the laptop to the projector. We could now read the script on a much larger screen and that helped in focusing more on each and every written word. Without taking out any scene or any line of dialogue, we just changed the language of the scene descriptions and made similar cosmetic changes. We managed to make the script a lot cleaner and reduced its size by nearly seven pages! After multiple readings of the script in front of different department heads and actors, even we started realising which scenes, which dialogues were working and which were not. Newer versions with changes were being created every day. Sometimes more than one newer version was written in a day. As we neared the commencement of principal photography, rehearsals were organised. It was a pleasant surprise for me as they resembled a lot like theatre rehearsals, that I was used to. I felt at home here. Those rehearsals helped us further identify problem areas in the scripts. Scenes that were working on paper, but felt flat while performing. We got a chance to improve them there and then instead of wasting everyone’s time on set. Principal photography began in a few weeks. It was a surreal feeling. Not only because I had written something. The script was in the hands of almost every person on set. Every department was referring to it while working. I was part of the team that had created a document which was the base for the work of every other department. I had never looked at a script from that point of view before, and now I cannot unsee that!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-when-film-making-resembled-like-theatre-rehearsals-101624719359816.html
27-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chaos in Chandigarh as farmers break police barricades to enter UT||Farmers from Punjab broke police barricades on the Mohali-Chandigarh border to march into the Union Territory en route to Raj Bhawan on Saturday afternoon before they were stopped at the Press light point on Madhya Marg, a few kilometres from governor VP Singh Badnore’s official residence. Another group of farmers from Haryana was headed for the state capital from the Panchkula-Yamunanagar highway around the same time but was stopped at the Chandigarh border. Though the police had issued an advisory to avoid certain routes in view of the protest march called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha to mark seven months of the farm agitation, traffic came to a standstill in Chandigarh between 1pm and 4:30pm. Traffic snarls were also reported in parts of Panchkula. Police use water cannons Supporters of 32 farm organisations starting gathering at the Amb Sahib Gurdwara in Mohali from where they started their march towards Chandigarh around 12:40pm. Chandigarh Police had sealed 13 entry points into the city and even put up PCR vehicles, CTU buses and barbed wires to barricade the roads, but farmers rode through without much resistance with the help of tractors. Police even resorted to the use of water cannons near YPS Chowk (Mataur barrier), but by 2pm, the farmers coming from Mohali reached Sectors 17 and 22, the heart of the city. Both the governors reside near Sukhna Lake at the northern end of the city. The area was barricaded to prevent them from reaching the area. The farmers were stopped by the police near the Press light point. An officer from the governor’s office took the memorandum from the farmers, following which many went back on their own and some were dropped in buses till the Chandigarh border. Around 1,500 cops had been deployed in the city. “Police personnel handled the situation very maturely, and barring a minor altercation, the protest passed off peacefully,” said senior superintendent of police, Chandigarh, Kuldeep Singh Chahal. Haryana farmers stop at border The group coming from Haryana was being led by activist Yogendra Yadav and Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union president Gurnam Singh Chaduni. The farmers started gathering outside Nada Sahib Gurdwara since early morning and started the march towards the Housing Board Chowk (Chandigarh-Panchkula border) post noon. However, amid heavy police deployment, they did not enter Chandigarh and handed over a memorandum addressed to Satyadev Narayan Arya to an officer of the Haryana governor’s secretariat in Panchkula. Police said no untoward incident was reported. Deputy commissioner of police, Panchkula, Mohit Handa said: “We were constantly in touch with farm leader and dealt the situation with dialogue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chaos-in-chandigarh-as-farmers-break-police-barricades-to-enter-ut-101624704119720.html
27-06-2021||Noida||Noida records two Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, active cases fall to 62||As the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in Uttar Pradesh continue to recede, official data on Friday night showed that Noida, adjoining Delhi, recorded only two new cases in the last 24 hours. With this, the overall infection tally of the Gautam Buddh Nagar district has reached 63,019. A day ago, Noida had recorded only a single new case.The total number of active Covid-19 patients in Noida has also come down to 62, according to data of the state Health Department for a 24-hour period.On the brighter side, seven more patients recovered and the total recoveries surged to 62,491, while the death toll stood at 466, according to the data.Officials told news agency PTI that the number of containment zones, which had risen to nearly 300 during the peak of the Covid-19 second wave last month, came down to 38 on Friday.Meanwhile, the tally of active cases in Uttar Pradesh has reached 3,423, while that of overall recoveries has surged to 16,79,416 and the death toll has mounted to 22,381, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-records-two-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-active-cases-fall-to-62-101624675424731.html
27-06-2021||Noida||Noida journalist made false claim of loot: Police||The Noida Police on Friday alleged that senior journalist Atul Agrawal, who claimed to have been looted at gunpoint by assailants in Greater Noida west on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, lied about the incident. Agrawal, the editor-in-chief of Hindi Khabar channel, however, stuck to his claim, adding that he doesn’t want to comment on “the police theory”.Pointing to his call detail records (CDR), route map and CCTV camera footages, DCP (Noida central) Harish Chander and additional DCP Ankur Agarwal, addressing a press conference, said there were discrepancies Agrawal’s version. Police also claimed Agrawal was at a guest house in Noida when the alleged incident took place.In a social media post on Monday, Agrawal had claimed that five persons on two motorcycles robbed him of ₹5,000-6,000 when he stopped his car about 300 metres from Rise police check post at around 1am, when he was returning from office to his home in Supertech Eco Village in Greater Noida West.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-journalist-made-false-claim-of-lootpolice-101624660588391.html
