28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC to take over 10 sectors, three villages||The General House of the Mohali municipal corporation on Monday approved to expand the civic body’s jurisdiction by including 10 more sectors and three villages under its ambit.In the virtual meeting held under the chairmanship of mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, the MC House also approved to hand over all libraries set up in various parks of the city to resident welfare associations, to bring the public health department under its wings and to take over all sports stadiums developed by Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA).The areas being taken over by the MC are Sectors 66A, 74, 82, 91, 92, 116, 117, 118 and 119 (TDI), Bulk Market in Phase 11 and Balongi, Badmajra and Baryali villages.“It was a long-pending demand of residents. We will send the resolution to the state government for approval, following which jurisdiction will be expanded and the areas will come under the MC,” said Sidhu.Senior deputy mayor Amrik Singh Somal, deputy mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and commissioner Kamal Garg were also present in the meeting.The House decided that all six libraries located on various green belts and parks will be handed over to RWAs of the respective areas and ₹10,000 per month will be given to each of them for maintenance. The libraries are located in Phases 4, 3B1, 6 and 9 besides Sectors 69 and 70. The House also passed a resolution to take over all functions of the public health department. According to officials, many important development works carried out by the department are delayed while the money is being spent by the MC. The resolution also states that employees of the department could also be brought to the civic body on deputation.The House has also approved to take over all five sports stadiums developed by GMADA in Phases 5, 7 and 11 besides Sectors 69 and 71. Presently, they are being run by GMADA. Apart from this, the councillors passed a resolution to adopt a dog policy and approved jobs on compassionate grounds to the kin of some deceased employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-to-take-over-10-sectors-three-villages-101624904955385.html
28-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Video of bike stunts goes viral||Noida A day after a 28-year-old motorcycle enthusiast died in an accident while racing with his friend on the Yamuna Expressway, a video of a youth in Noida, performing stunts on a bike, has gone viral on social media platforms.The accident took place two kilometers from the zero point of the Yamuna Expressway on Sunday morning, when two sport bike riders collided with each other, allegedly while racing, according to the police. Rahul Teotia, a resident of Delhi, died, while his friend was severely injured.Following this incident, a video of a youth, who is yet to be identified, performing stunts on a modified two-wheeler has gone viral now. “The video is suspected to be from Sector 10, which is yet to be verified. It was brought to our attention through social media. We are also working on identifying the rider. The number plate is not clearly visible in the video... Efforts are being made to identify the rider and a probe is underway,” said Munish Chauhan, station house officer (SHO), Sector 20 police station.The suspect was not wearing a helmet, said the police, adding that he will be booked for rash driving, and under the Motor Vehicle Act for risking the lives of other drivers as well. Senior police officers said that youths often use expressways from Delhi-NCR for racing and performing bike stunts, despite warnings.“We keep urging the people to refrain from such activities... Action will be taken against all the violators,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-video-of-bike-stunts-goes-viral-101624904953584.html
28-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Mercury soars as monsoon unlikely before mid-July||Noida: The mercury soared on Monday in Noida with weather analysts predicting dry and hot days for another week as the monsoon is delayed further.According to the weather department, there is no chance of south-west monsoon in the city till the second week of July due to a “break” in monsoon conditions in which the monsoon trough confines to the foothills of the Himalayan region.On Monday, the city sizzled with the maximum temperature crossing 41°C.“The monsoon trough is shifting towards the foothills of Himalayas therefore dry, westerly winds will keep the Indo-Gangetic plains and the central part of the country warm. Weather will remain dry for the next one week in the region and if a drizzling happens, it will be patchy and won’t make much of a difference. There is a break in monsoon conditions which happens when the monsoon trough shifts towards the foothills of Himalayas and stays there while the rest of the region receives dry winds. There is no chance of monsoon advancement before July 7 or at least the second week of July,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change.On Monday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum and minimum temperature for Noida at 41.3°C and 28.6°C, respectively, against 40.1°C and 28.9°C on Sunday. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the National Capital Region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 40.2°C and 27.6°C, respectively.“For next three-four days, the maximum temperature of the region will remain around 40-41°C. The south-west monsoon is not advancing yet due to several meteorological conditions, however, from July there are chances of light rains that may bring slight respite from the soaring temperatures,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.He added that there is a “weak monsoon condition prevailing”.“For now, the monsoon is weak and unable to advance further from western Uttar Pradesh, which is also unable to receive much rainfall. We are for now not in a position to tell when the monsoon may advance. For now, we know that it is not advancing any further till July 2, after that we will be in position to get a better picture,” said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-mercury-soars-as-monsoon-unlikely-before-midjuly-101624904833676.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh headed for chaos: HC||The Chandigarh administration has been unable to cope with the urban growth effectively and the city is headed towards chaos, the Punjab and Haryana high court has said while initiating suo motu proceedings on infrastructure issues and poor planning in the UT. Observing that a number of issues need to be monitored, the court in its order dated June 25, said that otherwise the city will not be able to regain its past glory and turn into another urban mess.The HC lamented that even though the Punjab New Capital (Periphery) Control Act, 1952, provided that there would be no urban development within 16 km of the city’s periphery, both Punjab and Haryana set up parallel townships of Mohali and Panchkula, respectively, and the area originally meant to cater to a population of 5 lakh is now housing 30-40 lakh people. Observing that so far it has been ensuring and monitoring the city’s development, the HC said: “However, since the town is a Union Territory, it suffers from futuristic long-term development plans on account of administration being headed by the bureaucracy which is posted in Chandigarh on deputation basis for short periods of around 2-3 years.” Besides the short tenure of the officials, the court also pointed to the lack of elected representatives, as the mayor holds office for just one year on rotation basis and there is a lone Member of Parliament. “Every time proposals come through, but are jammed up in technical studies on footfall viability of projects and no one is accountable for seeing or pushing through the need of the hour of the town, leading to future decay,” the court observed, citing how there is no planning for public transport system to connect neighbouring towns. The court questioned whether the infrastructure provided by the administration has grown in proportion to the growth of the city beyond Sector 30 and if the problem is on account of inadequate resources. “The town thus suffers from planned infrastructural projects coming up, though it has to host a large number of visitors, who come to the city on daily basis on account of town being the capital,” it said taking suo motu note and seeking responses from both Chandigarh and the Centre. The UT has also been told to file an affidavit regarding any addition to cycle tracks and augmentation done over the years and money spent on it. The details on the number of street lights installed in the city and the data regarding the percentage of those working have also been sought. Traffic issuesThe court said that people are commuting on a daily basis from as far as 60 km from Patiala, Nawanshahr, Kalka, Ambala and Sirhind, but no effort is being made to plan a public transport system. It questioned whether the city requires Mono Rail or Metro Rail for seamlessly connecting inflow from the adjoining towns of Kalka-Parwanoo in the north, Yamunanagar on the northeast, Ambala on the south, Patiala on the southwest, Sirhind, Fatehgarh Sahib and Kharar on the west, and Nawanshahr and Ropar on the northwest, which could help reduce the traffic on all the adjoining highways. The court also pointed to shortcomings in the construction of underpasses. The solitary underpass built in 1960s between Sectors 11 and 15 has not been replicated in any other portion of the city, the court said, adding that despite various recommendations, the city has no traffic underpass at high-density points, such as Transport Chowk and Press light point.The pedestrian underpass between Rose Garden and Sector 17, which cost ₹9 crore, is grossly underutilised with a footfall of just 200 pedestrians. Another is being proposed between PU and PGIMER without any thought for future planning, said the court. The court also wanted to know as to why the Lake Road/Uttar Marg that is blocked at the turn of Punjab Engineering College and Khuda Ali Sher not be opened to facilitate ready movement for people commuting to the Capitol Complex.Green issuesThe court also raised several questions concerning green cover and its pollution. It suggested that Rajindra Park be developed as a forest area with walkways on the pattern of the Forest Institute at Dehradun to augment the green cover of the city. It questioned what steps various departments have taken to plant fresh trees in green belts, which are being consumed by the termite. It also sought statistical data of living and dead trees and steps taken to ensure that the latter are felled in time to prevent mishaps. The court questioned whether sewage is being discharged into the nullahs, especially N-Choe, and whether any checking is being done to ensure if there is any violation of any previous order. It also sought information on dumping of construction debris in green belts and nullahs and steps being taken to challan the violators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-headed-for-chaos-hc-101624904774241.html
28-06-2021||Noida||95% saplings planted in 2020 drive survived, says Noida forest dept||Noida At least 95% of the total plantation carried out by the district forest department in 2020 survived, but 5% did not due to various reasons, said officials on Monday. The department officials made the comment after taking stock of last year’s plantation ahead of planning the drive this year, which is likely to happen in July.In July 2020, the forest department and 28 other public departments planted as many as 936,000 tree saplings of 35 indigenous tree species in a single day mass plantation drive across the district. The department planted more than 271,000 saplings out of the total 936,000, and 95% of it has survived.“At least 95% of the saplings planted in 2020 survived, but 5% did not. It is a rough estimate, and this often happens in such a mass drive. There are various reasons including weather conditions, improper plantation, and toy exceptions among others, why the 5% did not survive. We had geotagged most of our locations, and the dead plants will be replaced with new ones during the this year’s drive,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.The district is likely to see a plantation drive this year, with Gautam Budh Nagar having a target of planting 1,026,000 tree saplings. The forest department will plant as many as 325,836 saplings, said the officials.“The date for the drive this year is yet to be announced, but we expect it to be held in July. There is also a possibility that the drive will be organised for over a week this year, and not just for a day,” Srivastava added.According to the officials, the Uttar Pradesh government aims to have a total green cover of more than 15% (36,146-sq-km) of its geographical area by 2021, against the present 12.09% (29,133.5-sq-km). At present, Gautam Budh Nagar has a total of 5-sq-km of moderately dense forests (density of 70%-40%), while 15 are open forests (density of 39%-10%).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/95-saplings-planted-in-2020-drive-survived-says-noida-forest-dept-101624904713621.html
28-06-2021||Noida||Jaypee gets chance to take over F-1 land||Greater Noida The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Monday approved a proposal that will allow the Jaypee Group to regain control of the 1,000 hectares, including the land on which the Formula-1 Buddh International Circuit, is built.On December 21, 2019, the Yeida had cancelled the land allotted to Jaypee, defaulting on payment of around ₹1,000 crore. The company went to court that asked it to deposit ₹100 crore first, which it did. Now, Yeida said it will give more time to the company to pay the dues provided it satisfied a few conditions.“The first condition is that they deposit 10% of the total dues upfront. Subsequently, they will get an opportunity to pay the remaining dues in instalments, and the total dues amount will have to be paid by 2023. We will not allow them to pay beyond 2023,” said Arvind Kumar, Uttar Pradesh additional chief secretary and Yeida chairman.Earlier, the company had demanded that it should be allowed to pay dues by 2030.“We have turned down that request. If they fail to pay by 2023, then the developer will lose the land,” Kumar added.“Once we get a written communication from Yeida, we will take appropriate decisions on it,” said the Jaypee Group spokesperson.Jaypee Sports International Limited (JPSI), a subsidiary of Jaypee Group, was the company that had been allotted the land on which it developed the circuit in 2011.After the cancellation, Yeida had started the process of issuing a global tender to auction the property and recover the dues. But JPSI filed a petition before the Allahabad High Court, seeking a stay on the cancellation of allotment and the sealing on the grounds that Yeida could not provide basic services as per its promises, such as sewer connection and water supply to the property. The Allahabad HC had directed Jaypee to deposit ₹100 crore before the hearing of the case.“The Allahabad HC has continued to hear the petition pertaining to the land cancellation. But the Yeida board has decided to provide them an opportunity to get back the land. The restoration will happen only if the Jaypee pays 10% upfront, without any delay,” Kumar said.The Formula-1 circuit hosted the Indian Grand Prix (IGP) from 2011 to 2013. It was removed from the F1 calendar in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jaypee-gets-chance-to-take-over-f-1-land-101624904653582.html
28-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra vaccinated record 3.33million people against Covid in a week||More than 3.33 million Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the past week across Maharashtra, its highest weekly tally, after the inoculation drive was ramped up nationwide from June 21. Also, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said the state is fully prepared to vaccinate 1.5 million people daily.Between June 21 and June 27, 3,343,921 doses were administered, the highest seven-day figure since vaccination started on January 16. A week before (June 14-June 20) 1,594,964 doses were administered in the state. With over 31.77 million doses administered till Monday, Maharashtra tops the country, followed by Uttar Pradesh with 30.99 million jabs, according to figures from CoWIN portal.Meanwhile, the state recorded 6,727 cases on Monday, taking the tally to 6,043,548. The state also reported 101 more deaths, taking the toll to 1,21,573. With 18 new deaths in Mumbai, the city’s toll touched 15,414.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 117,874. There were 166,163 tests done on Monday, while the number of recoveries clocked 10,812. The highest number of active patients (17,042 ) are seen in Pune, followed by Thane, at 16,141 patients. On the vaccination front, there were 615, 273 doses administered across the state on Monday, thus bringing the total to 31,770,849 doses.State immunisation officer Dr DN Patil said it all depends on the doses received from the central government. “We have the necessary infrastructure and planning in place. Our drive depends on the number of doses supplied by the central government,” said Dr Patil.Thackeray said the state has been very aggressive in this front. “We are fully prepared to vaccinate 1,500,000 citizens daily,” said Thackeray. Meanwhile, state chief secretary Sitaram Kunte held a meeting of district collectors and municipal commissioners, asking them to work out a detailed plan to tackle a potential third wave. He stressed on the coordination between major cities with the small towns. He said that all should ensure adequate liquid-oxygen supply, along with hospital beds and medical personnel.The state has also now taken level three as its base, in terms of lockdown relaxations, and hence places like Pune, Navi Mumbai and Thane, which had opened up, were forced to roll back their relaxations from Monday in view of the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19.Meanwhile, traders at Kolhapur have given a two-day ultimatum to the state government to allow them to open their shops. Their contention is that the Covid-19 cases are higher in rural parts and the urban shopkeepers are being unnecessarily penalised for this surge. In Nagpur, traders expressed unhappiness as authorities arrived to shut their shops at 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vaccinated-record-3-33million-people-against-covid-in-a-week-101624904593626.html
28-06-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay begins renovation of iconic hostel 5||After receiving a donation of ₹5 crore from alumni members of hostel 5, one of the oldest hostels of Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bombay, the institute has kicked off renovation works. The ground-breaking ceremony for the same was held last week.The ground-breaking was done by director Subhasis Chaudhuri in the presence of several hostel 5 alumni members and IIT-B alumni association on June 21. The project is a joint initiative between the Institute and the alumni association. Alumni members of hostel 5 held a fundraising for renovation of the hostel complex and raised ₹5 crore. The eldest donor alumnus is from the Class of 1964 and the youngest from the Class of 2019. The project execution team is also entirely composed of alumni from hostel 5.Over the next few months, the alumni of hostel 5 will build enhancements to improve the quality of life in the hostel, the institute said in a statement.The project is led by Dhananjay Saheba, a 1977 alumnus from Electrical Engineering Department at IIT-B. “Hostel life played a critical role in our education and development. It’s where we formed some of the deepest and most meaningful friendships of our lives. We have come together from around the world and across batches to do something meaningful for the future generations of our hostel residents. The support extended to us by the institute has been exemplary,” said Saheba.Chaudhuri said, “It is my privilege and great pleasure to have launched a truly pioneering project to build enhancements at hostel 5. Current hostel 5 students have expressed keen interest in these enhancements, as they will significantly improve the quality of hostel life. The infrastructure enhancement will go a long way to further the wellbeing of the brightest young minds in the country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-begins-renovation-of-iconic-hostel-5-101624904594235.html
28-06-2021||Noida||Yeida hikes land allotment rates by 5%||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Monday decided to hike land allotment rates by 5% across all categories, including residential and commercial, for the financial year 2021-22, officials said. The decision was taken at the Yeida’s 68th board meeting held at its office in Greater Noida. Last year, the authority had refrained from increasing the allotment rates in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.In the meeting, the authority approved the ₹4,100 crore annual budget for the current financial year. As per the budget proposals, Yeida will spend ₹1,290 crore (about 30% of total budget) on developmental work, ₹800 crore on land acquisition, ₹540 crore on various works related to Jewar airport project, ₹300 crore on multi-modal connectivity, ₹1,000 crore on repaying debt and remaining on administrative purposes. Yeida had approved the ₹3,891 crore for the last financial year. The authority increased the land allotment rates citing the 4.5% inflation rate. “The inflation rate is 4.5%, so the board decided to approve a 5% increase in land allotment rates. The increase is nominal in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The hike in rates will be applicable to all kinds of properties, including residential, industrial, institutional and group housing,” said Arvind Kumar, chairman, Yeida. Currently, Yeida has a land allotment rate of ₹16,870 per square metres (sqm) for residential plots, ₹44,000 per sqm for commercial plots, ₹17,200 per sqm for group housing, ₹7,870 per sqm for industrial plots and ₹8,020 per sqm for IT-enabled service plots. “Now, the new allotment rates will be 5% more of the existing rates,” said Kumar. According to the officials, Yeida will spend a major chunk of its funds on developmental projects, including road construction, laying of sewage network, and drains. It will get about ₹2,870 crore revenue in 2021-22 by selling plots and collecting property dues from old allottees. “Due to the Noida International Airport project and the Eastern Peripheral Expressway connectivity, the demand for all kinds of land has increased manifold. As a result, we expect to collect ₹2,318 crore by selling plots in the current financial year and ₹553 crore revenue will be collected in lease rent, repayment and transfer charges from old allottees,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida. The authority has also relaxed the conditions for the developers, who have defaulted on payment of the group housing land. “As per the new rules, a defaulter now can pay 10%, unlike 15% earlier, of total land dues to become eligible for getting more time to pay the defaulted money against the group housing land. The builders will get the opportunity to pay their remaining amount in instalments,” said the Yeida chairman. The authority has also provided much-needed relief to around 850 industrial plot allottees of a 2013-14 scheme. “Due to litigation over the land, the authority could not provide possession to these allottees on time. Therefore, we have declared zero period of two years in which they do not need to pay any interest that is levied on plot’s cost dues. Now, these allottees do not need to pay any interest from 2018 to 2020,” said Singh, the Yeida CEO. Singh said that the UP government will take a final decision as to which model is suitable to develop the Film City project. “The board has approved a proposal to allow further study on Film City project’s economic viability. We want the best model to develop it so that it earns revenue,” he said. The authority has also decided to conduct a study on a probable mode of commute to connect proposed Film City in Sector 21 with upcoming Logistic Hub in Tappal of Aligarh along the Yamuna Expressway. “We want to conduct a study to figure out as to what mode of commute will be the best to connect these two projects. The study will be completed in the next six months,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yeida-hikes-land-allotment-rates-by-5-101624904534476.html
28-06-2021||Noida||Loni thrashing: Ghaziabad cops question Zubair, Naqvi over tweets||Ghaziabad police on Monday questioned fact checking website AltNews co-founder Mohammed Zubair and writer Saba Naqvi for five hours in connection with the tweets they posted regarding the assault on a 72-year-old Muslim man on June 5 in Loni.The Ghaziabad police suo motu had registered an FIR under several sections under the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including criminal conspiracy and promoting enmity between different groups, against nine persons. These included Twitter, Zubair and Naqvi. Later, Section 41a of the criminal procedure code (CrPC), which gives the police more authority, was also added.“Both Naqvi and Zubair appeared before the police in connection with CrPC section 41a notices served to them. They were questioned and their statements recorded. These will be part of case investigation and details cannot be revealed,” said Akhilesh Kumar Mishra, the investigating officer and the Loni Border police station house officer where the FIR was lodged on June 15.Officials familiar with the development said that the two may be called again as part of investigation. Zubair and Naqvi could not be reached for comment.The video of the assault had gone viral on Twitter and it showed the man having his beard cut off as well. Allegations rose that the incident was a communal one but a police investigation later revealed that it was over a monetary dispute. Earlier on June 24 Twitter India head Manish Maheshwari moved Karnataka high court after similar notice under section 41a of CrPC was issued by the Ghaziabad police in connection with the incident at Loni. Maheshwari was to appear before the Ghaziabad police at 10.30am on June 24. The Karnataka high court later granted him interim relief and directed the Ghaziabad police not to take any coercive action against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/loni-thrashing-ghaziabad-cops-question-zubair-naqvi-over-tweets-101624904535153.html
28-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Bizman arrested in Rs17.51-cr cheating case||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police has arrested a businessman, who along with his associates allegedly cheated 45 exporters from the city and other parts of the country to the tune of ₹17.51 crore. The accused, Durgaprasad Kuna, 43, is one of the directors of a Dubai-based company, which joined hands with other companies in importing onions, coconut, fruits from Indian companies by paying 30% in advance. Kuna was arrested by unit five on the complaint of the owner of a Ghatkopar-based import-export company, ASG Industries Pvt Ltd. The complainant had in 2018 sent onions, coconut, pomegranate to Agro Growth Food Stuff Trading LLC, Dubai, after receiving 30% in advance. But later the company defaulted on the payment. According to the EOW, like Agro Growith Food Stuff Trading LLC, there are two other Dubai-based companies –Badr Ahmed Juma Hussain and OPC Foodstuff Trading LLC – which have indulged in wrongful practices. The three companies have the same modus operandi and cheated 45 businessmen to the tune of USD 2399705.44 (approximately ₹17.51 crore).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bizman-arrested-in-rs17-51-cr-cheating-case-101624904533701.html
28-06-2021||Noida||Noida: No vaccination at govt centres on Tuesday||The Uttar Pradesh government has reduced the number of vaccines it sends to Gautam Budh Nagar and other districts in view of the mega vaccination drive set to start from July 1, said officials. This will reduce the daily vaccinations till at least June 30.The Gautam Budh Nagar health department announced there will be no vaccinations at government centres on Tuesday.“Due to the acute paucity of vaccines, we have suspended the vaccination drive on Tuesday. We have intimated this issue to the higher officials of the government. Once we get the vials from Lucknow, we’ll be able to restart the ongoing vaccination drive in the district,” he said. “Since we are going to take up a mega vaccination drive from July 1 when the district will aim to vaccinate 25,000 people a day, the number of vials that will be given to us will be fewer. We’ve been told that the district will be given at least 125,000 vaccine doses on June 30, to kick off the mega vaccination drive.”On Monday, many people who had booked slots at the Sector 30 district hospital were forced to wait for longer as there was a delay in vaccines reaching the centre from Lucknow.“The Co-WIN portal – on which the people book their slot – is not in our control and so we could not inform people except through notices pasted at the centre. As a result, both the hospital staff and people suffered today. But what can we do if the hospital runs out of vaccines? I came to know that many people have booked their slots for tomorrow also. We can’t help them anyway,” he said.Dr Neeraj Tyagi, the district immunization officer, said that the vaccination figures will go down in the next few days. “It is obvious. The vaccination figures in government hospitals were 16,740 on June 26 and 15,127 on June 27. On Monday it was 9,175. The Sector 30 district hospital that vaccinated 3,715 people on Saturday could vaccinate less than 2,000 on Monday,” he said.The planThe health department has divided the district into 56 clusters for the July drive, each covering 10 villages or sectors depending on whether they are in rural or urban segments.“We’ve trained 143 teams for this drive. Apart from hospitals and community and public health centres, the district health department will also have some temporary vaccination booths in this drive,” said district magistrate Suhas L Y. “Bisrakh block will have as many as 24 clusters, under which 70 vaccination teams will be operative. While Dankaur block will have 12 clusters with 30 teams, Dadri and Jewar will have 12 clusters with 25 teams and eight clusters with 18 teams respectively.”CMO Dr Ohri said that a mobile quick response team will be on standby for any emergency.Prasun Dwivedi, sub-divisional magistrate (Sadar), also said the meetings of tehsil task force are being held on a regular basis, to chalk out a blueprint for vaccination of everyone over 18 years in Greater Noida, from July 1. “We have properly coordinated with residents’ welfare associations, pradhans, kotedars, anganwadi workers and ward members, to increase numbers for upcoming vaccination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-no-vaccination-at-govt-centres-on-tuesday-101624904413553.html
28-06-2021||Noida||Man driving on wrong side of road assaults traffic constable, nabbed||Noida The Noida Sector 58 police nabbed a man for allegedly assaulting a Noida traffic police constable on Sunday evening. According to the police, he was allegedly driving on the wrong side of the road when the incident took place. The suspect, Ajay Singhal, is a resident of Sector 62. The alleged incident took place around 7 pm.“The constable on duty was recording a video of a scooter rider who was driving on the wrong side. Meanwhile, Singhal, who was removing his car from the wrong side, probably thought that the constable was recording him, and he tried to run down the constable with his car. The constable, however, jumped out of the way after his efforts to stop the vehicle were ignored,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police said Singhal then allegedly got out of the car and assaulted and abused the constable, said the police. “The constable was only doing his duty. We had necessary evidence, and nabbed Singhal immediately,” said a senior police official, requesting anonymity.Based on the constable’s complaint, a case was registered against the suspect under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 279 (rash driving), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 307 (attempt to murder) at the Sector 58 police station.Singhal was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-driving-on-wrong-side-of-road-assaults-traffic-constable-nabbed-101624904293588.html
28-06-2021||Other||SCERT launches “bridge courses” for Classes 2-10 ahead of new academic year’s syllabus||PUNE The Maharashtra State Council for Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has, on Monday, begun online “bridge courses” for students of the State Board. Schools will teach these bridge courses for Class 2 to Class 10 from July 1 to August 14. The regular syllabus will start in schools only after August 14, SCERT has stated. Speaking at the inauguration of the courses, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad said that last year due to the pandemic, the students and teachers had to resort to online education.“Due to this, many students were unable to get the necessary attention. Even though the school education department started various initiatives to get the syllabus going, many students were left out. As a result, these bridge courses are designed. From Class 2 to 10, these courses will give a thorough revision of important topics that students will need as a base to start the next academic year,” said Gaikwad.She added that the team from SCERT have organised these courses for students who may have doubts about the syllabus from the previous academic year.The lectures will be held for 45 days online, from July 1 to August 14. The lectures will be in Marathi and Urdu for better clarity for students. The courses will cover Mathematics, Social Science, Science, and will also include Marathi, Urdu and Hindi languages.Bacchu Kadu, minister of state for education, added that the bridge courses will ensure that students from all strata of society receive education.“These bridge courses will reach students who had a learning loss in the previous year due to the pandemic. They can now do revision and start with the new academic year,” said Kadu.As per SCERT officials, the regular syllabus for the current academic year will start only after the bridge courses are finished. Students during the course are expected to fill worksheets. Their worksheets can be used by the schools for internal assessment. During the bridge courses, students will be given at least three tests at regular intervals. The aim of these tests is to examine how much the student has understood and where the child needs to improve.Vishal Solanki, commissioner of education, said that students should focus on topics that they find difficult.“This course is designed so that the basics are clear for every child and they can start their new academic year with confidence,” said Solanki.Vandana Krishna, additional chief secretary, School Education, said “Teachers can help students perform better by eliminating their doubts through the bridge courses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scert-launches-bridge-courses-for-classes-2-10-ahead-of-new-academic-year-s-syllabus-101624904233533.html
28-06-2021||Other||State universities agree to reduced fees for academic year 2021-22||PUNE In a major relief given to students across Maharashtra, fees of state universities will be reduced for this academic year, 2021-22. The decision was taken at a meeting held on Monday by state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant, with vice-chancellors of universities in the state. “A meeting was held today with all the vice-chancellors of the non-agricultural state universities, and it was unanimously decided to give a concession in the fees for aided and unaided colleges affiliated to these universities. The exact amount and details of this concession will be declared on Tuesday,” said Samant. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, students and parents, especially from the rural areas, have been financially affected. The fee concession will certainly help students complete the academic year. Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “Today’s meeting held by the minister Samant was fruitful. Various options were discussed to give concession in the fees. There are many stakeholders at a university and after discussing with them, the exact percentage or amount will be finalised. As the fee structure of every university is different, concessions need to be worked out well.”“Also the decision taken by the SPPU to cancel fees of those students who have lost either a single, or both parents, due to Covid was appreciated. The minister appealed to other university chancellors to take a similar decision,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-universities-agree-to-reduced-fees-for-academic-year-202122-101624904234109.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||SC again clears decks for power privatisation in Chandigarh||The Supreme Court on Monday once again stayed the Punjab and Haryana high court’s stay order against the privatisation of the Chandigarh electricity department, clearing the decks for the process. Senior standing counsel, UT, Pankaj Jain confirmed that the apex court has stayed the high court order. “Notice has been issued today and stay granted in favour of UT,” Jain said, adding that the case will now be taken up in mid-August. The matter was listed before the bench of justice Abdul Nazeer and justice V Ramasubramanian. The UT administration had argued that the HC order goes against the SC’s previous order. The HC on May 28 had stayed the administration’s move to privatise the power department. The order was passed on a fresh plea from the UT Powermen Union, which had approached court stating that opening and finalisation of the tender bids be stopped. It was argued that the administration is not justified in hurrying through the process amid the pandemic. Earlier, on December 1, too, the HC had applied brakes on the privatisation process. However, the UT had approached the SC, which stayed the order and remanded back the case to the HC. The decision to privatise the department was taken on May 12, 2020, after directions from the Centre, but has been stuck in litigation. However, now the administration can go ahead with the process. “The administration will soon finalise the financial bids and hand over the power department to a private firm,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity. Seven companies are in the fray: Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NTPC Electric Supply Company Limited, Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power, Torrent Power and Eminent Electricity Power Company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-again-clears-decks-for-power-privatisation-in-chandigarh-101624904114180.html
28-06-2021||Other||This Sangam city ‘Tarzan’ has risked his life rescuing 2K reptiles and wild animals||Ankit aka Tarzan of Prayagraj is busy these days rescuing reptiles and other animals that have come out of their burrows following the heavy rains in the district. Ankit Jaiswal (24), a reptile and wild animal catcher of the city, rescues snakes, monitors lizards and other wild animals being spotted in homes and other areas of the city, and releases them safely in their natural habitat.The prime objective is to safely rescue the animal before it is killed by panic-stricken people. Ankit, a resident of Kydganj locality, and his friend Ashish rush to the spot soon after they receive a call about the presence of a wild animal. He has rescued over 2000 animals until now, including snakes and big lizards but crocodiles, alligators, Kabar bijju, pythons, fox, jackals, and peacocks. Besides receiving rescue calls from people across the city, he also receives help from the police, army and other departments, if any wild animal is spotted on their premises. Moreover, the forest department often takes his services for rescuing reptiles. Without using any safety gear, Ankit takes a risk in rescuing the wild animals. Despite being bitten once by a Cobra during a rescue operation, he continues saving the lives of animals and relieving locals from their terror. “People usually call local police station after they spot snakes or wild animal inside their houses. As I have given my number to many cops, they immediately contact me for rescuing the animal. I along with my friend Ashish, immediately rush to the spot after receiving the call as my main objective is to catch the snake or the other animal alive before it is killed by local people. We then release the rescued animal usually at Arail and the forest area of Bhita. We do not have any fixed fee for the service but we accept whatever people give us for the expense of coming to the spot. People should not panic after they spot snakes or wild animal, and instead, they should evacuate the place immediately. The reptiles themselves are afraid of humans and try to escape in a bid to save their life,” he shared. Ankit has not taken any formal training to catch and rescue animals but has developed the expertise by watching TV channels—Animal Planet, National Geographic, Discovery etc. “I developed an interest in reptiles and wild animals as I used to watch these channels. I was inspired by the teams of experts engaged in rescuing reptiles and animals and saving their lives. While the experts on these channels are equipped with sophisticated safety equipment and anti-venom, I have to rely only on a stick to catch the deadliest of snakes. Once rescuing a large cobra in the Andawan area, I was bitten in my finger as soon as I tried to catch it. However, the bite was not too deep and I reached the hospital with the rescued cobra where I was given treatment’” he said.“With heavy rains lashing the region, at present, I am receiving 5 to 6 calls each day for rescuing snakes and monitor lizards. Last year, I was called, for catching a Kabar bijju (honey badger) which has entered High Court premises, while, I also rescued a crocodile that has entered Karenda village on the banks of Yamuna River in the Kareli area. Recently I rescued some large pythons in Naini and Cantonment areas,” he further said. However, despite giving his services, while risking his life, his repeated requests to the forest department to appoint him on some post or give him some fixed fee for his job have fallen on deaf ears. “I have made requests to many officials for my appointment in the forest department, but no positive response was given by them,” he complained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/this-sangam-city-tarzan-has-risked-his-life-rescuing-2k-reptiles-and-wild-animals-101624903274031.html
28-06-2021||Other||Keeping memory of kin lost to Covid alive by planting saplings||Four deaths in the family in the span of a month had shaken the Agarwal family and they are still trying to recover from the shock.While still grieving, Sushil Agarwal received a call from a group of environment enthusiasts last week who invited the family to plant saplings in Sanjay Van of the forest department in memory of their relatives lost to Covid 19.“It was a unique and indeed a cathartic experience for me, and such events should be held regularly so that the next of kin feel good that those whom they have lost forever to the pandemic, have not been completely forgotten but an effort is being made to keep their memory alive,” said Agarwal.He said that he planted saplings of guava, buniyan, sweet Neem and one more variety in the memory of his two maternal uncles (Kanhaiya Lal Gupta, S K Agarwal), aunt (Anju Gupta) and Uncle (Kamal Kumar Bhaseen) in Smriti Vatika of Sanjay Van which has been developed as a city forest.Vinay Asthana, who retired from Daurana Sugar Mill, also attended the event and planted a guava sapling in the memory of his young son who battled the virus for over a month and eventually collapsed after suffering a massive heart attack during recovery. “I planted the sapling in the memory of my son and like to visit it occasionally to see it grow,” said Asthana, whose voice quivered on the phone while sharing his family’s misfortune. Asthan also planted a guava sapling near his house after returning from Sanjay Van.Sushil and Asthana shared that 30 to 40 persons converged at the Sanjay Van last Wednesday to plant saplings in Smriti Vatika in memory of loved ones lost during the pandemic.Besides families, the forest department also invited a few nursing staff, ward boys and ward sweepers from LLRM Medical College to plant saplings of their names as Corona warriors.The initiative was the brainchild of divisional forest officer of Meerut Rajesh Kumar who thought of giving existing ‘Smriti Vatika’ campaign a different and innovative dimension by linking it with the memory of those lost to the pandemic, and to honour Corona warriors who worked hard during pandemic, even risking their lives.District magistrate of Meerut K Balaji also appreciated the initiative and assured his support and cooperation. He directed officials to look for more vacant places where more such plantations could be carried out. He also planted a Baniyan sapling in the Smriti Vatika.Divisional forest officer Rajesh Kumar said that the department has demarcated an enclosure as ‘Smriti Vatika’ inside the Sanjay Van and the idea behind inviting family members of Covid-19 victims and Corona warriors together to plant saplings to show respect for them and to add a new dimension in the existing project of ‘Smriti Vatika’.The DFO said that a similar plantation drive will begin in the rural area from the first week of July, and plans are afoot to invite families from villages to plant saplings in the memory of their lost loved ones. “We will develop similar Smriti Vatika in different rural locations,” said Kumar and added that “It would help forge a bond between flora and people”.He also appreciated the group of doctors and people who have been promoting plantation through their organisation ‘Haritima’.The DFO said that the initiative is open for all and people interested in planting a sapling in memory of their beloved can contact him at his office or on mail dfomeerut@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/keeping-memory-of-kin-lost-to-covid-alive-by-planting-saplings-101624902793490.html
28-06-2021||Kolkata||Mamata, Ghatak file new request in Calcutta high court ahead of Narada hearing||Kolkata: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and law minister Malay Ghatak on Monday filed fresh applications to request the Calcutta High Court to take up their affidavits on record in connection with the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) request to transfer the Narada sting operation case out of the state, their lawyers said.On Friday, the Supreme Court set aside the high court order that refused to accept their affidavits describing their role on May 17 when ministers Subrata Mukherjee and Firhad Hakim, Trinamool Congress (TMC) MLA Madan Mitra and former party leader Sovan Chatterjee were arrested by the by the CBI.The CBI approached the high court on May 24 to seek orders to transfer the case out of the state, claiming there were violent protests orchestrated by the ruling TMC that hampered its probe and intimidated lower courts. Banerjee and Ghatak missed their deadlines to respond to the CBI plea. On June 9, the high court declined to take the affidavits on record. Banerjee and Malay Ghatak approached the Supreme Court on this point.The top court on Friday told the TMC leaders to file a fresh request to the high court and asked the high court to decide “de-novo” the fresh pleas. The Supreme Court said the TMC leaders, in their application, shall give reasons in support of bringing the affidavits on record at this stage of hearing. It added that an advance copy should be sent to the CBI to enable it to come up with a response by Tuesday, the next date of hearing.The Narada case pertains to a two-year-long sting operation whose videos were uploaded months ahead of the 2016 assembly elections. The sting, conducted by online news portal Narada News, allegedly caught TMC leaders accepting money in exchange for alleged favours to a fictitious company.The CBI alleged that Banerjee, Ghatak and other TMC leaders played a key role in stopping agency officials from performing their legal duty after the four leaders were arrested. It claimed that Banerjee sat on a six-hour-long agitation at the CBI office at Nizam Palace in south Kolkata after the arrests while Ghatak went to the Banshall court premises during the virtual hearing of the case before the special CBI court on May 17. The agency has accused Ghatak of trying to influence the judge who heard the bail petition of the accused leaders.The judge granted bail to the four politicians on May 17 but the high court stayed the bail order the same night. The four leaders have since been released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-ghatak-file-new-request-in-calcutta-high-court-ahead-of-narada-hearing-101624902194472.html
28-06-2021||Other||NPA reduced: Health care services paralysed as govt docs continue strike||Chandigarh Health care services were paralysed in Punjab on Monday with government doctors going on a day’s strike against the recommendations of the state’s Sixth Pay Commission, especially its suggestion to delink non-practising allowance (NPA) from basic pay. They have threatened to go on a complete strike from July 4. Out Patient department (OPD) services remained suspended in government hospitals, medical colleges and veterinary hospitals. Doctors are protesting under the banner of the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee. This is also the fourth consecutive day when health care was hit, as doctors were also on strike on Friday; Saturday and Sunday were government holidays, and then too only emergency services were available in hospitals. Doctors are not attending to jail inmates as well, but Covid patients are being taken care of. Punjab State Veterinary Officers Association, Rural Medical Officers Association, Punjab Dental Medical Officers Association and Punjab Ayurveda Officers Association are also supporting the protests. “Punjab health secretary and other officers are appealing to us to withdraw our strike. We, however, will discuss our demands with the entire panel of the state government that has been constituted to listen to issues of employees, opposing the Pay Commission recommendations that the state cabinet has accepted,” said PCMS president, Dr Gagandeep Singh, while addressing a press conference with other joint committee members. The doctors claimed that the government was deliberately creating an impression that the NPA is an allowance given to doctors for not doing private practice, while many such other professions exist. “The fact, however, is that even the Supreme Court has observed in one of its judgments that the NPA is actually a risk allowance, given to the doctors as they are exposed to every serious disease,” said vice-president of the association, Dr Gagandeep Shergill. Doctors also claimed that the government was systematically destroying the health infrastructure in hospitals that it runs. “Already, doctors are not ready to join government service because of meagre salary. Such arbitrary reductions and ending the NPA would further discourage professionals,” they said. Later, members of the joint committee met the panel of government officials that the finance secretary and the health secretary are leading and gave a detailed presentation on why the NPA needed to be increased than being reduced. PATIENTS RECOUNT HARASSMENTPatients returned without getting consultation and treatment in districts like Moga.. Baljeet Singh, 52, of Chotian Kalan village, said, “I am suffering from a liver disease and I came to Moga civil hospital to see a doctor. I have been told to come on Tuesday.” Over 400 patients visit the OPD at Moga civil hospital every day. All OPDs, routine labs and administrative services in civil hospitals in Faridkot, Moga, Bathinda, Muktsar, Ferozepur and Fazilka districts remained closed on Monday. At the Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital (GGSMCH), Faridkot, interns and junior residents (JR) also joined the protest under the banner of Junior Doctors Association and Medical Students Association. Dr Shilekh Mittal, medical superintendent, medical college and hospital said: “Most OPD services remained closed.” Dr Chander Shekhar Kakkar, a senior vice-president of the PCMS Association, Punjab, said, “The government must act fast and accept our demands.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/npa-reduced-health-care-services-paralysed-as-govt-docs-continue-strike-101624901774085.html
28-06-2021||Gurugram||Covid-19: Three permanent vaccination sites for industry workers||To boost vaccination among industrial workers, the health department has decided to set up three permanent vaccination camps in the city for workers employed in factories and other manufacturing processes to get Covid-19 vaccines administered.Health officials said that the Covishield vaccine will be administered to 250 workers daily at the session sites being set up at industrial hubs, at the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure (HSIIDC) auditorium in Manesar, Udyog Vihar Phase 5 and Sector 10A community centre. “There is no need for pre-registration and those who are above 18 years can get vaccinated from 9am to 5pm. We will administer 200 doses to first-time recipients and 50 doses will be reserved for those taking the second dose,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram. The health department, said Yadav, will also conduct drive-in vaccinations this week to administer the second doses of Covaxin and Covishield. “There is an increase in the number of people who need the second dose. So, drive-in sites will be set up for administering the vaccines,” he said.In another move that will give a significant push to vaccination outreach among rural and slum areas, the health department will launch a mobile vaccination bus from July 1.Yadav said that the mobile bus will visit heavily populated areas in Chakkarpur, Nathupur, Sikanderpur, Wazirabad, Chanderlok, Tigra and adjoining areas to vaccinate residents who are not able to visit vaccination sites due to their work commitments. “The target audience includes daily workers, drivers, helpers, vendors and domestic helps living in these areas,” he said. According to the health department data, 16,688 people were vaccinated in the district on Monday. The district also recorded eight new Covid-19 cases while 12 people recovered from it. The total active cases in Gurugram was at 130, of whom 121 are in home isolation. Dr Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, also appealed to the public to get vaccinated on priority and also motivate others to do the same. He said that all efforts are being made to expand the vaccination outreach in the district.Pulse polio driveAs part of the ongoing pulse polio drive, the health department on Monday administered polio drops to 49,867 children in the city. In the next two days, vaccinators will conduct door-to-door vaccination in the city and cover high-risk areas on priority, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid19three-permanent-vaccination-sites-for-industry-workers-101624900456660.html
28-06-2021||Gurugram||Illegal farmhouses on foothills of Aravallis demolished in Gurugram||Three illegal farmhouses, including one that was created as a model house, on the foothills of the Aravallis in Gairatpur Bas village were demolished by the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Monday. Officials of the DTCP said that the developers illegally constructed these farmhouses and were planning to sell plots on an area of 10 acres, for the construction of farmhouses. The plot where the colony was developed is classified as agricultural land and is owned by private developers, as per the administration’s revenue records.RS Bhath, the district town planner for Gurugram, said while two farmhouses were under construction, the third was developed as a model house to lure gullible buyers. “The developers, taking advantage of the lockdown, were trying to develop 10 acres of land illegally despite the fact it is on the foothills of Aravallis. No permission was taken and all norms were violated,” said Bhath, adding a road network and other constructions were also demolished.The DTCP also issued a notice to a family that was residing in a farmhouse in the area to vacate the premises. An FIR would be registered against the developers, officials said. As per urban development rules of the state, Gurugram district is notified as a “controlled urban area”, where permissions are required to be taken from competent authorities for developing a colony. The enforcement team of the DTCP deployed three earthmoving machines to demolish the structures. A team of the Gurugram police personnel was also present at the spot to keep a check on the situation. Ashish Sharma, an assistant town planner with the enforcement wing, said that the developers had also levelled 15 acres adjoining the illegal colony and carried out road mapping in the area. “An adjoining plot was also cleared of markings. The owners have been given a clear warning that any construction without permission from the competent authority would be demolished. Criminal cases would also be registered against violators,” he said. The development of illegal farmhouses in the Aravallis and on its foothills has been a major issue faced by the district administration and urban local bodies. Last year, the department had demolished 19 such illegal farmhouses in the Aravallis, after the Supreme Court took cognizance of the violation. Last week, the Sohna Municipal Council demolished 10 illegal farmhouses constructed in Raisina village, which is located close to Gairatpur Bas village.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-farmhouses-on-foothills-of-aravallis-demolished-in-gurugram-101624900454140.html
28-06-2021||Lucknow||President to lay foundation stone of Dr Ambedkar Cultural Centre in Lucknow today||President Ram Nath Kovind will lay the foundation stone of Bharat Ratna Dr Ambedkar Cultural Centre at an event proposed in Lok Bhawan here on Tuesday. President is in Lucknow on a two-day visit. He arrived in the state capital from Kanpur on Monday morning and will leave for Delhi on Tuesday evening. Last week the UP cabinet had approved a proposal of the state cultural department for construction of the cultural centre at Aishbagh.The memorial will come up at 5493.52 sq meter nazool land in front Aishbagh Eidgah and have a 25-ft high statue of Dr Ambedkar. The centre, to come up at a cost of ₹45.04 crore, will also have an auditorium having a capacity of 750 people, library, research centre, picture gallery, museum and a multi-purpose convention centre. Besides, it will have a cafeteria, dormitory and other facilities. The cultural department is likely to start the construction work soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/president-to-lay-foundation-stone-of-dr-ambedkar-cultural-centre-in-lucknow-today-101624900274339.html
28-06-2021||Lucknow||Distribution of appointment letters to 6K assistant teachers deferred||The new date for distribution of appointment letters to nearly 6,000 assistant teachers to be recruited in government schools against vacant posts of 69,000 assistant teachers will be announced later, said an official of UP Basic Shiksha Parishad. Secretary, UP Basic Shiksha Parishad, Pratap Singh Baghel in an order on Monday said, “The programme of distributing appointment letters to teachers has been cancelled. The new date and time for their distribution will be announced separately later.” Earlier, these newly appointed assistant teachers were to get their appointment letters on June 30. The merit list has already been announced on June 26. “However, the counselling process, including verification of documents of selected candidates, is being held as per schedule on Monday and Tuesday (June 28-29), Baghel said.In the recruitment of 69000 teachers, some posts reserved for general and Scheduled Tribes (ST) categories were left vacant on which the recruitment process is being done now, said an official familiar with the issue. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had earlier said instructions had been issued to complete the process of recruitment on 69,000 vacant posts of assistant teachers for Scheduled Tribe candidates in a time-bound manner. He said previous vacant posts should also be filled at the earliest. He said in four years four lakh youth were appointed in government jobs.It took the state government two years to wrap up the appointment of 69,000 assistant teachers in government primary and upper primary schools across the state. The posts were advertised in December 2018 and the state government had conducted the examination for the post of assistant teacher in January 2019. The government could complete the appointment only in December 2020, after a long-drawn legal battle in the high court and Supreme Court after candidates filed a lawsuit.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had distributed appointment letters to select recruits in October and December last year and even interacted with them while others received them from local MLAs, MPs and UP ministers in their respective districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/distribution-of-appointment-letters-to-6k-assistant-teachers-deferred-101624899853329.html
28-06-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh accuses Yogi of foul play in dist panchayat chairpersons’ polls||Samajwadi Party (SP) national president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused chief minister Yogi Adityanath of rigging the district panchayat chairpersons’ polls.“The chief minister may win accolades now (for winning the elections) but will have to pay heavily in the 2022 UP assembly polls as the people are all ready and eager to oust the BJP. Samajwadi Party will win 2022 polls by sweeping 350 seats,” Akhilesh claimed.In a statement issued by SP, he said: “The chief minister, in his arrogance of power, crossed all limits in rigging the district panchayat chairpersons’ polls in the state. His anti-democratic conduct has put the existence of constitutional institutions in peril. By holding public mandate hostage, the BJP leaders in nexus with the state administration forcefully and deceitfully prevented Samajwadi Party candidates from filing their nominations. And the SP leaders are being harassed by filing fake cases on them. The sad part is that instead of checking such persons who were disrupting the poll process, the officers concerned chose to be mute spectators instead of taking action.”Akhilesh further alleged that after getting rejection from the people, the BJP people in Balrampur in a bid to forcibly ensure its victory put the SP candidate under “house arrest” and snatched the nomination papers. Similarly, in Lalitpur also BJP people did not allow the SP candidate for file the nomination papers, he alleged.Akhilesh also alleged that some BJP elements laid siege to the main gate of the collectorate in Gorakhpur and “guarded” every entry point to the collectorate. “Such an act in the chief minister’s home district was shameful,” he said.He alleged that in Jhansi the SP candidate was prevented from filing the nomination, in Varanasi the SP candidate’s nomination was rejected in a conspiracy while in Basti, some people tried to abduct the SP candidate.In Ghaziabad, just before the nomination the SP candidate and his proposers were abducted; in Bareilly, a former SP MLA was attacked and in several districts the police and revenue officer instead of stopping malpractices played an active role, he further alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-accuses-yogi-of-foul-play-in-dist-panchayat-chairpersons-polls-101624899733337.html
28-06-2021||Ranchi||BJP boycotts TAC meet over ‘unconstitutional’ regulations, JMM hits back||The three BJP legislators, who have been appointed members in the newly constituted Tribes Advisory Council (TAC), boycotted a meeting of the panel on Monday, alleging that the TAC regulations notified by the state government earlier this month violates schedule fifth of the Constitution. The party also listed other faults in regulations, including lack of provision to a “tribal essentially being made chairman of the council”, besides many provisions of quota for a woman and a representative from primitive tribal group (PVTG). Traditionally, the chief minister is the ex-officio chairman of the TAC council. Till now all chief ministers in Jharkhand have been tribals, barring Raghubar Das, who was in power from 2014 to 2019. TAC is an advisory body to deliberate, suggest and even review the government’s decisions and policies related to tribal rights and development. The Hemant Soren government on June 4 cleared the new regulations, that were notified on June 7, giving the authority of appointing members of the 18-member council to the chief minister. The power earlier lied in the hands of the Governor. The government later constituted the new panel, which includes the three BJP legislators, besides two non-elected members. “The new regulations are unconstitutional, as they violate the spirt of the Constitution’s fifth schedule. Instead of making the CM its ex-officio chairman, a provision should have been made that only a tribal can head the council. Besides, we had demanded that there should be a permanent seat for a woman and a representative of PVTG, but the government turned it down. The present woman member is by virtue of being a legislator. So, we have decided to boycott the TAC meeting till they amend the rules,” said BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi.Besides Marandi, former BJP minister Neelkanth Singh Munda and legislator Koche Munda are the two other members of the council. Reacting to the development, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya held a press conference and charged the BJP of diverting people’s mind on a day the chief minister again pledged the government’s commitment towards development of tribals. “Babulal Marandi should answer whether CM Hemant Soren, who is heading the panel, is not a tribal. Is Sita Soren not a woman member in the panel? And as far as PVTG representation is concerned, one seat is still vacant in the panel. He should have waited a while. In fact, Marandi should be rest assured that a non-tribal will not hold the TAC chairman chair, as BJP is not going to return to power in the state for 50 years,” the JMM leader said, taking a swipe at the BJP leader in an apparent reference to allotment of Raghubar Das as the only non-tribal CM of the state. On the issue of conditionality of regulations for giving appointment power to the CM, Bhattacharya reminded that it was the BJP government in Chhatisgarh that first made a similar move in 2006, and the Hemant Soren government was just following it’s footsteps. “The decision of the Raman Singh government in Chhattisgarh was challenged in court, but both the High Court and the Supreme Court refused to strike it down,” said Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/bjp-boycotts-tac-meet-over-unconstitutional-regulations-jmm-hits-back-101624898774028.html
28-06-2021||Other||Labourer shot at, brother assaulted for demanding ₹500 outstanding wages||A labourer was critically injured after he was shot at and his brother was allegedly assaulted over demand of outstanding wages of ₹500, police said on Monday.The incident occurred near a primary agriculture credit society (PACS) godown at Babhani village under Kargahar police station area of Rohtas district on Sunday evening.A case for assault and murderous attack was registered against seven persons on the basis of a statement by Mukesh Prajapati, one of the victims. “The accused are absconding and police was conducting raids to arrest them,” in-charge station house officer, Binda Kumar said.According to complaint filed by Mukesh, the incident occurred when he demanded the aforesaid amount from his employer Umesh Singh. Singh abused and assaulted Umesh, following which his family members came to his rescue, he alleged.During the incident, however, the employer’s brother Dinesh Singh shot at Mukesh’s elder brother Devendra Prajapati alias Bhola, who fell down unconscious. Bhola is also an agriculture worker. His son Dipak Prajapati also sustained injuries during the alleged scuffle.Bhola was taken to Sasaram sadar hospital, from where doctors referred him to a Varanasi hospital for better treatment. Mukesh and Dipak were admitted to a local government hospital, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/labourer-shot-at-brother-assaulted-for-demanding-500-outstanding-wages-101624898773365.html
28-06-2021||Other||Army man found dead||An Army man, who was posted in Meerut and had come to his village 10 days back on leave, was found dead Monday morning.Mukesh Kumar, 31, son of retired Army man Janeshwar Singh of Imadpur, was found dead in an auto-rickshaw parked near his house situated at Imadpur village under same police station. Kumar had gone for a walk after dinner Sunday night but did not return till late night. In the morning, villagers spotted his body inside an auto-rickshaw parked behind his house and informed the family members. Md Rahmatullah, station house officer of Imadpur police station, said the autopsy report was awaited to ascertain the cause of death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/army-man-found-dead-101624898713272.html
28-06-2021||Other||Bihar: Entire 18+ population of Bankatwa block receives first dose against Covid||East Champaran’s Bankatwa has become Bihar’s first block where the entire eligible target population above 18 years of age has received the first dose of vaccination against Covid-19, officials said.East Champaran district magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok said that except for children and migrant workers, the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine has been given to the entire available and eligible population of 18 years and above in Bankatwa block. “Thanks to the assistance extended by the state government and officials, besides UNICEF and health workers, we are very close to achieving 100% vaccination in Piprakothi where 5000-odd people remain to be vaccinated,” said district magistrate Shirsat Kapil Ashok. The team of vaccinators, comprising UNICEF personnel, local health workers and professionals, completed the task of administering the first dose to 52,500 people above 18 years of age in 10 panchayats under Bankatwa block, which has a total population of 116,863 as per the 2011 census, said officials.Of those vaccinated, 35,000 were in the 18-45 years of age group and the remaining 17,500 above 45 years of age. It took over two months for the team to complete vaccination that registered the highest inoculation of over 20,000 on June 21 and June 22, said officials. Ashok said that the district administration has been keeping an eye on migrant workers and other non-residents of Bankatwa blocks. “They will be given the jab as and when they come. In the meantime, they are being also tracked and efforts are on to ensure that they get vaccinated in whichever part of the country they are,” said the district magistrate. The development came barely a few days after Bijbani South, a panchayat in Bankatwa block, became the first panchayat in the state to be inoculated against Covid-19 recently. The vaccination drive, which started on January 30, was not easy for the health workers as many rumours were going the rounds about the side effects of the Covid vaccine among the villagers. “We came across many villagers who feared repercussions of vaccination in the form of death, fever or impotency and hence, the vaccination drive did not yield the desired result on the outset,” said Gyan Prakash, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), Sikarahana. However, over 20,000 people were inoculated during the mega drive on June 21 and 22. “It could be possible only after regular meetings of the government officials, local representatives and other workers like Jivika and Anganwadi workers, ward members, sevikas among other representatives of different groups. As a result, we were able to complete the target,” said Dr Ashutosh Kumar, medical officer and in-charge of primary health centre (PHC), Bankatwa. Meanwhile, locals hailed the participation of religious leaders and local representatives. “Yes, the people were hesitant for taking jab fearing several imaginary problems. However, the mindset changed with the help of constant announcements from mosques, encouraging people to go for the jab,” said Zahir Hussain, Imam of Jama masjid, Shekhauna village in Banktwa block. A resident of Shekhauna village, 57-year-old Md. Zuber Hashmi said, “The rumours about the vaccine were totally rubbish. Like any other individual, my family members and I are hale and hearty since we took the jab. Neither fever nor any other complications surfaced at all. We are eagerly waiting for the second dose to save ourselves from the virus.” According to the bulletin released by the East Champaran district health department, altogether 670,673 people have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine as of June 28, while 71,467 have received both doses across the district.INFOGRAPHICSBANKATWA (Block) District: East ChamparanSubdivision: SikarahanaPanchayats: TenRevenue village: 27Anganwadi centre:130Population: 1,16863 (As per 2011 census) Vaccinated persons: 52500Between 18 and 45: 35000Above 45: 17500||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/biharentire-18-population-of-bankatwa-block-receives-first-dose-against-covid-101624898653278.html
28-06-2021||Other||Vaccination certificate issued without giving the jab, officials in quandary||Supaul district administration and health officials are in a quandary after reports of issuing Covid-19 vaccination certificates without administering even a single shot surfaced. Following this, the administration is reaching at the door of such persons, requesting them to get vaccinated. However, people have reportedly refused to take the jab, and demanded rectification of the system.As per available information, one 18-year-old Sweety Priya of Triveniganj on Saturday last returned disappointed from a vaccination centre after she didn’t get a jab. However, she claimed to have received a vaccination certificate later.“I tried to contact officials at Triveniganj sub-divisional hospital, but no one listened to me. Later, I called Supaul district magistrate (DM), who directed health officials to rectify the error.”The next day, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Pramod Kumar, in-charge deputy superintendent of hospital Dr Birendra Durbey and district coordinator, UNICEF, Anupama Chudhary reached Priya’s house to allegedly persuade her to get vaccinated. Priya said, “But, I put a condition that they first rectify the mismanagement in vaccination drive. Only then will I get the jab.”She also claimed that hers was not the only such case.When contacted for comments, Supaul DM Mahendra Kumar did not respond despite several attempts.The hospital deputy superintendent Dr Birendra Durbey on Monday said “We begged a collective apology from the girl, but she is adamant. We are still in touch with her.”Another student Sumit Kumar, also a resident of Triveniganj, contacted the Supaul DM with a similar complaint.“Much to my dismay, when I checked my text messages, I found a vaccination certificate and immediately talked to the DM. He, in turn, asked me to get vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-certificate-issued-without-giving-the-jab-officials-in-quandary-101624898594886.html
28-06-2021||Other||Nitish uneasy in NDA, says Cong’s Anwar||PATNAAll India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and former minister Tariq Anwar on Monday claimed the Nitish Kumar-led government in the state would not survive for long as intense squabbling was going on within the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA).Talking to media persons at Sadaquat Ashram, the state Congress office, Anwar said Kumar was under tremendous pressure due to the BJP’s antics. “Given the nature of Nitish Kumar and marginalization of JD-U’s claim in the Union cabinet, it’s for all of us to see how long he survives the discomfort,” said the AICC leader.A few days ago, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, had said the Nitish government would fall in a couple of months. On the demand by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi for a white paper on the Covid crisis in the country, Anwar said people had the right to know the scale of suffering the pandemic had brought on the nation and its economy. “While the government departments have put the Covid toll to 4 lakh, many other national and international agencies and media have assessed the casualty to be around 42 lakh,” said the Congress leader.On the huge escalation in prices of essential commodities and petroleum products, he said, “The myth of fuel prices being linked with international marked has been demolished, as prices kept on rising in the country when cost of crude had dipped elsewhere.” To a query on Shatrughan Sinha’s tweet on Sunday that seemed to imply that there were people of a “new variant” who were unhappy with PM Narendra Modi without a reason, Anwar said it could be his personal views. “There are reasons for the people to be unhappy with Modi, as he could not handle many contentious issues properly and thereby left the people to fend for themselves,” said Anwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nitish-uneasy-in-nda-says-cong-s-anwar-101624898594035.html
28-06-2021||Patna||BPCC set to have new committees ahead of change of guard||The appointment of a new president for Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC) may be put on hold though the All India Congress Committee (AICC) may announce a few committees before appointment of a new president of the state unit, sources familiar with the matter said.Party insiders said the AICC has decided to take some more time and hold consultations with senior state leaders before deciding the new BPCC chief in the face of objections to the proposed names.AICC in-charge for Bihar, Bhakta Charan Das, said he would meet the party high command soon with reports suggesting change in committees on the basis of feedback from the party workers. “So far as the decision on change of leadership in the state is concerned, final decision would be taken after a fresh round of consultation with senior leaders,” said Das.Sources said a few important committees could be announced for the BPCC in the next few weeks after Das’s meeting with the AICC president Sonia Gandhi or vice-president Rahul Gandhi. “It would be mix of young faces and veterans to revive the organization up to the grassroots level,” said a senior leader.An AICC general secretary, pleading anonymity, said the process to notify the new president and committee might take a few weeks. “The AICC in-charge is yet to submit his report to the president about his meeting with party workers and Kisan Satyagrah across and the state, which were held in February- March,” he said.Talks of change of guard in the state Congress picked momentum following the AICC move to reshuffle the state units in Punjab, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Goa and Uttarakhand likely next month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bpcc-set-to-have-new-committees-ahead-of-change-of-guard-101624898593276.html
28-06-2021||Patna||Bihar: Ex-DGP Pandey latest top cop to take spiritual route||Bihar’s former director general of police (DGP) Gupteshwar Pandey has joined the long list of his predecessors who got attracted to spiritualism during their service period and devoted themselves fully to religious pursuits after retirement in different ways.Pandey, whose attempts to dabble in electoral politics from chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JD(U) could not materialise despite his early retirement, has turned into a religious preacher now, spending most of his rime in Ayodhya and Vrindavan. His good knowledge of Sanskrit, which he often demonstrated during his service days while delivering discourse to youth or singing bhajans, is coming handy in his new avatar.But he is not the first state police chief to seek solace in spiritual pursuits post retirement. Former DGP Anand Shankar was a known devotee of Radha-Krishna and often joined bhajan-kirtan. After retirement, he spent a lot of time in Mathura and Barsana. In Patna also, he regularly boarded bus to reach Patna’s revered Mahavir Mandir, which is managed by another former inspector general of police Kishore Kunal, now called an Acharya.Kunal’s quest for spiritual pursuit became apparent when he was in service and it prompted him to take early retirement. Besides being the general secretary of the Mahavir Temple trust, which he has expanded for various philanthropic activities like hospitals, orphanages etc. he has also done extensive research and written exhaustive two-volume books on the Ayodhya Ram Janbhoomi. At one point of time. he was also a negotiator in the Ayodhya dispute.Anand Shankar’s predecessor DN Gautam, who also served as security advisor to the Jharkhand government, is also a Lord Krishna devotee and devotes most of his time delving into the ocean of spiritual knowledge. He is also a good orator and often invited to share his vast knowledge of various scriptures at public platforms. He also wrote a book ‘Naeen: The man and spirit of Vivekanand’.Arvind Pandey, a serving IPS officer, is also known for his bhajans. His family had priests of the famed Vindhyachal Temple. Though Pandey made it to the IPS, his spiritual inclination remained intact. He also knows Ayurveda and loves learning new things about it.However, Gupteshwar Pandey, who heads two temple trusts, Garibnath temple trust in Muzaffarpur and Hariharnath Temple trust in Sonepur, is the first DGP to become a spiritual preacher. And he says that he loves connecting with the audience. “I have no qualms in admitting that I have failed in politics. I don’t have all that politics demands and politicians need to excel. Now I have realised that God is the only thing that keeps me interested and now I have started enjoying my new innings,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-ex-dgp-pandey-latest-top-cop-to-take-spiritual-route-101624898533848.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Bihar facing all-round crisis, Chirag welcome to join us: Tejashwi||The leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav spoke to Arun Kumar about the political situation in Bihar, his comment that the Nitish Kumar government may not last beyond a few months, and the possibility of an alliance with Chirag Paswan.Edited excerpts:You recently said that the Nitish Kumar govt will fall in 2-3 months. How do you back this claim?My statement does not come out of blue, and in fact, it’s genesis lies in the nature of the mandate of the last assembly elections. The leader of a party which was reduced to 40-odd seats occupied the chief minister’s chair, defying the message inherent in the people’s will. The contradictions of the ruling coalition are being played out in the open, and are there for everyone to see. Look at the absolute lack of communication across political parties in this alliance, and you will realise that their days are numbered.But what makes you believe that this government will fall?It is a question of how much longer, and to what extent, the CM allows his power to be diminished. At some time, the business of governance has to be taken seriously. It’s been a little over six months and, trust me, when I say this, Bihar is facing a serious all-round crisis. The government has shown no indication of how it’ll get up to the task. There’s not even a signal of intent whether it is the pandemic or floods or issues of employment as well as everyday deterioration in law and order.Do you have the numbers to provide an alternative? Who you are banking on?We have played the role of a very responsible and active Opposition, and we have done so from a position of confidence and power that we derive from those who have reposed their trust in us. In terms of numbers, we don’t need a lot, as you already know looking at the thin line between peoples’ will and the idea of “managed majority”.There’s is often talk of a likely split in the Congress or the RJD. How do you see this?This is the SOP of Nitishji’s propaganda whenever he is on a shaky wicket. I see such talk as not more than a juicy gossip emanating out of 1, Anne Marg to cover up for his abysmal performance and absolute failure. What I can say though that we are a democratic party, and quite well-structured in terms of organisation. There are plenty of forums within the party to voice concerns and debate the way forward.Will RJD throw its weight behind Akhilesh Yadav in UP, as it did in behind the TMC in West Bengal, or contest the polls itself?We are not a power-hungry party or an election machine. Our ties and support are based on pro-people, progressive, and development-oriented politics. We will extend support to whoever is close to our ideals of social justice inclusive development paradigm as in the position to defeat the Fascist agenda of BJP.How realistic is the chance of Tejashwi-Chirag tie-up?Look I have said it quite a number of times recently that our families have a long-standing relationship that continued even when Chirag ji and the LJP became part of BJP-led NDA. However, Chirag ji has to take crucial decisions with regard to ideological commitment. He will have to rework his politics in the light of what is being brazenly done to the progressive politics of social justice where Late Ramvilas ji remained a crusader with my father for decades. To put it succinctly, it is up to him to cut through the contradictions and make up his mind.What role will RJD have in a likely Opposition alliance, which is said to be working on a plan without Congress?RJD and Laluji have played a historical role in bringing progressive parties together and forging a shared agenda. We will not deviate from the path we have always followed. I believe in view of the massive challenges ahead where ordinary citizens are feeling extremely helpless across India, any idea of whatsoever front shall not be feasible without the Congress. Hence the priority should be to broadening the very base of an alternative rather than reducing its size.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/bihar-facing-all-round-crisis-chirag-welcome-to-joins-us-tejashwi-101624898533254.html
28-06-2021||Pune||‘Less than 5% kids to face complications post Covid’||Pune: The state paediatric task force, in its June report presented at a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, stated that less than 5% of the infected kids are likely to develop any complications due to Covid infection while 95% will probably remain asymptomatic. Only 1-2 per cent of the kids are likely to develop any post Covid complications like multiple inflammatory syndrome or severe symptoms which require admission in ICU wards, the report reads. The state administration and the district have started preparing for the much-anticipated third wave reported to more likely affect kids as the age group below 18 is not yet eligible for any Covid vaccine in the country. As per the June report released last weekend, experts have stated that over 90-95% of the infected kids are likely to remain asymptomatic or with mild symptoms and could be treated at home while less than 5% will develop moderate symptoms due to the infection and might require hospitalisation. Only 1%-2% of the kids might require ICU beds due to severe symptoms like pneumonia or post Covid complications like multi-inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C). The report states that apart from Covid, flu-like symptoms are also common indicators of malaria, dengue, typhoid and flu. Other symptoms include headache, body pain, weakness, itching in the throat, vomiting, stomach ache and diarrhoea and breathlessness. “Kids with comorbidities and malnourished kids are more likely to develop complications due to Covid,” said Dr Aarti Kiniar, who is also part of the paediatric state task force. She said, “If a kid is infected in the house, the family must not only isolate the child but also senior citizens because they are most vulnerable. If the child is aged less than 5 years then other family members must wear a mask. A good balanced diet and keeping the body hydrated are important. In the case of infants, breastfeeding should not be stopped. In case of home isolation, the family doctor must be updated every day about the child’s status.” The signs Mild Covid symptoms in kids Kids appear normal Kids eat less comparatively Breathing is also normal Age respiratory rate <2 months <60 breaths per min 2–11 months <50 breaths per min 1–5 years <40 breaths per min > 5 years <30 breaths per min||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/less-than-5-kids-to-face-complications-post-covid-101624897034670.html
28-06-2021||Other||Defunct Bathinda power plant has no sand, says admn on illegal mining claim||Bathinda A day after former Bathinda Akali MLA Sarup Chand Singla alleged, in a video, that widespread sand mining was on in the garb of removal of ash at the defunct Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP), the authorities have said that the site has no sand quarry. Singla had alleged that Punjab finance minister Manpreet Badal and his brother-in-law Jaijeet Johal were behind the illegality. Singla had even alleged an attempt on his life, while he was shooting the purported video.The matter drew widespread attention after Congress MLA from Gidderbaha Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Congress MP from Ludhiana Ravneet Singh Bittu retweeted videos of the Akali leader levelling direct charges on the state’s ruling political dispensation.Located on the outskirts of Bathinda city, the defunct power facility has an estimated 2.20 crore tonne of environmentally hazardous fly ash spread over 853 acre. Government-run and private thermal plants provide fly ash for free to three identified sectors for safe disposal. PSPCL director, generations, Paramjeet Singh said on Monday that no single person, group, or firm has ever been given a contract to remove fly ash kept in ponds for decades.“As per the Central government’s directives, thermal plants are mandated to dispose of ash. It can be used in manufacturing cement and brick kilns only through a particular mechanical and chemical process. It is also used in highway constructions and ash has no use in any other sector,” he said, adding that as there was no safe disposal method of flyash, it had been dumped in huge ponds for over four decades.Lehra Mohabbat-based thermal plant DP Garg chief engineer, who also has the charge of Bathinda’s unused power plant, said 56 private agencies involved in cement manufacturing or brick kilns have been authorised to lift ash without any charges.“Bathinda district has no river bed, having sand mine or quarry is out of the question,” he added.Senior executive engineer of GNDTP Girish Gupta said an average of 30,000-tonne fly ash is taken away every month from the dykes. “Nearly 90% of the stock is lifted by a leading private cement manufacturer. PSPCL facilitates only three sectors, who have a mechanism to use ash,” he said.BOX OR SUBHEADSIT to probe bid on Singla’s lifeBathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said a special investigation team (SIT) under an SP-rank officer was formed on Monday to probe an alleged bid on the life of SAD leader Sarup Chand Singla. In his complaint, Singla had said that a few people tried to mow him down under an earth-removing machine, when he was filming suspicious activity at GNDTP on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/defunct-bathinda-power-plant-has-no-sand-says-admn-on-illegal-mining-claim-101624896733981.html
28-06-2021||Kolkata||‘Like saying I went to moon’: Bengal Guv rebuts Mamata on Jain hawala case link||Kolkata The acrimonious relations between West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and the Trinamool Congress-led state government hit a new low on Monday, with chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleging that Dhankhar was an accused in the 1996 Jain hawala case and branding him a “corrupt man”, a claim that was quickly rubbished by the governor.“The governor’s name cropped up in the Jain hawala case. They had gone to court and got the name cleared. But again, a PIL was filed, and it is still pending. I am sorry to say he is a corrupt man,” Banerjee said, while speaking to the media at the state secretariat.Mamata Banerjee said she had written letters to the Centre on three occasions to relieve Dhankhar of the post.“If the Centre is not aware then I am telling. Bring out the charge sheet and check whether his name was there or not. Why is the Centre allowing a man like this to continue as the governor?” she said.The Jain hawala case cited by Mamata Banerjee was a reference to a political scandal in the mid-nineties centered around a handwritten diary that mentioned alleged hawala payments of about ₹65 crore. The names of the recipients were written in codes and matched initials of some top political leaders. The Central Bureau of Investigation filed more than 2 dozen chargesheets in this case but the cases collapsed because the CBI didn’t produce any corroborative evidence to prove the bribery charge.Dhankhar rushed to deliver his rebuttal, declaring that there wasn’t not an iota of truth in Banerjee’s allegations.“I never expected a leader of her stature to create sensation, engage in misinformation and misrepresentation. I have not been charge-sheeted. There is no such document. This is far from facts. This is plain and simple untruth, misinformation. I have not taken any stay from any court,” Dhankhar said.“It is as good as saying Dhankhar accompanied Neil Armstrong to the moon,” the governor said.But to a question, the governor made it clear that he will not sue Banerjee for defamation. “In Indian tradition, no one has ever taken any action against a younger sister. I am not going down that path.” Trinamool Congress MP Sukhendu Sekhar Ray, however, sought to punch holes in his denial, pointing that Dhankhar didn’t mention if his name cropped up at some point or not. “He never revealed whether one of the names, found in the Jain dairy, was his or not. He just said his name was not in the charge-sheet. This could be just half the truth. We would need to probe deeper,” Ray said.The Jain hawala case cited by Banerjee was a reference to a political scandal in the mid-nineties centered around a handwritten diary that mentioned payments of about ₹65 crore made via hawala. The names of the recipients were written in codes and matched initials of some top political leaders. The Central Bureau of Investigation filed more than 2 dozen chargesheets in this case but the cases collapsed because the CBI didn’t produce any corroborative evidence to prove the bribery charge.Banerjee’s offensive came hours after Jagdeep Dhankhar, who was on a week-long tour of Darjeeling, alleged that there was corruption in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), the semi-autonomous body that manages Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills in north Bengal. On Saturday, the governor tweeted that there had been no election and audit in GTA since 2017.“The Governor is deliberately trying to disturb the peaceful situation in north Bengal and hence he met those people who are in favour of dividing north Bengal. He told them to stage a revolt. Is it the job of the governor?” Banerjee added. Dhankhar’s Darjeeling visit came at a time when a section of BJP lawmakers, including two MPs - John Barla and Saumitra Khan – raised demands for a separate statehood or Union territory status for certain districts in north Bengal. The Bengal unit of the BJP has already said that it neither endorses nor supports the demand. The BJP, however, said the TMC should respond to the allegations and questions raised by the Governor on GTA.“The Governor has raised some serious allegations against the GTA. Cases may continue in the court. But are the chief minister’s today’s allegations answers to the questions raised by the Governor? Is she trying to say that because the Governor’s name is in the Jain Hawala case, there can be corruption in GTA? Is she justifying this,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice president of BJP in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/like-saying-i-went-to-moon-bengal-guv-rebuts-mamata-on-jain-hawala-case-link-101624896553699.html
28-06-2021||Lucknow||Priority is 2022 polls, not contesting zila panchayat election: Maya||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday announced that her party will not contest zila panchayat chairperson election in protest against the use of money power as well as misuse of government machinery by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Addressing a press conference, Mayawati said to secure victory in the zila panchayat chairperson election the BJP has adopted same tactics that were used by the Samajwadi Party when in power to grab the posts of chairpersons in various districts.When the BSP decided to break alliance with the SP in 1995 then too, the political parties were concerned over the strategy of the SP. Now the BJP is committing the same mistake. It is weakening the roots of the democracy, which is unfortunate and should be condemned, she said. “Rather than using their energy in the zila panchayat chairpersons’ posts, the party members should mobilize their resources in strengthening the organisation, increasing the base of the party among all communities so that BSP forms government on its own strength in the 2022 assembly election, we are aware of the fact that once BSP forms government all the chairpersons will join the BSP as they could not survive without the support of the ruling party,” she said.Mayawati said she wished to make it clear if the chairpersons’ election had been impartial and fair the party would have contested the election and majority of candidates fielded by the party would have secured victory in the election.“When in power, the BSP did not permit improbity or irregularity in the election to instill confidence in democracy among the people. I hope people will ponder over these issues, to save democracy they will vote for the BSP in the coming assembly election,” she said.Alerting the party workers over the tricks adopted by rival political parties, Mayawati said under a planned strategy the rival parties are spreading rumours that BSP was not active for the assembly election.“They are trying to lower the morale of the cadre before the assembly election. They should know that after announcement of unlock by the government I arrived in Lucknow, I am reviewing the working of the party regularly with following the Covid protocol,” she said.The main slogan of the BSP in the 2022 assembly election will be ‘To save UP, to save sarvajan community, bring BSP back to in power, she said.The BSP has bagged 361 zila panchayat wards, in various districts, it is in strong position in Azamgarh, Saharanpur, Meerut, Bhadohi, Ghazipur, Jalaun, Chitrakoot, Banda and Pratapgarh districts with bagging more wards than the BJP and SP. The BSP candidate failed to file nomination for the chairperson post in Saharanpur district on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/priority-is-2022-polls-not-contesting-zila-panchayat-election-maya-101624896133718.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Pune under unlock, positivity rate remained below 6%||Pune: For over the two weeks starting from June 14 to June 27, the city enjoyed some ease in Covid restrictions and saw more people in public places. However, Pune city’s positivity rate, the number of infections per 100 tests, stayed below 6%. Though the drastic fall in new Covid cases had made the city eligible for Level 2 restrictions, the emergence of Delta plus variant placed districts under stricter Level 3 or Level 4. From June 14 to June 27, the city saw less than 6% positivity rate or just a little above 5%. The city has reported the highest number of cases in the state and the district reported the highest number of cases in the country, during both the first and second waves. Pune district also reports the highest number of mortalities due to the infection in the state. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agarwal said, “Due to increased testing and people adhering to the Covid-appropriate behaviour, the number of new Covid cases being reported has fallen drastically. However, the virus is still here and we need to adhere to CAB behaviour and get vaccinated. We have seen a great response to vaccination in the city and for the past two days the district crossed one lakh vaccinations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-under-unlock-positivity-rate-remained-below-6-101624896073161.html
28-06-2021||Other||PGI docs set to perform robot assisted kidney transplant surgeries||LUCKNOW Surgeons at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) are all set to perform robot assisted kidney transplant procedures on patients with end-stage renal disease.“Robotic kidney transplantation service will begin in two weeks. Robots would ensure perfect cuts and minimum blood loss during the procedures while the duration of surgery will also be reduced, said Prof RK Dhiman, director, SGPGI.Kidney transplant is the most preferred treatment in end-stage renal disease patients. Traditionally, kidney transplant is performed by open surgery and requires large incisions in the body. But now the surgical procedure would be minimally invasive through robot assisted kidney transplant technology. In this, a robot will support the kidney transplant, he said Dhiman said, “A high level of expertise is required in robotic surgery for kidney transplant. And doctors at the PGI have undergone extensive training required for it.”Compared to the conventional open kidney transplant surgery, robotic kidney transplant requires a much smaller incision to remove the diseased organ and insert the donor’s kidney and then to stitch the blood vessels and the ureter.Robotic surgery minimises hand tremors. Thus the surgeon operates with more precision, skill and control, even in the most difficult surgeries.The procedure is especially useful when the surgery is deep and narrow like in kidney transplant, when the surgeon requires fine skills of dissection and micro suturing, which could be well performed by robot assisted technology.The use of robots in kidney transplant will help minimise blood loss, hospital stays, post-operative complication rate, recovery time and surgical scars, added Dhiman. Anupam Srivastava9044409900||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pgi-docs-set-to-perform-robot-assisted-kidney-transplant-surgeries-101624895953174.html
28-06-2021||Pune||MSEDCL officer physically assaulted by defaulter in Dhayari||A senior Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) officer attached to Dhayari division was assaulted by a consumer who was angry after his power supply was disconnected over non-payment of bill amounting to ₹88,000 for the past one year. The accused has been arrested by Sinhagad police after an FIR was lodged against him. The victim identified as Mahesh Mane (30) is a senior technical officer with the MSEDCL while the arrested accused has been identified as Ravindra Sudhakar Chavan ( 45), resident of bungalow no 2 in Dhayari last bus stop area. The incident took place on Sunday at around 10.15 when Mane was on official duty at the spot where the incident took place. According to the police, Mane had a written order from his senior to visit the house of defaulters as per the given list and inquire about the payments. He and his colleague reached Chavan’s house and informed him that he had not paid the dues for the past one year. At 10.15 am, the duo met a woman at the residence where they had gone to disconnect the power supply. The woman told them that the family members had gone out of town and she will inform them about the payment. The MSEDCL team took the decision to disconnect and when Mane cut open a wire in the meter, Chavan rushed to the spot and said that he was the owner and why they were disconnecting the supply. He slapped and assaulted Mane and abused the MSEDCL staff and threatened them with dire consequences. He made Mane join the connection again forcibly in violation of the rules, the, the FIR stated. PSI K S Tanpure, the investigation officer in the case said that based on the FIR, Chavan was arrested under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Chavan was booked under IPC 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty ),352( assaults or uses criminal force to any person) 323 ( voluntarily causing hurt ) ,332 ( voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty as such public servant ), 504 ( intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace, or to commit any other offence ) and 506 ( criminal intimidation).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-officer-physically-assaulted-by-defaulter-in-dhayari-101624895773283.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Sule-Mohol at war of words over PMC spending on garbage processing plants||A war of words has broken out between Member of Parliament (MP) Supriya Sule and Pune mayor Muralidhar Mohol on Monday after Sule demanded an inquiry of the money spent on garbage processing plants. Sule on Monday visited the Uruli Devachi and other garbage plants around city. Sule said, “Every year, the PMC is spending ₹200 crore on garbage, but the problem is not being sorted out. Neither the issue is getting sorted at the garbage depot nor the garbage piling has stopped in the city. There is need for an audit of the money. If needed the ruling party can invite either CBI or ED (Enforcement Directorate). As it is, the ED is conducting an inquiry in every small thing, then this is the big issue and they should do inquiry here too.” After Sule’s comment, Mohol issued a statement immediately and said, “As elections are ahead, Sule made the inquiry in garbage plants but it is the same NCP which is responsible for it. During their tenure, garbage plants got burned and shut down.” Mayor said, “Deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar has been ruling in the city for the last many years. Sule is pointing out towards NCP’s failure as the garbage issue is lying as it is. During our last four and half year’s tenure, we started six new projects.” Mohol said, “By inviting ED inquiry, it is good that she expressed confidence in this agency. She should have the same confidence in the ED for other ongoing inquiries in the state.” NCP MLA Chetan Tupe said, “Why has the mayor got angry immediately after a demand for an audit? It is the taxpayers’ money. There should be audit and inquiry in it. Ideally, the mayor should support Sule’s demand as it is in the interest of citizens. If money getting spent and no result, something is going wrong. Ideally, mayor should take citizens’ side but indirectly he is supporting contractors. The tipping fee and transport fee got increased during the BJP tenure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sulemohol-at-war-of-words-over-pmc-spending-on-garbage-processing-plants-101624895715009.html
28-06-2021||Other||Ayodhya development plan: Now, Hanuman Garhi road widening project hits roadblock||LUCKNOW Another project in Ayodhya’s development plan has hit a roadblock. Shopkeepers at the Hanuman Garhi road are up in arms against the proposed widening of the road for which shops will be demolished. Traders accused the district administration of not coming up with a clear cut policy of either compensation or new shops for those who will be displaced. On the other hand, the project to install lord Ram’s statue in Manja Barhata village of the district was also stuck as farmers had moved the high court, challenging acquisition of their land for the project.“The district administration has not come up with a clear policy for shopkeepers whose shops will be demolished,” said Nand Kumar Gupta, trader leader. “As a last resort, it has been decided to move the high court, if the administration is not able to come up with a clear cut policy for rehabilitation of shopkeepers who will be displaced,” he added. In protest of the decision to widen the road, the traders have also decided to take out a procession from Ram Ki Paidi Ghat to Tedi Bazar on July 1. “A panel of traders will also try to resolve the issue through dialogue with the district administration,” said Prem Sagar Mishra, trader leader. “All issues of traders will be addressed amicably through dialogue,” said Ved Prakash Gupta, BJP MLA from Ayodhya constituency. Projects of Ayodhya are likely to be put on the fast track after the document for Ayodhya’s development was presented before Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 26. Widening of the Hanuman Garhi road is also a part of this project. Both sides of the road are dotted with shops. The administration has set a standard of 13 metres and 24 metres for the road widening projects in Ayodhya. But the traders are demanding to curtail it to 10 metres and 18 metres, respectively. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had announced to install the tallest statue of Lord Ram (251 feet) in Ayodhya during Deepotsav celebrations in 2017. However, the project is yet to take off even after four years. A site in Ayodhya’s Manja Barhata village was finalised for the project instead of the earlier site – Meerpur Duaba village. The Ayodhya administration had started the process of land measurement in Manja Barhata for the mega project. But, the project was stuck after around 65 farmers filed a writ in Lucknow high court, challenging acquisition of land. The court had directed the Ayodhya administration to carry out land acquisition according to the laid down procedures and norms. But the issue could not be resolved till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ayodhya-development-plan-now-hanuman-garhi-road-widening-project-hits-roadblock-101624895714138.html
28-06-2021||Lucknow||ATS arrests sign language expert of Child Welfare ministry, 2 others for complicity in religious conversion racket||A week after two men were arrested for allegedly running a mass scale conversion racket, Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) of UP Police on Monday arrested three people, including sign language expert working in the Union Ministry of Child and Family Welfare, for their alleged complicity in the racket.The accused were arrested in Lucknow.Confirming the development, ATS chief GK Goswami said, “We have arrested one Irfan Khawaja Khan, resident of Maharashtra, who worked as an interpreter at ministry of women and child development. He was arrested along with Rahul Bhola of New Delhi and Mannu Yadav alias Mannan of Gurgaon. Both are hearing and speech impaired persons. The accused used to come in contact with children who have hearing and speech impairment and lure them into converting to Islam.”The name of the accused cropped up during interrogation of Jahangir Qazi and Umar Gautam, who were arrested by ATS last week.On the basis of the information, ATS officials summoned the trio to Lucknow and arrested them post questioning.“Irfan has good contacts among deaf people. With his expertise in sign language, he has been seeking to wean their targets to Islam by poisoning their minds against other religions, including their own. Bhola and Mannu Yadav used to approach such children and lured them for conversion. We have sufficient evidence to establish that Mannu Yadav was involved in conversion of children,” the officials said.The conversion racket came into light when Umar Gautam and Jahangir Alam, both residents of Jamia Nagar, New Delhi were arrested for their involvement in large-scale illegal conversions of people of different faiths to Islam in UP and other parts of the country.Jahangir Alam, a mufti (Islamic preacher), is linked with the Islamic Da’wah Centre (IDC) in Delhi’s Jamia Nagar and allegedly used the centre for mass conversions. Umar Gautam embraced Islam a few years ago and looked for vulnerable people for conversion, said police.The ATS has lodged an FIR against the duo, some unidentified people and the IDC’s chairman under IPC sections 420 (cheating and dishonesty), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion) 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship) 511(attempt to commit offences) along with relevant sections of UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Act. The FIR was lodged at ATS police station in Lucknow.Police officials have claimed that the gang was involved into conversion of over 1,000 people in the last 18 months but has not revealed the details of the victims.The state government has earlier directed to invoke National Security Act (NSA) against the accused involved in the mass conversion racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ats-arrests-sign-language-expert-of-child-welfare-ministry-2-others-for-complicity-in-religious-conversion-racket-101624895713273.html
28-06-2021||Pune||NCP raises issue of damaged track at Sanas complex||After the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders raised their voice against VVIP cars damaging the track at the Balewadi stadium, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has raised the issue of the damaged track at the Sanas sports complex. NCP president Sharad Pawar and Maharashtra Sports minister Sunil Kedar attended the meeting at Balewadi sports complex where vehicles of the leaders were parked on the synthetic track. BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole and PMC leader Ganesh Bidkar raised their voice against it. The synthetic track located at Sanas sports ground is owned by PMC itself. NCP leader Nilesh Nikam questioned the condition of the track. Nikam said, “The synthetic track at Sanas sports ground is in a bad shape. It is used for various purposes. Even sometimes it got used for political purposes. While raising the voice against Balewadi track, the leaders must ensure that the PMC owned track would remain in good shape.” Shirole said, “I will visit the Sanas sports ground along with office bearers and will definitely try to improve its good condition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ncp-raises-issue-of-damaged-track-at-sanas-complex-101624895653191.html
28-06-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh finance dept, power corporation officials meet to work out formula for aid||The state’s finance department on Monday had a meeting with UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) officials to work out some formula to arrange ₹18,000 crore government financial assistance, as sought by the corporation, to bridge its cash gap during the current financial year.UPPCL chairman M Devraj, who held deliberations with the top finance department officials, also met chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari later in the day to discuss the issue of the financial assistance to the cash-strapped corporation.Monday’s developments followed the high-level meeting convened by chief minister Yogi Adityanath here on Saturday (June 26) to review the financial status of UPPCL and its discoms. The UPPCL officials, during the meeting, said the corporation needed a financial assistance of ₹18,000 crore from the state government, and ₹12,000 crore of it urgently, to meet cash requirements for payment of dues to power generating companies, coal companies etc.“UPPCL officials have held a meeting with the finance department to discuss things and arrive at a solution,” additional chief secretary (energy) Alok Sinha said, adding, “But it may require a few more rounds of meetings to take a final decision.”Devraj said discussions were being held at the government level to find out a way to help UPPCL/discoms. He, however, declined to share details discussed in the meetings with the finance department and the chief secretary, saying, “it is too premature to share.” The officials, who are in the know of things, said the government had no option but to oblige the UPPCL to maintain smooth power supply in the election year.“The only thing that is to be finalised is how to arrange funds and in which shape (it is) to be given to it (UPPCL),” they said.The government, according to officials, might consider issuing state bonds worth ₹12,000 crore to help UPPCL meet the capital requirement partially while the dues pending against government departments could be adjusted against the government loan of around ₹500 crore.“The government may have to provide the rest of the assistance in cash,” they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-finance-dept-power-corporation-officials-meet-to-work-out-formula-for-aid-101624895594443.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Duo arrested by crime branch for snatching phones||The unit five officials of Pune city crime branch arrested two persons for stealing mobile phones of women while they were on the road. The accused identified as Gunwant Yuvaraj Patil (19), a resident of Pingalevasti in Mundhwa and Swapnil Bhagwat Bangale (19), a resident of Hadapsar were arrested by the crime branch officials based on a tip off. According to the crime branch officials, the accused had theft cases lodged against them at Wanawdi, Kondhwa, Hadapsar , Sangvi and Chalisgaon ( Jalgaon ) police stations.According to the police, the duo whisked away mobile phones of women mostly while they were walking alone on the road and speaking. The duo had snatched a mobile phone from a woman at NIBM on June 21 while she was busy speaking to her husband. A police complaint was later lodged against them at Kondhwa police station. Unit in charge Hemant Patil said that the duo was involved in mobile thefts through snatching and a total of five mobiles totally estimated to be worth ₹50,000 were recovered from their possession. Also, a two-wheeler worth ₹50,000 used in carrying out the crimes was also seized from the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/duo-arrested-by-crime-branch-for-snatching-phones-101624895593026.html
28-06-2021||Lucknow||Ram Nath Kovind first President to reach Lucknow by train||President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday morning became the first Indian head of state to reach Lucknow by train. He arrived at the over 100-year-old Charbagh railway station in the state capital by a special presidential train after a three-day visit to Kanpur and his native village Paraunkh in Kanpur Dehat district.Railway minister Piyush Goyal thanked the “People’s President” for opting for rail as a mode of transport.On his Twitter handle, the minister shared the President’s appreciation note on a visitor’s diary at Charbagh railway station. Goyal said this would act as a morale booster and help the Railways keep the wheels of the nation rolling and meet the travel needs post-pandemic.Officials with Northern Railway called it a historic day. Deepak Kumar, chief public relations officer (CPRO), Northern Railway (NR), said President Ram Nath Kovid was the first serving President to reach Lucknow by train.The President’s train reached the station at around 11.50am where Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, other politicians and senior railway officers welcomed him at the start of his two-day visit to the state capital. It was also the first time when CM Yogi Adityanath and UP governor Anandiben Patel visited the Charbagh station during their tenure. On his arrival at the station, the President expressed his gratitude towards the railway staff. He said he had a pleasant and memorable travelling experience. Besides, he said the railways’ contribution in nation-building was unparalleled.After spending almost 20 minutes at the station, the President left for Raj Bhavan.The special train composed to facilitate his journey to his native village in UP had departed from Safdarjung railway station in New Delhi on June 25. It was special in the real sense, NR officials said.The loco pilot (driver) engaged in the train’s operation said it was one of the most luxurious trains and the speed during the entire journey remained between 90km per hour and 110km per hour.Some officials also said that the train was a transformed version of royal Maharajas’ Express that is the world’s leading luxury tour train in India.Official said that the royal presidential saloon—a vintage two-coach carriage meant for the Indian President was declared unserviceable in 2016 and was later de-commissioned.Officials said the royal train comprised 14 bogies. It included one Presidential Suite—the coach is bulletproof, with a double and a twin room and having a capacity of four passengers. It was also equipped with a living area, sofa, writing table, luggage-hold underneath the bed, live television and Wi-fi connectivity. Other than the Presidential Suite, there were other junior suites including Pearl, Agate, Emerald, Turqoise, Ruby, Diamond, Blue Sapphire, Hessonite, Amethyst, Coral, Aquamarine and Sapphire. Officials said that the other suites were occupied by the security personnel and officials who accompanied the President onboard.The Presidential train left for Delhi after almost an hour. The President is scheduled to leave for Delhi by air on Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/kovind-first-president-to-reach-lucknow-by-train-101624895475081.html
28-06-2021||Lucknow||Over 5900 paediatric ICU beds in place in UP, says chief minister Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adiayanath on Monday said the state had already set up more than 5900 pediatric ICU (intensive care unit) beds in medical colleges in view of the possible third wave of Covid-19 and the more virulent Delta-Plus coronavirus variant.Soon, 11 more RT-PCR test labs would be operational, taking the total number of the districts with RT-PCR labs to 45, he said at a high-level Covid-19 review meeting here.The remaining 30 districts, too, would have the labs in the next three to four months, he said.“The state needs to be alert considering the Delta-Plus variant (is) being classified by experts as more virulent than the previous coronavirus variants. Eleven states in the country have already reported Delta-Plus infections. UP needs to be well prepared in advance to tackle it according to the recommendations of the state Covid experts’ panel,” the chief minister said.He also said the state was enhancing genome sequencing facilities for extensive study of the coronaviruses.Currently, genome sequencing was being carried out at KGMU (King George’s Medical College) in Lucknow, BHU (Banaras Hindu University) in Varanasi, CDRI (Central Drugs Research Institute) in Lucknow with the help of IGBI (Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology), New Delhi, he said.“Such genomic studies would certainly help in devising ways to tackle the Delta-Plus variant,” he said.He said vaccination was the best bet for protection from coronavirus infections.The state has administered 3.04 crore Covid vaccination doses so far.“It is heartening to see the rising enthusiasm among people for vaccination in rural vaccination centres. People are turning up in large numbers there,” he said.He said although the Covid-19 situation was improving, this was also the time to be more alert as markets, shops, and movement had opened up unhindered.“People need to be more responsible towards following Covid appropriate behaviour and police also need to be active in enforcement of safety protocols such as mask-wearing, social distancing, and sanitisation. Minor negligence or laxity could prove dangerous,” he said.In the past 24 hours, the state did 2.63 lakh Covid tests and only 190 fresh cases were reported across Uttar Pradesh while 261 patients had recovered and were discharged from hospitals, he said. The daily positivity rate was 0.1% while the recovery rate was 98.5%, he added.At present, the state has 3046 active Covid cases and 1868 of them are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-5900-paediatric-icu-beds-in-place-in-up-says-yogi-adityanath-101624895473757.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Kolhapur still records highest RT-PCR weekly positivity in the state||Pune: Though the second Covid wave has been showing signs of waning in the state, Kolhapur district has remained a matter of concern for the state health department. The weekly positivity rate of Kolhapur has dropped to 7.4% (June 19-June 25) from 15.2% (June 6- June 12), yet the district has recorded the highest positivity rate in terms of RT-PCR testing at 16.8%. According to officials from the state health department, Kolhapur has recorded satisfactory vaccination rate and still, the positivity rate fails to drop as expected. As per the data given by the health department, during June 19-June 25, there were 148,330 tests conducted in Kolhapur of which 26,675 were RT-PCR tests. Of 10,931 samples that were tested positive, 4,483 were from RT-PCR tests. Maharashtra’s state surveillance officer Dr Pradip Awate said, “It is a district with high vaccination rate in terms of population, but has recorded 16.8% weekly positivity rate. Apart from Kolhapur, Satara, Sangli and Sindhudurg are other districts which have recorded high positivity rate in terms of RT-PCR tests.” He, however, said that the case fatality rate (CFR) in Kolhapur is not something to worry about. According to the state government’s latest guidelines, the weekly positivity rate to be considered for the decision regarding levels of restrictions must be determined only on the basis of RT-PCR tests. “It is a standard and good quality test to be undertaken to determine the positivity rate. All we need is a good sample size,” said Dr Awate. As per the latest guidelines by the state, Kolhapur is under Level 4 restrictions with minimum relaxations in place. However, on Monday, traders remained adamant about reopening of shops. After a meeting with police authorities, they agreed to hold the reopening of non-essential shops for two days. Dr. Yogesh Sale, district health officer of Kolhapur district, said that rise in positivity rate is because of increase in tests. He pointed out that the peak of the second wave came in the third week of May by which time other districts had started to record a downward trend. He claimed that the second wave will be waning in Kolhapur in the next 10-15 days. “We have increased the testing numbers. The rate of RT-PCR tests is also high. So naturally, the positivity rate based on that will go up,” said Dr Sale. He informed about the steps taken by the district administration to bring the Covid infection in control. “We have the highest rate of vaccination in the state. We are also emphasising institutional quarantine. Curbs have been increased to break the chain. Also, spot testing of superspreaders is being done. Hopefully, in the next 10-15 days, cases will go down substantially,” said Dr. Sale. Daulat Desai, Kolhapur collector, said that he won’t be able to comment as he was in quarantine because of fever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kolhapur-still-records-highest-rt-pcr-weekly-positivity-in-the-state-101624895234602.html
28-06-2021||Other||UP to expand Covid vaccination coverage:Focus on cluster model, walk-in jabs and online appointments||HT Correspondentlkoreportersdesk@htlive.comLUCKNOW Cluster model of vaccination, walk-in-vaccinations (for the 45+ age group) and appointments via online slot booking are key factors the health department is focusing on to expand the Covid vaccination coverage, particularly from July 1. UP aims to administer 10 lakh doses per day while Lucknow has planned 30K doses per day to speed up the vaccination drive. “The cluster model of vaccination gave us good results and our previous week’s target was achieved on Friday,” said Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar, chief medical officer, Lucknow. Lucknow has administered about 14 lakh doses, the highest among all districts, and UP 30859397 doses, till Monday evening, since January 16, when the vaccination campaign started. Under the cluster model of vaccination, the coverage in the trial run increased from 52% to about 70%. Under the cluster model, motivating teams go on door-to-door visits and then vaccinating teams administer doses at nearby places such as schools or clinics. One-third of the development blocks were covered in the trial since June 21. From July 1, the cluster model of vaccination will be applicable to all development blocks. Too meet the target of administering 10 lakh doses every day, Uttar Pradesh roughly requires 3 crore doses of the vaccine. “We have been informed about 1.5 crore doses coming to UP for July. We are now waiting for it and expect them to start arriving in different lots in the next 48 hours. The entire lot of 1.5 crore will arrive by July 10,” said a senior health official. He said, “Once this consignment is delivered, the schedule for the next chunk of 1.5 crore doses will be there. But it depends on the companies when and in what number they send the lot.” July will have 27 working days, barring Sundays, when the vaccination campaign will run. On each day, the target is to administer 10 lakh doses. The state has over 8,000 vaccination sites and plans to take the number up to 10,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-to-expand-covid-vaccination-coverage-focus-on-cluster-model-walk-in-jabs-and-online-appointments-101624895233863.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Transport unions protest outside collector’s office||Various transport associations and unions gathered today outside the Pune district collector office to oppose the hiked fuel prices in the state and for their various demands. In the last couple of months, the diesel prices has gone above ₹95 which has directly impacted on the transportation of all kinds of goods. While the state wide lockdown, leading to less business and on other hand monthly EMIs has brought down the transporters in all ways. Members of various transport unions met Pune district collector today, they gave a letter of demands mainly focused on reducing the fuel prices and give some monetary concession to pay their pending EMIs with the banks. These members had tied black strips and holding placards in their hands made a symbolic protest for few minutes outside the collector’s office. “The transportation business is suffering financially and it includes everyone right from auto rickshaws, private tourist buses, cabs, goods carrier vehicles and heavy loaded vehicles. Already we are dealing with the on and off lockdowns, and now the increasing fuel rates is a new worry for transportation industry. Many of us have closed down their business and if the rates continue to increase, we will be forced to increase our rates and directly impacting on all the commodities used by common public,” said Baba Shinde, state president of goods and passenger transport association. “There are large numbers of people across the country who earns their daily bread and butter through auto rickshaws, truck, tempo, buses and other private vehicles transportation. Now somehow everyone is trying to rebuild their business and trying to earn money, then the fuel hike and banks troubling to pay the loan EMIs are worrying people. Central government should act immediately on this issue which is related to lives of lakhs of people in the state. So today we held a black day protest across the state and if our demands are not fulfilled then in the first week of August we will do Chakka Jam protest across the state,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/transport-unions-protest-outside-collector-s-office-101624895233079.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Case against woman for blackmailing youth over nude video||The cybercrime cell of Pune police has lodged a case against an accused woman for blackmailing a youth in the age group of 32 -34 years after luring him to pose naked on-screen video call. The youth has lodged a complaint with the cyber cell authorities alleging that the accused was constantly demanding money and threatening to make the video go viral on social media. According to the police, the victim stays in Mundhwa area of the city and is a businessman. He had befriended the accused on facebook and has since engaged in conversation with him. The accused later gave mobile number to him and both engaged in a steamy conversation after which both of them posed naked during a whatsapp video call chat which was screen recorded by the accused. She later called up the victim and threatened to release his nude video on the social media and demanded money. The youth initially paid ₹18,000 but later became fed up with her constant demand for money and approached cyber police. Cyber police station in charge Macchindra Pandit said that it is a case of disguise where the accused has video recorded the act of the victim and threatened to make it viral if the demand of money was not met by him. Pandit further said “The investigation is on and we cannot give the background details of the victim. We have seen that the victims are reluctant to come forward and lodge cases in this regard as the complaint may lead them into difficult spot. So, their identities and personal details are protected as per the law.” In May, two men were arrested in Rajasthan in a case involving at least 100 males, in the age group of 25 to 55 years, being duped in an online scam involving nude videos of the victims. The accused posed as women, befriended the victims and then solicited the nude videos, based on which the victims were then blackmailed. The tricksters used photos of women as their profile shots and chatted with victims. They then used voice modulation software due to chat. In Oct 2020, the cybercrime cell of the Pune police had received complaints from eight men within a short span of two weeks stating that they were being blackmailed by `women’ who lured them into posing nude on screen video call recorders. The victims were well educated and salaried persons with some of them students between the age group of 25 and 40. The women blackmailed them by threatening to viral the recorded video calls on different social networking platforms. The cyber sleuths had been seeking all account transaction details of the victims from where the extortion money was sent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/case-against-woman-for-blackmailing-youth-over-nude-video-101624895173073.html
28-06-2021||Pune||PMC denies NCP allegation of discontinuing Swach contract||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has alleged that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned to scrap the waste collection work with Swach and appoint a private contractor for the same. However, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led PMC administration has denied the allegations and said that the waste pickers are being misled. Both ruling and opposition parties supported social activist Baba Adhav and assured him to continue the work of Swach organisation with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). At the same time both BJP and NCP attacked each other over the garbage collection and Swacch issue. PMC’s contract with the Swach cooperative expired in December 2020 and only temporary extensions of one or two months have been granted since, adding to the uncertainty in this pandemic. As the PMC did not continue the contract and did not accept their demands, social activist Baba Adhav carried out a morcha at the PMC headquarters. MP Supriya Sule, Congress leader Mohan Joshi participated in the morcha and supported Adhav.As Adhav staged agitations in front of municipal corporation, ruling BJP office bearers also joined the agitators and discussed with Adhav. BJP leader and leader of house Ganesh Bidkar said, “Some people misguide the Swach waste pickers. PMC did not have any plan to discontinue their contract. I have given instructions to the PMC officials to prepare the proposal and submit for approval.” NCP city unit president Prashant Jagtap said, “For the last 14 years more than 3,000 waste pickers have been working with PMC. They created the system but PMC is in a process to appoint a private contractor for garbage collection. If the garbage collection work gets handed over to the private firm, these 3,000 waste pickers will lose their livelihood. During Covid-19 pandemic, these workers work hard and the PMC must consider their demands.”BOXDemands made by waste pickers-Life insurance cover for 7,000 registered waste-pickers, premiums to be paid by PMC.-Covid incentive for working throughout the lockdown of ₹30 per month for slum households and ₹10 per month for other properties for six months for SWaCH waste pickers. -Renewal of the PMC – SWaCH model for a 10-year period with due corrections of deficiencies such as increase in slum subsidy support to waste-pickers and provision of replacement system for emergency absences. - Push-carts, buckets, bags and PPE, over-due from PMC for over 1.5 years.- ID Cards to informal waste-pickers who are not part of the cooperative.Space for efficient and safe sorting and recycling of waste.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-denies-ncp-allegation-of-discontinuing-swach-contract-101624895053062.html
28-06-2021||Other||61% of UP’s 3,046 active cases are in home isolation: ACS||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh has 3,046 active Covid cases and 61% of these are in home isolation, according to the state health department’s data. Lucknow has 261 active cases – the maximum in the state. At present, night curfew and weekend Covid restrictions are in place and UP has decided to re-impose Corona Curfew in districts that see over 500 active cases. “Of the total active cases, 1,868 are in home isolation. The recovery rate in the state is 98.5% while the overall case positivity rate is 3%,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference on Monday. He said people should take the vaccine dose and follow Covid protocols even after taking the jab. “Till now, Lucknow has reported 2,38,275 Covid cases, of which 2,35,377 have recovered and the recovery rate is 98.78%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. UP’s recovery rate is 98.5%. Seventeen districts in the state reported zero fresh cases. Of the total active cases in UP, Mahoba accounts for none. This district was the first to report zero active cases last week. The state government has decided to felicitate districts that report zero active cases for over a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/61-of-up-s-3-046-active-cases-are-in-home-isolation-acs-101624894933051.html
28-06-2021||Kolkata||‘Misinformation’: Jagdeep Dhankhar dismisses Mamata Banerjee’s allegations on 'corruption'||West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday responded to chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s allegations of corruption against him, saying that there is no chargesheet against him in the hawala case which was referenced by Banerjee.“Your Governor has not been charge sheeted. There is no such document. This is misinformation. I didn't expect this from a senior politician. I have not taken stay from any court in hawala charge sheet because there was none,” news agency ANI quoted Dhankhar as saying at a press conference, in response to Banerjee’s attack from earlier in the day in connection with the 1996 hawala Jain case.Also read | ‘I am sorry to say…’: Mamata Banerjee amps up attack on Guv Jagdeep DhankharHe also took to Twitter to rebut the charges. “Never expected a leader of stature @MamataOfficial to engage in sensation premised on misrepresentation and untruth. Still wondering what prompted her to engage in such act! Am sure she will for sure reflect & generate scenario for working in togetherness for welfare of people,” Dhankhar tweeted.Never expected a leader of stature @MamataOfficial to engage in sensation premised on misrepresentation & untruth. Still wondering what prompted her to engage in such act !Am sure she will for sure reflect & generate scenario for working in togetherness for welfare of people.The governor further said that he would not be cowed down under any circumstances, adding that he would do "everything in my command to serve the people of West Bengal."When asked during the press meet whether he will pursue legal action against Banerjee, Dhankar called the chief minister his “younger sister.” He said, “Till date in Indian culture, no one has taken action against younger sister. I would not go that way. I am sad. Mamata Ji is a mature leader. Why did she do this?” He also called on that the chief minister to name the charge sheet in which he was named.Earlier in the day, Banerjee had attacked Dhankhar, and said, “The Governor is a corrupt man. His name was there in the chargesheet of hawala Jain case in 1996. There are cases pending against him. I have written three letters for the removal of the West Bengal Governor.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/misinformation-jagdeep-dhankhar-dismisses-mamata-banerjee-s-allegations-of-corruption-101624894003631.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Puneites abide by curfew deadline on day one of new restrictions||Pune: Pune police’s appeal to shopowners to close their establishments by 5pm had an impact, with most following the orders. Police personnel on patrol went to different areas of the suburbs on Monday and appealed to shopowners, who then downed shutters, including at important business centres like MG road, Laxmi road, and in the peth areas of the city. Joint Commissioner of Police Ravindra Shisve said, “As per the latest guidelines from the government, there will be curfew from 5 pm to 5 am and all citizens are expected to follow the rules. Those who will step out without any valid reason will be fined. Police will carry out nakabandi operations to enforce the strictures.” The new lockdown order of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) came into effect from Monday, which stipulates that all shops and offices are to close at 4pm. Restaurants, food courts, and bars have been allowed to operate takeaways and home delivery from 4pm to 11pm. On Saturday and Sunday, only home delivery is allowed and dine-in services will remain closed. The curfew order is being imposed in the city under the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) Act and also under relevant sections of the Epidemic Act. The new guidelines state that essential shops will be allowed to remain open till 4pm on all week days. All non-essential shops allowed to be open till 4 pm from Monday to Friday, but will remain closed on Saturday and Sunday. All gardens, grounds, jogging/cycling tracks are allowed to be open from 5am to 9am on all days. Emergency government departments can function at 100% capacity. Other government department offices can operate with 50% capacity till 4pm. Private offices can also work with 50% staff till 4pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/puneites-abide-by-curfew-deadline-on-day-one-of-new-restrictions-101624893973042.html
28-06-2021||Lucknow||BSP-SAD alliance will free Punjab from Congress misrule: Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati on Monday said BSP-Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) alliance will free Punjab from the misrule of the Congress in 2022 assembly election.Mayawati reviewed the assembly election strategy in a meeting with the office-bearers of the party’s Punjab state committee.She called upon the party workers to work with honesty and make all-out effort for the victory of the BSP-SAD alliance on each seat.“We have to ensure that BSP-SAD forms a popular government in Punjab that works for the welfare of the masses and development of the state,” she said.Terming the Congress government in Punjab as corrupt, Mayawati said the Congress government failed on all front.A BSP leader familiar with the developments in the meeting said, the BSP Punjab unit president Jasbir Singh Garhi and party Punjab in-charge Randhir Singh Beniwal were present in the meeting.The BSP has decided to field candidates on 20 assembly seats while SAD will contest on the 97 seats in Punjab assembly election.In a separate meeting, Mayawati reviewed the working of the party Delhi state unit. She directed the party leaders to increase the base of the party in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bspsad-alliance-will-free-punjab-from-congress-misrule-mayawati-101624893913669.html
28-06-2021||Bangalore||2 cases of Covid-19 Delta Plus variant in Karnataka, contacts mostly not infected: Health minister K Sudhakar||Karnataka health minister K Sudhakar on Monday said that two cases of the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus have been detected in the state till date and both are asymptomatic. He also said that except one person, all of the contacts of the two patients have not tested positive for the disease.“As of now we are watchful. Till date we have two cases of Delta Plus variant, both were asymptomatic and none of their contacts were positive except for one primary contact of the Bengaluru infected person. That person is also asymptomatic,” news agency ANI quoted the health minister as saying.Also read | Coming to Karnataka from Maharashtra and Kerala? Negative RT-PCR report mustThe minister’s remarks came as the Union government on Monday confirmed that 48 people have tested positive for the Delta Plus variant out of more than 45,000 samples tested across 12 states in the country. Dr Balram Bhargava, Director General of the Indian Council of Medical Research, said that the new variant is “very localised” in India and it has been isolated and cultured at the ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV). He also said that the variant is present in 12 countries.Meanwhile, a health bulletin from the Karnataka health department on Monday showed that 318 cases of the Delta variant (B.1.617.2), 127 cases of the Alpha variant (B.1.1.7), 112 cases of the Kappa variant (B.1.617.1) and six cases of the Beta variant (B.1.351) have also been detected in the state as far as other variants are concerned.As many as 2,576 new Covid-19 cases and 93 more fatalities were reported in Karnataka on Monday, according to the bulletin. With this, the state’s tally reached 2,837,206 cases and the death toll rose to 34,836. Currently there are 97,592 active cases of the disease, the data showed. Meanwhile, 22,086,785 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/2-cases-of-covid-19-delta-plus-variant-in-karnataka-contacts-mostly-not-infected-health-minister-k-sudhakar-101624889128762.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Professor Pami Dua awarded prestigious Nishtha Dhriti Satyam Samman by DU||Celebrated economist and Head​, Department of Economics at Delhi School of Economics, Professor Pami Dua, has been awarded Nishtha Dhriti Satyam Samman by Delhi University (DU). This is the highest award given to a person of eminence who has made an extraordinary contribution to the development of the university.Professor Jitendra P Khurana from department of plant molecular biology has also been chosen for the prestigious award by DU.Professor Dua served as the member of Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) monetary policy committee (MPC) from 2016 to 2020. She was the Director at the Delhi School of Economics and also the chairperson at the research council, and Dean of academic activities and projects at Delhi University.Professor Dua has received a PhD in Economics from the London School of Economics. Her primary areas of research include business cycle analysis, macroeconomics, econometrics and forecasting.She has received international recognition in the field of macroeconomic forecasting.Professor Dua was the only woman in the six-member monetary policy committee. She is well known in academic circles. Professor Dua has been associated with India's prestigious D-School - as it is popularly called - for more than 20 years and is held in high regard by students and contemporaries.The Delhi University also announced distinguished service awards for retired teachers, distinguished service awards for retired persons in non-teaching category and excellence awards for teachers in service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/professor-pami-dua-awarded-prestigious-nishtha-dhriti-satyam-samman-by-du-101624890589270.html
28-06-2021||Patna||NDA contradictions are in the open, governance a casualty: Tejashwi Yadav||The leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly, Tejashwi Yadav spoke to Hindustan Times about the political situation in Bihar, his comment that the Nitish Kumar government may not last beyond a few months, and the possibility of an alliance with Chirag Paswan. Edited excerpts: You recently said that the Nitish Kumar government will fall in 2-3 months. How do you back this claim? My statement does not come out of the blue, and in fact, it’s genesis lies in the nature of the mandate of the last assembly elections. The leader of a party which was reduced to 40-odd seats occupied the chief minister’s chair, defying the message inherent in the people’s will. The contradictions of the ruling coalition are being played out in the open, and are there for everyone to see. Look at the absolute lack of communication across political parties in this alliance, and you will realise that their days are numbered. Also Read | Tejashwi reaches out to Chirag again, tells him to join Bihar oppositionBut what makes you believe that this government will fall? It is a question of how much longer, and to what extent, the CM allows his power to be diminished. At some time, the business of governance has to be taken seriously. It’s been a little over six months and, trust me, when I say this, Bihar is facing a serious all-round crisis. The government has shown no indication of how it’ll get up to the task. There’s not even a signal of intent whether it is the pandemic or floods or issues of employment as well as everyday deterioration in law and order. Do you have the numbers to provide an alternative? Who you are banking on? We have played the role of a very responsible and active Opposition, and we have done so from a position of confidence and power that we derive from those who have reposed their trust in us. In terms of numbers, we don’t need a lot, as you already know looking at the thin line between peoples’ will and the idea of “managed majority”. There’s is often talk of a likely split in the Congress or the RJD. How do you see this? This is the SOP of Nitishji’s propaganda whenever he is on a shaky wicket. I see such talk as not more than a juicy gossip emanating out of 1, Anne Marg to cover up for his abysmal performance and absolute failure. What I can say though that we are a democratic party, and quite well-structured in terms of organisation. There are plenty of forums within the party to voice concerns and debate the way forward. Will RJD throw its weight behind Akhilesh Yadav in UP, as it did in behind the TMC in West Bengal, or contest the polls itself? We are not a power-hungry party or an election machine. Our ties and support are based on pro-people, progressive, and development-oriented politics. We will extend support to whoever is close to our ideals of social justice inclusive development paradigm as in the position to defeat the Fascist agenda of BJP. How realistic is the chance of Tejashwi-Chirag tie up? Look I have said it quite a number of times recently that our families have a long-standing relationship that continued even when Chirag ji and the LJP became part of BJP-led NDA. However, Chirag ji has to take crucial decision with regard to ideological commitment. He will have to rework his politics in the light of what is being brazenly done to the progressive politics of social justice where Late Ramvilas ji remained a crusader with my father for decades. To put it succinctly, it is up to him to cut through the contradictions and make up his mind. What role will RJD have in a likely Opposition alliance, which is said to be working on a plan without Congress? RJD and Laluji have played a historical role in bringing progressive parties together and forging a shared agenda. We will not deviate from the path we have always followed. I believe in view of the massive challenges ahead where ordinary citizens are feeling extremely helpless across India, any idea of whatsoever front shall not be feasible without the Congress. Hence the priority should be to broadening the very base of an alternative rather than reducing its size.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nda-contradictions-are-in-the-open-governance-a-casualty-tejashwi-yadav-101624890373336.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Central Delhi India's second-most rain-deficient district, IMD data shows||Central Delhi has recorded 8.5 mm of rainfall this monsoon season thus far and is the second-most rain-deficient district in the country, according to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The weather department's data shows the total quantity of rain in the national capital since June 1 which is officially considered the beginning of the monsoon season in the country, with September 30 considered as the end date.According to IMD, Delhi normally receives 53.3 mm rainfall by this time in a year. Thus, the current figure is a fall of 84% from the normal figures.Among other districts in the city, east Delhi has seen 19.2 mm rainfall (deficiency of 64%), while northeast Delhi has recorded 20.7 mm rainfall, down by 61%. The corresponding rainfall figures in other districts are as follows: south Delhi 22.2 mm, southwest Delhi 29.6 mm, New Delhi 27.7 mm, north Delhi 37.3 mm and northwest Delhi 29.8 mm. With 53.5mm rainfall, west Delhi is the only district to have received normal rainfall.With a shortfall of 93%, Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar is the country's most rain-deficient district. It has recorded just 5 mm rainfall till now as against the normal of 68.4 mm.On Monday, IMD also said that Delhi and its nearby areas in the northwest will have to wait for another week to receive their first monsoonal showers. "Prevailing meteorological conditions, large scale atmospheric features and the forecast wind pattern by dynamical models suggest that no favourable conditions are likely to develop for further advance of southwest monsoon into remaining parts of Rajasthan, west Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi and Punjab during the next six to seven days," read a statement from IMD.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/central-delhi-second-most-rain-deficient-in-india-imd-data-shows-101624885923339.html
28-06-2021||Bangalore||Coming to Karnataka from Maharashtra and Kerala? Negative RT-PCR report must||The Karnataka government has made it mandatory for visitors from Maharashtra and Kerala to produce negative RT-PCR test reports from June 28 in a bid to curb the spread of cases of Covid-19 due to prevalence of two variants of the coronavirus disease, leading Kannada daily Udayavani has reported quoting state health minister Dr K Sudhakar.“This step was initiated due to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases due to the Delta and Delta Plus variants. All the deputy commissioners in the districts have been notified with respect to this,” Sudhakar said. As Karnataka shares its borders with both Maharashtra and Kerala, vigil will be ramped up in cities like Mysuru, Chamarajanagar in the southern part of the state, as well as in Mangaluru, Sullia and Puttur in the Dakshin Kannada region.Additionally, Belagavi in north Karnataka, and Karwar in the Uttar Kannada district will have special Covid-19 verification outposts. This means that visitors arriving in Karnataka from Goa will also be subjected to verification of negative Covid-19 test reports.According to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), 51 Covid-19 cases due to the Delta Plus variant have been reported from 12 states till now. Of these, nearly half, or 27, are from Maharashtra (22) and Kerala (five), as per NCDC’s figures.Delta Plus is a mutation of the Delta variant which was first detected in India last year. The Delta variant is believed to be behind the devastating second Covid-19 wave which swept the country in April-May. Kappa is another variant which was first found in India.“Parents with children of up to ten years of age will be vaccinated on a priority basis. Medical students, health workers and officials, policemen and their families, and media persons will also be given priority,” Sudhakar was further quoted as saying.Daily visitors arrive in border areas of Karnataka, and in cities like Mangaluru, Belagavi, Mysuru and Madikeri to purchase machine parts, bulk vegetables and fruits etc. The Karnataka government’s order will cause the movement of these goods, according to functionaries of the North Karnataka Chambers of Commerce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/coming-to-karnataka-from-maharashtra-and-kerala-negative-rt-pcr-report-must-101624888677655.html
28-06-2021||Other||Unemployed teachers protest outside CM’s farm house||Mohali Over 100 members of Elementary Teacher Training-Teacher Eligibility Test (ETT-TET) qualified, Unemployed Teachers Union gheraoed the entry-exit of Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s farm house in Siswan in Mohali. The union is demanding that a recruitment notification for 1 lakh ETT teachers must be published immediately; 2,364 ETT pass teachers only must be considered for jobs; the ceiling in age relaxation be increased; extra points for higher qualification must be scrapped and extra credit given to education providers and volunteer must also be withdrawn. Protesters, wearing black arm bands, had arrived at the farm house in two buses and even attempted to enter it. They raised slogans against the state government, with Mohali police arresting them. Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Satinder Singh, along with the SP and area DSP, rushed to the spot. The SSP warned the protesters against disturbing law and order, but they refused to listen and taken to Mullanpur and Gharuan police stations. Protesters claimed that police dragged some of them, leading to injuries. “Two months have passed since two members of the Union climbed atop the BSNL tower to the rear of the post-office, yet the government is not listening.”  Union president Deepak Kamboj said, “In 2016, we had raised our demands, when Manpreet Singh Badal, now the state finance minister, and MP Preneet Kaur visited us. It has now been over four months of the Congress government, but the regime has still done nothing.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unemployed-teachers-protest-outside-cm-s-farm-house-101624888693252.html
28-06-2021||Kolkata||Cross-border love story goes awry: Couple held while entering India illegally||A cross-border love story that started on a social networking site went awry, as the couple, while trying to enter India without documents after getting married in Bangladesh, was arrested by the Border Security Force. The man was identified as Jaikato Chandra Rai, 24, a resident of Nadia district in West Bengal. The 18-year-old woman, Parineeti, is a resident of Narail district in Bangladesh. The couple was arrested on June 26. “Human traffickers often adopt new methods to trap women, who are later often pushed into the sex trade. But after a thorough interrogation we didn’t find any foul play in this case. Both families knew about the wedding and had given their consent,” said a senior BSF official. According to BSF officials, the couple met on Facebook four years ago and stayed in touch. But recently the woman’s family started insisting that they should get married. The man’s family agreed. Also Read | ‘I am sorry to say…’: Mamata Banerjee amps up attack on Guv Jagdeep Dhankhar“The man said arranging documents would have taken a long time, particularly during the pandemic, so he crossed over to Bangladesh on March 8 with the help of a local tout. On March 10, they got married. The couple stayed in Bangladesh till June 25,” said a BSF official. As they didn’t have any valid documents, they had to enter India illegally. A Bangladeshi tout, identified as Raju Mondol, took around ₹10,000 to help them cross the international border and enter India, where they were arrested. The duo was handed over to the local police. A senior police officer said that even though the man would get bail, the woman would have to stay in a shelter home till the time she gets Indian citizenship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/crossborder-love-story-goes-awry-couple-held-while-entering-india-illegally-101624888033277.html
28-06-2021||Kolkata||‘I am sorry to say…’: Mamata Banerjee amps up attack on Guv Jagdeep Dhankhar||KOLKATA: West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee escalated her attacks on governor Jagdeep Dhankhar by several notches, alleging that he was named in the Jain hawala scandal of the 1990s that implicated several leading politicians and branded him as a “corrupt man”.“The Governor’s name had cropped up in the Jain hawala case. They had gone to court and got the name cleared. But again, a PIL was filed, and it is still pending. I am sorry to say he is a corrupt man,” Banerjee told reporters at the state secretariat.“If the Centre is not aware, then I am telling. Bring out the charge sheet and check whether his name was there or not. Why is the Centre allowing a man like this to continue as the governor?” she added.Dhankhar, who has an acrimonious relationship with the chief minister, trashed the charge. “I have not been charge-sheeted. There is no such document. This is far from facts. This is plain and simple untruth, misinformation. I have not taken any stay from any court,” said Dhankhar. The Jain hawala case cited by Banerjee was a reference to a political scandal in the mid-nineties after investigators, who were probing 23 demand drafts seized at the instance of a Hizbul Mujahideen operative in Delhi, found a diary from the hawala operators. The handwritten diary mentioned payments of about ₹65 crore. The names of the recipients were written in codes and matched initials of some top political leaders.The Central Bureau of Investigation filed more than 2 dozen chargesheets in this case but the cases collapsed because the CBI didn’t produce any corroborative evidence to prove the bribery charge. Earlier in the day, Dhankhar, who was on a week-long tour of Darjeeling, alleged corruption in the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA), the semi-autonomous body that manages Darjeeling and Kalimpong hills in north Bengal.Mamata Banerjee said the governor was trying to disturb the peaceful situation in north Bengal and met people who are in favour of dividing north Bengal. “He told them to stage a revolt. Is it the job of the governor?” Banerjee added. Banerjee said that she had written three letters to the centre on three occasions to relieve Dhankhar from the post of the state’s governor. On Saturday the Governor tweeted that there has been no election and audit in GTA since 2017. “The Governor has raised some serious allegations against the GTA. Cases may continue in the court. But are the chief minister’s today’s allegations answers to the questions raised by the Governor? Is she trying to say that because the Governor’s name is in the Jain Hawala case, there can be corruption in GTA? Is she justifying this,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice president of BJP in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/i-am-sorry-to-say-mamata-banerjee-amps-up-attack-on-guv-jagdeep-dhankhar-101624886593117.html
28-06-2021||Mumbai||Over 50% of children in Mumbai have Covid-19 antibodies, shows sero survey||A paediatric sero-survey conducted in Mumbai has shown that 51.18% of those below the age of 18 in Mumbai have antibodies against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The survey was conducted by civic body-run BYL Nair Hospital and Kasturba Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory (KMDL) between April 1 to June 15.The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that 2,176 blood samples were tested for the study. The results showed that the proportion of the pediatric population having antibodies has increased compared to the earlier sero survey, the BMC added.The civic body said in a release that sero positivity is the highest in the age group 10-14 years - at 53.43 per cent. For children in the age group of 1-4 years, it is 51.04 per cent, while it is 47.33 per cent in the age group of 5 to 9 years, 53.43 per cent in 10 to 14 years, and 51.39 per cent in 15 to 18 years, according to BMC.In the sero survey conducted in March, the positivity rate was 39.4% in case of those below the age of 18, it added.The decision to conduct the sero survey among Mumbai's paediatric population was taken amid fears of a third wave of Covid-19, which is anticipated to affect children disproportionately, according to the civic body. A sero survey involves testing of blood serum of a group of people and the findings are used to monitor trends in prevalence.The BMC said this was the third sero survey conducted since the beginning of the pandemic.Data from the civic body shows that in April, 4,351 children aged between 0 and 9 years contracted Covid-19 in Mumbai. The number plunged to 3,139 in May as the overall cases reported a decline. Similarly, in April, 12,277 Covid patients were from the 10-19 age group which decreased to 3,139 the next month.A similar exercise carried out in national capital Delhi in April showed that the population-level prevalence of antibodies in the city was at 56.09%, almost the same as that of the January round.The report was prepared by researchers from Maulana Azad Medical College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-50-of-children-in-mumbai-have-covid-19-antibodies-shows-sero-survey-101624885175286.html
28-06-2021||Gurugram||Leopard found dead on Surajkund road near Gurugram||The carcass of a two-year-old female leopard was found on Surajkund-Pali road in Faridabad on Monday, said officials.An official from the Haryana forest department said that they learnt about the carcass on Monday morning from the traffic police department.Raj Kumar, divisional forest officer, Faridabad, said, “I was informed by the regional inspector, wildlife, about the incident around 10.15am, after which a team reached the spot. The carcass of the two-year-old female leopard was sent for a postmortem examination. The result suggests that it died due to a head injury after being hit by a vehicle around 4am.” Since the incident took place at the border around Asola Wildlife Sanctuary, the Delhi forest department was also informed before the jurisdiction was confirmed.A senior forest department official from Delhi said that they were informed about a leopard being hit by a vehicle on Surajkund road around 10.30am on Monday. However, the carcass had already been taken for a postmortem examination and other formalities by the Haryana forest department.Also Read | Poaching picks up during pandemic in Himachal“Over the last few years, there have been quite a few leopard deaths by speeding vehicles reported from the Haryana side. The issue is that roads aren’t well lit at night; cars ram leopards that are crossing over,” the official said.A video of the carcass started doing the rounds on Monday morning. “This video came to me because we work on wildlife issues in the Aravallis. We have been warning all along that there is a sizeable leopard population here. There are lots of signs. I confirmed the roadkill with Haryana’s wildlife department as soon as I got the video. The boundary of Asola Bhatti sanctuary in the video. It’s a very sharp bend where vehicles cannot slowdown immediately. We have been asking for an underpass to be built,” said Sunil Harsana, wildlife activist, Mangar, Haryana.A study published in January showed the Aravallis near Gurugram, Faridabad and Delhi can support rich biodiversity and wildlife if protected from further habitat fragmentation. The study found a total of 1,327 signs (such as scat, pug marks, scratch marks) of 13 mammal species during two seasons—winter and summer of the survey in 2019. Two species of large carnivores- leopard and striped hyena, four species of herbivores, two primate species and seven species of meso-carnivores (eg. fox, civets, mongoose, etc,) were found. Surprisingly, both Faridabad and Gurugram Aravallis were found to harbour a larger variety of mammals compared to the Asola Bhatti Sanctuary, which is a protected area. The largest number of species were recorded in Faridabad Aravallis (14), followed by Gurugram Aravallis (11), Mangar Bani (10) and least in Asola wildlife sanctuary (9). However, Mangar Bani and Gurugram Aravallis showed 30% more sighting of animals (because the forest is not as fragmented in this region as compared to Delhi or Faridabad) of animal signs per kilometre in comparison to Asola wildlife sanctuary and Faridabad Aravallis.Harsana, a resident of Mangar village in Faridabad who has informally surveyed the Aravalli stretches in the region for years, took up formal research methodologies to document biodiversity here and was awarded the study under Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF-India).“There is leopard presence in that region. We have been seeing incidents of road kills for past 5-6 years, which needs to be addressed. In the past, there were talks with the Haryana government to track the movement of leopards but the project did not materialise,” said Bilal Habib, senior scientist at the Wildlife Institute of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/leopard-found-dead-on-surajkund-road-near-gurugram-101624885213206.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bante wali bottle, a refreshing summer treat, all-time wonder||The unassuming and distant cousin of the upmarket fizzy drinks sits humbly on the wheeled cart of the nimbupaaniwalla with citrusy and minty whiffs afloat in the air from the strategically placed yellow lemons and green mint leaves. The sight of the transparent bante wali bottle brings back effervescent memories of childhood when quenching one’s thirst at the roadside rehri was a sublime practice. While stuck in a traffic jam, one afternoon, my drifting eyes beheld a familiar yet forgotten sight of the Codd-neck bottle, with a marble to block its mouth, displayed on a roadside cart. It sat there trying to lure passers-by with its pristine charm; charm which has been shadowed by the likes of high-end carbonated drinks that come with catchy jingles and vibrant advertisements. I hardly remember seeing or hearing any commercial that has promoted the eclectic bante wali bottle also known as Goli Soda and yet it has survived the onslaught of time and change of taste or habits. In times when soft drink makers are spending billions on flashy advertisements demonstrating the biggest names of Hollywood and Bollywood guzzling down bottles of the artificially flavoured drinks; the modest bante wali bottle remains unsung despite its ability to quench one’s thirst on a par with its branded cousins. My fondest memories of the bante wali bottle co-exist with the annual ritual of spending the summer vacation at my maternal grandparents’ house in Jaitu. The house was nestled in the middle of a row of houses built on one side of a busy street. The opposite end was inhabited by shopkeepers and stall owners. On our arrival, somebody was despatched to fetch chilled bottles from the vendor. The curious child in me never failed to be amazed at the creation of the bottle’s unique structure. Endlessly, I tried to figure out how the manufacturer managed to insert a marble in the bottle’s neck and how I could retrieve the marble from the neck without breaking it. Had somebody asked me during those impressionable years to name the Seven Wonders of the World, my first guess would have been, “Bante wali bottle!” In summer, the vendors either stationed their carts outside the railway or bus stations or pushed them into narrow lanes to reach out to those who longed for something refreshing to mollify the heat or something tantalising to tickle their taste-buds. The drink was also served with equal fanfare depending on the demand. Some customers preferred to gulp it directly from the bottle where others preferred it poured out in a glass garnished with fresh mint and assorted with a dash of lemon and a sprinkle of rock salt to enhance its flavour. For those who wished to drink from the bottle, the man would oblige by propelling the marble blocking the mouth of the bottle into its constricted neck with the help of an ice pick and all this he did nonchalantly with the flair of the modern-day bartender. The diffident bante wali bottle is struggling to sustain itself in a world of cut-throat competition. However, I still sense a bond with it as it’s one of the few things that remind me of the innocent pleasures of childhood. sonrok15@gmail.com The writer is an Ambala-based college teacher||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bante-wali-bottle-a-refreshing-summer-treat-all-time-wonder-101624884313249.html
28-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray says ready to vaccinate 1.5 million a day, warns against Covid-19 third wave||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said that his government is ready to vaccinate 1.5 million people per day against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He also urged the people to continue to follow Covid appropriate behaviour despite the falling daily new infections, while warning about the threats posed by the Delta Plus variant of the disease and the third wave.“There is also a threat from the Delta Plus variant. Even though the daily number of Covid-19 cases is falling, people should continue to follow the Covid appropriate behaviour. We are ready to vaccinate 15 lakh (1.5 million) people per day,” news agency PTI quoted Thackeray as saying.The chief minister was virtually speaking at the inauguration ceremony of a jumbo Covid Care Centre (CCC) in suburban Malad. “Though the bed occupancy is less now, the Covid appropriate behaviour has to be followed by all. In the first wave, we (the government) were the first to erect a jumbo Covid-19 facility at BKC (Bandra Kurla Complex) in a record time,” he further said in his address, according to PTI.Also read | Maharashtra’s daily Covid cases steady at close to 10k for fourth straight dayThe jumbo CCC in Malad is the first among four such centres planned to be opened by the Maharashtra government in preparation for the expected third wave of Covid-19. It is constructed by the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and has 2,170 beds, of which 70% are oxygen beds and 192 ICU beds. In the paediatrics ward, there are 200 oxygen beds and 50 ICU beds.While the Malad jumbo CCC has been inaugurated in the first phase, similar facilities would be constructed at Kanjurmarg, Sion and Racecourse at Worli, as confirmed by the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) in a tweet, earlier in the day.Apart from new centres, the government is also planning to increase the bed capacity in the existing centres, the CMO said in another tweet.Maharashtra reported 9,974 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. Also, 143 people succumbed to the infection. Also, 31,159,523 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 25,145,226 first doses and 6,014,297 second doses, have been administered in the state as of 8am on Monday, according to the Union health ministry.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-says-ready-to-vaccinate-1-5-million-a-day-warns-against-covid-19-third-wave-101624882999720.html
28-06-2021||Kolkata||Bengal extends Covid-19 curbs till July 15; gyms to open with 50% capacity||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced on Monday that restrictions imposed in the state to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are being extended till July 15."Public vehicles can operate with 50% passengers but drivers and conductors should be vaccinated. Gyms can also open with 50% capacity between 6am-10am and 4pm-8pm. Salons and beauty parlours can function from 11am-6pm at 50% strength and the entire staff should be vaccinated," Banerjee said at a press conference. The chief minister further said that government and public offices may now allow 50% employees as against the previously announced capacity of 20%, and function from 10am-4pm.Markets and vegetable vendors, the chief minister said, can open from 6am-12pm, adding that other shops can remain open from 11am-8pm. "Banks and financial institutions can open from 10am-2pm, while train operations remain suspended for now," Banerjee said. However, local trains have still not been allowed.Covid-19 restrictions were earlier extended in the state till July 1. These were first imposed on May 16. However, relaxations were announced as the state's daily Covid-19 caseload began witnessing a decline thanks in part due to the restrictions imposed.Also Read: West Bengal extends Covid-19 restrictions till July 1On Sunday, a total of 1,836 people tested positive for coronavirus while 29 lives were lost due to it, taking its cumulative Covid-19 infection tally to 1,494,949 including a related death toll of 17,612, a health department bulletin showed. Recoveries have mounted to 1,455,453 as 2,022 patients were discharged while the active caseload has declined further to 21,884.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-extends-covid-19-curbs-till-july-15-gyms-to-open-with-50-capacity-101624879941367.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||A good life that started with the polo quartet||Polo is known as the sport of kings. There was another way to be a polo player without being a king or a rich man. The Indian Army, following the traditions left by the British, maintained a number of polo teams that played in various venues during winter. I picked up the sport at the Indian Military Academy (IMA). I was already an accomplished horseman thanks to being the son of an army officer. I got into the sport to escape the unarmed combat classes conducted in the afternoon. I was a quick learner and soon a part of the IMA polo team. Apart from myself, there was Rupinder Brar (Rupi), Ajinder Randhawa (Randy), Gurcharan Sohi (Prince) and Dalip Tung, who was not in our course. Also read: Hong Kong controller, local components: How LeT makes drones to attack IndiaThrice a week, we got to play polo with three officers, making up the eight required to form two teams: The commandant, the equitation officer and the academy adjutant, Major Maharaj Kumar Bhawani Singh (Bubbles), the crown prince of the Jaipur royal family. We were indeed the blue-eyed boys who got to move in high company. The best part was the polo trips to Meerut and Delhi, wherein we escaped a cadet’s tough life for a month or so. Morning rides followed by a gargantuan breakfast and a polo match in the evening. That was the schedule. Sometimes, Bubbles took us for a ride in his Mercedes sports car after the match and gave us a nice treat at Connaught Place. Prior to getting commissioned, cadets are allotted the arm or service to serve in. Rupi and I were allotted artillery, Randy to the armoured corps and Prince to the Army Service Corps (later switched to the armoured corps). We were commissioned on June 27, 1965, and the polo quartet split up. Polo went on the backburner over the next few years but in mid-1968, Rupi and I were posted to the Artillery Centre at Nasik Road with the aim to raise a polo team for the artillery. I, however, got selected to go for training as an Air OP Pilot. My polo was revived in 1970 when we started playing for the artillery but that too got short-circuited due to the Indo-Pak war of 1971. After the war, Rupi, who was easily the best among us, changed over to 61 Cavalry, which is the only horse mounted Cavalry regiment in the world. He went on to become an international polo player with a handicap of 5 goals. He travelled across the world playing for India and went on to command the regiment before calling it a day. Polo, for me, became a once-a-year event since I was heavily involved professionally. But such was the passion that when I was preparing for the Defence Services Staff College exam, with just a month to go, I pushed off to Hyderabad to play as part of Rupi’s team. Everyone thought I was crazy but I couldn’t resist the opportunity. Eventually, it had no effect on the result and I got a competitive vacancy to attend the Staff College Course in Australia. I continued playing the sport as and when I could be spared from my duties till my premature retirement in 1994. It is time to reflect back on a life well lived. A service of 29 years in the army, during which I fought in a war for the nation, played polo for the artillery, flew as an Air OP Pilot, commanded an artillery regiment and an army aviation squadron. Thereafter, in civil aviation, I flew helicopters for 17 years, flying the high and mighty during election campaigns before finally calling it a day. The good life started with the polo quartet. Prince and Randy are already in the happy hunting grounds, leaving Rupi and myself on mother earth. The great memories will remain till it is our time to bid goodbye. bullysangha@gmail.com The writer is a Chandigarh-based defence veteran and Vir Chakra awardee||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/a-good-life-that-started-with-the-polo-quartet-101624882272998.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab doctors strike work to protest proposal to delink NPA||Government doctors in Patiala observed a strike on Monday in response to the call given by the Joint Punjab Government Doctors Coordination Committee against the sixth pay commission report that has recommended delinking non-practising allowance (NPA) from basic pay. Teachers of medical and dental colleges besides resident PCMS doctors held a rally at the Patiala medical college campus and raised slogans against the pay commission and the Punjab government. Also read: To boost economy, FM announces 8 new schemes with health, tourism in focusDr DS Bhullar, the state general secretary of the Punjab State Medical and Dental Teachers Association, said outdoor and operation theatre services along with teaching of medical students remained suspended for the day. The doctors only attended to emergency cases, Covid and indoor medical services. Dr Darshanjit Singh Walia, the state representative of the coordination committee, said it has been decided to intensify the agitation till the demands are accepted. They said the state government is responsible for jeopardising health services in the state. Association acting president Dr Vijay Bodal said the government should accept their demands at the earliest and stop harassment to needy patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-doctors-strike-work-to-protest-proposal-to-delink-npa-101624880832848.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sampat declines membership of Haryana BJP panel on farm laws||Former Haryana finance minister Sampat Singh on Monday refused to become a member of the BJP state executive committee in support of the three farm laws. In a letter to state BJP president OP Dhankar, Sampat Singh thanked him for nominating him as a member of Haryana BJP’s executive committee but said that he can’t accept any such responsibility when farmers were agitating. Also read: Hong Kong controller, local components: How LeT makes drones to attack IndiaTalking over phone, Sampat Singh said he has been supporting the farmers’ agitation since Day 1 and will not accept any position in the BJP till their grievances are redressed. “I believe in politics without police protection. Nowadays, BJP and JJP leaders hold meetings behind closed doors with police protection. I can’t do such politics. I am in the BJP but I won’t hold any position until farmers’ issues are resolved,” he said. Sampat Singh had quit the Congress and joined the BJP in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah at a rally in Rohtak’s Meham on October 9, 2019, in the run-up to the assembly elections. He had left the Congress after he was denied an assembly seat from Hisar’s Nalwa. The Congress had pitted Kuldeep Bishnoi loyalist Randhir Panihar from Nalwa in 2019 and he had lost to BJP’s Ranbir Gangwa, who is the deputy speaker in the BJP-JJP coalition government. Before joining the Congress in 2009, Sampat Singh was in the Indian National Lok Dal and a loyalist of former chief minister Om Prakash Chautala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sampat-declines-membership-of-haryana-bjp-panel-on-farm-laws-101624878613070.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Monday Musings: The risks and trade-offs of an unlock paradigm||This column had earlier argued that the state government had taken a risk by linking incentives with responsibility while unlocking Maharashtra earlier this month. The smart men in the corridors of power thought they can stay away from being in the lock-unlock picture every week, through just one order during the ongoing fight against Covid. It also reflected a shift from the scenario of a guardian-like-government where the onus is vested with individuals. Three weeks later, the government has had to revise its order by reducing the five-level relaxation plan to three, citing an emergence of cases of the Delta-Plus variants in Maharashtra. The latest diktat removes the first two levels, which offered maximum relaxations, even if the local positivity rate is below five per cent, as mandated under the mechanism. The government has also restructured ways to calculate the positivity rate by considering positive cases only against RT-PCR tests done. This means some of the old curbs are back in cities like Pune, Nashik and Nagpur, where restrictions were eased at a pace that prompted health experts to express worry and advise caution. If the original order passed the responsibilities on to people when they wanted to avail of incentives by way of restarting activities, restructuring it meant an admission that the number of cases could increase fast with people violating norms pertaining to Covid- appropriate behaviour. Soon after the unlock process started, most cities were witnesses to crowding. Markets were back to normal and people looked oblivious to a virus that thrives on crowds. How does it reflect on citizens? In one of his articles that appeared in Mint Lounge, journalist Aakar Patel wrote: “Policing in India is less about law than about order. This is how it has always been in a nation whose population tends to anarchy, even when under self-rule.” In a country of 1.3 billion people, order is something is often missing and has to be forced using mandate. This is exactly why police here are trained primarily to control crowds rather than pursue scientific investigation, a reflection often seen in the lower conviction rate. Policing, as Patel argued, is carried out through “bandobast” when people are supposed to behave on their own. It’s also possibly because human behaviour in reality is not as rational, which means when people during unlock are offered wide degree of liberty on the economic front, and movement, they are unlikely to stick to habits inculcated during lockdown. So how could the state government have struck the right balance in its plan to reopen Maharashtra after the second wave? There are no easy answers: One way could have been to take baby steps by easing limited curbs, that too, at a slower pace, or to offer incentives on activities that would encourage people not to step out and yet spend money to boost trade and accelerate economy. The latest order on one hand is bound to create confusion among people and traders, who have seen series of decisions in the past few days with different guidelines for weekdays and weekends. It is also likely to lead to further uncertainty where businessmen may find it difficult to take risks given the unpredictability. But then, Maharashtra has already paid a heavy price during the second wave. With local body elections lined up early next year in 10 major cities of the state, the government needs to carefully reopen sectors based on needs and priorities. If abolishing the e-pass for inter-district travel has resulted in indiscriminate travel, there can be a rethink on bringing it back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/monday-musings-the-risks-and-trade-offs-of-an-unlock-paradigm-101624876813058.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||461 cross Wagah border as Pakistan eases Covid norms||As many as 461 people, comprising 405 Indian and 56 Pakistani nationals, have crossed over to India from Pakistan via the Attari-Wagah border on Monday. These people, according to officials, had been stranded in various parts of Pakistan due to Covid-19 restrictions. Also read: Pak LeT behind drone attack in Jammu, target was ATC and parked IAF helicoptersForty-eight of the 56 Pakistani nationals are NORI visa holders, who had gone to the neighbouring country to meet relatives. The Indian government issues NORI (no obligation to return to India) visas to Pakistani and Bangladeshi nationals who leave their home country and live in India or are married in India but have not yet obtained Indian citizenship. The officials said that among the Indians who returned are Kashmiri students. Many students from Kashmir pursue professional courses in Pakistani institutions. The process for their return started at 11am and it continued through the day, the officials said. “A medical team has been deployed at the integrated check post (ICP) at Attari that facilitates the movement of passengers from India to Pakistan and vice-versa. The medical team is conducting Covid-19 tests of all those crossing over,” said a Land Port Authority of India official. Sources said India also repatriated two Pakistani prisoners through the land border on Monday afternoon. They have completed their sentence, the sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/461-cross-wagah-border-as-pakistan-eases-covid-norms-101624874292464.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab ex-Cong MLA Sekhri in hospital hours before event to join SAD||Former Congress MLA Ashwani Sekhri got admitted to a hospital in Amritsar late on Sunday night, hours before he was to join the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD). The SAD had even set up the stage for his induction into the party in Chandigarh. The meet was later called off.Also read: 2 more drones spotted over Kaluchak military station in Jammu; search ops onSekhri was admitted in Fortis Hospital, Amritsar, late at night, hospital spokesman Gurmeet Singh said. A meeting and a phone call that changed his mind It is learnt that after coming to know about Sekhri’s plan of leaving the Congress, party leader Raj Kumar Verka met him at his Ranjit Avenue residence in Amritsar to pacify him. Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh also spoke to Sekhri over the phone, assuring him that his concerns will be addressed. In a statement on Sunday, Amarinder said: “Sekhri is a dyed in the wool Congressman who has spent his whole life with the party and all rumours about his leaving the party are baseless.” He said Sekhri denied the reports in a section of media that he was leaving the Congress to join other party. He said it is the party’s duty and responsibility to watch and safeguard the interests of all senior leaders. Hindu face of Congress in Majha The three-time MLA, was scheduled to join the SAD in presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday as he was feeling suffocated in the party over the alleged interference by cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa in his constituency. Sekhri, who served on key posts in the Congress and is known as a Hindu face of the party in the Majha region, is not talking to the media yet. He lost the 2017 assembly elections to SAD candidate Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal by only 500 votes. Since then, neighbouring Fatehgarh Churian MLA Tript Bajwa increased his activities in the Batala segment. Tript Bajwa’s interference tipping point Bajwa managed to put his loyalists at the helm in the Batala municipal corporation, further marginalising Sekhri. In September last year, Sekhri had filed a police complaint against Tript Bajwa for ignoring Covid-19 norms. The former minister of state also met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi on June 22. He said he was called by Rahul for seeking his suggestions on the ongoing feud in the Punjab Congress. After meeting Rahul, he had questioned the role of Captain Amarinder Singh in the turmoil in the party. A month ago, he accused Amarinder of ignoring the pleas of schools and colleges of Punjab by refusing their offer to set up Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-ex-cong-mla-sekhri-in-hospital-hours-before-event-to-join-sad-101624873272324.html
28-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan minor from Kalbeliya community raped repeatedly, case lodged||A 14-year-old minor dancer belonging to the Kalbeliya community in Rajasthan’s Jodhpur district was allegedly raped repeatedly in the last five-six months, resulting in her pregnancy. The police said a case has been lodged under Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) and SC/ST atrocities act and arrests were likely after receiving her medical report.A complaint lodged by victims’ uncle at Mathania police station in Jodhpur alleges the rape survivor’s father was a drunkard who used to send her daughter with langa manganiyars (folk artists) to perform in hotels and parties for money. The police said the survivor’s father was living with another woman after separation from her mother. The survivor, her elder sister and a younger brother lived with their father.The complaint lodged on Sunday alleges that the survivor was raped repeatedly by 4 persons in the past few months and her step mother reprimanded her when she told her about her pregnancy, forcing her to reach out to her mother, who then asked her uncle to approach the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-minor-from-kalbeliya-community-raped-repeatedly-case-lodged-101624872012484.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Need a breather: Delhiites pack bags, holiday within city||Fresh out of the second wave of the pandemic and anticipating a third one, Delhiites are currently stuck in a limbo of uncertainties. And therefore, a change is a must to keep the spirits high! Making the most of the time in between the two waves are some city residents, who are heading out for staycations, but within the city’s periphery! Recently, Anushka Maheshwari, a south Delhi-based entrepreneur, went on a short vacation with her extended family to a south Delhi based hotel. She says, “It was all going to be about my husband, our two-year-old daughter and me. But as soon as we shared the plan, we were also joined in by my parents, sister, brother-in-law and their four-month-old baby. It’s clear that everyone is tired of being indoors, especially those who have young children.” For Maheshwari, the vacation was not about the destination, but a change of routine. “When we saw that the cases have decreased, we decided to give ourselves a much needed break. Even if it meant going to a hotel near our house, we didn’t mind. At least the domestic chores needed no attention, for there was room service to our rescue! But, since we were travelling with kids, while choosing the hotel we first checked their sanitisation services,” she adds. Similarly, Gurugram-based IT professional Anuj Arora says that he felt that the time was ideal to step out, and a room with a view is all that he and his friends were looking for during the stay. “I took a short break with my friends to go to a hotel at Aerocity, for two days. We didn’t want to travel very far, as we understood that though the number of cases had reduced, it was still possible to contract Covid. Still we wanted to come out of our houses and meet each other in a safe environment. In the pre pandemic era, we would take up extensive road travel, but since that requires one to make pit stops, we decided against doing it in the present scenario. So a hotel, which is within the city itself, was the best choice because kuchh toh time mile boys hang out karne ka isi bahane... but we didn’t let our guards down and ensured that we were always properly masked up whenever stepping out. Getting a breather was all what this outing was for us.” And there are some others who have got themselves jabbed before plunging into their breaks. Ravi Sarda, a businessman from Model Town, who has plans for a staycation with his wife and two children, says, “Many of my friends have gone for such outings, and we thought it would be a great idea to get a change from the mundane work from home scenario. My wife and I have got ourselves vaccinated, and we’ll also be carrying our certificates, just in case we are asked for the same. Honestly, I’m not looking for a very fancy hotel, but just one that has ample open space for my kids to run around; they have been indoors for a fairly long time now, so I want them to enjoy in the outdoors. And my wife and me are looking forward to the breakfast buffet, which is a huge relief from the meal planning we have been doing everyday.” Author tweets @anjuriFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/need-a-breather-delhiites-pack-bags-holiday-within-city-101624862477462.html
28-06-2021||Other||Man, two sons shot dead in Ghaziabad; wife critical||A 65-year-old cloth trader and his two sons died while his wife suffered critical gunshot injuries during an early morning incident at their house in Toli Mohalla locality of Ghaziabad’s Loni town on Monday. The police said that the trader’s daughter-in-law was the only family member to remain unharmed, and she was unconscious when they arrived.The police said that the four victims sustained about 7-8 gunshots each, leading to the death of Riyazuddin, and his two sons, Azhar, 30, and Imran, 25. Riyazuddin’s wife, Fatima, sustained gunshots on her face in the incident that took place between 2.30am and 3am.Also Read | Delhi: 3 minors murder man in theft bid“Riyazuddin’s wife is presently under treatment. It is still not known who fired at them as the main entrance of the house was locked from inside. As of now, we have not found any motive of robbery. Out of the five members in the house at the time, only Azhar’s wife, Afsana, sustained no injuries during the incident,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural).Neighbours informed the police on hearing gunshots from inside the house. The police said according to the family’s relatives, Afsana was under a doctor’s care and they will question her later for more details about what happened early morning. “We have formed three teams to help the investigation. Prime facie, there were no signs of any forced entry to the house. It seems that the assailants were inside the house, or they were allowed entry, or it was an insider’s job. We are investigating all possibilities,” the SP added.Since Toli Mohalla is a congested locality, the police are also trying to probe if the assailants entered the house through the roofs of nearby houses.The police said they are yet to get a complaint from the family and will register a case once that happens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-two-sons-shot-dead-in-ghaziabad-wife-critical-101624858811494.html
28-06-2021||Mumbai||Hacker posts inappropriate video during an online class of Mumbai college||The Mumbai Police’s cyber cell is trying to trace an unidentified hacker who uploaded an inappropriate video during an online lecture by a professor of a college based in Vile Parle a few days ago.“40 minutes after the lecture started, an unidentified hacker entered the online classroom and posted an inappropriate video. The lecture had to be discontinued thereafter,” said Shashikant Mane, senior police inspector of Juhu police station.HT has knowingly withheld the name of the college. The police said it could be a student’s mischief. “We are tracking the IP address of the computer or [the] device from where the objectionable clip was uploaded,” said another officer from Juhu police station.A few such incidents have come to light ever since most education institutes shifted to online teaching early last year due to the restrictions on holding offline classes amid the Covid-19 pandemic. On June 13, the Sakinaka police in Mumbai apprehended a 15-year-old boy from Jaisalmer in Rajasthan for flashing in front of a teacher during an online class.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hacker-posts-inappropriate-video-during-an-online-class-of-mumbai-college-101624857851858.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Red Fort violence: Suspect arrested from Amritsar; 17 held so far||One more suspect has been arrested in connection with the case of alleged violence and vandalism at the Red Fort on Republic Day during a tractor rally taken out by farmers against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year, police said on Monday.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said that Gurjot Singh, who was wanted in the case and carried a reward of ₹1 lakh, was arrested from Amritsar in Punjab on Sunday. Singh is the 17 th person who has been arrested in the case, so far. At least six key suspects against whom rewards were announced are still absconding.A special cell officer, who did not want to be named, said that Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran in Punjab, was present at the Red Fort when the violence broke out. The police were looking for him his alleged involvement in the “conspiracy” and in “instigating” the crowd through “provocative speeches” that he delivered from the monument itself, the officer said.“We had got Singh’s video in which he was talking to the media at the Red Fort during the violence. Our teams have been camping in Punjab to nab the absconding suspects. Singh was among them. We got information about his presence in Amritsar and caught him on Sunday. He has been brought to Delhi and is being handed over to the crime branch that is probing the case,” the officer added.The crime branch submitted its first charge sheet last month and named 16 people, including Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, in it. All 16 were arrested in connection with the case filed by the police. While Sidhu and 12 others have been released on bail, three accused, 23-year-old Dutch national of Indian origin, Maninderjit Singh, Khempreet Singh and Jabrajang Singh, are still in judicial custody. Hundreds of farmers protesting on Delhi’s borders against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September entered Delhi deviating from the routes approved for their tractor rally and clashed with the police at several locations on January 26 this year. One farmer died and 10 others were injured. More than 500 police personnel also suffered injuries in the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/red-fort-violence-suspect-arrested-from-amritsar-17-held-so-far-101624857431533.html
28-06-2021||Patna||Bihar Congress unit set to have new committees ahead of change of guard||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) may announce the formation of a few committees, before appointing a new president for Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee (BPCC), said party officials in the know.Party insiders said that the AICC has decided to take some more time and consult senior state leaders before deciding the BPCC chief.AICC in-charge for Bihar Bhakta Charan Das said that he would meet the party high command soon with reports suggesting a change in committees on the basis of feedbacks from the party workers. “So far as the decision on change of leadership in the state is concerned, final decision would be taken after fresh round of consultation with senior leaders,” said Das.Also Read | Tejashwi reaches out to Chirag again, tells him to join Bihar oppositionLeaders privy to the developments in the AICC said that a few important committees like the working committee, advisory committee and coordination panel could be announced for the BPCC in the next few weeks after Das’s meeting with the AICC president Sonia Gandhi or vice-president Rahul Gandhi. “It would be a mix of young faces and veterans to revive the organisation down to the grassroots level,” said a senior leader.An AICC general secretary, pleading anonymity, said that the process to notify the new president and committee might take a few weeks. “The AICC in-charge is yet to submit his report to the president about his meeting with party workers and the kisan satyagrah across the state, which were held in February- March,” he said.The talk for change of guard in the state picked momentum following the AICC’s move to reshuffle the state units in Punjab, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Goa and Uttarakhand likely next month. A section of leaders led by Jamtara legislator Irfan Ansari also met AICC seniors with the demand to reconstitute the organisation. Encouraged by the hint of reshuffle, some senior leaders from Bihar have also been camping in New Delhi to bolster their chance of being catapulted to the top position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-congress-unit-set-to-have-new-committees-ahead-of-change-of-guard-101624850711035.html
28-06-2021||Patna||Bihar educational institutions likely to reopen after July 6- Minister||Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said on Sunday that educational institutions in the state would reopen after July 6 in a phased manner if the Covid-19 situation remained stable.Education department officials said they were prepared for a phase-wise reopening of institutions by following Covid-19 safety protocols.“In the first phase, universities and colleges will be allowed to function with 50% students along with other safety measures. In the next phase, senior secondary and secondary classes will be resumed followed by junior classes. We have designed bridge courses to compensate for the loss of learning among students,” said an official of the education department, who didn’t wish to be named.The decision to reopen educational institutes comes at a time when the second wave of Covid-19, which paralysed the state’s health infrastructure and caused thousands of deaths, is showing signs of abating with only 185 infections registered in the last 24 hours, as per the health department’s bulletin released on Sunday. The total number of active cases in the state has come down to 2,141 while the recovery rate has shot up to 98.38%.All government and private educational institutions in the state have remained closed since April 5, when the second wave of Covid-19 forced the state government to announce a lockdown. Education institutions opened up briefly this year after the tapering of the first coronavirus wave, which had prompted the Centre to clamp a nationwide lockdown in March 2020. Most schools have since relied on online teaching, which has created difficulty for students, mostly for those who are on the wrong side of the digital divide.Last month, the state government launched Tikashala or vaccination camps set up in various schools across the state to inoculate all teachers of government and private schools and their families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-educational-institutions-likely-to-reopen-after-july-6-minister-101624850111051.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||3 killed in Ghaziabad after attackers enter home, open fire||Three people were killed after being shot by armed attackers who entered their home in Ghaziabad, news agency ANI reported quoting police officials. The incident took place in Loni area late on Sunday night, according to ANI.According to the police, the people who entered the house in Ghaziabad shot four people; three of them succumbed to their injuries in the hospital."Three men succumbed to gun shot injuries. Treatment of a woman is underway. A team is investigating the incident spot. Our probe ison," a police official was quoted as saying by the news agency.The police are trying to identify the number of attackers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/3-killed-in-ghaziabad-after-attackers-enter-home-open-fire-101624848681651.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Partly cloudy sky with a chance of thunder, lightning today||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky with possibility of development of thunder and lightning on Monday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature on Monday is likely to be 27 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 40°C. Also Read | IMD’s string of wrong monsoon forecasts for DelhiThe minimum temperature on Sunday was marginally lower at 26.7°C, which is two notches below the normal and maximum temperature was 38.8°C. Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Monday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 164. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI was 168. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-partly-cloudy-sky-with-a-chance-of-thunder-lightning-today-101624849030954.html
28-06-2021||Lucknow||Lucknow University sets up fund to aid needy meritorious students||Lucknow University has set up a fund to assist poor but meritorious students with ₹15,000 a year grant, to be given to 49 selected students this academic year. The university earlier launched the Karmyogi scheme, offering on-campus part-time jobs to poor students.“Under the eligibility criteria for this scheme, total income of parents or guardians should not exceed ₹300,000 per annum; students should have obtained minimum 60% marks in the previous examination with at least 75% attendance and they should not be receiving any other financial assistance including fellowship/scholarships,” varsity spokesman Durgesh Srivastav said.Dean of students’ welfare, professor Poonam Tandon said the university administration received 343 applications for this scheme and a total of 49 eligible students were selected on merit basis from among the under-graduate, post-graduate, and PhD students.The university is already running another scheme to provide on-campus part-time jobs, allowing needy students to work for two hours daily, for a maximum of 50 days in an academic session while paying them at the rate of ₹150 per hour, permitting a maximum earning of ₹15,000 in a year. The work assignments can be in laboratories, library, office, computer centre, hotel/mess, assistance to teachers, day care centre etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lucknow-university-sets-up-fund-to-aid-needy-meritorious-students-101624847831007.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out at AIIMS Delhi's emergency ward, fire brigades rushed to spot||A fire broke out in the emergency ward of All India Institute Of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Delhi on Monday morning. Fire fighting operation began soon after the incident was reported and the flame has been brought under control, according to Delhi Fire Department. No reports of loss of life or property have come in."A minor fire was reported in the storeroom of AIIMS Delhi at around 5am today. The fire was brought under control. No injury was reported in the incident," the Delhi Fire Department said.Watch: Fire at AIIMS Delhi, 2nd blaze in 2 weeks; patients shifted outBefore this, a fire was reported on the ninth floor of the hospital on June 17 and as many as 26 fire engines fought for almost two hours to contain it. No casualty or injuries were reported in that incident either.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-aiims-delhi-s-emergency-ward-fire-brigades-rushed-to-spot-101624844130623.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Level 3 Covid-19 restrictions in Pune municipal areas from today||Pune will remain under level 3 restrictions and the fresh curbs will be effective from Monday. This comes as the Maharashtra government issued a new order, imposing stringent unlocking curbs at level 3 category, with the Delta plus variant claiming its first victim and the apprehension of a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Pune, Siddharth Shirole, has shared the order issued by Pune Municipal Corporation. While most of the restrictions remain the same under level 3, the civic body has eased few restrictions.Bracing itself against the anticipated third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Maharashtra government has recently tightened the unlocking process in the state and announced that restrictions will not be relaxed beyond level 3. The government has effectively done away with level 1 and level 2, which allowed maximum relaxations under the initial five-level unlocking plan.Here's a look at the revised guidelines issued by the Pune Municipal Corporation:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/level-3-covid-19-restrictions-in-pune-municipal-areas-from-today-101624841001412.html
28-06-2021||Patna||Congress should be fulcrum of any alliance against NDA: Tejashwi Yadav||The Congress party should be the fulcrum of any national coalition against the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance, said Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav on Sunday amid growing chorus for a new front by the regional parties against the NDA.In an interview to news agency PTI, Yadav said the Congress should only focus on the 200-odd seats in the Lok Sabha where it is in a direct fight with the ruling BJP. “On the remaining seats, with an open heart and mind, it should let regional parties be in the driver’s seat in their respective strongholds...”The RJD leader’s statement assumes significance in the backdrop of the recent Rashtra Manch meeting among prominent Opposition leaders and civil society members at Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar’s residence in Delhi ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.The June 22 meeting sparked off rumours of a “third front”, besides the Congress and BJP. However, on June 25, Pawar said any alternative front, if formed, cannot leave the Congress. On June 26, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, too, dismissed the prospect of an Opposition alliance without the Congress.Asked about the meeting, the RJD leader said he was not aware of what transpired at the meeting, but “definitely all like-minded parties should come together with a common minimum programme to defeat this most oppressive, divisive, authoritarian and fascist government”.Yadav also recalled how his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad warned that the 2014 parliamentary elections would decide whether the country will remain intact or get divided. “I think most of the parties and citizens of our country have realised this today like never before.”Yadav also talked about reaching out to Lok Janshakti Party MP Chirag Paswan, who is facing rebellion from leaders of his own outfit. “The real tribute to him (Ram Vilas Paswan) would be carrying forward his values... and that is possible only when Chirag ji joins this existential fight against [MS] Golwalkar’s Bunch of Thoughts,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/congress-should-be-fulcrum-of-any-alliance-against-nda-tejashwi-yadav-101624840867943.html
28-06-2021||Kolkata||‘Partial, biased’: Bengal bar council chief writes to CJI against HC judge||The chairman of the Bar Council of West Bengal has urged Chief Justice of India NV Ramana to remove acting Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, Justice Rajesh Bindal, alleging biased and improper listing and hearing of cases, including the Narada scam.“Justice Bindal is a partial, unfair and biased judge whose continuance at High Court interferes with fair and impartial dispensation of justice,” the June 25 letter was quoted as saying by web portal Live Law.The six-page letter, signed by chairman Ashok Kumar Deb, who is also an MLA of the ruling Trinamool Congress also pointed to the pictures of Justice Bindal visiting West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankar, saying: “The picture coupled with the conduct of Justice Bindal seem to suggest that he is doing the bidding of the Governor at Calcutta HC.”The letter alluded to how chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s election petition was mentioned before single judge Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharya, but “in the meantime, Justice Bindal ... assigned the same to his favourite judge, Justice Kausik Chanda”.Rejecting the letter, lawyer and CPI(M) MP Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya said, “The Bar council of West Bengal has no right whatsoever to write such an obnoxious letter. If he (Deb) desires to act as an agent of a corrupt government, he may do so after quitting the office.” (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/partial-biased-bengal-bar-council-chief-writes-to-cji-against-hc-judge-101624840949035.html
28-06-2021||Jaipur||Tigress to be moved out of Ranthambore Reserve over fights with sibling||Months after two-and-a-half-year-old tigress Ridhi sustained 14 stitches on her tongue due to a territorial fight with her sibling Siddhi at the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR), the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has approved a proposal to shift her to the Sariska Tiger Reserve (STR).Ridhi and Sidhi are daughters of tigress Arrowhead and have been often caught fighting over the last eight months.People aware of the matter termed this a third generation of conflict between mother and daughters for zone-3 of the RTR – first it was Macchli and her daughter Krishna; then Krishna and her daughter Arrowhead; Arrowhead and her daughter Ridhi; and now Ridhi and Sidhi.RTR field director TC Verma attributed the fights to rising tiger population and reducing green space at the reserve. “The big cat population is rising at the reserve, and they need space. We have sought approval to shift more. Ridhi is being shifted due to territorial fights.”The RTR has 77 tigers, including 27 cubs and sub-adults living in an area of 1,334 square km, making it the third most congested habitats for felines in India, after Corbett National Park and Kaziranga National Park in Assam.Ridhi will be shifted to Sariska soon after the state government nod is received, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/tigress-to-be-moved-out-of-ranthambore-reserve-over-fights-with-sibling-101624841064378.html
28-06-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Covid-19 unlock from today: Vaccination must at many places||In the wake of a significant fall in the number of Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan, the Ashok Gehlot-led government has further relaxed the restrictions put in place in the state, which is effective from 5am on Monday. Now, all shops, clubs, gyms, restaurants, malls and other commercial establishments have to ensure the vaccination of their staff.Rajasthan on Sunday reported 162 fresh Covid-19 cases and four fatalities, taking the state's infection tally to 952,129 and the death toll to 8,914.Here are the fresh guidelines of the Rajasthan government:10.At clubs, only outdoor activities will be allowed. However, those clubs where Covid-19 vaccinations have been done will be allowed to open indoor sports activities and restaurants as well.11.Weddings can be held in gardens, wedding halls and hotels with a maximum of 40 people till 4pm from July 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-covid-19-unlock-from-today-vaccination-must-at-many-places-101624839117497.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi unlock 5.0: What's opening in the national capital from today||The Delhi government has relaxed the curbs further starting from Monday after a dip in the city's Covid-19 positivity rate. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA) on Saturday issued fresh guidelines for phase 5 of Delhi unlock and said that the prohibited and restricted activities will continue till 5am on July 5.DDMA also discussed the situation outside stations of the Delhi Metro, marked by long queues due to a cap on the seating capacity at 50 per cent in each train coach. However, restrictions in the Metro will remain for at least another week.Last week, Delhi allowed shops to remain open through the week and markets to open with a partial workforce as daily Covid-19 cases showed a downward trend.Delhi was under a lockdown between April 19 and May 30 as the second Covid-19 wave raged the city. The city started unlocking in phases from May 31 with the permission to factories within industrial areas and construction activities to resume. On June 7, markets, malls and the Delhi Metro services were allowed to open at 50 per cent capacity and from June 14, the 50 per cent cap was removed in case of markets and malls. Subsequently, parks and public gardens and bars were allowed to reopen.The national capital on Sunday reported 89 new Covid-19 cases, staying below 100 cases for the straight second day, while the daily Covid-19 positivity rate remained at 0.12 per cent, according to the health bulletin. With four more deaths reported on Sunday, Delhi's Covid toll rose to 24,965.Here's what's allowed and what's not allowed in the latest guidelines:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-unlock-5-0-what-s-opening-in-the-national-capital-from-today-101624837474881.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Amendment in DDA Act proposed to speed up land pooling implementation||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has proposed changes in the Delhi Development Act, 1957, for effective implementation of the land pooling policy, which is aimed at meeting the city’s housing requirement in a planned way. Officials aware of the matter said a proposal regarding draft changes in the Act has been sent to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry.The land pooling policy, which was notified in October 2018, will be implemented in 95 urbanised villages on the outskirts of the city. Close to 17 lakh dwelling units are expected to be constructed in the next two decades in the land pooling areas namely Mundka, Baprola, Najafgarh, Alipur, etc.DDA officials said changes in the Act are needed to give it legal provisions. A senior DDA official aware of the development said, “There are issues related to land parcels that have not been pooled-in in sectors where we have reached the percentage of land required to implement the policy. Currently, there is no provision to get these land parcels. If this issue is not addressed, development in land pooling sectors can’t happen.”The other issue is related to stamp duty, as the policy requires the transfer of land twice between the owner and developer. As per the land pooling policy, landowners in these 95 villages will form a consortium and pool their land parcels. After planning, 60% of the land will be returned to the landowners or developed by the consortiums for residential, commercial and public and semi-public use.Sabyasachi Das, former planning commissioner with DDA, said , “The present Act doesn’t provide any legal backing for land pooling. Therefore, suitable changes are required in the Act as land pooling is one of the key development models for planned development. How will development work be carried out if the owner of one land parcel refuses to participate in the process? It is difficult for government agencies to acquire land now. A solution has to be found to address this issue.”As per the policy, there will be two land transactions—one when the landowner gives the land to the consortium and the second when the developed land is returned to the landowner. “The cost of land will unnecessarily increase by 15-16% if stamp duty is charged on both the land transactions. There is a need to have a provision to exempt stamp duty twice. It should be charged once when the developed land is returned to the owners,” said a DDA official.These are some of the issues that need to be addressed. “Some other changes have also been proposed as it is an old Act. We have sent the draft changes to the ministry,” said a senior DDA official. The ministry of housing and urban affairs did not respond.In 2019, the DDA started the work in land pooling areas. A senior DDA official said, “Over 6,900 hectares of land has been pooled or registered with DDA for the policy by owners.”As per the policy, “In order to ensure unified planning, servicing and subdivision/ share of the land in a sector as per Land Policy and Regulations, a minimum of 70% contiguous land of the developable area within the sector, free of encumbrances, is required to be pooled to make the sector eligible for development.”While the DDA has got 6,930 hectares of land parcels registered with it, it has not got 70% contiguous land in any of the land pooling sectors so far.In 2015, the then Union urban development ministry (now ministry of housing and urban affairs) had constituted a committee to revisit and redraft the Delhi Development Act, 1957. While the report was submitted to the ministry, no decision was taken on it, said a senior DDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/amendment-in-dda-act-proposed-to-speed-up-land-pooling-implementation-101624836294990.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Govt starts work on building database of Delhi’s migrants||The Delhi government is working on building an Aadhaar-linked database of all migrants in the city engaged in the unorganised sector, a move that comes in light of large-scale exoduses during the Covid-19 lockdowns in the Capital as tens of thousands of workers left Delhi for their towns and villages.“In order to create a comprehensive database of migrant workers, the government of Delhi has also issued a letter to states from which majority of the migrant workers come to Delhi, namely Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha, to share the database of migrant workers prepared by them,” showed Delhi government documents that HT has seen.A senior Delhi government official said, “There is no integrated and complete database of migrant workers in Delhi so far, which affects government estimates and budget allocations... It is also a question of implementation and delivery. We recently saw how the government faced problems in accurately assessing the requirement of food grains for people — mostly migrants — without ration cards, which led to a shortage.”The unorganised sector remains largely undocumented across the country, creating blind spots for the state and hindering policy drafting and implementation. Almost 90% of the country’s workers are employed in the informal unorganised sector.The documents also highlighted that such a database will be essential to efficiently implement The Code of Social Security Act, 2020, which merges eight existing labour laws and is supposed to include migrant workers in the unorganised sector in its ambit. The Union government also began an independent survey of migrants across the country in 2020 and individual state databases are supposed to enhance its strength. The survey was suspended mid-March in the light of uptick in Covid-19 cases but is likely to resume soon, said a senior official, adding that the national database will be necessary to properly implement The Code of Social Security Act.Further, the Supreme Court in May this year, during a suo motu proceeding in light of problems faced by migrant workers, identified the slow registration of workers in the unorganised sector as a major implementation flaw in schemes for their benefit.Tens of thousands of migrant workers left the Capital after the Union government put in place a hard lockdown in March last year to limit the spread of Covid-19. With a blanket ban on all public transport in the initial phase of the curbs, several of these migrants left on foot, forcing the government to step in and set up food camps, arrange transport, implement schemes subsidised ration, health and financial assistance schemes.While the government did not keep a record of migrants leaving Delhi during the 2020 lockdown, more than 800,000 of them left in buses in the first four weeks of the lockdown imposed from April 19 this year as the Covid-19 caseload hit record levels.The Delhi government document also said, “Registration of principal employers and contractors has now been facilitated through an e-district portal and it is mandatory to provide certain details regarding the migrant workers being employed by them at the time of registration.”“It is further submitted that on 03.05.2021, Section 142 of the Code of Security came into effect by notification in the official gazette. Section 142 provides for submission of details of Aadhaar by any employee or unorganised worker or other person for registration as a beneficiary under the Code,” the documents said.The documents also said, “This development will enable it [the Delhi government and the Centre]to collect Aadhaar details of unorganised workers including migrant workers to create a national database of beneficiaries. It further stated that the National Data Base for Unorganised Workers, which is being developed by the National Informatics Centre is at an advanced stage and an inter-state migrant worker can register himself on the portal on the basis of Aadhaar details.”While the Census also tracks migration numbers, the available figures have turned out to be inadequate especially after mass movements during the pandemic and the next figures are expected to come late, said the state government official quoted above.Delhi has the second highest population of inter-state migrants in India, according to 2011 Census data on migration released in July 2019, which shows that marriage and work or business drive the influx. The city-state only trails Maharashtra, a much larger and more populous state.The data also said that more than 6.3 million people in Delhi – which is nearly 40% of its 2011 census population of around 16 million – were migrants from other states. Of these, around two million were recorded to have migrated for work. But the data did not bifurcate employment in the organised sector and the unorganised sector.Labour unions in the city peg the number of migrants engaged in the unorganised sector at two million, of which around 60% would be in the construction sector and the remaining would be in industries and daily wage work. “With their families, the collective population of migrants associated with the unorganised sector in the Capital would be around 8 million by now,” said Animesh Das, president of the Delhi unit of Indian Federation of Trade Unions.Experts called the state government’s database plans an “essential initiative”.“Creation of a robust and dynamic database of migrant workers in unorganised sector will not only enable the state to plan and prepare initiatives and policy response to pandemic or similar crises in future, it will also greatly help the state to understand their living conditions, family size, sources of income, skills, social status, etc,” said Niranjan Sahoo, a senior fellow with ORF’s governance and politics initiative.“Creating a comprehensive and reliable database is challenging for Delhi considering labour moves seamless in the National Capital Region (NCR). Therefore, it would need the active cooperation of neighbouring states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, and Rajasthan. It will also need support of the Union government given its National Capital Territory (status)… This would also help avoid duplication of data.”Sahoo also said linking Aadhaar data is critical to avoid overlapping.Debolina Kundu, professor at the National Institute of Urban Affairs, said: “At present, other than the 2011 Census data, there is no official database on migrants in Delhi which could help the government to work out their social protection strategies. It is important to have recent data on migrants by various indicators like their place of origin (states, cities and/or villages), period of stay, reasons for migration and other important parameters which may help the government work out a comprehensive policy for their overall well-being.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-starts-work-on-building-database-of-delhi-s-migrants-101624836326164.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: His inner life||Rickshaw puller Ram Swaroop arrived in the Delhi region from his native Fatehpur in UP around 15 years ago, his family still lives there. In his early 40s, he sleeps on his rickshaw at night, he says, which he parks on the footpath. His hobbies include listening to Hindi film songs. This afternoon, waiting for customers in Sadar Bazar, he gamely became a part of the Proust Questionnaire series in which folks are nudged to make “Parisian parlour confessions”, all to explore citizens’ distinct experiences.The principal aspect of your personalityStaying quiet.Your favourite qualities in a manAbility to earn well for his family.Your favourite qualities in a womanShe should take good care of her husband’s parents, she should be religious, and she should keep her children clean.What do you appreciate the most in your friends?I don’t have friends. But I like those men who can sing filmi gaane (songs) in their entirety.Your main faultI get scared easily.Your favourite occupationPraying.Your idea of happinessEarning 500 rupees in a single day.Your idea of miseryLosing my legs or arms in a bimari (sickness) or an accident. My family needing me in an emergency while I’m far from them.If not yourself, who would you be?A rich man.Where would you like to live?Where there are no thieves.Your favourite colour and flowerRed. Rose.Your favourite birdNo bird. They drop their beet (excreta) wherever they want. So many times on my head, on my arms, on my rickshaw seat.Your heroes/heroines in real lifeSurinder Singh. He runs a dhaba and gives food to beggars for free.What characters in history do you most dislike?Angrez (British).Your favourite food and drinkFish curry. Daru and Limca mixed together.Your favourite namesRam. Krishna. Seeta. Lakshmi.What do you hate the most?Lockdown.The natural talent you’d like to be gifted withTo appear and disappear on my own will, like Mr India.How do you wish to die?When I’m very old.What is your present state of mind?Theek-thaak (fine). I have earned 200 rupees since morning and it’s only afternoon.Faults for which you have the most toleranceWhen people abuse with gaali. They don’t mean those dirty words. Even I sometimes use gaali.Your motto in lifeDon’t talk much, do your job chupchap (silently), and remember that God never sleeps and he is watching you.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-his-inner-life-101624833938052.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||A haircut above the rest: Outdoor allure a win for roadside barbers||Hari Singh’s roadside salon has been attracting a whole new kind of patrons. Once popular only among construction workers and local vendors, these days one can spot office-goers with unkempt hair, grey roots and scruffy beards waiting in their cars near his shop.“The minimum wait is two hours on weekends. When I came here, all my customers were labourers, vegetable vendors and auto drivers; now quite a few of them are people who live in flats,” says Singh, giving the names of the various multi-storey apartment buildings in the area, where many of his new customers live.While the business of salons and hairdressers has suffered since the pandemic began last year, Delhi/ NCR’s ubiquitous roadside barbers are getting new clients who desperately need a haircut but are fearful of walking into the air-conditioned salons for fear of contracting the Sars-Cov-2 that causes coronavirus disease (Covid-19).While Singh, who runs his roadside salon in Greater Noida, does not know much about the epidemiology of Covid-19, he says his customers tell him that an open, roadside establishment like his is much safer than the closed confines of a neighbourhood salon.“But most bring their own towels, and make sure that I tightly wear my face mask while I give them a haircut or a shave,” says Singh. “Sunday is the busiest day for me as most of the new clients have their off on weekends.”Sitting on Singh’s high wooden chair with a headrest is a middle-aged man from a nearby apartment. Ask him about his choice of the roadside barbershop and he says, “It is safe, cheap and to my surprise, this barber does as good a job as any I know,” says Atul Saxena who works in an IT company in Noida and has frequently visited Singh’s salon since unlock began last year. So, will he stick with his new hairdresser even after the pandemic? “ I might,” is his laconic reply.In east Delhi’s Mayur Vihar, Munna Thakur, another roadside barber, also attracts many customers from DDA’s SFS flats located right behind his shop. “Earlier, probably they did not know I existed, now many of them come here and also invite me home for a haircut,” says Thakur, who hails from Gopalganj in Bihar and like most roadside barbers charges only ₹30 for a haircut and ₹15 for a shave, making about ₹400 every day.“But some of my new customers feel that I charge too little and offer me ₹50 for a haircut; my charges have almost remained the same because most of my old customers are rickshaw pullers and labourers who cannot afford more,” says Thakur, who has been working at the same spot for 10 years.Unlike Singh’s dressing table in Greater Noida, which has only a few scissors, blades and shaving cream, and an aftershave lotion, Thakur’s has an assortment of shaving creams, lotions, balms, and hairstyling gels of various colours and fragrances of unknown cosmetic brands. “That is cucumber face cream; that is rose water, and this is anti-septic lotion,” he says, holding up all small plastic containers, bottles, and boxes one by one. After getting a shave from me, you feel fresh and completely rejuvenated.”So, where does he procure all his shaving material from? “A salesman who mostly buys it from Sadar Bazar delivers it every day,” says Thakur. Manish Tenguria, a graphic designer in Mayur Vihar, who is at Thakur’s shop for a haircut, swears by his new barber’s professional skills. “ He gave me a patient hearing about the kind of haircut I wanted. I feared he might make a mess of it, but he got it almost right. There is something salubrious about this open, no-frills salon under the tree, a perfect place for a fast haircut in these times of the pandemic,” says Tenguria.Many of these roadside barbers are from UP and Bihar, working at the same spot for decades—and they often ask their friends and relatives to run the establishment for them when they take an off and visit their native places. “I have not moved my table even a feet since I set it up here 15 years ago. You can say I am a bit superstitious about it,” says Mohammed Abdul, who runs a barber’s on a Lodi Colony footpath in central Delhi. In 2010, Abdul opened a salon in an Uttam Nagar market, but the business collapsed within two months and he was back at the roadside salon under the tree. “Thankfully, I had asked a relative to run this place while I tested waters in Uttam Nagar. Perhaps working on this footpath is my fate. But I am happy here; the tree saves me from sunlight, and if it rains, I hang a tarpaulin over my chair.”Most of his customers, Abdul says, come in the mornings and evening, now a lot of them government employees, but he believes that it has more to do with his haircutting skills than their fear of the virus. “I keep abreast of new trends in hairstyle. I am as good as any top hairdresser in the city,” he says with confidence, adding that he is an avid reader, and spends time reading Urdu fiction in the afternoon when his corner of the colony is deserted. “In the evening a lot of my poor customers such as auto-rickshaw drivers and vendors come and pour their hearts out to me, talking about all the joys and sorrows of their lives.”Most of these roadside barbers open at 7 am and close their shop by 8 in the evening, leaving their wares in the custody of private guards on night duty working at nearby markets, schools, banks, ATMs, and other establishments. “We can open our shop till there is daylight as we do not have electricity. I bought this new chair a few months back for ₹1200 and leave it with a guard in the local community market,” says Raghu Raj, who runs a makeshift salon in Mayur Vihar.He spent about ₹2000 to start this shop six months back. “I was in working with a catering service, but lost my job during the pandemic,” says Raj, whose shop is not under a tree. He says that, unlike other roadside saloons, he is yet to attract many apartment dwellers. The trick, he has been told by a fellow barber, lies in being under the tree. “Maybe I need to shift under one soon,” he says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/a-haircut-above-the-rest-outdoor-allure-a-win-for-roadside-barbers-101624832822865.html
28-06-2021||Other||Water-sewer tariff: Ludhiana mayor announces reinstatement of exemption for houses upto 125 sq yd||Facing flak from the opposition and his own party members over the revocation of the exemption on water-sewer charges for houses up to 125 square yards, mayor Balkar Sandhu rolled back the decision on Sunday.Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) had staged a protest against the MC on June 17. They had announced that they would stage an agitation outside the homes of 62 Congress councillors in the city on Monday. A day before their protest, the mayor conducted a meeting with over a dozen Congress councillors at his camp office near Rose Garden on Sunday and announced that the resolution regarding revoking of the exemption will be annulled in the next house meeting of MC.Mayor Sandhu stated that the resolution has been kept pending as of now and the staff has been directed to continue the exemption for houses up to 125 sq yards area. A new resolution to annul the previous one will be tabled during the next house meeting of MC, as per the norms.Starting this financial year, the civic body had revoked the water-sewer fee exemption for houses up to 125 yards area and increased the water-sewer tariff by up to 60% for different categories. Only the houses with an area up to 50 sq yards with only ground floor were exempted from water-sewer charges.BJP district president Pushpinder Singal said that the Congress is trying to befool the public by keeping the resolution pending ahead of assembly elections. “The resolution should be annulled immediately otherwise we will stage a protest outside the office/houses of all the 62 congress councillors with our demand on Monday.”Mayor Sandhu stated that the decision to reinstate the exemption was taken during a meeting with MLA Dawar and the BJP was just trying to gain political mileage by raising baseless allegations. Leader of BJP councillors Sunita Rani was also part of the committee which had earlier approved the revocation of exemption, he said. Rather than misleading the residents, the BJP councillors should first stand with the farmers who have been protesting for the last seven months, he added.Apart from BJP, Congress MLA Surinder Dawar and councillors from the central constituency had also opposed the decision during a meeting held with the mayor on June 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/watersewer-tariff-ludhiana-mayor-announces-reinstatement-of-exemption-for-houses-upto-125-sq-yd-101624823469155.html
28-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana: LIP begins relay hunger strike against govt job for MLA Pandey’s son||Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leaders sat on a hunger strike near Chand Cinema on Sunday to protest against the state government appointing Ludhiana (north) MLA Rakesh Pandey’s son as naib tehsildar. Slamming MLA Pandey for his alleged failure in taking up development works in the constituency, LIP leader and in-charge of north constituency, Randhir Sibia, stated that five leaders will sit on relay hunger strike every day, which will continue till the decision to give the government job to Pandey’s son is rolled back.The state government had recently approved jobs for Arjun Partap Singh Bajwa, son of Qadian MLA Fateh Jung Singh Bajwa, as inspector (Group B) in Punjab Police, and Bhisham Pandey, son of Ludhiana North MLA Rakesh Pandey, as Naib Tehsildar.Bajwa has declined the job and Pandey should do the same. The government had announced jobs for unemployed youth, but is instead giving them to the sons of MLAs. Pandey is also working for his vested interests rather than the development of the constituency, due to which we were forced to sit on hunger strike,” said Sibia.Despite attempts were made to reach MLA Pandey, he was not available for comments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-lip-begins-relay-hunger-strike-against-govt-job-for-mla-pandey-s-son-101624823409434.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana motorists in for a rough ride this monsoon||With mounds of rubble and sand still lining dug-up roads and construction sites, this year’s monsoon promises to be a rough ride for motorists and pedestrians alike.A number of development works are underway across the district ahead of the assembly elections. However, with projects to install sewer and drain lines still incomplete, it is unlikely that municipal corporation (MC) officials will be able to translate their monsoon preparedness rhetoric into action before the showers begin, as such residents may find several areas, particularly the Malhar Road, Railway Station Road from Rekhi Cinema Chowk to clock tower, Pakhowal Road, Rani Jhansi Road, and Model Town-Jawaddi Road, waterlogged. Not only do the dug-up roads increase the odds of meeting with a road mishap, they also lead to winding traffic jams. The construction run off blocks the drainage system and causes flooding in low-lying area, which inconveniences residents, increases incidence of disease and jeopardises commuters’ lives during the rainy season. Shopkeepers’ business affectedSlamming MC officials for their poor timing, a shopkeeper at Rekhi Cinema Chowk, Chanderkant Chadda, said, “Authorities should have installed the storm lines during the lockdown as markets were closed and there was little traffic on roads. We were hoping for business to pick up after restrictions were lifted, but customers tend to steer away from areas where construction is underway.” Bemoaning the slow pace of development projects, Satinder Singh, who runs a shop on Malhar Road, said, “Work has been on for two years, but the project is nowhere close to completion. Meanwhile, shopkeepers and commuters are a harried lot as sometimes shops’ entrances are blocked and pits are formed at different points on the road.” “The best time to install interlocking tiles along roadsides was summer during the lockdown. Now, the construction run off will block sewers. Commuters’ lives have been endangered as a large number of projects have been initiated at once in the run up to the assembly elections,” a resident of Model Town-Jawaddi Road, Jaskirat Singh said. Bottlenecks galore With traffic already affected to due the Ferozepur elevated-road and Pakhowal railway overbridge and under-bridge projects,delay in the Malhar Road project is expected to make matters worse as it is being used to divert traffic towards Sarabha Nagar and BRS Nagar, state Road Safety Council member Rahul Verma said.  “Traffic jams are already being witnessed in the morning and evening rush hours. Authorities should complete construction as soon as possible, else it will be difficult to manage traffic during the rainy season. Temporary patch work should be done at Malhar Road to facilitate movement of traffic,” he said. Navigating the Railway Station Road from Rekhi Cinema Chowk to Clock Tower is a veritable nightmare due to the ongoing installation storm sewer lines. One side of the road has been completely blocked to traffic, increasing pressure on the other side, which leads to traffic snarls and bottlenecks.MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “Directions have been issued to expedite construction work. The projects were delayed due to technical issues and imposition of lockdown. Storm sewer lines will be installed near the Clock Tower by the month-end and the Malhar Road project will be completed by September. Construction companies have been told to ensure the safety of commuters while taking up development projects.”Ongoing projects 1) Malhar Road is being upgraded to a smart road. After missing the June deadline, the project – initiated in July 2019 – is now expected to be completed by September. 2) A major chunk of the Railway Station Road, starting from Rekhi Cinema Chowk to Clock Tower, has been dug up for installing a storm sewer line. The project is due by June 30.3) The roadsides of Rani Jhansi Road, Model Town-Jawaddi Road, and Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar (BRS) Road among other areas in town have been dug up for installation of interlocking tiles.4) The Pakhowal Road ROB-RUB project is underway near Canal Bridge and Hero bakery Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-motorists-in-for-a-rough-ride-this-monsoon-101624823349275.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting unemployed teachers march towards CM’s residence, stopped midway||The unemployed ETT (elementary teacher training) and TET (teacher eligibility test) qualified teachers staged a protest bare-chested and marched towards the residence of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh in Patiala on Sunday. Marching in the scorching heat, the protesters, seeking jobs, were stopped at Fountain Chowk by police. They blocked the road near Leela Bhawan and Fountain Chowk, restricting the movement of traffic. ETT-TET Teachers’ Passed Union state president Deepak Kamboj said they met education minister Vijay Inder Singla and other officials on multiple occasions but no written assurance was given. The teachers are demanding a notification for recruitment for all 12,000 vacant posts of TET-ETT teachers and an increase in the upper age limit to 42 years.Kamboj said the government has completely ignored their demand for jobs in government schools. “One of our members Surinderpal is protesting atop a mobile tower in Patiala city for the last 99 days but no one from the administration has reached the spot. His condition is deteriorating as his fast unto death entered seventh day,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-unemployed-teachers-march-towards-cm-s-residence-stopped-midway-101624823232775.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Hawala racket: Kingpin’s nephew, Amritsar Improvement Trust employee summoned for questioning||The Tarn Taran police have summoned three men, including nephew of the racket kingpin and an employee of the Amritsar Improvement Trust, for questioning in connection with the hawala transactions allegedly made by a former wrestler for getting heroin consignments from Pakistan. Manohar Lal, alias Anthony Pehalwan, a former Congress leader who joined the BJP in 2017, was arrested by the Tarn Taran police on May 25 after his name emerged during investigation in the case wherein 3-kg heroin smuggled from Pakistan was seized. The Tarn Taran police’s anti-narcotic cell had arrested one Nishan Singh of Ferozepur district on April 5 with the recovery of heroin. During Nishan’s interrogation, it emerged that Anthony had transferred ₹89 lakh to Pakistan through hawala route for the contraband.Those called for questioning are Anthony’s nephew Rakesh Kumar, alias Bunty of Yaseen Road, Gagan Sharma, an employee of the Amritsar Improvement Trust, and Gaurav Kumar of Chheharta. Gagan and Gaurav were assisting Anthony in finance-related business. “As per our information, the three allegedly were making hawala deals at Anthony’s behest. They have been called for financial analysis on Monday,” said a senior police official.The police have also sent a reminder to the Centre’s Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) for providing details about the hawala transactions made by Anthony and his team in the last few years.“Though Anthony managed to get bail from a local court on the pretext of age and due to Covid-19, we are seriously monitoring the case as it concerns drug smuggling. Earlier, Anthony revealed during interrogation that he has links in Canada only where his daughter studies. But, our technical teams found that he was in contact with several people in nine countries —US, Australia, New Zealand, the Philippines, Russia, England, Pakistan and Kuwait,” said the official. He said, “About his two links in Pakistan, Anthony had told us that they are his wrestler friends, but we have confirmed that one of them is a lawyer. Anthony didn’t cooperate during the investigation and we could not interrogate him more due to his ailing condition. Now, things rely on the FUI report which will confirm Anthony’s suspected transactions in the nine countries. He also has links in Karnataka, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Haryana.”The police are also awaiting the report of a forensic science laboratory regarding the digital video recorder that was seized from Anthony.Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said their teams are working to ascertain all links of the accused. “We have also sent a reminder to the FUI regarding Anthony’s details. And the report is expected to arrive in a few days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hawala-racket-kingpin-s-nephew-amritsar-improvement-trust-employee-summoned-for-questioning-101624823231693.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Talk of Sekhri joining SAD, Cong’s Verka meets three-time Batala MLA||Amid speculations of former Batala MLA Ashwani Sekhri joining the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), senior Congress leader Raj Kumar Verka on Sunday met him at the former’s Ranjit Avenue residence in Amritsar to pacify him. There is a strong buzz that Sekhri, a three-time MLA, may join the SAD in presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday as he is feeling suffocated in the party over alleged interference by cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa in his constituency. Verka, the ruling party legislator from Amritsar West and chairman of the Punjab State Warehousing Corporation, said, “Sekhri is my senior party colleague and part of family. I will request him to not take any such step. Punjab Congress affairs incharge Harish Rawat and chief minister Amarinder Singh are also reaching out to him,” said Verka.Sekhri, who served on key posts in Congress and is known as a Hindu face of the party in Majha, was not available for comments. He lost the 2017 assembly elections to SAD candidate Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal by only 500 votes. Since then, neighbouring Fatehgarh Churian MLA Tript Bajwa increased his activities in the Batala segment. Bajwa managed to put his loyalists at the helm in the Batala municipal corporation, further marginalising Sekhri. in September last year, Sekhri had filed a police complaint against Tript Bajwa for ‘ignoring’ Covid-19 norms.The former minister of state also met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on June 22. After meeting Rahul, he had questioned the role of CM Amarinder Singh in the current turmoil in the party.‘Assured of addressing all his concerns’Chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday said former minister Ashwani Sekhri will stay in the Congress and there is no question of his leaving the party. In a statement, Amarinder said he spoke to Sekhri and assured him that all his concerns will be addressed. “Sekhri is a dyed-in-the wool Congressman who has spent his whole life with the party and all the rumours about his leaving the party are baseless,” he said. It is the party’s duty and responsibility to watch and safeguard the interests of all senior leaders, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/talk-of-sekhri-joining-sad-cong-s-verka-meets-three-time-batala-mla-101624823229018.html
28-06-2021||Other||Ludhiana markets reopen on Sunday to low footfall||With markets opening on Sunday for the first time in two months, traders who had been stridently lobbying for the ‘Sunday lockdown’ to be lifted were disappointed as few customers showed up amid fear of infection, financial constraints and the hot weather. The usual hustle and bustle was conspicuously missing from Sunday special markets and wholesale markets in Chaura Bazaar, Akalgarh Market, and the AC Market. Not just customers, vendors also refrained from setting up their stalls. However, shopkeepers are hoping that business will rev up by the next weekend. Chaura Bazar Lal Rangi Ram Street Shopkeepers’ Association president Gurinder Sood said, “Markets opening on Sunday is the first step towards normalcy. The footfall was around 10-15% and Sunday rush was nowhere to be seen. It seemed like any normal day. However, more customers will surely turn up over the next weekend. This week, customers were caught unaware as relaxations were announced suddenly on Saturday evening.” Shopkeepers are expecting out-of-town customers to start visiting from the next weekend. Akalgarh Market Garment Association president Manpreet Singh Bunty said, “Customers from other towns, districts and states visit the wholesale markets of the city exclusively on Sunday. Though low footfall was seen this time, at least 20% of the business lost due to the lockdown was restored.” Beopar Mandal general secretary Sunil Mehra and district president Arvinder Makkar, while hailing the government’s latest orders have demanded a relief package for businesses that have taken a hit during lockdown. they have sought for some relief in electricity bills and property tax . Social distancing, masks ditched Despite the administration cautioning residents against flouting Covid protocols to prevent a resurgence in cases, many people could be seen huddling together with face masks. Traders, however, have appealed people to follow the rules to prevent another Covid-induced lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-markets-reopen-on-sunday-to-low-footfall-101624823049494.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||It will take a while for business to bounce back: Ludhiana restaurateurs||Restaurants by large got off to a slow start on the first day of the Sunday lockdown being lifted after a gap of two months. However, stakeholders are confident that they will gradually be able to recoup their losses as life inches towards normalcy. After lifting of weekend restrictions, the continuing curbs on bars and an early curfew timing are restaurateurs’ primary grouses. Hotel and Restaurant Association president Amarvir Singh said, “Bars should be opened at the earliest as they account for 35-40% of the restaurant business. The curfew relaxation period should also be extended till 10pm as most residents prefer to dine after 8pm and at present we have to wind up by 7:30pm.”Restaurant owners attributed the late announcement regarding relaxations for the low footfall on Sunday. Restaurants have been allowed to open at 50% capacity from 5am to 7:30pm amid declining cases.Iron Chef owner Amitoj Singh said, “We only received around 25-30% customers. We expect business will be back on track by July. Residents are fearful about stepping out at the moment.” Senior vice-chairperson (excise and taxation), Punjab State Traders Board, and owner of Basant Restaurants, Bhupinder Basant said,”People are slowly adapting to the circumstances and the footfall is improving by the day. Lifting of the Sunday lockdown will boost business as most people are busy during weekdays.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/it-will-take-a-while-for-business-to-bounce-back-ludhiana-restaurateurs-101624822690042.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||SFJ terminates lobbying among US lawmakers after 3 months||Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), a secessionist group facing multiple probes in India and declared an unlawful entity, has summarily terminated its lobbying among US lawmakers within three months of launching a campaign to garner their support, documents show.In the lobbying disclosure reports filed by its registered lobbyist, “Blue Star Strategies LLC”, the SFJ has been described as a “US-based NGO that supports the secession of Punjab from India”.The lobbyist has further disclosed in its filings that the specific lobbying issue of its client was to “raise awareness in the US of treatment of the Sikh community in India”.The documents submitted to the US Senate Lobbying Disclosure platform show that Blue Star Strategies’ lobbying registration report on behalf of the SFJ was filed on March 12, 2021, while the first quarterly disclosure report was filed by it a little over a month later on April 19.Besides raising “awareness in the US about the treatment of Sikh community in India”, the initial filing also mentioned, “efforts by the Sikh-American diaspora in the US to draw attention to these issues” among the specific lobbying issues.However, the second part was omitted from the lobbying disclosure filings made post-registration.Also, in less than three months of the registration, Blue Star Strategies filed a termination report for its lobbying activities on behalf of the SFJ, effective May 31.The termination report was subsequently posted on the US Senate Lobbying Disclosure platform on June 15.While no particular reason has been given for the termination, the lobbyist has disclosed “less than USD 5,000” as income from the client for the second quarter of 2021, while a similar amount was disclosed in the first-quarter report.It has also disclosed the US House of Representatives and the department of justice among the houses/agencies covered under the lobbying activity for the client.Queries sent to the lobbyist as well as the client through their websites remained unanswered, while there was no response to calls made to the phone numbers listed there.The SFJ has been in focus in the recent past in India after several people, including activists associated with the long-running farmers’ protests on Delhi borders, were issued summons by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with a case registered against this organisation.In the FIR, the SFJ has been described as “an unlawful association under the UAPA Act” and has been accused, along with other Khalistani terrorist groups, of conspiring “to create an atmosphere of fear and lawlessness and to cause disaffection in people and to incite them towards rising in rebellion against the government of India”.It has also been alleged that as part of this conspiracy, huge funds were being collected abroad for on-ground campaigns and propaganda against missions in countries like the USA, the UK, Canada, Germany, etc.SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannun was among the nine individuals linked to separatist Khalistani outfits who were designated as terrorists by the Indian government in July last year under the UAPA Act.Later in December 2020, the NIA filed a chargesheet against 16 people associated with the SFJ and based in the US, UK and Canada under the anti-terror law, UAPA, for allegedly indulging in seditious activities and promoting enmity on the grounds of region and religion in the country. These also included Pannun. The documents filed on the Senate Lobbying Disclosure platform further show that it was the second attempt by the SFJ at lobbying for its cause among the US lawmakers, but the previous one was done indirectly.The Government of India also has a registered lobbyist in the US, which typically covers issues related to bilateral relations between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sfj-terminates-lobbying-among-us-lawmakers-after-3-months-101624822688981.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Groundwater contamination: NGT directs Punjab to allocate ₹280 cr to 9 urban local bodies||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Punjab government to allocate ₹280 crore at the earliest to nine urban local bodies (ULBs) to mitigate groundwater contamination.The NGT principal bench headed by chairperson justice Adarsh Kumar Goel also asked the state authorities to provide canal water supply to Fazilka villagers along the Pakistan border.The NGT was hearing a petition filed by a farm rights activist from Fazilka, Vikram Ahuja, in July 2019 stating that untreated sewage of 21 municipalities of Punjab’s Malwa belt is flowing through drains into the district, resulting in contamination of groundwater in Fazilka villages.These ULBs either lack STPs or work inefficiently and domestic and industrial effluents are thrown in drains that affect nearly 120 villages of Fazilka. Ahuja said drains continue to stink due to the discharge of untreated waste into them.He said on Sunday that works undertaken by the state authorities to control the hazardous practice of discharging untreated municipal waste into the drainage networks is going on at a slow pace.Nine municipalities of Fazilka, Ferozepur, Moga and Muktsar have submitted detailed project reports (DPRs) to the state government for laying of sewerage network, water supply schemes and installation of sewage treatment plants (STPs) as long-term measures for control of water pollution.Nihal Singh Wala needs ₹49.13 crore, the highest among earmarked local bodies, and Fatehgarh Panjtoor municipality has the lowest requirement of ₹8 crore to check pollution.Accepting a report submitted by NGT’s state monitoring committee, the tribunal stated that to ensure transparency, Punjab should assure that data of sludge generated during the operation of STPs is maintained.It directed deputy commissioners of Fazilka and Muktsar to ensure that STPs at Jalalabad and Muktsar towns are handed over to an expert agency, Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board for operation and maintenance (O&M).It observed that in most of the STPs, the quantity of sludge generated during the operation of STP is not measured and no proper record is maintained for the same. Further, the disposal of sludge in an environmentally sound manner is not made by most of the ULBs.“There is a need to maintain a record of operational hours of STPs, sludge generated per day and its disposal. Sludge should be used as manure. Also, state agencies should ensure regular payment to contractors for smooth operation and maintenance charges of STPs,” it observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/groundwater-contamination-ngt-directs-punjab-to-allocate-rs-280-cr-to-9-urban-local-bodies-101624822628997.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Interstate gang selling stolen cars busted in Tarn Taran||Police on Sunday busted an interstate gang involved in the selling stolen vehicles by preparing fake documents with the arrest of its kingpin from Bhikhiwind. Police have also recovered seven cars — two Hyundai Creta, a Toyota Innova, a Toyota Fortuner, a Mohindra Scorpio, a Maruti Suzuki Swift VDI and a Swift Dzire — which were to be sold further. The arrested accused has been identified as Dilbagh Singh, alias Baga of Pahuwind village. Police have identified three more members of the gang as Upkardeep Singh, alias Prince, Amandeep Sharma and Gavy of Bhikhiwind. Police said the accused were stealing vehicles from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi and Maharashtra and preparing fake documents to sell these further.SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said a team led by CIA wing’s in-charge Saminderjit Singh was patrolling in the border areas in search of miscreants. “Following a tip-off a raid was conducted and Baga was arrested. At Baga’a instance, seven vehicles were recovered. Our raids are on to nab the other accused.”A case under Sections 379 (theft), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 471 (dishonestly using as genuine) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at the Bhikhiwind police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/interstate-gang-selling-stolen-cars-busted-in-tarn-taran-101624822450441.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Three Ludhiana women assaulted for converting religion, three booked||Three people have been booked for assaulting three women, who had converted to Christianity, in their house at Ghawaddi village here on Sunday. The accused, Manjit Singh, Sikander Singh and Monu of the same village, allegedly abused two of the victims, aged 27 and 23, when they visited the local gurdwara to drink water on June 20. Later, the accused went to their house and assaulted the two women and their 57-year-old mother, the victims said, adding that the assailants tore the clothes of the 27-year-old, who had to be rushed to Christian Medical College and Hospital. The case was registered after leaders from the minority community met the commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal on Saturday and claimed that the women were assaulted as they had converted to Christianity.Investigating officer Jaswinder Singh said they had launched a probe. Albert Dua, leader of the Christian community, took strong exception to the incident. He said the police dithered in taking action against the accused as they are well connected. Only mild charges were lodged against the accused. A case was registered under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 ( wrongful restraint), 451( house-trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-ludhiana-women-assaulted-for-converting-religion-three-booked-101624822448906.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab records 298 fresh cases, 11 more fatalities||With 298 fresh cases, Punjab’s Covid-19 tally climbed to 5,94,883 on Sunday, while 11 more fatalities pushed the death toll due to the viral disease to 15,991, according to a medical bulletin.The number of active coronavirus cases in the state has dropped to 4,020.The fresh deaths were reported from several districts, including Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Ferozepur.Patiala reported 38 fresh cases, followed by Ludhiana 32 and Hoshiarpur 23, the bulletin said. The Covid positivity rate in the state stood at 0.58%, it added. With 641 recoveries from the infection, the number of cured patients has gone up to 5,74,872, according to the bulletin.There are 120 critical patients who are on ventilator support, 383 other critical patients and 1,602 on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 1,07,64,272 samples have so far been collected in the state for testing, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-records-298-fresh-cases-11-more-fatalities-101624822328934.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||BSP expels former state president Rachpal Singh||The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) has expelled former Punjab unit president Rachpal Singh Raju from the party. Raju, who was in-charge of the state unit in 2015-16 and then headed by the party in Punjab from 2016 to 2019, has been expelled for alleged anti-party activities. The former state chief had questioned the seat-sharing formula finalised by the BSP and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) for the 2022 assembly polls. BSP state chief Jasvir Singh Garhi announced his expulsion. Confirming his expulsion, Raju said that party leaders wanted the alliance but there was resentment against the seat sharing pact as several segments in the Doaba area, where the party had polled more than 20,000 votes, were allocated to the SAD. “I sought a review which irked some state leaders,” he said. He said a false complaint was given against him to the leadership. “My wife is vice-president of the Garhshankar municipal council and I went for an event as she was busy. A former Congress MLA was also present along with leaders of other parties. But my photo with the Congress leader was mis-presented as if I was going to switch sides,” he claimed, adding that he would continue to work for the community.Punjab BSP OBC wing in-charge quits party Sukhvir Singh Shalimar, in-charge of the OBC (other backward class) wing of the BSP, quit the party on Sunday following a seat sharing alliance with the SAD. Sukhvir said that the party had sealed an alliance with SAD without taking senior party leaders into confidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsp-expels-former-state-president-rachpal-singh-101624822208836.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||Badals ordered cancellation of FIR against dera chief: Sidhu||Attacking the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the Badal family on sacrilege issue once again, former Minister and Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday alleged that the Badals ordered the cancellation of FIR against Sirsa-based dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh in the 2007 blasphemy case.The FIR was registered against the dera chief for allegedly imitating 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh in 2007 for hurting Sikh sentiments. In 2014, police filed a cancellation report in the court during the SAD-BJP regime.Taking on the Badals over the sacrilege issue, Sidhu also recalled the blasphemy case in his fresh tweet on Sunday. In a tweet, Sidhu wrote: “Badals Political Interference & Electoral polarisation behind Sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib Ji & Police firing incidents ... For using Dera Chief in Elections, No action was taken against him (2007-2014) - No Challan was filed in Courts & they even ordered cancellation of FIR (sic)”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badals-ordered-cancellation-of-fir-against-dera-chief-sidhu-101624822029088.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||32 more test Covid positive, no fatalities reported in Ludhiana||No new Covid-induced deaths were reported in the district, while 32 people tested positive for the virus on Sunday.The district’s case count now stands at 86,856, of which 84,410 patients have recovered, 2,081 have succumbed and 397 cases are active. Meanwhile, 12 patients are on ventilator support. The active cases in the district remained below the 500-mark for the fifth consecutive day. The last time the active cases had been below the 500-mark was February 24, when the health department had reported 495 active cases.The fresh cases include 15 patients with influenza-like symptoms and 16 patients from outpatient departments. The recovery rate has touched 97.15%, while the death rate has dropped to 2.4%.One black fungus case detectedOne more person was diagnosed with black fungus in the district on Sunday. So far, 141 cases of the fungal infection have been detected in the district, of which 34 are active. Eight people have succumbed to the deadly disease so far.11347 received vaccination todayAs many as 11,347 people showed up for vaccination at different government and private health facilities in Ludhiana. So far, 11,49,651 people have been vaccinated in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/32-more-test-covid-positive-no-fatalities-reported-in-ludhiana-101624821549427.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||18-year-old tutor booked for abducting 2 children in Ludhiana||An 18-year-old tutor and her parents were booked for allegedly kidnapping two boys, aged six and two-and-a-half, who had gone missing from Bihari Colony on June 25. The complainant, Ram Bahadur, a resident of Bihari Colony, who is the father of the six-year-old boy, said his son, Ravi, had gone missing from the home of one Anjali, who was tutoring him at her house. When his son did not reach home, an extensive search was launched for him. When they went to Anjali’s home, they found it locked. Later, the family learnt that another two-and-a-half -year-old boy, Prince, the son of one Pappu Kumar Manjhi was also missing. Though cops launched a search for the accused, they were unable to find any leads. The investigation officer, Jasveer Kaur of the Focal Point police station, said the accused had moved to Bihari Colony in Gobindgarh village with her parents a few months ago. Neighbours did not know where they had come from. As the parents have not received any ransom call, it is suspected that the accused intend to sell the children to childless couples. A case has been registered under Section 365 (kidnapping) and 34 (acts done by several persons) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/18yearold-tutor-booked-for-abducting-2-children-in-ludhiana-101624820829117.html
28-06-2021||Other||Protest in Srinagar over Sikh woman’s abduction and alleged conversion||A group of Sikhs protested in Srinagar on Sunday after a young woman from the community was allegedly kidnapped by a man from another community.Police said they have rescued the woman, 18, and handed her over to the family. The accused man, 29, has been arrested.“The girl was rescued and presented before the court and then she went with her family members,” said Srinagar superintendent of police (north) Mubasher Hussain.The Sikhs alleged that two more young women of their community have been kidnapped while only one has been handed over to them.On Sunday, Manjinder Singh Sirsa, president of Delhi Gurdwara Prabhandak Committee, who landed here in the morning, protested in Srinagar along with a group of Sikhs.“We are here to protest the abduction of two girls at gunpoint and their forced Nikah with elderly men. After that their parents were not even allowed to enter court. When we protested outside the court only then was one of the girls was handed over to us. It was a forced conversion,” said Sirsa.The protesters want a law in Jammu and Kashmir mandating permission of parents in inter-religious marriages. “I urge the government to take stern action against forced conversions and request local leaders of Srinagar and religious leaders to come in support of Sikh daughters,” he said.Calls to Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar and Srinagar SSP Sandeep Choudhary did not elicit any response.J&K L-G assures actionMeanwhile, a DSGMC delegation led by its president Sirsa met J&K Lt governor Manoj Sinha here on Sunday. The L-G assured them of appropriate action in the case. They also demanded reservation of Sikh community in delimitation process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/protest-in-srinagar-over-sikh-woman-s-abduction-and-alleged-conversion-101624820590026.html
28-06-2021||Other||Nursing student from J&K’s Sopore dies in Chandigarh, kin allege foul play||The family members of Amir Hassan, a BSc nursing student from north Kashmir who died under mysterious circumstances in Chandigarh, have alleged foul play in his demise.Amir, 22, was found dead in his hostel at Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh.Thousands of people attended his funeral in north Kashmir’s Sopore amid a charged atmosphere with allegations that he was murdered.Police said that the youth died in Chandigarh on the night intervening Friday and Saturday.“We have completed the formalities on our side, but nothing is yet clear from our counterparts in Chandigarh,” said Sopore senior superintendent of police Sudanshu Verma.The youth’s relatives said that he had called his family on the day of his death.“He had told me that he will be coming home on Eid. He talked to his mother and sister in the evening. At 2am in the night, we got a call that he suffered a heart attack and was hospitalised,” said his aunt, demanding a proper probe in the matter.“Is being a Kashmiri a crime? He had just three months left to finish his degree. Before dropping the call, he had told his parents that his senior had come to his room. His killers should be brought to justice,” another relative said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nursing-student-from-j-k-s-sopore-dies-in-chandigarh-kin-allege-foul-play-101624820588850.html
28-06-2021||Other||Drone strike at Jammu IAF station, two injured||Two explosives-laden drones crashed into the Indian Air Force (IAF) station at Jammu airport in the early hours of Sunday.Two IAF personnel were injured during the blasts that took place within five minutes of each other at the airport, which is used for VVIP movements and armed forces’ strategic operations. The first blast at 1.37am ripped off the roof of a single-storey building at the technical area of the airport manned by the IAF in Satwari area of the city. The second one at 1.42am was on the ground.Jammu and Kashmir director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh termed the twin explosions at the high-security air force base a terror attack. He said the police and other agencies were working together with IAF officials to unravel the plan behind the attack.An FIR has been registered under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the case has been taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Investigators scanned CCTV footage, including from cameras installed on the boundary walls of the airport, in an effort to determine from where the drones came. However, all the CCTV cameras focused on the roadside, officials said. Drones cannot be detected by radars deployed at border areas to monitor enemy activity, they said, suggesting that a different radar system that can detect drones as small as a bird be installed.Earlier in the day, IAF officials said the blasts were being thoroughly probed by a high-level IAF investigation team, which was joined by a team of the NIA. The Western Command Air chief had also reached the site.There have been several incidents of Pakistan using drones in border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to drop arms, ammunition, weapons, drugs and Hawala money to fuel terrorism in the region. The incident comes at a time when defence minister Rajnath Singh is at Leh in Ladakh to take stock of the security scenario.Terrorist with IED nabbed in JammuWhile officials were investigating the drone attack, another major strike was averted when a person, probably owing allegiance to the banned Lashker-e-Taiba, was arrested along with an improvised explosive device weighing around six kg, the director general of police said. The person was tasked with triggering the IED in a crowded place. “The suspect has been detained and is being interrogated. More suspects are likely to be picked up in this foiled IED blast attempt,” the DGP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drone-strike-at-jammu-iaf-station-two-injured-101624820547856.html
28-06-2021||Other||Jammu airbase blasts: Drones emerge as new threat to defence installations||The attack on an Indian Air Force base in Jammu on Sunday — believed to be the first-ever offensive use of drones to target an Indian military facility — has raised new and serious security concerns in Jammu and Kashmir.A senior army officer said, “Such unmanned aerial objects laden with explosives can prove lethal for the defence installations in J&K. We all know Pakistan, controlled by its army, would never deviate from its bleed-India campaign. Therefore, it is high time that we seriously pondered over the new threat.”Of late, Pakistan has been using drones to drop arms, ammunition, weapons, drugs and hawala money in border areas of Jammu and Kashmir to fuel terrorism.“The Sunday attack in the dead of night is a first of its kind in India and it must ring alarm bells among those at the helm of affairs,” said the officer.He suggested regulation on sale of drones and other low-flying objects in India.“We have many defence installations in J&K surrounded by civilian population. Though it remains a subject of probe, in this case, it appeared the drones took off from a nearby locality to carry out the attack. They, however, missed the intended target — the helicopter hangar,” the army officer said.The Jammu technical airport houses choppers, including Mi17 helicopters and transport aircraft.The officer could not rule out the possibility of Pakistan’s involvement in the Sunday attack.“Pakistan started digging trans-border tunnels into plains of Jammu region on the lines of Hamas fighters in 2012 and successfully used them to push armed terrorists into Jammu. Now, drones have emerged as a new threat for us,” he said.It may be stated here that India has been exploring anti-drone technologies with Israel and has also been developing indigenous technology. While India explores anti-drone technologies, one can easily order and get delivered at the doorstep heavy lift drones with 4K camera from online marketing portals that cost less than ₹6,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jammu-airbase-blasts-drones-emerge-as-new-threat-to-defence-installations-101624820543359.html
28-06-2021||Other||Himachal bypolls: BJP submits report to party high command||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-appointed incharges for the upcoming byelections in Himachal have submitted their reports to the party high command about the preparations and prospects of candidates.Bypolls are due for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat and Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai assembly constituencies.The report was submitted to state BJP chief Suresh Kashyap and national vice-president Saudan Singh, who was here for the party’s crucial three-day meet in Dharamshala that concluded yesterday.The party had appointed Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur as the in-charge for bypoll at Mandi parliamentary seat that was necessitated due to the death of Lok Sabha member Ramswaroop Sharma. He was found hanging at his official residence in Delhi on March 17.Ramswaroop’s son Shanti Swaroop had staked claimed for the ticket and even met chief minister Jai Ram Thakur several times in this regard. On the other hand, the Jal Shati minister also expressed a desire to contest the Mandi bypolls. He had asked the party high command to allocate a ticket to his son from his assembly segment Dharampur that he has represented six times.However, so far, the party leadership has not reciprocated to the conditions laid by Mahender, who is known for his political acumen and election management. The other front runner for the ticket is Kargil War hero Kushal Thakur and vice-president Ajay Rana. BJP’s northeast zonal secretary Ajay Jamwal also held meetings with the BJP’s top brass in Himachal fuelling speculations of sorts, while the name of Pankaj Jamwal, president Joginder Nagar assembly segment, has also cropped up.Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, who is the only heavyweight leader in Shimla district, has been appointed in-charge of bypolls in Jubbal Kotkhai. The seat became vacant after the death of the party’s chief whip Narender Bragta. His elder son Chetan Bragta is a claimant for the ticket, while the other two contenders are former zila parishad member Neelam Seraik and Dr Shushant Deshta, member of Gau Sewa Ayogh. Chetan is currently heading the IT wing of BJP.Bhardwaj before submitting his report has held separate meetings with the contenders. A section of the party is also opposed to nepotism, former chief minister Shanta Kumar during the three-day meet apprised the party’s national general secretary.The BJP working group meeting began in Dharamshala on Friday to discuss the party’s strategy for the bypolls and 2022 general elections to the state assembly.Industries minister Vikram Singh Thakur, in-charge for Fatehpur bypoll, also deliberated with party workers before submitting his report. Former Rajya Sabha member Kripal Singh Parmar, Baldev Thakur and Rita Thakur are the front runners here. The state party workers have also been sending direct feedback on the choices of the candidates to BJP national president JP Nadda. The final decision will be taken by the party’s parliamentary board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-bypolls-bjp-submits-report-to-party-high-command-101624820532396.html
28-06-2021||Other||Rajnath begins Ladakh visit with focus on LAC||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday reviewed India’s military preparedness in eastern Ladakh on the first day of his three-day visit to the region amid a deadlock with China over the next stage of disengagement at several friction points, people familiar with the matter said. The defence minister, accompanied by Army Chief Gen MM Naravane, was given a detailed briefing about the prevailing situation as well as India’s combat readiness in the region by top commanders of the Army at the Leh-based headquarters of the 14 Corps, officials aware of the developments added.“The #RakshaMantri was briefed on the prevailing security situation and operational preparedness by GOC Fire and Fury Corps,” the Army tweeted.On the first day of his visit, Rajnath also interacted with 300 veterans, including Ashok Chakra winner Naib Subedar (Honorary) Chhering Mutup (Retd) and Maha Vir Chakra winner Colonel Sonam Wangchuk (Retd), at Leh.In his address, Singh lauded the “unparalleled dedication” of the veterans in ensuring safety and security of the nation, reiterating the government’s commitment towards the welfare of the ex-servicemen. “The dedication of our soldiers and veterans towards the country is an exemplary example. I express my gratitude from the bottom of my heart to all. Our aim is to take care of you in the same way as you all have taken care of the security of the country,” he said. He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s decision to roll out ‘One Rank One Pension’ scheme, ending a decades long wait, was a testimony to the Government’s unwavering commitment towards the welfare and satisfaction of the veterans. He added that a number of online services under ‘Digital India’ have been introduced for the veterans. These include launch of ‘e-Sehat’ portal to provide tele-medicine services, especially during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and the introduction of Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) to address the problems faced by the ex-servicemen.  Later, Singh met the elected representatives of Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Councils, Leh, Kargil and officials in Leh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajnath-begins-ladakh-visit-with-focus-on-lac-101624820531306.html
28-06-2021||Bangalore||How mathas play a role in shaping political landscape||Bengaluru In the past few weeks, prominent politicians running to mathas (mutts) or monasteries in every nook and corner of Karnataka, has been played on loop by Kannada TV news channels, reporting and interpreting almost every angle of significance of such visits. The frequency of such visits is indicative of either a political crisis or the onset of elections, analysts and observers said, making them a powerful group with influence over every sphere of not just society but the electoral landscape including governance and policy. And mathas rarely turn down such visits, treating everyone at their doorstep equally, giving enough content for the politician to flaunt, almost as if claiming to have got the validation and backing of these Mathadisha’s (pontiffs or chief abbotts) and its followers. Though mathas were traditionally only into social and religious duties, people who are aware of their workings, said that there has been a growing involvement of some of these entities in politics especially since the 1980’s. “Some mathas are deviating from their original goal of Adhyatma, spirituality and moral education and guidance,” said one person involved and aware of the workings of these institutions. “These are not their objectives but it has become their main objective now. Today to expect swamiji’s to teach politicians morality is beyond question,” the person cited above said. Estimates are that there are thousands of such mathas in Karnataka and several of them have come up in the last two decades to consolidate the community in a region and become a larger bargaining power for better education, representation and other benefits for its members. Experts said that the situation is such that every community wants a matha or feels incomplete. These entities run schools, colleges, orphanages and other social activities in which thousands of children are educated, irrespective of caste. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who is from the dominant Lingayat community, has been trying to get the backing of these mathas to mobilise support against his removal from the top chair. His son, BY Vijayendra, too has been making frequent trips to these mathas, which people aware of the developments said, was not just to get the backing of these pontiffs behind Yediyurappa but also to recognize him as the potential heir in lieu of his imminent electoral plunge. Some of these matha’s are entwined in Karnataka’s deep-rooted caste-based politics, backing candidates, opposing or proposing policies that are likely to impact the community, making political statements and even bargaining for better reservation and representation. In recent times, almost all major communities like the Kurubas, Valmiki, Vokkaliga and the Panchamasali (the largest sub-sect within the Lingayats) have held large rallies and processions seeking better reservation opportunities that gave Yediyurappa an opportunity to restructure the entire process and allowing him to be seen as heeding to demands from all communities. Yediyurappa has managed to get the backing of at least 17 small Lingayat mathas from Tumakuru and other places to back him openly but a few others Kudalasangama-based Panchamasali mutt Seer Jagadguru Basava Jaya Mrityunjaya Swami, who led the demands for better reservation for the Panchamasali sect of Lingayats, has suggested that if the BJP does replace Yediyurappa, they consider making a Lingayat candidate from north Karnataka as chief minister. Ramesh Jarkiholi, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Gokak, visited Suttur Matha in Mysuru on Friday in the wake of developments that he would seek a re-induction to the cabinet as the case of sexual exploitation levelled against him gets weaker. The connection between politics and mathas runs deep, with the former sometimes openly endorsing a candidate or resolving to defeat one in elections. In Chitradurga’s Murugha Matha of the Lingayat community, about 200 kms from Bengaluru, the main hall is filled with pictures of the head pontiff, Sri Shivamurthy Murugha Sharanaru sharing space with former prime ministers, chief ministers and other prominent politicians. Just before the 2018 elections, BJP national president Amit Shah and his Congress counterpart Rahul Gandhi had visited several mathas in Karnataka. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too had made references to several such mathas and their pontiffs, specific to the geography of his rally, during his speeches in the run up to the elections. The head pontiff of Madara Guru Peetha that represents the Madigas, a socially backward community, had successfully engineered the defeat of the then Congress minister H Anjaneya after publicly stating that he would “go to any extent” to defeat the latter, who was earlier the secretary of the matha. The head pontiff of the Tontadarya Matha joined farmers and others and successfully campaigned against a proposed 6 million tonne Posco steel plant, in Gadag, in 2011, demonstrating their ability to mobilise people for a cause, which sometimes is political. Yediyurappa is arguably the biggest political leader of the Lingayat community which has made it more difficult for the BJP to replace him, fearing a backlash from the group which is believed to be the largest in the state. Siddaramaiah lost power in 2018 after attempting to accord a separate religion status for the Lingayats and tried to distinguish between Veerashaivas (considered a sub-sect and a term used interchangeably with Lingayats) which was seen as an attempt to divide the community. “Yediyurappa came up not because he had the support of the community. But when he became powerful, the community sided with him,” said a senior BJP leader, requesting not to be named. “The community supports a strong leader and does not back them just because they are from the same caste,” he added. A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at Azim Premji University said that the Lingayat support to the BJP is currently routed through Yediyurappa but the party is probably unsure if the community may back another outfit if the chief minister is replaced. “The formula is such that the party (BJP) cannot do without Lingayat support in Karnataka and it is not sure if Lingayat support is guaranteed without Yediyurappa,” he added. He said that in other states there have been instances of chief minister’s parading MLAs but in Karnataka, Yediyurappa may be forced to parade the support of mathas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/how-mathas-play-a-role-in-shaping-political-landscape-101624818849457.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Maharashtra to request varsities to reduce fees at V-Cs meet||PUNE After the state government took a decision to reduce the fees charged by engineering colleges, Nagpur university also acted on an appeal by the state government and reduced its fees, taking the Covid situation into consideration. “On Monday we are going to have a meeting with all vice-chancellors of the state universities and will to appeal them to reduce fees in their respective universities as well,” said Uday Samant, state higher and technical education minister. He was speaking at a press conference held on Sunday at the Pune collector’s office. He further said, “As we have requests and demands from many students and unions to reduce the engineering college fees, a decision was taken last week and fees were reduced by 25 per cent. Similarly, Nagpur university reduced various parts of its fees, like library, gymkhana, maintenance and other fees, for this academic year. Along with the meeting on Monday, an official letter will be sent to all state universities appealing for a fee reduction.”When asked about private colleges, he said, “For private colleges and their fees, a Fee Regulating Committee (FRA) is been formed and its chairman is former Bombay High Court judge Vijay Achliya. We had a meeting with him two days ago and over reduction of fees at private colleges.”Kuldeep Ambekar, president of Students Helping Hand organisation said, “It is always a welcome decision if all the state universities follow Nagpur university and reduce their fees. There are lakhs of students from the rural parts who are struggling to survive due to the Covid pandemic, followed by lockdowns in the state. Most of them are leaving their education in between. If fees are reduced, then it would bring great relief to them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-to-request-all-varsities-to-reduce-fees-at-v-cs-meeting-on-monday-101624818788026.html
28-06-2021||Other||State committee formed to study emissions from crematoria||PUNE With reference to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Pune-based retired civil engineer Vikrant Latkar and the Aanadbaugh Cooperative Society over the issue of increasing toxic emission from Vaikunth crematorium in Navi peth, the state has formed a committee to address the issue.Air pollution is attributed to an increase in the number of cremations due to Covid-19. The committee comprises SC Kollur, scientific officer of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), a Brihan Mumbai Municipal Corporation representative, a Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) representative, a regional officer of MPCB, Pune, and a regional officer of MPCB, Mumbai.The state mentioned that the committee should study the NGT order issued in 2020, to develop a proper system to control the emission of hazardous gases from the crematorium. The state has given a three-month deadline for a report to be submitted to the Bombay High Court.Shrinivas Kandul, additional city engineer of the PMC electrical department said, “State has included a PMC representative in the committee. PMC may include its environment officers.”Meanwhile, PMC has already assigned the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)-linked National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to study the air pollution in the area around the Vaikunth crematorium.Vikrant Latkar, petitioner and resident of Aanadbaugh said, “In the 300-metre radius of Vaikunth, there are 20,000 directly affected due to hazardous gases. It is okay that the state formed a committee, but it is on paper. It will take more than six months to sort out the problem. For the last three years, residents are complaining and PMC hasn’t taken any substantial action so far.”Of the 24 crematoria in the city, there are residential areas around Vaikunth, Wadgaonsheri and Vishrantwadi crematoria. Anand Adsul, one of the residents of Vishrantwadi area said, “Our society is located near to Vishrantwadi crematorium. We have been facing hazardous gases and air pollution for the last 20 years. We welcome the state government’s move to set up a committee to overcome the problem of air pollution in crematoriums. We hope that it will be solved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-committee-formed-to-study-emissions-from-crematoria-101624818729820.html
28-06-2021||Other||Convoy of cars parked on athletic track of Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex draws BJP fire||PUNE A convoy of cars parked on the athletic track of the Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex on Saturday, during the visit of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and state sports and youth affairs minister, Sunil Kedar, has caused an uproar. Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju and BJP MLA Siddharth Shirole tweeted about the incident. Rijiju tweeted, “As it is we are lacking sufficient sports facilities in our country. All the sports centres need proper care.”The sports complex was used for a meeting on an upcoming sports international university project.The directorate of Sports and Youth and Services, government of Maharashtra, on Sunday issued a circular stating “Only one car was allowed on the main athletic stadium, that too on the concrete cement platform. A few cars followed the first car and the situation got out of control. We regret whatever happened and such issues will not happen in the future.”Shirole tweeted, “Not only has the athletic track worth crores of rupees at Shiv Chhaptrapati Sports Complex been damaged, but the spirit of sportspersons who bring glory to our nation has been severely dented by the shameful & arrogant actions of MVA (Maha Vikas Aghadi) leadership.“Don’t get me wrong. I love cricket but imagine the uproar if SUVs drove and parked over the pitch of an international cricket ground. That is what the MVA leadership did... disrespected and destroyed an international athletic track, and with it the morale of our athletes.” “At a time when PM Modi is inspiring our sportsperson to bring glory for our country, the tall leaders of Maha Vikas Aghadhi government are doing such shameful acts. I demand immediate apology from them and an impartial inquiry into the entire incident,” said Shirole.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/convoy-of-cars-parked-on-athletic-track-of-shiv-chhatrapati-sports-complex-draws-bjp-fire-101624818729220.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Maharashtra education minister commits to recruiting 3,064 professors in state||PUNE Uday Samant, state higher and technical education minister, held a review meeting on Sunday in Pune with NET-SET qualified teachers, where it was decided to recruit 3,064 professors in the state. The announcement was made by Samant after he met professors on protest at the state higher education department office. Professors have been on protest since June 21 for various demands. Samant, along with senior education department officials, held discussions on the spot, after the professors ended their protest. Samant said, “Till now, of the total approved 4,074 recruitment posts of professors, 1,600 posts have been filled. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the recruitment process had gone on hold and the proposal for the recruitment of 3,064 professors has been sent to the finance department from my ministry. We are hoping to get it approved by next week.”Another important issue raised by the professors was about working on an hourly basis and an increase in payment. Samant said that payment will be done on a 48- minute method, set by the University Grants Commission (UGC). The University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines for professors who work on an hourly basis is that one lecture payment should be 48 minutes in duration and not 60 minutes. Earlier, the rate for an hourly lecture was ₹500 which is now increased to ₹650. For practicals the rate for an hour was ₹150, which has been increased to ₹250 now. Samant also approved the recruitment of 121 librarians and 659 university teachers, a long pending demand of the Maharashtra State Librarians Federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-higher-and-technical-education-minister-commits-to-recruiting-3-064-professors-in-state-101624818728031.html
28-06-2021||Other||50 visitors to rural tourist sites fined for violation of Covid norms||PUNE The forest department in Pune district is making a special effort to ensure that tourists do not carry the Covid-19 infection to isolated tribal populations in the district. Over the weekend, action was taken by the forest department against tourists at Mulshi, Temghar, Tahmhini, Lavasa and Girivan, among other isolated rural pockets. At least 50 tourists, mostly on two-wheeler, were fined ₹500 each for violating the weekend lockdown rules.According to the forest department, there is an embargo on places in Mulshi taluka, namely Mulshi dam, Temghar dam, Tamhini Ghat, Palse waterfall, Pimpri point, Andharban, Sahara city, Lavasa city, and Girivan. Rahul Patil, the deputy conservator of forests, Pune region, said, “The tourists were found flouting Covid-19 rules and visiting remote forest areas in violation of the Disaster Management Act. Action was taken against them and they were fined ₹500 each. The forest department is taking extra precaution that visitors from the city must not infect the untouched rural populace.”With the onset of monsoon people are thronging various forts and tourist spots in the district. The district administration has banned entry for tourists to Raireshwar and Rohideshwar forts.Velhe tehsil has already banned entry to tourists at Torna and Rajgad forts. Similar restrictions are in place in Maval taluka, where the Lonavala and Bushi dams are located. Waterfalls at Varandha ghat, Ambadkhind ghat, Bhat ghat and Nira Deoghar usually draw crowds during the monsoons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50-visitors-to-rural-tourist-sites-fined-for-violation-of-covid-norms-101624818672770.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Crowds out for picnics, treks draw warning from Pune district collector||Despite of stricter restrictions in the city and a weekend lockdown in place, massive crowds were seen cross Pune district on Sunday. The new Katraj tunnel near the Dari bridge on the Bengaluru highway, saw a large number of vehicles with people out for a picnic or a trek on the surrounding hill-sides.People were out with children and vehicles lined the sides of the highway. “We are at home for the last two months. May is always a month of summer holidays. As Covid cases were on the rise, we avoided going out anywhere last month. Now, there are restrictions at famous tourists spots, so we decided to go nearby,” said Kaplesh Munjal, a citizen who was out with his family and two children. There are several spots in Pune district which are not famous tourist attractions, but work as weekend getaways. The mountain section near Bhor and Bhatgar dam is one such area. Pune district collector Rajendra Deshnmukh said, “All restrictions are in place and despite that if people are avoiding it and risking their own lives to go to such places, it is not right. Action will be taken against citizens who go are out in causing crowding.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/crowds-out-for-picnics-treks-draw-warning-from-district-collector-101624818673319.html
28-06-2021||Other||Pune’s vaccine wastage percentage stays below 1%||PUNE The wastages of vaccines in Pune district is less than one per cent, this due to the multiple efforts of the district administration and the smooth supply of vaccines. In the past two days, the vaccination drive in the district crossed the 0.1 million mark for the first time, since the drive began on January 16.As per the district’s information office, as of June 25, a total of 3,452,967 vaccine doses have been administered, of which the overall vaccine wastage is 0.9%. Of the total 3.4 million doses administered, 31,076 have been wasted. Of the 3.4 million vaccines administered, 2,648,080 were of Covishield and 3,39,312 were of Covaxin. Dr Sachin Edake, district immunisation officer, said, “We have instructed at all sites to ensure that the vaccine wastage is kept to a minimum. If a vial is reserved with 10 doses for 10 beneficiaries, then it has to be used within the 34 hours of its opening. However, if the vial is not used then its efficacy is compromised.”Vaccine wastage is bifurcated into two - unopened vials beyond the expiry date, or because of exposure to heat, being frozen, breakage, missing inventory or theft; the second is discarding unused vaccines returned from the site. Discarding opened vials at the end of the session can be because the number of doses have not been used, or there is a dilution with water, suspected contamination and poor vaccine practices.On Sunday, Pune district saw a drop in the number of vaccinations, as 26,722 vaccinations were recorded at 136 sites - 40 government and 96 private. In the past two days, as supply of vaccines resumed, the drive has been boosted, however, on Sunday, many government centres were shut||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-vaccine-wastage-percentage-stays-below-1-101624818672194.html
28-06-2021||Other||Increased testing sees number of Covid hotpots rise in rural Pune: ZP CEO||PUNE Rural Pune is now recording an increase in the number of Covid hotspots, after a brief decline in the early weeks of June.Across the 13 talukas of rural Pune, the number of Covid hotspots has increased from 84 on June 16 to 91.A village with more than 10 active Covid patients is declared a hotspot.The number of Covid hotspots in rural Pune was 464 on April 28, after which continued to decrease.As per the rural Pune administration, on June 26, Junnar had the highest number of hotspots at 16, followed by Khed with 13.“The trend is noticed because in every taluka testing has been increased. It is a negligible surge and the situation is under control,” said Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), Zilla Parishad.The positivity rate of rural Pune, as of June 27, is 8.5%, while the percentage of bed occupancy is 13.9%. Level 3 restrictions are in place in the 13 talukas, where the case fatality rate is 1.5%.“The situation has improved since the last week of April. From the number of hotspots at 400, we have brought it down to under 100 and the way in which testing and vaccination has been going on in rural Pune, the number of hotspots will not increase further,” added Prasad.As of date 1,380,253 people have been vaccinated in rural Pune.The rural administration has also focussed on random testing. A total of 1,399,828 tests have been conducted in rural Pune till now.As per preparation for the anticipated third wave, the administration has 814 beds available for children. Currently, 2,584 LPM of oxygen is available for the rural administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/increased-testing-sees-number-of-covid-hotpots-rise-in-rural-pune-zp-ceo-101624818671093.html
28-06-2021||Pune||Covid-19 vaccine may be required to be taken annually: taskforce chair||Dr Sanjay Oak, chairman of the state’s Covid-19 taskforce, during a ‘live’ Facebook session on Sunday, said that over time, neutralising antibodies decrease, so the Covid-19 vaccine would be required to be taken annually.“A second dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 would be required to be taken again in the next 10-12 months,” said Dr Oak, adding that just like influenza vaccine, which needs to be taken seasonally, the Covid-19 vaccine may also be required at regular intervals. Dr Oak said, “It looks like we will have to take the vaccine every year. We are yet to complete one year since the Covid-19 vaccination drive began, not just in India, but in western countries too. We began the drive from January 16. As of now, it is quite possible that with time, the level of neutralising antibodies decreases. With other vaccines, like those given against influenza, the neutralizing antibodies remain for about 10-12 months. For now it looks like we might have to take a second dose of Covid-19 vaccine next year.” The influenza vaccine is a seasonal shot given to protect against three to four influenza viruses. Dr Oak also said that the new variants have to be taken seriously as mutation is seen in protein spikes. He said, “Now we have enough oxygen supply and enough isolation beds, but ICU beds are full. A particular mutation is considered to be a variant of concern after considering three factors - infectivity, virulence and its impact on vaccination and our Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. While the first two are not within our control, the last one is most important. Even today, there is vaccine hesitancy in rural areas which needs to be addressed. Even after vaccination, a mask is the best preventive method.” Explaining the difference between Covishield and Covaxin, he said that while Covaxin is made from a completely dead virus, Covishield is made from an attenuated or a weakened virus. He added, “It is partly true that the gap between two Covishield doses has been increased because of a shortage in supply. However, even in western countries the gap has been increased to more than eight weeks.”In view of the anticipated third wave which is likely to infect children the most, as the age group is yet to be vaccinated, Dr Oak said, “In the trials for those aged between 12-18 for Covaxin, it was found that there were no major side effects and that the results were satisfactory. I believe that vaccination for those aged between 12-18 years can begin shortly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-vaccine-may-be-required-to-be-taken-annually-taskforce-chair-101624818670509.html
28-06-2021||Chandigarh||2.5 lakh students to appear in PU online semester exams||Around 2.5 lakh students of various undergraduate and postgraduate courses will appear in the even semester examination of Panjab University (PU), which will start on Monday in online mode.This will be the third time since last year that the varsity is conducting the semester exams online.This time, however, students will not be required to attach their admit cards along with the answer sheets and no signature will be required either. But answer sheet evaluation for regular students will be subject to authentication of roll numbers by the college, university department or regional regional centre concerned.The online exams will be held in two slots—9.30am to 12.30pm and 1.30pm to 4.30pm. According to the instructions issued by the university earlier, question papers will be available for direct download on online.puexam.in. For the first slot, the question paper downloading time will be 9.10am and for the second slot, it will be 1.10pm.The students will have to follow the instructions given in the question paper and no separate instructions will be issued: the undergraduate students can use 20 A4 size sheets and postgraduate students can use 24 A4 size sheets to write their answers.The students of affiliated colleges, university departments and regional centres may submit their answer sheets either online or in physical mode, but not both ways.If submitting online, the students have to submit their answer sheets within 60 minutes of the completion of the paper in both morning and evening slots. Submission of hard copies of the answer sheets for papers conducted in the morning slot has to be done by 2pm, and for the evening slot by 6pm, on the day of the examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/25-lakh-students-to-appear-in-pu-online-semester-exams-101624818610250.html
28-06-2021||Other||Pune district reports 1,259 new Covid-19 cases and 13 deaths||PUNE Pune district, on Sunday, reported 1,259 new Covid-19 cases and 13 Covid-related deaths in 24 hours. This takes the progressive count to 1.051 million, of which 1.017 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 16,823 deaths, with 17,364 active cases currently in hospital undergoing treatment or in home isolation. As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 587 new Covid-19 cases which took its progressive count to 308,462. With 13 deaths reported on Sunday, the death toll stands at 5,753. Pune city reported 286 new Covid-19 cases which took its progressive count to 493,363. No deaths were reported on Sunday. The death toll stands at 8,152.PCMC reported 386 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, with which the progressive count went up to 250,106. No deaths were reported and the toll stands at 2,717.The state reported that 8,562 patients were discharged on Sunday and in total, 5,790,113 patients have been discharged after full recovery as of Sunday. The recovery rate in the state is 95.91 %. Also, 9,974 new cases and 143 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state on Sunday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.0 %. Of the 41,042,198 laboratory samples taken, 6,036,821 have tested positive (14.71 %) for Covid-19 as of Sunday. Currently, 619,168 people are in home quarantine and 4,240 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-1-259-new-covid-19-cases-and-13-deaths-101624818608593.html
28-06-2021||Noida||One killed as speeding bikes collide on Yamuna Expressway||A 28-year-old motorcycle enthusiast from Delhi died after his speeding vehicle allegedly collided with his friend’s motorcycle on the Yamuna Expressway on Sunday morning. Police said that it appears the riders were racing their motorcycles which led to the accident.The deceased was identified as Rahul Teotia, a native of Mehrauli in Delhi. His friend, identified as Yash Kumar, 30, who is a resident of Rohini in Delhi, was seriously injured in the incident, police said.Sanjay Kumar Singh, station house officer (SHO), Knowledge Park police station, said that the two bikers had come to Greater Noida area on a joyride. “ The accident took place on Agra-Noida side of the expressway around 9.50am. The rear tyre of Teotia’s bike got burst and he lost balance at around two kilometres from Zero Point in Greater Noida. Kumar, coming in the same direction, hit the Teotia’s bike and the two riders were injured,” he said.The SHO said that police received information about the accident through Twitter. “A police team reached the spot and rushed the two victims to a private hospital where Teotia died. Kumar is undergoing treatment at the hospital,” he said.Singh said police have not received any complaint in this regard. “We will conduct an awareness drive and advise people not to race on the Yamuna Expressway as it could be fatal,” the SHO said.Ashutosh Singh, Noida traffic inspector, said the traffic police frequently conduct enforcement drives to check racing bikes. “The police team stops them at the DND Flyway and Chilla Boder, and asks them to return. It appears that the two bikers from Delhi took some other routes for the Yamuna Expressway. We will conduct an enforcement drive on the expressway soon,” he said.A few months ago, a sports bike riders’ video had surfaced in which they were seen racing on the Yamuna Expressway. Police said that these bikers, mostly from Delhi, usually go for a joyride on the Yamuna Expressway till Rabupura and Jewar, and then return.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/one-killed-as-speeding-bikes-collide-on-yamuna-expressway-101624816567865.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s govt schools go the extra mile to make sure no student is left behind||With the first phase of online classes set to commence in over 1,030 Delhi government schools from Monday, principals and teachers have come up with innovative methods to track students and introduce them to another year of virtual learning.In a circular issued on Friday, the Directorate of Education asked teachers and principals to use the first phase, between June 28 and July 3, to establish an initial the pupil-teacher connect through the phone and prepare a list of students who don’t have either smartphones or feature phones.Several principals of public schools in areas such as Lajpat Nagar, Mayur Vihar, Rohini, Okhla, Najafgarh, Jafrabad, and Tilak Nagar said they will focus on providing emotional support to students and mentally prepare them before starting online classes.Awadhesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini, said the school will deploy teams of teachers to visit nearby localities with microphones. “Our teachers will go to busy intersections and make announcements on microphones about the new academic session. Even if the students are not present, relatives or neighbours of those families will inform them, and the students will return to their classes. When we did this activity last year, we were able to identify the localities where dropouts are more common and where intervention might be of more help,” he said.Most principals HT spoke to said that the focus will be on tracking Class 6 students. Every year, around 170,000 students move from municipal schools, which offer education only up to Class 5, to government schools in Class 6. Due to the pandemic, migration, and poor record-keeping, only 76% of such students could be traced last year.Schools such as Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Molarband said they are mindful of lessons drawn from last year’s admissions. “This time, we made it a point to note down contact numbers and updated addresses of all children, along with the bank account numbers linked to their subsidies. Before the pandemic, doing this was difficult as not all families had phones or remembered the number. But this time, we insisted on getting one contact number at least,” said principal Sujata Tamta.Not just tracking students, some schools are also taking measure to instil a connection between students, their peers and the institutes.Mudassir Jahan, head of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya in Noor Nagar, Okhla, said they are planning to record a video of the school to share with students on WhatsApp groups. “Along with Class 6 students who have been admitted this year, those who have been promoted to Class 7 also haven’t even visited their schools once. Their learning has been on WhatsApp due to the pandemic since last year. So, we plan to record a video of the school and its teachers along with photographs of their classmates so that they feel some sort of connection,” she said.Jahan also said that they plan to use the local community to track missing students. “Though we don’t expect many students to be missing, we will use local mosques, school management committee (SMC) members, and engage community leaders as shiksha mitras to contact families,” she said.Along with finding missing children and providing emotional support to students, schools are also taking efforts to provide tools of digital learning to those in need. Bijesh Kumar Sharma, principal of Shaheed Hemu Kalani Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya in Lajpat Nagar, said they have started an initiative with students of the school and their parents to help such families. “We provide the raw material for masks and toys to some families and sell the finished product in the market. The revenue generated is used to provide smartphones and other such requirements for needy students,” he said.According to school officials, they have raised ₹1.90 lakh from the initiative which saw participation from around 15 members from eight families, including Afghan refugees.Delhi government has also facilitated a mental health and well-being workshop with professional counsellors to train its mentor teachers, who will later conduct similar workshops with other teachers in schools under them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/loudspeakers-to-fundraisers-schools-go-the-extra-mile-to-ensure-no-student-left-behind-101624814833468.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi unlock: Cash-strapped gyms hope for respite||More than 5,000 gymnasiums, fitness centres and yoga centres in the city are set to open from Monday after 10-weeks of lockdown with new protocols in place to ensure less than 50% occupancy, distance between clients and adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.“It will be a major relief. Exercise is necessary not only for good physical health but also good mental health. The current times are very stressful. People need to go to the gym after taking all necessary precautions,” said Ashish Tanwar, an engineer and a regular at the gym.Arpita Aggarwal, another fitness enthusiast, said, “Yoga helps build good physical and mental health. It is extremely necessary. It is good that gyms and yoga centres can open now. If Covid-19 cases continue to go down, I hope the government soon allows swimming pools to open as well.”The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said in a notification on Saturday that gymnasiums and yoga institutes in the national capital can open from Monday.“Gymnasiums and yoga institutes will be permitted to open with up to 50% capacity. The owners shall be responsible for ensuring strict compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. In case any violation is found, strict action will be taken against the owner, as well as the individual, and the premises will be sealed forthwith,” a DDMA notification, dated June 26, read.Delhi has been under a lockdown since April 19 in the light of an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases. At its peak, on April 20, Delhi recorded more than 28,300 new Covid-19 cases in a day – a number that has now dropped to 89, according to the government’s Covid-9 health bulletin issued on Sunday.While Delhi started implementing a phased relaxation process from May 31, gyms were allowed to resume operations only on Saturday. Even during previous year’s lockdown, while the scaling down of restrictions had begun in early-June, gyms and yoga centres – usually seen as a threat in terms of transmission of the virus because of the closed spaces and little room for social distancing – were allowed to resume operations only around mid-September.“Delhi has more than 5,000 gyms, fitness centres and yoga centres. The industry was under a lot of financial stress because of the previous lockdown. The latest one was a massive blow. Many of them went out of business in the last few weeks. We hope we manage to recover financially in the coming months,” said Chirag Sethi, vice-president of Delhi gym association.Vinay Sangwan, owner of Anytime Fitness, a chain of gyms in Delhi-NCR, said: “In the time of the pandemic, people need to stay fit, both physically and mentally, for which gyms and yoga centres are very necessary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-gyms-open-with-covid-protocols-101624814834161.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Owners of banquet halls in Delhi look to make up for lost time||Owners of banquet halls and those involved in allied wedding-related businesses heaved a sigh of relief after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) came out with an order on Saturday allowing banquet halls to reopen from Monday, as part of its measures to unlock the Capital in a phased manner after a nearly two-month long lockdown that was put in place following the fourth wave of Covid-19 in the Capital.As per unlock rules issued by the DDMA, weddings can be held in banquet halls with the number of guests capped at 50. However, if a wedding is being held in court or at home, the existing cap of 20 people remains in place.Ramesh Dang, president of Community Welfare Banquet Association Delhi, said he is glad that restrictions have been eased after nearly two months. “We welcome the move. This was long pending. We are reaching out to our staff. While some are in Delhi, some had returned back to their native places,” said Dang.He said while some bookings had been placed months ago, bookings that were cancelled or postponed amid the fourth wave of Covid-19 are being rescheduled now. “By tomorrow (Monday), things will fall in place. We wrote to the chief minister and the Lieutenant Governor and are relieved that restrictions have been eased, although this comes a little late,” said Dang.He said while other states, such as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, had eased restrictions earlier, Delhi delayed lifting the curbs. “Since Delhi eased restrictions after neighbouring states, a lot of revenue has been directed outside the city. Nonetheless, something is better than nothing,” said Dang.Shiv Kumar, owner of Carnival motel and Resort, located at GT Karnal Road, said he was hoping for business to bounce back. “Since the decision came only a day ago, it will take some time for the machinery to kick into action. Our staff is also scattered in different places. We will start calling them,” said Kumar.He said that while the move was welcome, the wedding industry had been badly hit. “Only two-three dates are left for this month. There are some dates next month but many people have already booked facilities in Haryana and other states. We have faced a massive loss,” said Kumar.In addition to banquet halls, allied stakeholders and industry players, including band companies, decorators, caterers, and jewellers, are hoping for the revival of business.Virender Chawla, managing director of the Chawla Band, said while business had been hit, he was hopeful that it will recover. “Since last night (Saturday), we have started getting requests from people. People are enquiring and we are optimistic that things will get back on track. Delhi doesn’t take a lot of time to get back on its feet. In a month or two, things will become as before,” said Chawla. The band has asked all its employees to get vaccinated as a safety measure. “All our employees are getting vaccinated. We will follow all rules,” said Chawla.He said that many people are hoping to get married in the coming weeks since there were concerns about a possible third wave. “Cases are low and people want to fulfil their commitments since things are slightly better now,” said Chawla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/owners-of-banquet-halls-in-delhi-look-to-make-up-for-lost-time-101624814832675.html
28-06-2021||Gurugram||Lockdown extended till July 5, 16 new Covid-19 cases in Gurugram||The Haryana government on Sunday extended the lockdown till July 5, but offered further relaxations, allowing varsities to partially reopen, as Covid-19 cases continue to decline. On Sunday, 16 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the Gurugram district, as per the health department bulletin.An order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan on Sunday stated that the Mahamari Alert-Surakshit Haryana has been extended till 5am of July 5. It further stated that university campuses are allowed to open for research scholars, practical classes in laboratories and remedial/doubt classes, by adopting adequate social distancing norms, regular sanitisation and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.The latest lockdown guidelines further mention that anganwadi centres and crèches under the Women and Child Development department shall remain closed till July 31.On Sunday, the number of Covid-19 recoveries exceeded the number of cases, with 19 patients recovering from the infection. At present, the tally of total cases in the district stands at 180,659. Deaths of two Covid-19 patients were also reported on Sunday.The active case tally currently stands at 136 in the district, of whom 127 are in home isolation and nine are hospitalised, according to the health department bulletin. On the testing front, the health department collected 4,029 samples and reported that the results of 1,743 patients were awaited.Meanwhile, there was no vaccination at government centres on Sunday due to a pulse polio drive. At vaccination centres set up by private hospitals, a total of 4,143 beneficiaries were vaccinated with 3,390 being given the first dose and second dose to 753 beneficiaries.On Monday, the district health department will be conducting a special vaccination camp, for those waiting to take the second dose of the Covishield vaccine, at seven government sites. While there was no limit imposed for the second dose; only 100 doses of Covishield were allotted for the first dose vaccinations for each centre. The vaccine will be available at Sector 31 polyclinic, Pataudi community health centre (CHC), subdivisional hospital of Sohna, Farrukhnagar CHC, Civil Hospital in Sector 10 and the urban primary health centres in Fazilpur and Nathupur.For Covaxin, no doses have been allotted for the first dose, while 400 doses were allotted for the second dose, at four session sites. Covaxin will be administered at the Badshahpur primary health centre, Tigra urban primary health centre and Manesar urban primary health centre.Pulse polio driveOn Sunday, the first day of the pulse polio drive, 81,987 children were given polio doses. A statement released by the district administration mentioned that this is 51.16% of the total target set for the district. For the campaign, 677 booths were set up. On Monday and Tuesday, polio drops will be given to children up to the age of five years at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/lockdown-extended-till-july-5-16-new-covid-19-cases-in-gurugram-101624814831976.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Some hiccups but Chandni Chowk warms up to idea of being a vehicle-free zone||Newly-installed steel gates plastered with posters announcing a ban on entry of motorised vehicles between 9am to 9pm and a fine of ₹20,000 have come up at the entrance of the revamped Chandni Chowk, opposite the Red Fort. With the 1.3 km stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri Masjid becoming a no-go zone for motorised vehicles, queues of rickshaw pullers line up the entrance and keep an eye out for potential customers entering the market.Pappu, 22, who has been ferrying passengers in the area for the past six years, said there has been some improvement in earnings since motorised vehicles were barred on the stretch. “Since cars are no longer allowed during the day, more people are hiring cycle rickshaws. The restrictions need to be implemented more strictly. Makeshift e-rickshaws need to be banned too. They clog traffic and eat into our share of customers,” said Pappu, who goes by his first name.Prem Kumar, 24, another rickshaw puller, said while more people were reaching out to rickshaws since the ban on vehicles, it was crucial to ensure compliance. “Cars and scooters also keep entering whenever they get the chance. E-rickshaws also need to be banned if the focus is on pedestrianisation,” said Kumar.When HT visited the revamped stretch on Saturday, motorised vehicles such as scooters and cars were plying during the daytime. One of the two security guards on duty told HT that while they were only allowing vehicles with exemptions to pass through, some people got aggressive when they were stopped. “Many visitors including those who come for worship here, also ask us to open the gates. Sometimes they get aggressive but we try to stop them or comply with requests,” said the guard, who did not wish to named.Despite repeated attempts, senior traffic police officers did not comment on the allegations.As per a gazette notification issued by the Delhi transport department on June 14, motorised vehicles are no longer allowed to ply on the main Chandni Chowk Road from Red Fort to Fatehpuri Mosque from 9am to 9pm. Fire tenders, ambulance, hearse vans, and other emergency vehicles along with vehicles deployed for enforcement and maintenance services, however, have been kept out of the purview of restrictions.The 1.3-km stretch has been turned into a pedestrian-only zone as part of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project being spearheaded by the Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), the nodal agency for the redevelopment of the heritage market. Work on various aspects of the first phase of the project is expected to be completed by the end of July.SRDC officials said the installation of street lights on the stretch along with the control room for CCTV monitoring is expected to be completed by June 30. Work on all toilets is also underway and is expected to be completed by July 31.Shoppers and residents also welcomed the area becoming a vehicle-free zone.Mohd Sadir, 38, who has a shoe shop in Ballimaran, said he was happy with the pedestrianisation and hoped that more areas will be covered soon. “We welcome this step but the area needs to be beautified beyond this stretch,” said Sadir, who lives in Ballimaran. He said while there were some challenges in transporting goods, people will get used to the timings gradually. “There is always some resistance to new initiatives. Cycle rickshaws are always there for ferrying both goods and passengers,” said Sadir.Deepa Mehra, a resident of Kucha Ghasi Ram, said while the main stretch has been completed, work needed to be amped up. “The pedestrianisation plan is good since vehicles would clog all the roads earlier, leaving little to no space for walking. Cars should be completely banned in the area but there is a need to move beyond the mains stretch into the galis. The core problems remain. They should have worked on the inner streets first,” said Mehra.While most people have welcomed restrictions on motorised vehicles, some residents along with custodians of places of worship have sought some relaxations on account of inconvenience being faced by worshippers. Officials from the Gurudwara Sis Gang Sahib said the elderly and disabled worshippers were facing challenges due to a ban on motorised vehicles.“Two-wheelers are also not being allowed to come inside. If this continues, many people will not be able to visit us the way they way did earlier. Senior citizens are also getting dissuaded since vehicles are no longer being allowed,” said a visitor, who did not wish to be named.Maulana Mohammad Furquan Qasmi, imam, Sunehri Masjid, Fountain Chowk, said while the curbs on entry of motorised vehicles were needed “for a place like Chandni Chowk”, limited passes for emergency use could be given out to various places of worship. “We welcome the beautification but traffic police should hold consultations and issue passes for emergency use to those who come to worship here. Every time, we step out for some emergency work or transfer of goods, we are threatened with fines. If elderly or disabled individuals visit us, we can’t ask them to go back and return after 9 pm. Those of us who live here should not be inconvenienced,” said Qasmi.He added that it was crucial to listen to local residents before implementing new measures, a sentiment that was echoed by multiple residents of the area.Anil Pershad, 77, who belongs to the famous Chunnamal family, said challenges were mounting for local residents in the area. “There is a lot of traffic chaos since work is still underway. Unless specific instructions are given to security guards, residents will continue to face troubles while going in and out. There is no arrangement in place for catering to health emergencies either. It will help if local residents like us can be given a pass which can be used in emergencies,” said Pershad, adding that residents were not being made stakeholders in the revamp initiative.“If Chandni Chowk is being beautified, it should be done in such a manner that people who left the area are motivated to come back. People don’t want to come back since nothing is being done for the local residents. We can’t park our own cars here,” said Pershad.Nitin Panigrahi, deputy general manager, SRDC, said exemptions have already been provided to the elderly and emergency vehicles including ambulance and hearse vans. He added that plans for the introduction of e-carts for the elderly were also being considered. “Since the restrictions on vehicles, the environment has improved in terms of safety for elderly people. We may also introduce e-carts for the elderly,” said Panigrahi.He added that it was the responsibility of enforcement authorities to ensure compliance with the restrictions of vehicular movement. “SRDC doesn’t have enforcement authority. Traffic police are spreading awareness and signages and barriers have been installed though,” said Panigrahi.Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said that business had improved in the area and things were expected to improve further as things fall into place. “Business has only grown with pedestrianisation. Once work on CCTV is completed and enforcement becomes stricter, things will improve further,” said Bhargava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/some-hiccups-but-chandni-chowk-warms-up-to-idea-of-being-a-vehicle-free-zone-101624814830755.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s DoE asked to pay ₹50,000 to student for an attendance goof-up||The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) has asked the state education department to pay ₹50, 000 to a student who was erroneously marked absent for a Class 12 practical exam that he had appeared for and was awarded lesser marks on a pro-rata basis by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The error took place after the child remained enrolled at two Patrachar (correspondence) centres due to administrative confusion despite requesting for a change of centre, the DCPCR report noted.“Department of education, the government of NCT of Delhi to compensate [the said student] with ₹50,000 as compensation for the mental trauma he has had to suffer because of the departmental lapse,” the commission noted in its report.The student had appeared for his Class 12 mathematics practical assessment in the academic year 2019-20 and was awarded 17 out of 20 marks in the test. However, as he was erroneously enrolled in two centres, one of which marked him absent, the board granted him four out of 20 marks in the assessment as per the pro-rata basis on humanitarian grounds. The complainant also met CBSE officials to flag the concerns.“Clearly, there were multiple systemic breakdowns at the Patrachar Vidyalaya level. The centre change information was not given to the original centre which resulted in the previous centre marking the child absent inadvertently,” the report noted.CBSE Patrachar centres at Delhi government schools allow out-of-school students to appear for their board exams and study in non-formal mode. The commission directed CBSE to award the student 17 marks out of 20 for his internal assessment. Despite repeated requests, the CBSE spokesperson did not comment on the matter.“CBSE is an examination body, i.e. its role is to conduct examinations and report scores. By seeking to decide marks to something the child has not scored and disregarding the actual marks scored by the child, the CBSE assumes to itself powers it does not have…By giving him marks lower than he scored (4/20), CBSE violates his right to education and deprives him of the world of opportunities that are dependent on the board results in our country,” the report noted.An education department official, requesting anonymity, said, “Candidates choose their Patrachar centre on their own. In this case, the student selected the wrong district by mistake. Though we added his name in the new centre, we missed cancelling his name in the other centre. As soon as we got to know about the issue, we flagged it to CBSE officials. This was even before the child or his parent noticed the issue. Since DCPCR has asked the education department to initiate proceedings against our officials, they (officials) will present their side to the director of education.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-directorate-of-education-asked-to-pay-rs-50-000-to-student-for-an-attendance-goofup-101624814769697.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police identify drug peddling hot spots in Capital as cases spike||The Delhi police have identified at least 15 areas in Delhi as the “hot spots” for narcotic drugs peddling based on the trend of seizures of the contraband and arrests of peddlers, according to a report shared by the police on Sunday.The analysis report was prepared by the narcotics cell of the crime branch collate information and data on the latest trends in the drugs trade. It is an internal assessment done annually and half-yearly, officials privy to the development said.Police statistics attached with the report also show that there has been a nearly 100% increase in registration of cases as well as arrests of drug peddlers and suppliers in Delhi in 2020, compared to 2017. Also, 91% more peddlers were arrests in 2021 till June 15, compared to the data for the corresponding period last year. The data also shows an increase of around 55% in the registration of cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act during the same period.The report lists Sultanpuri, Jahangirpuri, Inderpuri, Sagarpur, Uttam Nagar, Laxmi Nagar, Nand Nagri, Dwarka, Chhatarpur, Nizamuddin, Majnu Ka Tila, Paharganj, Kalyanpuri, Hauz Khas Village and Khanpur as the areas where maximum seizures and arrests have come from.“We did an action-based analysis of the latest trends of the trafficking and peddling of narcotic drugs to identify the hot spots in Delhi and the prime sources in other states from where these substances are smuggled into Delhi. The trend shows that in Delhi the narcotic supply chain is – local drug supplier, drug peddler and the users. The mapping of the hot spots is helping us in nabbing the suppliers and peddlers,” said deputy commissioner of police (narcotics cell) Chinmoy Biswal, who is also the spokesperson of the city police.The report says that the commonly used drugs in Delhi are marijuana, heroin, smack, cannabis, opium and cocaine, while drug users also look for codeine syrup and inhalants, including whipped cream containers, permanent markers, bleach, cleaning substance, glue, thinner, fluorescent ink and whitener. Some synthetic drugs such as LSD, commonly known as “acid” and “L”, MDMA, also referred as ecstasy or “molly”, ketamine, methamphetamine (commonly known as “meth” or “crystal”) are sold as party drugs among rich people, senior police officers from the narcotics cell said.As far as the supply of these narcotic substances is concerned, marijuana is one of the cheapest and mostly used contraband in Delhi. It is trafficked in Delhi mostly from Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, UP, Bihar, Assam, Manipur and Nepal where it is grown locally by the farmers. Cannabis on the other hand is trafficked into Delhi from Himachal Pradesh, eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Nepal as well, said DCP Biswal.“Places in Rajasthan such as Bhilwara, Jhalawar, Kota, Udaipur and Jodhpur are the prime source of opium in Delhi. This contraband is also procured from Neemach, Ratlam, Mandsor, Indore in Madhya Pradesh and from Uttar Pradesh’s Bareilly, Barabanki, Badaun, and also from Jharkhand,” he said.Narcotic drugs such as cocaine and heroin are trafficked into India from abroad via air and sea routes. The neighbouring countries are used as the transit points.Experts said the police will have to check the local supply network to contain the menace. “Identifying the local hot spots means the police are aware of the main distribution centres of narcotic drugs. But to control this menace, it is important to be vigilant against the local suppliers and monitor their activities regularly. The local police can play an important role in it. The second important step should be identifying the places where such drugs are produced and bust the supply chain through which the items are smuggled into Delhi. A holistic approach and better coordination with other states is the key in the fight against the drug menace,” said former IPS officer Ashok Chand, who served the Delhi Police for around 35 years and headed the special cell and crime branch units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-identify-drug-peddling-hot-spots-in-capital-as-cases-spike-101624814767727.html
28-06-2021||Delhi||45-year-old stabbed to death in Delhi's Sultanpuri during snatching attempt; 3 minors apprehended||A 45-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by three minor boys for resisting their attempt to snatch his mobile phone and cash on a street in outer Delhi’s Sultanpuri on Friday night.According to police, the suspects allegedly stabbed the victim, identified as Ravinder Bisht, took out his wallet having his Aadhaar card and some cash but left his mobile phone since the victim raised the alarm.The three boys, aged around 17, were caught late Saturday night allegedly with Bisht’s wallet, containing ₹700 and his Aadhaar card. Police on Sunday said they also recovered a button-activated knife allegedly used to kill the victim.“The boys told us that resorted to snatching money and valuables to fund their drinking habit. They killed the man to rob him of his mobile phone and cash, using which they had planned to buy alcohol,” said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh.Bisht lived with his wife and two children in outer Delhi’s Nangloi, nearly a kilometre away from the spot where he was stabbed, and worked in a factory in Mangolpuri. His wife, Kamla, is a homemaker while their 19-year-old daughter Meghna works in a private company and son, Navneet, is a Class 10 student.Around midnight on Friday, Bisht was returning home from the factory and had reached near Jalebi Chowk in an autorickshaw from where he started walking home. After walking a few metres, Bisht stopped to speak to someone on his mobile phone when the three boys, who were roaming in the neighbourhood allegedly in search of a target, spotted him, said police.“One of the boys caught Bisht from behind, grabbed his neck, and tried to choke him while his associate attempted to snatch Bisht’s mobile phone. When he resisted, the third boy took out the knife and stabbed Bisht multiple times in his chest. When Bisht screamed for help, they took out his wallet and fled, leaving him bleeding on the roadside,” said DCP Singh.Some passersby heard Bisht’s screams and rushed him to Sanjay Gandhi Memorial hospital, where he succumbed to the stab wounds during treatment. A case of murder was registered and investigators spoke to many people in the neighbourhood, some of whom had spotted the three boys wandering in the area at the time of the crime. The three were identified and apprehended, as they turned out to be juveniles, the police said.“Bisht’s wallet with his Aadhaar card and ₹700 cash, the knife used in the crime and the clothes they wore at the time of the crime and had blood spots, were recovered from them,” the DCP added.In another case, a 42-year-old man was stabbed to death allegedly by two men, including his nephew, over a personal dispute in south Delhi’s Govindpuri on Friday night. Both the suspects were caught on Saturday from Agra in Uttar Pradesh, where they were hiding after the crime.Police said the victim, Hari Kishan, was returning to his home in Transit Camp, Govindpuri, when his nephew Rahul, alias Ashu, and his friend Babu allegedly waylaid him in the lane. An altercation ensued between them during which Kishan allegedly tried to attack the two with an empty beer bottle.The two allegedly retaliated and stabbed him with a knife due to which he collapsed. The suspects fled while Kishan’s family members rushed him to Safdarjung hospital, where he was declared brought dead, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/45yearold-stabbed-to-death-in-sultanpuri-during-snatching-attempt-3-minors-apprehended-101624814647774.html
