30-06-2021||Other||Dams filled to 29.59 per cent of capacity as of June 30||PUNE As of June 30, the total water in four dams supplying water to Pune district is 8.62 TMC (thousand million cubic feet), at 29.59 per cent of capacity. In 2020, the water resources department said that by June end, the four dams had 5.28 TMC water at 18.13 per cent of capacity.As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), between June 1 and June 30, Pune city received 152.5 mm of rainfall, 14.8 mm more than normal. HV Gunale, chief engineer, water resources, Pune division, said, “With good rainfall in May, not much dam water was released through canals for irrigation. Also, the catchment areas saw good rainfall till June 19 which left the dams with good water storage.As of Wednesday, water storage in Khadakwasla was at 0.90 TMC; Panshet at 4.16 TMC; and Warasgaon at 2.98 TMC. At the Temghar dam, water storage was 0.59 TMC as of Wednesday.As per the water resources department, since June 1, the Panshet catchment area witnessed 324mm of rainfall. Also, Varasgaon catchment area reported 318mm of rainfall, and Temghar reported 490mm of rainfall since the start of June. Khadakwasla has reported 200mm of rainfall from June 1 till June 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dams-filled-to-29-59-per-cent-of-capacity-as-of-june-30-101625077702016.html
30-06-2021||Other||Max temp in Pune 2 deg warmer than normal as monsoon on a break||PUNE With the monsoon on a break in Pune city, the maximum temperature during the day is 2 degrees warmer than normal, for this time of the year. On Wednesday, Shivajinagar reported a maximum temperature of 31.7 degrees Celsius, 2.8 degrees warmer than normal, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD).The minimum temperature recorded was 22.3 degrees Celsius, 0.3 degrees cooler than normal as per IMD.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting at IMD Pune said that the monsoon is not active over Pune and Maharashtra.“Also, moisture level and cloud cover has reduced. As a result, IMD is issuing forecasts for very light or light rainfall. Because of all these factors, natural insulation has increased. And the heat load has increased resulting in warmer days. Over Maharashtra, there is some moisture due to the westerlies, but not much. Such weather may continue in the coming days as well,” said Kashyapi. Across Maharashtra, the highest maximum temperature reported on Wednesday was 37.3 degrees Celsius at Akola, and the lowest minimum temperature reported was 17.5 degrees Celsius at Mahabaleshwar.IMD officials said that the Southwest monsoon has not made any progress since June 19. It is likely to get active by July 7 in most parts of the country, including Maharashtra.“Since June 19, there has not been any progress of the monsoon. It was due to impact mid-latitude westerly winds and absence of formation of low pressure system over North Bay of Bengal,” said IMD officials. Flu season upon us: docDoctors suggest that the seasonal flu may be about due to this temperature difference. Dr Sai Waghmare said, “There is a sharp change in day and night temperatures. Many suffer from seasonal flu and fever. Patients of asthma and joint pains can suffer more than others due to the cloudy weather. A good way to keep oneself away from these seasonal infections is to keep immunity up,” said Dr Waghmare.She added that a wholesome diet along with regular dedicated exercise can keep infection at bay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/max-temp-in-pune-2-deg-warmer-than-normal-as-monsoon-on-a-break-101625077642103.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 1,474 fresh Covid cases, 5 deaths||Pune: As per state health authorities, Pune district reported 1,474 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Five Covid deaths were reported in Pune district in the last 24 hours. All five deaths were reported in rural Pune on Wednesday. No deaths were reported in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 494,342 Covid cases and 8,165 deaths till Wednesday. PCMC has reported 250,761 cases so far and 2,745 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 309,954 total cases so far and 5,783 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 1,055,057 Covid cases. Of this, 1,020,754 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 16,896 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 17,407 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 10,353 patients were discharged on Wednesday in Maharashtra taking the total to 58,19,901 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 96.02%. Across Maharashtra, 9,771 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Wednesday and 141 Covid deaths were reported on Wednesday. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.01%. The state health department stated that of 41,637,950 laboratory samples, 6,061,404 have been tested positive till Wednesday. That is 14.56% patients till Wednesday. Currently, 617,926 people are in home quarantine and 4,173 in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-1-474-fresh-covid-cases-5-deaths-101625077582031.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||3 rob jewellery store, kill shopkeeper in Dahisar||Dahisar police on Wednesday booked three unidentified persons for killing one person and robbing a jewellery store in Dahisar (East). According to police, the incident took place at about 10.45am on Wednesday, when three robbers arrived at the Om Sairaj Jewellery store at Gavde Nagar. The robbers fired one round on the shopkeeper, killing him on the spot. The robbers then filled two bags with jewellery before fleeing the spot. The number plate of the Activa bike was folded, due to which, no one could note down its registration number. Police officers said that they have acquired CCTV footages of the road where they can see the men on the Activa, riding triple seat.Police said the rider had worn a white kurta and blue jeans with black shoes.The police are trying to identify and trace the accused. “A nakabandi has been set up at all the exit roads. We have also alerted our informers to lookout for the robbers,” said an officer from Dahisar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3-rob-jewellery-store-kill-shopkeeper-in-dahisar-101625077342029.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||ED to record Gautam Navlakha’s statement in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Wednesday obtained permission to record statement of civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha, who is arrested in connection with Elgar Parishad case, in connection with a money laundering case registered against an online news portal.ED had on Tuesday moved an application through its counsel Kavita Patil seeking permission of the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court to record Navlakha’s statement in the alleged money laundering case. The special court on Wednesday heard the agency and granted it permission to record his statement in prison.The central agency has been probing money laundering allegations against a news portal. The agency has alleged that the portal has paid Navlakha towards salary. The agency also alleged that the owners had received funds from foreign countries which is nothing but money laundering.Navlakha, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case, is presently lodged in Taloja jail. He was first arrested by the Pune Police on August 28, 2018, but the Delhi high court (HC) had quashed his arrest on October 1, 2018. After his release, Navlakha was again arrested on April 14 last year as his plea for anticipatory bail was rejected by all courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ed-to-record-gautam-navlakha-s-statement-in-money-laundering-case-101625077282740.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC asks Centre, state to address issue of garbage on coastline||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday initiated the process of filing a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) on the issue of tonnes of waste washing up on the shoreline, especially in the aftermath of Cyclone Tauktae. The HC said it was concerned by the issue of dumping of garbage in the sea which is affecting marine life and wanted the Centre and state government to take note of the same and submit a proposal to clean up the coastline in Maharashtra. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing PILs pertaining to Covid-19 management in Maharashtra, noted that in recent days it had read news reports of the coastline being strewn with garbage, especially after Cyclone Tauktae and the photographs indicated that the situation was grim. While addressing additional solicitor general Anil Singh for the Centre and advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni for the state, the bench said, “Over and above the problems faced by the coastline, a larger problem lies in danger to marine life due to dumping of filth. We are considering whether to initiate suo motu PIL on this. We have prepared a short list of all such reports which we will give to you.”Kumbhakoni requested the bench to defer its decision by a day and said he required time to go through the list of the news reports and consult with officials concerned. The bench then said, “The reason why we want to deal with the problem right now is that it is happening in monsoon, we cannot defer it for long. The problem is quite serious which needs to be taken care of as even Marine Drive was seen strewn with filth thrown up by the sea.”Seeking responses from Centre and state lawyers, the bench said that it would consider the initiation of suo motu PIL on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-asks-centre-state-to-address-issue-of-garbage-on-coastline-101625077282002.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: PG medical students with higher education prospects stuck due to delay in exam||For 25-year-old Sandhya Soni (name changed), her joy knew no bounds when she cleared the all-important entrance exam to bag a seat in the super speciality Master’s course in paediatric surgery at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Delhi. However, now her fear is that she might lose the seat as the last date to submit their final-year postgraduate (PG) medical exam certificate is July 31, but the exams in Maharashtra is scheduled to take place in August.“Our final-year PG medical exam is scheduled to begin on August 16, but the final date to submit all certificates to AIIMS is July 31, which is impossible for us. We have approached the authorities at AIIMS, but have not heard from them yet,” said Soni, who along with another student from Grant Medical College are the only two students from Maharashtra to have cleared the entrance exam this year. “This is a super speciality course and the fact that we have been allotted a seat itself is a big deal. Missing out on the admission for no fault of ours will be unfair,” she added.Originally scheduled to take place in May, PG final-year exams were postponed by a month based on a circular by the National Medical Commission (NMC) in order to ensure all students are working across hospitals, as the country was in the midst of the peak of the second wave of Covid-19.On Tuesday, representatives of the Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) approached the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) as well as AIIMS Delhi, requesting then to consider this matter. “PG final-year exams were postponed due to rising Covid cases, and therefore all hospitals needed their residents to work throughout the past two months. These students managed to ace their Master of Chirurgiae (MCh) entrance exam despite working seven days a week, which is commendable. Authorities at AIIMS must consider giving a one-time only extension to these candidates,” said Dr Pranav Jadhav, vice-president, central MARD.The letter has also been addressed to the Union health minister and Federation of Resident Doctors Association (FORDA). They have also requested MUHS to intervene in this matter and approach AIIMS directly. “We have received the request from students and will be writing to admission authorities at AIIMS,” said an official from MUHS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtrapg-medical-students-with-higher-education-prospects-stuck-due-to-delay-in-exam-101625077222760.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC dismisses PIL against tree cutting for coastal road project||The Bombay high court (HC) paved the way for continuation of the work on the interchange at Tata Gardens in South Mumbai in the ₹12,000-crore coastal road project by dismissing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by an NGO which had secured a stay from HC on May 20 against the January 6 order of the tree authority which had permitted cutting and transplanting of 140 trees. The PIL was dismissed after the NGO submitted that it did not have ₹60 crore to deposit in the court towards the security deposit decided by the judges based on the stipulation of Rule 7A of the Bombay High Court Public Interest Litigation Rules. Rule 7A stipulates that a petitioner has to make a security deposit of the amount decided by the judges if the PIL is to be heard on merits. On Wednesday the judges asked the NGO to deposit 0.5% of the total cost of the project as security deposit.The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL filed by Society of Improvement of Greenery, was informed by advocate Ankit Kulkarni that the January 6 decision of the tree authority was not proper as the decision was taken without considering the views of experts. Kulkarni submitted that no study was conducted while passing the order of felling 61 trees and transplanting 79 trees. He added that the tree authority did not even take into consideration the survival rate of trees which had been transplanted for the Metro project, and hence the decision would result in most of the trees not surviving. In view of this, the NGO challenged the January 6 order of the TA. However, senior advocate Aspi Chinoy and advocate Joel Carlos for the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), which is responsible for the coastal road project, opposed the objections and said that the tree authority had not only uploaded the order on January 19 on its website but had also conducted a public hearing, but the NGO had not raised any objection then. Chinoy added that the NGO had not pursued the issue and woke up to it during the vacation and had secured a stay on the order on May 21, as a result of which work on the interchange had come to a halt, causing huge losses to the civic authority. In light of these submissions, BMC sought dismissal of the PIL. After hearing the submissions, the court sought to know from the NGO as to why it had come to court belatedly though its PIL was filed in March 2020. Kulkarni informed the bench that praecipes had moved for urgent hearing from time to time and the PIL got listed as well, but could not be heard due to paucity of time. The bench, however, was not satisfied and the chief justice observed that all praecipes were allowed and matters were listed, however he had not heard any request for urgent hearing of the PIL, hence he was putting the NGO to terms and sought to know whether it was willing to deposit an amount as stipulated in Rule 7A of PIL rules. “We will hear the PIL on merits only after you deposit the amount or else we will dismiss it,” the bench said. When Kulkarni responded that the members of the NGO were a mix of people who walked in Tata Garden and could not afford to deposit the amount, the court dismissed the PIL. The bench also clarified that in light of the dismissal, the May 21 stay was vacated and work on felling and transplanting of trees could continue as per the tree authority order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-dismisses-pil-against-tree-cutting-for-coastal-road-project-101625077222030.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Naseeruddin Shah and Dilip Kumar hospitalised, stable||Two veteran Bollywood actors — Dilip Kumar and Naseeruddin Shah — are undergoing treatment at Hinduja Hospital, Khar. Both were in stable condition, according to their doctors. Shah was rushed to the hospital on Monday with complaints of chest pain. Sources from the hospital said he has a minor blockage in his heart. Doctors will conduct an angiography — a type of X-ray used to check blood vessels — on him Thursday. A decision on whether he will require an angioplasty, a procedure to open blocked coronary arteries caused by coronary artery disease, will be taken then.“Once the angiography is done, we will be able to understand his health condition further,” said a doctor, who is part of a medical team providing him treatment. Dilip Kumar was taken to the hospital on Tuesday night for the second time in a month after he complained of breathlessness. Like earlier, doctors treated Kumar for water accumulation in his lungs. In the beginning of June, the 98-year-old actor was diagnosed with bilateral pleural effusion, which is build-up of excess fluid between the layers of the pleura outside lungs. “We have pumped out the water from his lungs. He is fine now but kept in the intensive care unit (ICU) for observation,” said a doctor from the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/naseeruddin-shah-and-dilip-kumar-hospitalised-stable-101625077162716.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||9-year-old is Mumbai’s first leptospirosis death this monsoon||A nine-year-old girl from LT Marg Chowk succumbed to suspected leptospirosis infection on June 25 at Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital, also known as Sion hospital. This is the city’s first fatality suspected to be related to leptospirosis this monsoon. The girl was rushed to Sion hospital on June 24 with complaints of vomiting, abdominal pain and high fever. Within 24 hours, she succumbed at the hospital. According to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), till June 20, a total of eight cases of leptospirosis have been reported in the city, higher than the past two years in the same month. Last year in June, only one leptospirosis case was reported and in the year before, five. This year, till June 20, a total 52 leptospirosis cases have been reported. Leptospirosis is a common infection during the monsoon. Caused by a form of bacteria called spirochete, leptospirosis occurs when humans come in direct contact with urine from infected animals, especially rodents, or through water, soil or food contaminated with infected urine in settings of poor sanitation habits. Areas that are prone to flooding and waterlogging during monsoon become the source of infection. As per the nine-year-old’s treating doctor at the hospital, she had been showing symptoms of leptospirosis for three-four days but by the time she was admitted to the hospital, her health had deteriorated. “With leptospirosis, her cause of death also includes massive pulmonary bleed (MPB), which means bleeding in lungs. She also had acute respiratory distress. Her condition deteriorated within a few hours of admission,” said the doctor. With the advancement of the monsoon in parts of Maharashtra, Mumbai recorded heavy rainfall in the first week of June. According to doctors at the hospital, the nine-year-old got exposed to the infection when she travelled outside in the rain in areas with waterlogging. The girl’s case papers have been sent to the death review committee of epidemiology cell, BMC, for investigation. On January 21, the hospital registered its first death related to leptospirosis of the year when an eight-year-old girl died. “Recently, the city has witnessed heavy rain and with the relaxation of the lockdown, many people are travelling outside which might have contributed to the rise of leptospirosis cases,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. In the second week of June, after heavy rain, BMC issued an advisory asking people to be cautious if they have walked through contaminated water during monsoon or after heavy rain. Citizens have been requested to take prophylactic treatment for leptospirosis within 72 hours of getting exposed to rain. “All private practitioners are hereby requested to start doxycycline course for all fever patients during monsoon season. Early treatment with doxycycline prevents organ involvement and other complications thereby preventing deaths due to leptospirosis,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/9yearold-is-mumbai-s-1st-leptospirosis-death-this-monsoon-101625077101982.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC upholds January 2020 tariff plan by TRAI, allows inclusion of premium channels in bouquet||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday upheld the Constitutional validity of the new tariff order (NTO) announced by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) in January 2020, giving a setback to broadcasters who had challenged the NTO on the grounds that it was arbitrary. The court, however, struck down the NTO condition which restrained broadcasters from including premium channels — rates of which exceeded three times the rate of the average channels — being offered in the bouquet and held that it was unconstitutional. TRAI said it would continue its August 2020 statement of no coercive action against non-compliance by broadcasters for another six weeks. The division bench headed by justice AA Sayed, which had heard and reserved its judgement on the petitions by various broadcasters on October 20, 2020, while pronouncing the judgement on Wednesday said the petitions challenging the 2020 regulation and tariff order by TRAI had failed, barring the challenge regarding inclusion of premium channels, rates of which are more than three times the cost of an average channel, in the bouquet. The petitions filed by Film and Television Producers Guild of India, Indian Broadcasting Foundation and TV broadcasters including Sony Pictures, Zee Entertainment, Star India, Disney, TV18, Asianet Communications among others before the HC last year had challenged the new tariff rules as well as conditions to be complied with while offering the bouquet of channels announced by TRAI in January 2020. The petitions had contended that as per the new amended tariff order (NTO 2.0), which reduced the channel prices from ₹19 to ₹12 and permitted broadcaster to offer only those channels which had maximum retail price of ₹12 or less in bouquet, was unconstitutional and arbitrary and hence should be set aside. NTO 2.0 had amended the 2017 tariff order pertaining to fixing and limiting prices of channels offered by various broadcasters and included new conditions in the interest of viewers. The petitions also claimed the reduction in the Network Capacity Fee (NCF), which was brought down to ₹130 by TRAI, as unreasonable. On Wednesday, the bench, while granting partial relief to broadcasters, set aside their other prayers including challenging constitutional validity of section 11 of TRAI Act, which enumerates functions and authority of the telecom regulator over broadcasters. After the order was pronounced, the broadcasters who challenged the TRAI decision sought a stay on implementation of the judgement so that they could approach the Supreme Court, which the bench allowed. Detailed judgement is expected to be uploaded on the HC website in due course.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-upholds-january-2020-tariff-plan-by-trai-allows-inclusion-of-premium-channels-in-bouquet-101625077042029.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees highest June rainfall in six years||The city has received a total of 967.7mm rain in June so far, making it the highest rainfall received during the month in six years. It also marks a 90% departure from the monthly normal rainfall of 505mm. Data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) shows that 706mm of rain was recorded in the first 12 days of the month alone.The heaviest showers in June occurred on June 9 when the city saw 220.6mm or 44% of the monthly normal rain in just nine hours. This marked an early onset of the monsoon two days prior to the official onset date of June 11. The presence of a low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal around that time along with a cyclonic circulation in the Arabian Sea intensified showers along the entire Konkan coast with intense westerly winds gusting at between 50kmph and 60kmph.However, there has been a sharp decline in the intensity of rains since then, with the southwest monsoon being in a subdued phase which, IMD officials say, is likely to continue for another week. “Models suggest monsoon entering into a break spell from June 29. Heavy rains to be confined mainly over northeast India at least till July 5 with suppressed rainfall over rest of India. Active break spells are part of monsoon dynamics and decide quantum of seasonal rainfall,” ministry of earth sciences secretary M Rajeevan had tweeted earlier this week. Speaking to HT on Wednesday, Rajeevan said models show a sign of monsoon revival sometime around July 7.The Monsoon Intraseasonal Oscillation and Madden-Julian Oscillation were not active over India, thereby suppressing rainfall. After June 12, there were no large scale weather features to support continued effects of monsoon. Cross-equatorial flows remained weak, there was an absence of convection over the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal, and strong mid-latitude westerly winds — all of these played a part in weakening monsoon.Mumbai had recorded just over 340mm rain in June 2020, 515.1mm in June 2019, 792.5mm in 2018, 523.2mm in 2017, 695.2mm in 2016, and 1,106.7mm in 2015, shows IMD data. During June 2014, Mumbai witnessed its lowest June rainfall in 10 years at 87.3mm while the second lowest was in June 2012 at 298.5mm. The all-time lowest June rainfall was in 1972 at 0.2mm followed by 1995 at 82.2mm.In June this year, Mumbai is among five Maharashtra districts that has seen ‘large excess’ rainfall, which is over 60% of the seasonal normal. Another 16 districts in Vidarbha, Konkan, and Madhya Maharashtra saw ‘excess’ rainfall with 20% to 59% of the seasonal normal; while 11 districts, largely in Madhya Maharashta, and a few in Vidarbha, saw normal rainfall. Konkan and Goa meteorological sub-division received ‘excess’ rain at 41% over normal.Three districts — Nandurbar, Akola and Dhule — saw deficient rains ranging between -30% to -51% of the normal amount for June. However, the entire state has received ‘excess’ rainfall which is 31% above the state’s normal of 207.6mm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-highest-june-rainfall-in-six-years-101625076921995.html
30-06-2021||Other||Provide 50L water connections to people in two months: UP CM||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said all work related to the ‘Har Ghar Jal’ scheme (clean water to every house) should be completed in time and 50 lakh water connections be given to people in the next two months. Work on laying pipelines to supply water should be completed expeditiously and there should be no compromise with the quality of pipes, he said while reviewing the progress of the implementation of the scheme here on Wednesday. The scheme is being run under the Jal Jeevan Mission. The chief minister thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the implementation of the scheme and said it would help achieve the central and state government’s objective of providing clean water to people living in rural areas. He said this would also help in achieving the objectives on the public health front. “The report on the progress of implementation should be uploaded and third party audit should also be carried out,” said the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/provide-50l-water-connections-to-people-in-two-months-up-cm-101625076861956.html
30-06-2021||Other||4 officials of real estate co held in Lucknow for multi-crore fraud||LUCKNOW Four officials, including the country head and managing director of a real estate and multi-level marketing company, were arrested by the Special Task Force (STF) here on Wednesday for allegedly duping investors of crores. The company’s key operator had fled from India a year ago and was stated to be operating from a Gulf country, said police. The arrested accused were identified as India head of Shine City and Sky Ocean Companies, Brij Mohan Kumar Singh, its managing director Ankit Kumar Singh and two other authorities, Mohd Faizan and Subash Tukram Devkate, said officials.In a press note shared by the UP STF, officials stated that the two companies floated by the firm’s chief managing director, Rashid Naseem, had disappeared after collecting crores of rupees from gullible investors in the name of providing plots at cheap rates. The investors were also lured into making quick money through multi-level marketing and investment schemes. As many as 2,500 FIRs were registered against Rashid Naseem, his associates and the companies in different cities across many states including UP, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar and Delhi, read the press note.A senior STF official said the arrest of the country head of the company and three others was in connection with an FIR of fraud and cheating lodged against them at Gauriganj police station of Amethi district in 2019.He said Brij Mohan Kumar Singh revealed that he alone had got ₹75 crore invested in the company between 2017 and 2019 and got 6% commission from it. He also went to Dubai in March 2020 to meet Rashid Naseem and held a meeting there.The officials said the enforcement directorate had already registered a case of money laundering against the company and its operators in 2019, after multiple FIRs of financial fraud were registered against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-officials-of-real-estate-co-held-in-lucknow-for-multi-crore-fraud-101625076621952.html
30-06-2021||Other||UP-Rera asks admin to e-auction ₹344 crore assets of defaulter developers||The Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) on Wednesday ordered the Gautam Budh Nagar administration to e-auction assets worth ₹344 crore of 32 developers who had failed to refund people in violation of the authority’s directive.The money from the auction would be used to repay those who did not get their flats several years after deadline.This is not the first time that the UP-Rera has ordered such an action. Earlier, the district administration would attach and seal properties of defaulters but do not have the powers to auction them off. “We have attached the flats, villas and plots following orders from the UP-Rera. We have written to the UP government for appropriate decision on e-auction because we do not have the authority,” said Suhas LY district magistrate Gautam Budh Nagar. “In many previous cases too (in which the district had attached assets of defaulters) we had written to the state government (to auction them off) but are yet to receive their decision.”The assets, the district administration detailed, were 162 flats, six plots, five commercial spaces and 28 villas.The UP RERA has also written to the UP government to expedite the process in this regard.“We are regularly communicating this matter to the state government. And as per the recent communication a decision on paving the way for the e-auction is likely to happen soon. It will be a great help as we will be able to address homebuyers’ issues,” said Balvinder Kumar, member, UP-Rera.“We have been hearing for a long time that an e-auction will take place, but nothing has happened due to negligence on the part of the government. To provide justice to homebuyers, there should be no further delay,” said Abhishek Kumar president of Noida Extension flat owners’ welfare association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uprera-asks-admin-to-e-auction-344-crore-assets-of-defaulter-developers-101625076322033.html
30-06-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Yeida offers more time to developers to pay land dues||GREATER NOIDA: Defaulter developers, who have projects along the Yamuna Expressway, have been given additional time to pay land dues. However, the defaulters will have to pay 10% of the total dues latest by August 31, 2021 to be considered eligible for a non-defaulter tag. There are at least 13 such defaulters who have projects in the said area, said officials.“The Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority’s decision to give more time only after depositing 10% of total land dues will benefit the developers and also impact positively the homebuyers because the realty project will become eligible for additional funding. The developers desperately need hand holding by the government so that they can arrange last mile funding, finish a stuck project and deliver to buyers,” said RK Arora chairman of Supertech Limited and president of Uttar Pradesh national real estate development council. “This option will lapse after August 31. If they want to get the scheduled of the payment of their respective land dues redone then they need to deposit 10%, after which they will get additional time to repay the defaulted amount,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida).The Yeida had allotted land to these developers in 2010 on the condition that they would finish these projects in 10 years and repay the entire land cost within that time. The allotment had been done on an instalment basis after accepting 10% of the total land cost as token fee. The remaining 90% was to be paid over 10 years. The authority needs to recover around R4,000 crore from these builders. In June 2019, the Yeida had given five years more to finish the projects. However, citing dip in sales they defaulted on payments while the projects remain unfinished, said officials. Earlier the developers were initially supposed to pay 15% out of the total land dues to get additional time for repayment.Seven out of 13 builders are developing townships while six are constructing group housing projects. At least 30,000 homebuyers have invested money in these projects. “Once they pay 10% of total land dues, they will come out of the defaulter category and become eligible for additional loan from banks to finish their projects. If they manage to do so, it will benefit buyers as the realtor will be in a position to finish and deliver the units,” said Singh.“The Yeida’s decision to give more time after depositing 10% of total land dues will benefit developers and also impact buyers positively as stuck projects will become eligible for additional funding. The developers desperately need the government’s support so that they can arrange last mile funding, finish stuck projects and deliver units to buyers,” said RK Arora, chairman of Supertech Limited and president of the Uttar Pradesh National Real Estate Development Council. (NAREDCO)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-yeida-offers-more-time-to-developers-to-pay-land-dues-101625076201995.html
30-06-2021||Noida||Heat wave continues in Noida, respite likely by weekend||Noida recorded its second consecutive heat wave on Wednesday aided by hot, westerly winds coupled with a delay in the arrival of the southwest monsoon to the National Capital Region (NCR).Weather analysts predicted another heat wave on Thursday, with a some respite over the weekend.A heat wave occurs when the maximum temperature is at least 45°C and above, or is over 40°C and at the same time above 5°C of the season’s average. According to the India Meteorological Department, Noida’s maximum temperature for Wednesday was 43 degrees Celsius (°C), which was 6°C above average and the same as Tuesday. The minium temperature was 30°C on Wednesday, while it was 28.8°C on Tuesday.The city had suffered its first heat wave on March 29 when the temperature was 40.5°C, which was 7°C above the seasonal average and also the first heat wave to be realised in March in 76 years.At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 43.5°C and 28.2°C, respectively.“The heat wave will continue on Thursday as well, primarily due to very dry weather and warm westerly winds from Rajasthan. There are chances of slight respite due to formation of convective clouds that may lead to some drizzle on Friday and Saturday, as slight change in wind directions from westerly to north-westerly winds may bring in some moisture from central Pakistan. However, soon after July 4, the mercury will rise and though there will not be heat waves, the condition will still be warm as mercury is likely to hover around 40°C,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet.He added that there are few chances that the southwest monsoon will advance before July 8.“There are chances that the south-west monsoon, which is currently stuck in the foothills of Himalayas, will advance further from the foothills of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh only after or around July 8,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/heat-wave-continues-in-noida-respite-likely-by-weekend-101625076081968.html
30-06-2021||Noida||BJP workers, farmers clash at UP Gate site||A group of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers and farmers protesting the Centre’s three farm laws allegedly clashed at UP Gate on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) in Ghaziabad on Wednesday afternoon after the workers gathered there to welcome a party official.Both groups lodged a police complaint against each other. While the BJP claimed that many people were injured and vehicles damaged in the incident, the farmers said they had protested peacefully and that it was the BJP that attacked them.Police said they were not informed of the BJP workers’ intention of gathering there.“They (BJP workers) were on one side of the DME (the Delhi to Ghaziabad carriageway), while the farmers were on the other. As soon as we came to know that the BJP workers had gathered there, we rushed a team there,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2). “We have received complaints from both sides and are investigating them.”The BJP workers had gathered to welcome Amit Valmiki, the party’s new secretary who was arriving from Delhi.“There were about 300-400 of us, including 20-25 women... We were peacefully standing there when suddenly, hundreds of them (farmers) jumped the central verge and attacked us,” said Sanjeev Sharma, city president of the BJP’s Ghaziabad unit.He said several party workers, including women, were injured and about 30-40 vehicles damaged.“Later, we met the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police and submitted a police complaint,” Sharma said.Priti Chandra, member of the party’s women’s wing said, “One of our workers suffered a fracture to her leg while several other women suffered minor injuries. While we boarded our cars to get away, the farmers banged our cars with sticks and swords.”The farmer leaders insisted the “attack” was a conspiracy to malign their peaceful protest, which had been ongoing since November 28, 2020 from the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway.“It is BJP’s new conspiracy to malign the farmers’ movement. They came on the pretext of welcoming their leader and damaged their own cars. We have given our complaint to the police,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, UP Gate site spokesperson from ‘Samyukta Kisan Morcha.’He said that BJP workers came near their camp and started waiving their party flags. “Upon this, our farmers pulled out black flags and started waiving it at them,” Bajwa said.Rakesh Tikait, the national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), backed the conspiracy theory.“They (BJP) were trying to instigate farmers on pretext of welcoming their leader. They said farmers were trying to oppose their leader who is from Valmiki community. This agitation is not against any community, and we have members of every community who are part of the protest,” Tikait said.Amit Valmiki eventually did arrive in Ghaziabad, said BJP’s Sharma.Last year, the Parliament had passed three laws: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020. While the government said these laws would be beneficial to the agriculture sector, farmers say that they would severely affect their livelihood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bjp-workers-farmers-clash-at-up-gate-site-101625076023700.html
30-06-2021||Other||Dwarka couple hate crime: 2 arrested, hunt on for woman’s brother||The police on Wednesday arrested two people from Rohtak for their alleged involvement in a suspected hate crime, in which at least four men shot dead a 23-year-old man and fired at his 19-year-old wife at the couple’s rented home in Amberhai village in Dwarka Sector 19 last Thursday. The suspects have been identified as Rohit Dahiya (22) — the cousin of the 19-year-old victim Kiran Dahiya — and his friend Ritik (22), both from Haryana’s Sonepat. Police said interrogations revealed Kiran’s bother Aman planned the attack on the couple. Aman, the police said, was allegedly angry after the couple eloped and got married against their families’ wishes. Aman and the fourth suspect, whose identity has been kept confidential, are still on the run, said police. Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said, “There was resentment in Kiran’s family as they believed her marriage with Vinay, who belonged to the same gotra (lineage), earned them a bad reputation in their community. They considered that the couple’s decision ruined their honour and pride in the village,” During interrogations, the DCP said, the suspects revealed Aman hatched the conspiracy to kill his sister and her husband. He included his cousin and two friends in the plan. A day before the attack, Aman did a recce of the couple’s rented accommodation at Amberhai village.On June 24, the four arranged weapons and reached the village in two vehicles. They did not find the couple at home but found their flat’s main door latched from outside. Aman, Rohit and Ritik went inside the flat and asked their friend to latch the door from outside and wait outside the building.Around 8.30pm, as the couple opened the door, the three men fired at them. Though the two sustained bullet injuries, they tried to escape. While Kiran ran towards the terrace, Vinay rushed outside, with his attackers chasing him. On reaching the terrace, Kiran screamed for help as she saw Vinay being chased down the lane by the attackers. The suspects chased Vinay for nearly 20m and shot him dead outside a boutique shop nearby. Kiran scaled the terrace’s iron railing and crossed over to the adjacent building. She climbed down the building and kept screaming for help. A resident of the building informed police, who arrived and rushed the couple to two separate hospitals. While Vinay was declared dead on arrival, Kiran was given medical attention for the gunshot injuries sustained in the attack. In her statement to the police, Kiran identified the three attackers as her brother, cousin and a distant relative, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dwarka-couple-hate-crime-2-arrested-hunt-on-for-woman-s-brother-101625076022561.html
30-06-2021||Other||Auto driver held for harassing women state-wide over phone||A joint team of the Women’s Powerline and Dhumanganj police arrested an auto driver from a Prayagraj locality, for harassing women in different districts of the state, including Lucknow, by sending them obscene messages. The Women’s Powerline had received 67 complaints from different women against the auto driver identified as Vinod Srivastava. An FIR has been lodged against him under the IT Act and other relevant sections of the IPC after his arrest, Dhumanganj police station SHO inspector Anupam Sharma said.Many women registered their complaint on 1090, including 17 women from Lucknow. After receiving these complaints about calls made from the same number, police put the number on electronic surveillance. Police traced the location of the number and its user to Dhumanganj locality of Prayagraj. On Tuesday, a team of Women’s Powerline reached Prayagraj and, backed by the Dhumanganj police, arrested Srivastava from his residence in the Dhumanganj area. Srivastava confessed to calling and messaging women and harassing them. Srivastava had acquired a SIM card using forged identification documents. He used to dial numbers randomly and then save the numbers if the calls were received by women. He then used to call the numbers continuously trying to strike a conversion or indulge in indecent talk. He had 17 complaints against him from women in Lucknow, 12 from Kanpur, six from Prayagraj, five from Ballia, four from Sitapur, three from Barabanki along with some complaints also from Rae Bareli, Unnao, Gorakhpur, Gonda, Jalaun, Eta, Jhansi, Mirzapur, Azamgarh, Ambedkar Nagar, Sultanpur, Itawa, Farrukhabad, Varanasi and Gazipur districts of the state, said Inspector Anupam Sharma.During questioning Srivastava said that he also used to stalk women on social media sites and take their mobile numbers if available on their social media accounts. He used to send obscene messages to women and even threaten them from other mobile numbers if they blocked his calls and messages, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/auto-driver-held-for-harassing-women-state-wide-over-phone-101625076021947.html
30-06-2021||Other||Minor tribal girl gang raped in Prayagraj||A 16-year-old tribal girl was gang raped by two miscreants in a village under trans-Yamuna area Karchhana police station, in the outskirts of Prayagraj, late on Tuesday night. SP trans-Yamuna Saurabh Dixit and other senior officials reached the scene and sent the girl for a medical examination.SP trans-Yamuna Saurabh Dixit said that on the complaint of girl’s father, an FIR has been lodged against two youths of the area and the two accused have been arrested. The police will ensure strict punishment to them, he said, adding, further investigation was on.The girl had gone to the fields when two youths of the same area identified as Gufran and Faizan waylaid her. They gang raped the girl and escaped from the scene issuing threats. The villagers rushed towards the spot on hearing her cries but the miscreants had escaped by then. The villagers meanwhile claimed that the girl was waylaid by six youths but she could recognise only two of them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minor-tribal-girl-gang-raped-in-prayagraj-101625075782505.html
30-06-2021||Noida||Loni assault case: Ghaziabad police invoke NSA against Idrisi||The Ghaziabad police on Wednesday invoked the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against politician Ummed Pehalwan Idrisi who was arrested for allegedly giving communal speeches after a 72-year-old Muslim man was assaulted and his beard was chopped off. Idrisi is currently under judicial custody at Dasna jail.The alleged incident took place on June 5 in Ghaziabad’s Loni and the victim, identified as Abdul Samad, had lodged a police complaint on June 7. The same day, Samad and Idrisi, in a Facebook Live session, claimed that Samad was allegedly forced to chant “Jai Siya Ram” in the attack.The police then lodged a suo motu complaint against Idrisi for “communalising” the incident. Police said their investigation found that the assault was over a monetary dispute between two groups.“We have invoked provisions of the NSA against Idrisi and proceedings have been initiated,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural), Ghaziabad.The NSA allows police to detain a person for months if it feels that he/ she is a threat to national security.“The police action against Pehalwan is absolutely uncalled for. As per law, a three-member judicial committee will examine the case to decide on confirming levying the NSA and we will present our case,” said Anees Chaudhary, Idrisi’s counsel.“If they confirm, we will move the high court. His bail application is pending with the sessions’ court in Ghaziabad and the next date of hearing is July 9.” Police said that Idrisi had held another Facebook Live session with Samad from the latter’s home town of Anupshahr in Bulandshahr on June 16, after which he absconded.The same day, the Ghaziabad police lodged booked him under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 153a (promoting enmity between different groups), 295a (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 505 (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred) and provisions of the IT Act.The Ghaziabad crime branch arrested him on June 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/loni-assault-case-ghaziabad-police-invoke-nsa-against-idrisi-101625075781916.html
30-06-2021||Other||R-Day violence: One more arrested from Punjab||Buta Singh, a 25-year-old man from Tarn Tarn in Punjab who carried a reward of ₹50,000 for his alleged involvement in the violence at the Red Fort on January 26 this year, was arrested by the Delhi police from Punjab’s Talwandi Sabo on Tuesday. Police said Singh was among the five people who was on the ramparts of the Red Fort and helped Jugraj Singh, a key accused in the Red fort violence who hoisted the religious flag and that of the farmers union. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Monika Bhardwaj confirmed Singh’s arrest. “He had come with Jugraj and other accused persons to Red Fort. Our team faced some resistance while arresting Singh from Talwandi Sabo. The local police helped us and we brought him to Delhi.” Police are yet to arrest Jugraj, who now carries a reward of ₹1 lakh for his arrest. Investigating officers, who asked not to be named, said when the crime branch visited Talwandi Sabo in Punjab on Tuesday after receiving a tip-off about Singh, many villagers were not letting the police to arrest him. “They formed barricades and refused to let us arrest him. Fortunately, the local police assisted us. They counselled the villagers, after which we were able to bring him to Delhi,” said an officer, who did not wish to be identified. Unprecedented chaos unleashed on Republic Day this year as the tractor rally planned by farmers protesting against the three laws passed in September to reform the agriculture sector went off the designated course and rolled into the Red Fort. The farmers stormed into the Red Fort complex after breaking barricades and driving tractors through roadblocks, climbed its ramparts, and hoisted the Nishan Sahib, a flag of the Sikhs and that of the farmers’ union. At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured during the tractor rally While police have alleged that the violence that unfolded on Republic Day was a well-planned conspiracy to defame the government, leaders of the farmer union lhave rejected the police’s allegations and said some protesters, mainly youngsters, got carried away and stormed into the Red Fort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rday-violence-one-more-arrested-from-punjab-101625075603192.html
30-06-2021||Noida||Noida plans over 10,000 Covid vaccinations on Thursday||Noida: After suspending the district’s vaccination drive on Tuesday and Wednesday at government facilities, the Gautam Budh Nagar health department is set to administer jabs to over 10,000 people on Thursday. This is part of the district administration’s mega vaccination drive starting July 1, wherein they plan to issue 25,000 jabs per day.However, the current target of 10,000 has been set as per the availability of the vaccines, said officials. Going by official data, the proposed session load for July 1 is 7,700 Covishield and 2,800 Covaxin doses, making the target to vaccinate 10,500 beneficiaries on Thursday.“The 2,800 Covaxin vaccines will only be given to those looking for their second dose, at seven government Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) in the district. We have set a realistic target as per the availability of doses and will be able to achieve the same on Thursday,” said district chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri.According to Dr Neeraj Tyagi, the district’s immunisation officer, a total of 38 government CVCs will carry out vaccinations on Thursday.“Of the 7,700 Covishield vaccines to be administered, 4,700 are for the 18-45 category. Besides, 200 are for the first dose and 2,600 are for the second dose of the 45+ population, while 200 doses are reserved for Women’s Special CVCs,” said Dr Tyagi.Earlier, the health department had suspended administration of Covishield on Tuesday and only Covaxin vaccine was administered. Later, all vaccinations were suspended for Wednesday as well. The decision to cancel all vaccinations, including Covishield and Covaxin, was taken due to “unavoidable” reasons, a statement from the district health department had said.As a result, no vaccinations took place at government CVCs on Wednesday while only 720 doses of Covaxin (second dose) were administered in the district on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-plans-over-10-000-covid-vaccinations-on-thursday-101625075545702.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt schools to hold parent teacher meetings from July 19 to better aid online learning||To help parents aid their children better during the continued online learning this academic session, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday announced that public schools will hold a two-week special parent-teacher meetings (PTMs), beginning July 19. Between July 19 and 31, parents would be invited to visit the school and interact with teachers for a better understanding of their role in supporting children during the pandemic. “Covid-19 has impacted schooling adversely and we are unsure of when schools will reopen. Since online learning has increased the role of parents in their child’s education, the education department has decided to conduct special PTMs for parents of all students of Delhi government schools,” he said.Rakesh Semalty, head of a government school in West Jyoti Nagar, said, “Some of the schools are doubling up as vaccination or dry ration distribution centres. So we will have to finalise the meeting slots in such a way that there is no overcrowding. Coordination between teachers, students, and parents is a must. Last year, too, our teachers interacted with parents and counselled them to be more attentive towards children and to also allow them more access to electronic devices at home.”According to a government statement, these PTMs “will be a space for parents to understand how to provide regular learning support” to children. Schools in the national capital have been closed since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and learning has moved online. While schools had reopened to senior students briefly between January and February this year, they had to be shut again as the second wave of Covid-19 swept through the country in March-April.Last week, the government also announced the commencement of the academic session for public schools along with a three-phase initiative to allow a smoother transition for students returning to classes after a difficult period. From March to May, Delhi saw over 13,000 Covid-19 deaths over 786,000 infections. Its effect, teachers said, is also visible in children with many of them having lost a loved one to the viral infection or having at least one case of Covid in their families.While Delhi government school teachers will be responsible for parent-teacher meetings, municipal school teachers, who will also join the meetings, will counsel parents of students who have just started class 6. Every year, around 170,000 students move from municipal schools -- they offer education only up to Class 5 -- to Delhi government schools in class 6.“PTMs for students of class 6 will be conducted jointly by MCD school teachers and government school teachers. This decision has been taken to ease the transition of students from MCD to the government’s directorate of education schools in class 6 and ensure that children receive adequate emotional and learning support in the new environment,” he said.Keeping Covid-19 regulations in mind, these PTMs will be done in small groups with school officials ensuring covid-appropriate behaviour. Parents of students in DoE schools will be informed of their slot through SMS or WhatsApp.Balwan Singh, a primary school teacher at a municipal corporation school in Narela, said, “We have contacts of parents and are familiar with both students and parents. So the move will help. But the main challenge will be to track students who have completely fallen off the grid and have not even taken admission in class 6.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-schools-to-hold-parent-teacher-meetings-from-july-19-to-better-aid-online-learning-101625075545144.html
30-06-2021||Noida||Crowding at Noida’s Atta market worries traders as Covid norms violated||Noida: As the East Delhi district administration has ordered shut down of the Laxmi Nagar market for violating Covid-19 norms, traders at the Atta market in Noida’s Sector 27 are afraid of a similar action from authorities as the Covid-appropriate behaviour has gone for a toss in the market since last week.CB Jha, president of Atta Market Traders Welfare Association, said that the crowd has swelled in the market after night curfew timings were relaxed from June 21.“Since June 21, shops were allowed to open till 9pm, and traders were happy hoping for more customers. However, since last week, the footfall has increased manifold, with no room left for social distancing to be followed. From 5.30pm to around 8.30pm, the market remains packed,” said Jha.“Due to the overcrowding not just by shoppers but also by illegal roadside vendors, we fear that the district administration may issue orders to shut our shops again, just like the authorities ordered shutdown of Laxmi Nagar market in Delhi,” he said.In an order issued on Tuesday, the district administration in East Delhi said, “Market shopkeepers, vendors and general public in main bazaar Laxmi Nagar are not following the Covid-appropriate behaviour. ...Main bazaar Laxmi Nagar, from Vikas Marg to Lovely Public School, Kishankunj, and its surrounding markets are hereby restricted to open with effect from 10pm on June 29 till 10pm on July 5, or further orders, whichever is earlier.” Akhilesh Jha, a garment seller at the Atta market, said that the crowding does not mean that the sales are increasing. “While the crowd may have increased, our sales have not. During the day, there is hardly any customer due to the heat. By evening, the footfall increases, but there are only a few genuine customers and others are window shoppers. One person comes with four other people to buy something,” he said.SK Gupta, president of Rehri Patri Sanchalak Welfare Association, said that there are only 20 registered roadside vendors at the market. “There are around 300 illegal roadside vendors at the Atta market. The presence of these illegal vendors leads to overcrowding in the market,” said Gupta. According to GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY, the administration will hold dialogues with the representatives of market associations to chalk out a solution to the problem.“Currently imposing a shutdown of the market for Covid violations is not on the cards as we have to keep in mind the daily income of the traders too. However, we will hold discussions with the market associations to chalk out a way so that social distancing can be followed even as markets remain open,” said Suhas.Meanwhile, the GB Nagar police carried out a drive at the Atta market on Wednesday evening to ensure Covid protocols are followed in the area. As many as 50 people were fined at the market for either not wearing a mask or not using it properly, said Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, GB Nagar. “We used the public addressal system (loudspeaker) to create awareness among the shoppers to maintain social distancing and wear their face masks properly. Action was also taken against those who were found violating Covid norms. We have warned the illegal roadside vendors at the market to vacate the space as they are the ones leading to crowding in the area. We will soon plan an anti-encroachment drive here,” said Singh.Medical experts said that the violation of Covid protocols by the public is like an invitation to the third wave of the pandemic. “If people fail to follow Covid protocols, we are not away from the day when the third Covid wave will hit us. People should avoid stepping out and only go out if necessary. Even if one infected person visits such a crowded market, it may turn into a super spreader,” said Dr NK Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association (Noida chapter).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/crowding-at-noida-s-atta-market-worries-traders-as-covid-norms-violated-101625075302636.html
30-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Doctor arrested for duping family on pretext of kidney transplant||Noida Police on Wednesday arrested a 51-year-old doctor for allegedly duping a family of ₹8 lakh on the pretext of performing a kidney transplant on a patient who later died.The complainant, Noida Sector 31 resident Ahmad Khan, had alleged in May that the suspect, Dr Buland Akhtar who was based in Sector-19, had assured them of a successful surgery on his brother. Khan claimed that his neighbour had recommended him.However, even after payment, Dr Akhtar allegedly did not schedule a consultation nor perform the transplant, the complainant alleged. The patient died in January 2021. When the family allegedly asked for a refund, the doctor allegedly refused.A case was registered at the Sector 20 police station against the doctor and the neighbour who had recommended him under sections 420, 406, 304 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code in May.“The doctor was nabbed on Wednesday from Delhi’s Lahori gate where he has a private clinic. We are on the lookout for the neighbour,” said Munish Chauhan, station house officer, Sector 20 police station.He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-doctor-arrested-for-duping-family-on-pretext-of-kidney-transplant-101625075301911.html
30-06-2021||Noida||AC mechanic dies in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A 32-year-old air-conditioner mechanic died during a routine assignment at a retired bureaucrat’s residence in Greater Noida on Wednesday, said police. Police identified the victim as Bhupal Singh, who was from Bulandshahr but lived and worked in Greater Noida. Rameshwar Kumar, SHO, Beta 2 police station, said that the incident took place at the Greenwoods society in Sector Omega 1. “The family had called the mechanic to fix an air-conditioner. Singh arrived with two colleagues. He was lifting the AC when he collapsed and lost consciousness,” he said. Singh was immediately rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead, police said.Police said that it is not clear if the victim was electrocuted or he suffered a cardiac arrest. “The autopsy report is awaited,” the SHO said. The victim’s family has not filed a complaint in this regard, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ac-mechanic-dies-in-greater-noida-101625075242492.html
30-06-2021||Noida||Noida: Ninety health-care professionals trained in paediatric care||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar health department has trained 90 health care staff in paediatric care to handle a possible third wave of Covid-19 infections that may affect more children. The six-day training was conducted at the Noida Covid Hospital in Sector 39 from June 25 to June 30, officials said.“Three batches comprising 30 health professionals each were trained for two days each at the Noida Covid Hospital. The 90 professionals included 20 doctors and 70 nurses. The trainees included health-care staff from the district hospital and all the primary and community health centres in the district,” said Dr Amit Kumar, district public health specialist who is one of the master trainers.“Handling children is a bit sensitive. We trained the nurses on how to administer injections and medicines. The doctors were trained how to intubate babies and what line of treatment should be taken,” said Dr Ranveer Singh, paediatrician at CHC Badalpur who is also a master trainer.As per GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri, the role of medical experts and staff increases in view of a possible third wave. “The district health department provided proper equipment and props for the training sessions. Dummy babies were also provided for better understanding,” said Dr Ohri.On June 10, a 30-bed paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) and a 50-bed isolation ward for children were inaugurated at the Noida Covid Hospital. “If needed, the number of beds in the isolation ward can be increased. Currently, there are no admissions in this ward,” said Dr Renu Agarwal, chief medical superintendent, Noida Covid Hospital. Earlier this month, several hospitals and medical colleges in the district, including the Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Sharda Hospital and Child PGI hospital had also conducted training of 500 medical students and professionals in paediatric care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ninety-health-care-professionals-trained-in-paediatric-care-101625075241889.html
30-06-2021||Lucknow||Doctors brave the odds, work without rest to fight Covid-19 in Uttar Pradesh||Between mid-May and mid-June, the Uttar Pradesh government announced a slew of orders and measures in a bid to turn around the vast but neglected network of community health centres (CHCs) and PHCs (primary health centres). Now, the work has begun statewide to improve them, make them well equipped and have their own oxygen generation plants. The government even asked all the MPs/MLAs, ministers, public representatives (such as mayors and corporators) to adopt CHCs and PHCs and pump in their development funds into this oft-neglected first line of health centres in the state. There are a total 3,011 PHCs and 855 CHCs in the state. Even in their present ramshackle state, many of these centres were turned into Level-1 Covid hospitals (CHCs) and Covid vaccination centres (both CHCs and PHCs) and served people in quite an unsung manner. The doctors there worked long hours unnoticed in these CHCs and PHCs. They served the poor with Covid screening or other ailments. On Doctors’ Day, HT takes a look at some of the doctors who tried to make a difference in these trying times.Scripting a turnaround Dr Ashwani Chaurasiya, 38, resorted to multi-tasking at the Bhathat CHC in Gorakhpur and played a pivotal role in upscaling it. He took over as in-charge of the CHC in June 2019 much before the Covid pandemic set in. At that time, people shied away from CHC located 25 km east of Gorakhpur as it lacked facilities and services, doctors and para-medical staff. These days, the Bhathat CHC is the most preferred destination of the patients residing in the rural areas of the district. Around 500 to 600 patients visit the OPD daily at the CHC that now has a battery of doctors and para medical staff. It also has an emergency ward. “When the first wave of pandemic hit the country in March, 2020, the CHC worked as referral centre. The sample of the suspected Covid patients were tested at the Covid helpdesk set up in the health centre. The positive patients were sent to the level one facilities by the ambulance,” said Dr Chaurasiya. When OPD services resumed at CHC after the first wave, the health centre became even more busy,” he said. Now when the Covid immunisation drive is on, the centre has become a major vaccination centre and overshot the target set for it by the district administration. Tending to migrants Then there is the Khandoli CHC in Agra and Dr Upendra Kumar there. In the first wave of Covid in 2020, the UP government turned this CHC into an L-1 category hospital. Dr Upendra Kumar had since been working long hours and without caring for weekly off and leaves. The CHC and Upendra attended to a lot of migrant workers, who were rushing back in panic during the lockdown last year. “It was an added responsibility, but we cherished the trust exhibited in selecting our CHC as L-1 facility in pandemic times. We had 53 admissions at CHC and all were discharged, barring 10 cases which were referred to SN Medical College,” said Dr Upendra Kumar. “Kuberpur, the village where Agra-Noida Expressway ends, was within limits of our CHC and thus we had an important task of testing and treating the migrant labourers coming from the NCR (National Capital Region). We organised camps and thermal-screened these labourers. We had limited staff and thus working hours extended to 14 hours on average in a day,” says Dr Kumar, 41. The CHC screened over 4,000 migrant workers and provided them treatment before sending them off to their home districts. “We had made three rapid response teams (RRTs) for Covid and even went to cold storages to screen labourers there,” he said. Agra is part of UP’s potato belt. “Among the migrants who we screened, about 1,600 were from Jammu and Kashmir,” he says. Dr Kumar says his CHC is bracing up for the possible third wave of the pandemic. He is happy that the local MLA has adopted it for improving the centre. “The MLA Ram Pratap Singh Chauhan has adopted it. Now, we have a 10-bed pediatric intensive care unit (PICU) and an oxygen plant is also coming up on our CHC premises,” added Dr Kumar. Working without weekly off-days Dr Ram Gopal Verma and his CHC in the eastern UP’s Prayagraj attended to patients in a similar manner. Dr Verma, a 42-year-old Provincial Medical Services (PMS) doctor, has spent sleepless nights since April 2020 and worked without taking weekly off-days. “Barring 15 days in September 2020 when I myself tested positive for Covid-19 and had to remain in home isolation till I recovered, I worked at the CHC every day and many nights. And during the intense phases of the pandemic, I stayed in the small quarter allotted to me on the campus instead of going home to my wife and kids at my residence in Kaladipuram locality in the city,” he said. He is in-charge of the Mauaima CHC located around 35km from Prayagraj’s trans-Ganga area. The onus of catering to the medical needs of a large chunk of the population, including the Mauaima village comprising 18-odd hamlets with a combined population of around 25,000, lies on his shoulders. Amidst the pandemic, his task of personally seeing the patients, ensuring fellow doctors and staff attend to the needy coming to the CHC and managing the CHC has changed dramatically. “Now I am also overseeing proper receipt of Covid-19 vaccines and their administration, availability of medicines etc, identifying suspected corona cases and overseeing their treatment through home visits as well as distribution of medical kits etc among the needy, besides handling emergency cases like deliveries which are attended to 24x7. The big task is also to meet villagers, allay their fears and convince them to take the jab,” said a smiling Dr Verma, a qualified paediatrician and a pass-out of the prestigious King George’s Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow. Then there are online meetings with officials, besides face-to-face review meetings that require travel to the district headquarters. Dr Verma, who joined PMS in 2006, has stayed modest about his work and challenges. “All my colleagues are doing the same thing,” he said. The health centre was originally a PHC till recently and upgraded to the CHC status. With the infrastructure and manpower of a PHC, Dr Verma and the hospital worked as CHC. He also has been visiting 6 to 10 homes each day in nearby villages to see Covid-19 positive cases in home isolation in both first and the deadlier second wave of the pandemic. Reaching out to far-flung area In Sonbhadra, a backward district in eastern UP, Dr Shishir Srivastava, 36, medical officer-in-charge of Myorpur CHC, did extensive work in this far-flung area during Covid-19’s second wave. Dr Srivastava’s CHC is around 80km from the district headquarters. “On an average, three to four patients with oxygen levels below 80 came here daily. We gave them the prescribed primary treatment, oxygen support and, once they became stable, sent them to L-3 (Level-3 Covid hospital) hospital.” The CHC already had four oxygen cylinders and once the second wave hit, it (CHC) got five oxygen concentrators as well. Dr Srivastava said his team conducted awareness drives in the villages, appealing to the symptomatic people to get their Covid test done at the CHC. “Thereafter, many locals who had fever, cough or cold, came forward and got their test done. The non-symptomatic people, who were tested Covid-19 positive, were given medicines and asked to stay in home isolation. The team monitored their health condition for 14 days. Consistent team efforts help us manage Covid-19 situation in this far-flung district,” said Dr Srivastava. His team and he did not take a breather when the cases began declining. “We started visiting all the villages in our area and began motivating villagers for Covid vaccination. There were many myths and apprehensions in their minds to be busted.” Around 1.46 lakh people of various villages in this area were given the first dose of vaccine (at various vaccination centres) so far. Engaging social influencers In a remote CHC in Meerut’s Hastinapur, a doctor experimented a bit by associating social influencers for identifying patients of Covid-19 in villages and providing them treatment. The effort by Dr Ankur Tyagi and his team was widely appreciated. Dr Ankur Tyagi is in charge of rural-based Hastinapur CHC( Meerut district) which provides health facilities in 91 villages. “I was made a model officer of three urban PHCs ( Nanglabattoo, Jai Bheem Nagar and Rajendra Nagar) for implementing the similar model for identifying active corona cases and sending them for treatment,” said Dr Tyagi. He said initially it was very difficult as cases of Covid-19 were on the rise and CHC had limited staff to visit the villages for identifying symptomatic patients. “Villagers were reluctant for tests and isolating symptomatic patients was essential to prevent other villagers from getting infected,” said Dr Tyagi who then decided to seek the help of social influencers ( mainly unqualified doctors in villages) and formed a WhatsApp group of 50 persons including influencers, CHC doctors and health workers. These social influencers are quite popular among villagers and also enjoy their trust. “All of this helped us penetrate even the remote villages and CHC’s ongoing Active Corona Search campaign yielded good results,” said Dr Tyagi. He then also ran a campaign to distribute ayurvedic kaadha (medicinal brew) along with medicine kits to villagers and patients in more than 70 villages. His team and he administered vaccines to the 1,442 people in the 45-plus age group in a single day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/doctors-brave-the-odds-work-without-rest-to-fight-covid-19-in-uttar-pradesh-101625074282468.html
30-06-2021||Gurugram||Metro work to start within five months: Gurugram MP||Work on much-delayed Gurugram Metro expansion, which will take the Metro network to older parts of the city through a loop, is expected to start in the next four to five months, according to the Lok Sabha member from Gurugram, Rao Inderjit Singh.On Wednesday, Singh said that the urban development ministry will approve it next month, once the Haryana government makes minor changes to the format of the approved detailed project report (DPR). The construction of the project will be undertaken by the Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation Limited.The development follows a high-level meeting held in Delhi on Tuesday, in which the urban development minister, Hardeep Singh Puri, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Singh were present. “The Metro project was discussed in detail and it was decided that the necessary changes to the format of DPR, as per the ministry’s norms, would be made in a joint meeting of officials of state and central officials. This will be done by the end of July,” said Singh, adding that work on the ground is expected to start in the next four to five months.As per the DPR submitted by the Haryana government, the proposed Metro extension will run from Huda City Centre to Cyber City in a 31-kilometre loop, via Subash Chowk, Krishna Chowk and Sector 22. The route will have 26 stops, including an interchange station. The Metro extension has remained stuck for almost five years as the Haryana government could not finalise the route and the DPR till 2019. The government commissioned multiple surveys to find a viable route and it was only in 2019 that it was finalised.The Gurugram MP had also raised the issue of delay in the Metro project during the GMDA board meeting held in April, wherein he sought an explanation from officials concerned for the inordinate delays. “I said in the meeting that the timeline for the Metro project completion should be fixed due to these delays and I was assured that the Metro project will hit the ground soon,” said Singh. As per the detailed project report, the Metro stations that have been proposed on the Huda City Centre-Cyber City route are at Sector 45, Cyber Park, Sector 46, Sector 47, Sector 48, Technology Park, Udyog Vihar Phase 6, Sector 10, Sector 37, Basai, Sector 9, Sector 7, Sector 4, Sector 5, Ashok Vihar, Sector 3, Krishna Chowk, Palam Vihar Extension, Palam Vihar, Sector 23 A, Sector 22, Udyog Vihar Phase 4 and 5. The project is expected to cost ₹6,400 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/metro-work-to-start-within-five-months-gurugram-mp-101625073863553.html
30-06-2021||Gurugram||Two booked for damaging car, threatening woman||A 36-year-old woman was allegedly threatened and abused by two persons after they hit her car with their vehicles from the rear in Sector 57 on Tuesday. The complainant said that her car was damaged and when she called the police control room, they threatened her with dire consequences and misbehaved with her. The suspects have been identified and booked, but are yet to be arrested.“We are scanning the CCTV footage of the area to find out the sequence of events and how the accident took place,” said sub-inspector Deepak Kumar of the Sector 56 police station. He said that the suspects might have been speeding and driving rashly.Asha Rathi, a resident of Sector 47, was driving her Honda City car towards Golf Course Road from her house around 10am on Tuesday. When she reached a private school in Sector 57, a speeding Renault Duster allegedly hit her car from the rear. “Two people were inside the vehicle and they started to shout and threatened to teach me a lesson in two minutes,” said Rathi. On the basis of a complaint filed by Rathi, the police registered a case under section 279 (rash driving), 336 (whoever does any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others), 34 (common intention), 427 (mischief and thereby causes loss or damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 56 police station against two persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-booked-for-damaging-car-threatening-woman-101625073861784.html
30-06-2021||Gurugram||44.7°C marks hottest day in Gurugram this year||The city on Wednesday reeled under severe heat for a second consecutive day, recording a maximum temperature of 44.7 degrees Celsius, the highest temperature recorded this year, according to officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Officials said that this was also the highest temperature recorded in entire northwest India on Wednesday. IMD officials said that is currently reeling under a severe heatwave. A severe heatwave is declared when there is an increase of at least 6.5 degrees Celsius from the normal temperature. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature was 7.3 degrees Celsius more than the normal temperature, said officials.“On April 28 this year, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 44.3 degrees Celsius, but at 44.7 degrees Celsius, the city has recorded its highest temperature for this year,” said an official from the Meteorological Centre at Chandigarh. The city recorded a minimum temperature of 28.4 degrees Celsius, which was two degrees above the normal temperature.On Tuesday, Gurugram recorded a maximum temperature of 44 degrees, which was six degrees above normal. On Monday, Delhi-NCR witnessed the first heatwave recording of the season, as such high temperatures are generally not seen at this time of the year, said an IMD official. According to the weekly forecast of the IMD, one or two spells of rain or thundershowers are likely over the weekend on July 2-3, and temperatures might reduce a bit. “Heatwave conditions are likely to prevail even on Thursday, after which some respite is likely as rain is predicted on July 2-3. Maximum temperatures are likely to come down by four degrees, but there might not be much difference in the minimum temperature,” said the IMD official cited above. Despite a rain prediction, according to the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature may remain around 39 degrees Celsius to 40 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature may remain around 29 degrees Celsius over the next three days. On Thursday, the maximum temperature is likely to be around 43 degrees Celsius, as per the weekly forecast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/447c-marks-hottest-day-in-gurugram-this-year-101625073807015.html
30-06-2021||Gurugram||Haryana govt offers subsidies on power-efficient ACs||The Haryana government is offering subsidies to electricity consumers who want to replace their old air-conditioners (AC) in a move aimed a reducing power consumption, officials said. A subsidy of ₹2,000 to ₹8,000 would be offered for around 100,000 ACs, as per the plan.The scheme, demand side management-AC scheme, was launched on Wednesday by Haryana power minister Ranjit Singh for domestic consumers. Under this scheme, the power department plans to make available 105,000 ACs with high-energy efficiency and offer discounts of up to 59%. The last date for applications is August 24 and interested persons can apply on https://acreplacementscheme.uhbvn.org.in. Singh said that the power department has tied up with three prominent AC manufacturers, who will provide energy-efficient split air-conditioners of 1.5-tonne capacity at a subsidised price. “On one hand, these companies will provide discounts on buying new and replacing old ones. On the other hand, the Haryana government will also provide subsidy on the ACs,” he said. Under this scheme, a subsidy of ₹2,000 will be given for the purchase of a new AC in urban areas and ₹4,000 for the exchange of old ACs. In rural areas, subsidies of ₹4,000 and ₹8,000 will be given, respectively.Additional chief secretary, power department, PK Das, said that under this scheme, 68 MU (mega unit) of energy will be saved in the state by this scheme and there will be a 75.6 MW reduction in power demand. He said that earlier, in 2016, under a similar scheme, the power department had installed 15.6 million LED bulbs and 230,000 tubes in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/haryana-govt-offers-subsidies-on-power-efficient-acs-101625073805825.html
30-06-2021||Gurugram||Khori: 400 booked while gathering for mahapanchayat||The Faridabad police on Wednesday booked over 400 persons for violating prohibitory orders on gatherings in Khori village and pelting police personnel with stones, following a clash as residents started congregating for a mahapanchayat. “On the orders of Hon’ble Supreme Court, illegal construction is to be removed by Municipal Corporation of Faridabad at Khori village, the process for which is in progress. The district administration has also imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in the village but on Wednesday, some outsiders had gathered at Khori village and pelted stones at the police. More than 400 persons have been booked,” said Sukhbir Singh, assistant commissioner of police, Badhkal.The police also denied allegations of lathicharge on villagers, despite videos being shared on social media.The police said that people who pelted stones at police officials and are being identified through video recordings. A case was filed at the Surajkund police station for violation of Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure as well as the Disaster Management Act.Responding to a call for a mahapanchayat organised by the Mazdoor Awas Sangharsh Samiti Khori Faridabad to discuss the next course of action before the demolition of over 10,000 houses constructed illegally on Aravalli land, residents had gathered at Ambedkar Park in the village on Wednesday morning. Locals said that Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Gurnam Singh Charuni was supposed to address the gathering at 11.30am, but was not allowed to enter the village as police started lathicharge on residents. Nilesh Kumar, of Basti Suraksha Manch, an organisation supporting the residents, said, “As everyone has a right to life, a mahapanchayat was called where the residents along with farmer leader were supposed to discuss how to form a representation and proceed for talks with the state government. Residents peacefully gathered at the park and others were standing outside their houses extending support. Police forces present there started lathicharge on residents without any talks and almost 50 people were injured in the village.” Fearing a possibility of unrest, the Faridabad district magistrate on June 14 prohibited gathering of five or more persons “within a radius of 200 metres of village Khori”. Residents of Khori have been demanding rehabilitation since the Supreme Court on June 7 ordered the eviction of thousands of slum dwellers living in illegal constructions on forest land. Sapna, a resident of Khori, said, “We had gathered at the park and were waiting for Gurnam Singh Charuni to address the mahapanchayat. The police force started beating us when we told them that the residents are following all rules of the district administration and only want to discuss how our side can be represented to the government, but they did not listen. To save themselves, some agitated residents pelted stones back at the police forces.” After waiting for two hours to enter the village, around 3:30pm, Charuni along with his supporters sat at the entrance of Khori demanding rehabilitation for residents. Charuni was allowed to enter the village after 5.30pm. “We have three main demands, that the government should first rehabilitate the residents before demolishing their houses. Electricity and water supply must be started for all residents, and government representatives must talk to the local representatives of the village to find a solution. People are living in unliveable conditions here. I have learnt that some people have also committed suicide,” said Charuni. “Everyone has a right to life and if action is to be taken, then why are only the poor being punished? Why has there been no action on the five-star hotels that are built on the same site adjacent to the village?” Charuni said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/khori-400-booked-while-gathering-for-mahapanchayat-101625073805348.html
30-06-2021||Gurugram||Two arrested for selling animal genitalia over superstitious beliefs||Two men were arrested from Rewari on Tuesday for allegedly selling genitals of male monitor lizards and jackals over the last four months through social media, in collaboration with a few astrologers in Delhi-NCR, to people with superstitious beliefs, the police said. The monitor lizard is a protected species under the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972. A joint team of police and Gurugram and Rewari wildlife officials conducted a raid, posing as customers, and arrested them, after the Rewari officials were tipped off about the trades. Devender Kumar, a wildlife inspector from Rewari, approached the suspects posing as a customer and finalised a deal for buying the animal parts near Rewari railway station and were arrested during the same. Officials said they operated through mobile phones and social media and had no office or shop to run their operations. MS Malik, chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Gurugram, said that a team of the Haryana forest department, Haryana Police, Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, and Wildlife Trust of India conducted a raid around 4pm on Tuesday and arrested them near the Rewari railway station, The suspects were identified as Parveen Kumar and Mohit of Nangal Teju in Bawal of Rewari. The police said the team seized 30 pieces of hatha jodi (dried genitals of monitor lizard) and four pieces of siyar singi (jackal genitalia). “The wildlife crime control bureau was tracking the men for the past several weeks and shared tip-offs with us based on which a raid was conducted. We are suspecting that there are more people involved in this illegal trade,” said Malik. Malik said the suspects used to sell these genitals between ₹500 and ₹2,000 per piece. “They used to buy these items from dealers in Rajasthan,” he said. The suspects were sent to judicial remand on Saturday, after being produced before the district and sessions court said, officials. A case under sections 9, 39, 44, 49, 50, 51, and 55 of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 was registered at Rewari on Tuesday. The suspects were also produced before the environment court Faridabad on Wednesday and sent to 14-day judicial custody. Officials said that the sale, purchase or possession of the banned wildlife items is a punishable offence, for which one can face a prison term of three to seven years, along with a fine of ₹10,000, as per the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-arrested-for-selling-animal-genitalia-over-superstitious-beliefs-101625073804172.html
30-06-2021||Gurugram||Factory owner decides to shift premises, landlord abducts employees in threat||The police are on the lookout for two persons, who leased their premises for a factory in Sector 10, for allegedly abducting employees of the factory over a dispute in the rental payment. The police received a complaint on Tuesday from the factory owner, who alleged that two of his employees were abducted by the lessors in Saraswati Enclave of Sector 10. Ashok Nain, the station house officer of Sector 10 police station, said that they formed a team and raided three suspected locations, following which two employees who were held hostage were found. “The suspects fled the spot before police reached. They have been identified and will be arrested at the earliest,” he said. This is at least the fourth such incident of conflict between the lessors and lessee reported in the past 10 days, as the industry is trying to recoup its losses amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Dharmender Kumar Singh (45), the factory owner who runs an export house, said that he has been operating from the building in Sector 10 for the last three years. “Since last March, there have been only a few orders due to which we wanted to shift to another location. We have got a place for a much cheaper price; I paid the security amount and advance rent. I informed my landlord last month and requested him to adjust the security amount in the current rent cycle,” he said. Singh said the landlord did not agree and got furious. He is alleged to have threatened the life of the factory owner if he shifted and demanded one year’s rent in advance. “I requested him and finally decided to leave the security money but he did not stop here and did not let my employees shift the machines and raw material. On Tuesday, the landowner and his son came with a few men and abducted two of my employees. They left a message for me stating that they won’t let me move my stuff,” said Singh. A case under sections 323 (assault), 365 (kidnapping), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered on Tuesday at Sector 10 police station against two persons. Nain said that such incidents are being reported frequently, as owners are losing their rent and businesses are unable to turn profits. Similar cases are registered at Udyog Vihar, Manesar and Sadar police stations. “There have been multiple complaints and many people have vacated their rented spaces without taking their security money. We have informed all tenants to inform police if they are targeted by anyone in the area and if they are finding problems while vacating or taking their security deposit,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/factory-owner-decides-to-shift-premises-landlord-abducts-employees-in-threat-101625073802792.html
30-06-2021||Gurugram||Over 50K vaccines to be given in mega drive||Over 50,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccines will be administered in the district on Thursday on the occasion of National Doctors’ Day, officials of the health department said. Of these, at least 500 doses of Covishield will be administered at the new vaccination centre set up at the Huda City Centre Metro station that will become functional from Thursday. At least 1,375,234 vaccine doses have been administered in the district till now. For the mega vaccination drive on Thursday, the district health department has stocked over 60,000 Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. “On the occasion of Doctor’s Day, the plan is to administer more than 50,000 doses. Sufficient doses are available to cross the target fixed for the day. It is for the second time that a mega vaccination drive is being held in the district to increase the vaccination coverage before the third wave of Covid-19 hits the city,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer for Gurugram. On June 21, when the last mega vaccination drive was held, over 100,000 doses of the vaccines were administered in a day, which was the highest single-day count across Haryana. On Thursday, there will be at least 220 vaccination centres, of which 180 will be set up by the district health department and 40, by private hospitals. At least 160 slots will be available for the first dose of Covishield at each of the sites, while 500 shots of Covaxin will be available at select centres. For the second dose of Covishield, each site will have about 70 slots, while 250 of Covaxin will be made available. Drive-through vaccinations will also be conducted at two locations, the City Centre Mall on MG Road and Candour Tech Space in Sector 48, where 500 doses of the Covishield vaccine will be administered. At least 250 slots, each, will be available for the first and second shots. Also, a mobile vaccine van will start operations from Thursday to cover slums across the city under the immunisation drive. For vaccinations at the Huda City Centre Metro station, district immunisation officer Dr MP Singh said that arrangements have been made at the north side food court. “The place has a separate registration area with four data entry operators, a vaccination counter and a waiting area. Even entry and exit points are separate for crowd management at the site,” said Singh. On Wednesday, as many as 22,335 vaccine shots were given, of which 58% (12, 985) were given at private hospitals while 9,350 were administered at government health centres. As many as 14, 022 beneficiaries were in the 18-45 age bracket, while 7,807 were above 45 years. Besides, 154 healthcare workers and 352 front-line workers also took the vaccine shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-50k-vaccines-to-be-given-in-mega-drive-101625073802327.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 9,771 single-day Covid-19 cases, 141 deaths; tally crosses 6-million mark||Maharashtra on Wednesday logged 9,771 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 141 deaths in the previous 24 hours, according to the state health department data. The new infections and fatalities pushed the state-wide tally to over six million (6,061,404) and toll to 121,945, as per the data. The state witnessed a rise in new infections in 24 hours since 8,085 cases were reported on Tuesday.The daily deaths in the state fell from 231 on Tuesday to 141 on Wednesday. The case fatality rate of the state now stands at 2.01%, while the positivity rate is at 4.08%.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19As many as 10,353 individuals recovered from the deadly virus on Wednesday, nearly 2,000 more than Tuesday when 8,623 made full recovery. The total recovered in the state is over 5.8 million (5,819,901).Testing in the state has been witnessing an increase, around 239,449 tests were conducted to detect the disease since Tuesday, While on Tuesday, 190,140 samples were tested for the disease the previous day, as per the state health data.The state capital Mumbai reported 706 new infections and 25 deaths from the virus on Wednesday, the data showed. The total case tally logged in Mumbai so far reached 722,222 and the toll reached 15,451 after the new fatalities.The financial capital also recorded the highest single-day deaths due to the infection since June 9. The new deaths in the past 24 hours are more than double since Tuesday, as per the data.The total number of active cases in Mumbai now stands at 12,574, the health bulletin showed.The case doubling rate in Mumbai is 716 days, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) data. The city has 11 active containment zones in slums and 'chawls' (old row tenements) and 80 sealed buildings, where there are a certain number of residents who have tested Covid positive, the BMC data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-9-771-single-day-covid-19-cases-141-deaths-tally-crosses-6-million-mark-101625067944521.html
30-06-2021||Ranchi||Vaccine shortage hits Covid-19 inoculation in Jharkhand; health minister blames Centre||The Covid-19 inoculation drive in Jharkhand has taken a hit owing to “shortage” of vaccine supply leaving the eligible population hapless, even as health minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday accused the Centre of not providing enough vaccines to the state. According to official figures, the state has been inoculating over a lakh persons for past several days till Tuesday, when only about 50,000 persons received the jab.The vaccination drive was not conducted at various centres across districts on Tuesday and the trend continued on Wednesday, with daily inoculation numbers in the state going further down. As per CoWin dashboard, the central government’s online vaccination portal, just over 13,000 persons were administered the vaccine in the state by 5.30pm on Wednesday.As per the state health department, only 99,920 doses of the both the vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, were in stock till Tuesday evening. “Another 58,950 Covaxin doses arrived in the state on Wednesday. Vaccination is being done as per availability of the jabs in the state,” said Siddharth Tripathi, nodal officer of the health department’s Information, Education and Communication (IEC) wing. As per the schedule of vaccine supply provided by the Centre, the state will receive six lakh vaccine doses on July 2 and a total of 9.5 lakh by July 15. As per its pledge, the state is slotted to get 24.5.lakh doses in July, besides the 8.25 lakh doses for private hospitals in the state. Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta blamed the Centre for the slowing number of vaccinations in the state. “The central government demands an advance plan from us, which we duly provide. We don’t produce the vaccines. It is the Centre that has to procure and provide vaccines to the state. What can we do in this? We want to scale up vaccination in order to protect the state from the possible third wave, but we don’t have enough vaccines. As per information, we will get vaccines by July 2,” Gupta said. The minister also appealed BJP MPs and MLAs to lobby with the central government and ensure the state gets the doses at the earliest. The state government has also written to the Centre, asking it to reduce the allocation of vaccine to private hospitals in the state to 5% from the existing 25%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/vaccine-shortage-hits-covid-19-inoculation-in-jharkhand-health-minister-blames-centre-101625071641716.html
30-06-2021||Other||Man held for killing wife, 3 daughters in 2019||The Rohtas Police have arrested a man for allegedly killing his wife and three daughters in September 2019. The man, Chhathu Rawani, was believed to be living in Punjab with his second wife and remained untraceable for almost two years, police superintendent Ashish Bharti said on Wednesday.The bodies of the three girls, aged eight years, six years and six months, and their mother, who was in her early 30s, were found in a drain. There were no injury marks on the bodies and police suspected the four were poisoned.The four were believed to have been killed at separate places and then dumped in the drain.Rawani was missing until he returned home and was arrested on Tuesday. He allegedly tried to mislead police through contradictory statements but finally broke down. He was arrested and booked for the murders, said Kripal Jee, a local police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-killing-wife-3-daughters-in-2019-101625071582375.html
30-06-2021||Patna||Property dealer, dog shot dead in Muzaffarpur||Armed assailants on Wednesday shot dead a man and a stray dog in Muzaffarpur, the police said. The incident took place on Sitamarhi-Muzaffarpur National Highway in an area under Ahiyapur police station limits.The deceased was identified as Nawal Kishore Singh, brother of district board member Srinarayan Singh, who had also unsuccessfully fought the 2020 assembly polls. Nawal Kishore was into property deals.Police recovered seven empty cartridges from the crime spot. Citing a CCTV footage, they said the two suspects, riding a motorcycle, were tailing Nawal Kishore, also on a bike, and intercepted him on the highway. They shot him multiple times and also shot a stray dog that started barking during the incident. The canine ran a few metres and collapsed, said Ramsagar Shah, who runs a tea stall near the spot. Muzaffarpur senior superintendent of police Jayant Kant said hunt has been launched to nab the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/property-dealer-dog-shot-dead-in-muzaffarpur-101625071581673.html
30-06-2021||Other||Assets worth ₹4.10 crore attached by ED in Srijan scam||PATNAAssets worth ₹4.10 crore have been attached in a money laundering probe linked to the alleged scam involving Srijan NGO in Bihar, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said on Wednesday.Srijan Mahila Vikas Sahyog Samiti Limited, based in Bhagalpur, has been under probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the ED after alleged embezzlement of government funds to the tune of ₹2,400 crore came to light in 2017. The properties attached by ED include 12 flats worth ₹3.09 crore at Bhagalpur, Patna and Ghaziabad, five plots or houses worth ₹87.77 lakh at Bhagalpur, Deoghar and Sitamarhi, a Scorpio car worth Rs11.87 lakh and Rs1.20 lakh in bank accounts. These properties are owned by various accused, including SMVSSL’s secretary Manorama Devi who is the main accused, bank officials and government employees. Manorama Devi died on February 13, 2017. ED investigation so far has revealed that huge funds were siphoned from the government accounts illegally into the bank accounts of SMVSS.This is the second provisional attachment in the Srijan scam case. In May last year, ED had attached flats and land worth Rs14.32 crore belonging to businessmen, government officials and others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assets-worth-rs-4-10-crore-attached-by-ed-in-srijan-scam-101625071523352.html
30-06-2021||Patna||Couple hacked to death in Aurangabad for ‘practising witchcraft’, 3 held||Three accused persons were arrested for murdering an elderly couple on Wednesday for allegedly practising witchcraft at a remote village under Madanpur police station area in Maoist-hit Aurangabad district, police said.Police lodged a case in this connection against ten named accused under relevant sections of IPC as well as Section 3 and 4 of Prevention of Witch (DAAIN) Practices Act. According to the police, the couple was killed in the wee hours of Wednesday on the suspicion of practising “black magic”, that was allegedly leading to diseases among neighbours. ”The couple was blamed by one of their neighbours for a medical condition that he and his wife were suffering from and for the death of their 30-year-old son in January this year,” said SDPO Anup Kumar.According to the couple’s son, his mother was on way to a field early in the morning when more than ten named accused intercepted her and hacked to death. Later, they forcibly entered their house and attacked his physically challenged father by sharp weapons when he was sleeping. Police suspect the neighbour to have committed the crime. “We have arrested three people in this connection and the hunt is on for rest of the accused,” said the SDPO. The bodies were sent for postmortem examination , he added. Meanwhile, police is taking all possible precautions in probing the case since the area is Maoist-infested, officials said. The practice of branding women as witches and torturing them continues unabated in remote rural areas of Bihar. In the last two years, more than 350 women have been tortured and beaten on suspicion of practising witchcraft, according to police records. Concerned about the rising number of witchcraft-related killings, state officials said an awareness campaign will soon be started in the district. In 2012, the Bihar Human Rights Commission directed the state to expedite investigations and trials in cases related to offences under Prevention of Witch Hunting Act, 1999. Recent casesJune 22: A 72-year-old woman beaten to death in Gaya’s Barachatti police station area on suspicion of sorcery May 22: Four women beat to death a 35-year-old woman over suspicions of practising witchcraft in GayaMay 25: Two minors from Jamui’s Simultala police station area allegedly branded as witches, their hair chopped off and were allegedly stripped in a village over suspicion of practising black magicJanuary 3, 2021: An elderly man and his son killed their 61-year-old relative for allegedly practising witchcraft in Jamui district||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/couple-hacked-to-death-in-aurangabad-for-practising-witchcraft-3-held-101625071522518.html
30-06-2021||Patna||‘PU to begin admission process from July 2’||In a major relief to aspiring candidates, Patna University (PU) has decided to begin admission process for the new academic session from July 2, vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Chaudhary said recently on Tuesday.An official notification is yet to be issued in this regard.The online admission form will be available on the university’s official website www.patnauniversity.ac.in, the vice-chancellor said. The last date for submitting the online admission form is July 17. Prof Anil Kumar, dean of students’ welfare, said, “Interested applicants can fill online admission form through online portal. We are yet to decide the mode of selection, as we are waiting for Raj Bhawan’s direction. However, we are hopeful to commence the academic session on time, which begins in the first week of August.” Besides, pending exams of undergraduate and postgraduate courses will be conducted soon to clear backlogs and bring academic calendar on track, Kumar said. Both admission process and examinations were stalled after lockdown was implemented in the state following a huge surge in Covid-19 cases in April this year.More than 11 lakh students cleared Class 12 examination conducted by Bihar School Examination Board this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pu-to-begin-admission-process-from-july-2-101625071521737.html
30-06-2021||Patna||Vaccine hitch as Bihar embarks on massive vaccination drive||Bihar aims to vaccinate 4.54 lakh people a day for the next six months beginning Thursday, as it embarks on a mega vaccination drive to inoculate six crore people by December, a target chief minister Nitish Kumar has set for his officials to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. The state’s vaccination goal, however, seems to be an uphill one, given the shortage of vaccines and their erratic supply. The number of vaccinations in a day has ebbed after peaking to 6.39 lakh doses on June 21. The state has been administering less than 50,000 doses to beneficiaries since June 27 due to the poor availability of vaccines. At least nine of the 38 districts in Bihar drew a blank on Wednesday as their vaccination centres were closed due to the non-availability of vaccines. Some districts reported double-digit vaccinations. It had administered 30,462 doses till 8pm on Wednesday. This was the lowest single-day inoculations done in June. The Centre, said state health officials, has committed to supply 91.81 lakh doses of the vaccine to the state in July. Of this, 68.86 lakh doses are to be administered free of cost through the government channel. The remaining 22.95 lakh doses will be routed through the private channel, where one has to pay for each dose of the vaccine. As per the schedule of vaccine supply, the Centre has committed to supply 24.77 lakh doses to the state health department between July 1 and 15. Given the state’s ambitious target to inoculate 4.54 lakh people in a day, the stock would not last even six days. The state had in its inventory around 10 lakh doses of the two vaccines — Covaxin 83,060 doses and the remaining 9,28,430 doses of Covishield. These would last only two days if the state were to vaccinate as per its target. The next tranche of 9,59,220 doses of Covishield is scheduled to arrive on July 8, followed by 1,50,000 doses of Covaxin on July 12; and 4,82,910 doses of Covishield and 1,09,540 doses of Covaxin on July 15, said officials in the know of the vaccine supply schedule. Executive director State Health Society, Bihar, Manoj Kumar, also the state’s nodal officer for vaccination, could not be contacted as he did not respond to phone calls or text messages. STATE’S VACCINATION PLAN On its part, the state government has drawn out an ambitious plan, involving different departments, to achieve its vaccination goal. It has drawn up a panchayat wise micro plan, leveraging the support of “Jeevika didis” (women self-help groups) and representatives of panchayati raj institutions and urban local bodies; and organising “Teeka Shala” or vaccination camps on school premises for parents of students studying there. Besides, 718 “Teeka Express” or mobile vaccination vans have been pressed into service in rural areas and 121 in urban areas to vaccinate the populace at their doorstep. It also hopes to rope in famous personalities, sports icons, etc. and encourage schoolchildren to motivate their parents to take the jab. As per the day-wise plan, 3 lakh people are proposed to be inoculated at the 3,000 vaccination centres across the state, at an average daily 100 jabs at each session site, said additional chief secretary, health, Pratyaya Amrit. “We also expect to have 83,900 inoculations through the 839 “Teeka Express” at an average daily vaccination of 100 people per van,” he said. “Jeevika Didis” are expected to inoculate 53,400 people a day through the 534 session sites they have been tasked to manage. “Teeka Shala”, one in every 534 blocks of the state, has been given a similar target, added Amrit. Besides, every district will have at least one vaccination centre which will be functional from 9am to 9pm. Patna already has two vaccination centres — the Patliputra Sports Complex, Kankerbagh, and the Hotel Patliputra Ashok at Beerchand Patel Marg — which will be operational round the clock. It also plans to tap and persuade flood victims, coming for gratuitous relief at special camps, to take the jab. Besides, the government has already requested the state election commission (SEC) to ask candidates contesting the panchayat polls to declare their vaccination status in their nomination papers. Panchayati raj minister Samrat Choudhary said he had suggested that all candidates, contesting the panchayat polls, should get themselves vaccinated so that the rural population also get inoculated and the safety parameters during the campaign of the three-tier local body are maintained. It has also planned that shops should mandatorily display vaccination status through a display of stickers, to be facilitated by the government. The health department also proposes to vaccinate all teachers and family members of all government employees in a “mission mode”. If Bihar gets sufficient vaccine in time, as planned, it may end up vaccinating 4.91 lakh beneficiaries a day. Bihar has so far administered 1,58,95,170 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine among its 7.22 crore target population above 18 years of age. Of these, 1,36,80,145 were given the first dose and the remaining 22,15,025 had taken both the doses of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/vaccine-hitch-as-bihar-embarks-on-massive-vaccination-drive-101625071463444.html
30-06-2021||Patna||ECR gets new additional GM||Anjali Goyal, general manager at Diesel Locomotive Works (DLW) in Varanasi, has taken over the additional charge of General Manager (GM), East Central Railway (ECR). Lalit Chandra Trivedi, who took charge as the GM on March 7, 2018, retired on Wednesday. A senior officer of the 1985 batch of Indian Railways Accounts Service, Goyal has served the Railways many times in the past, including as the principal executive director (accounts) in the Railway Board, DRM in Jaipur and executive director finance (budget) and executive director finance (establishment). She has also held the charge as an adviser (Project Appraisal) in NITI Aayog and was the director (finance) in the Department of Woman and Child Development. Goyal holds a BA (Hon) in Economics degree from Lady Shri Ram College, Delhi University and a master’s degree in Advanced Economics from Delhi School of Economics, Delhi University. She has several published articles to her credit, covering subjects like high-speed railways in India, sustainable development of Railways and general budgeting||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ecrgets-new-additional-gm-101625071464083.html
30-06-2021||Other||IAF gives nod to acquire land to expand Darbhanga airport||DARBHANGAThe Indian Air Force (IAF) has given its nod for acquisition of 78 acres of land for expansion and development of the civil enclave at Darbhanga airport, which began operating civilian flights from the IAF station runway on November 8 last year as part of Centre’s regional connectivity scheme UDAN.Darbhanga district magistrate Thiyagrajan SM confirmed the receipt of letter from IAF authorities and said that the land parcel was already identified and a proposal sent to the state government on Wednesday for approval. “The land acquisition process will begin once approval from state government is obtained,” he said.The land acquisition has been hanging fire ever since Darbhanga airport was included in UDAN ( Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) scheme in January 2018.Since November 8 last year, when SpiceJet launched its flight service from Darbhanga, the airport has witnessed a huge footfall of passengers, even surpassing bigger airports.Earlier, the state government had sanctioned ₹121 crore on September 2, 2019, for acquisition of 31 acres of land to facilitate construction of a permanent civil enclave at Darbhanga airport.However, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) later revised the proposal, seeking 78 acres in view of operational success and potential of Darbhanga airport, officials familiar with the matter said.Meanwhile, Bihar’s minister of water resources Sanjay Kumar Jha, who is from Darbhanga region, tweeted, “We are glad IAF has granted NoC for expansion of Darbhanga airport. The state government will soon acquire necessary land so that terminal building and necessary facilities can be constructed here.”Darbhanga MP Gopal Jee Thakur, in a press statement, said an estimate (proposal) of about ₹336 crore has been given for the acquisition of 78 acres of land meant for Darbhanga airport. “With the development of facilities for passengers, eight crore population of Mitthila will get access to easy and convenient air travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iaf-gives-nod-to-acquire-land-to-expand-darbhanga-airport-101625071462252.html
30-06-2021||Other||Nitish returns to Patna after cataract surgery in Delhi||PatnaBihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday returned to Patna after successful cataract surgery on both his eyes at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi.“The cataract removal surgery on both my eyes was successful and everything is fine,” Kumar told reporters at the airport on his arrival from Delhi.The chief minister has been advised by his doctors to follow certain medical protocols after the surgery, including wearing sunglasses to avoid sunlight, a senior official at the CMO said.He can resume his normal work after four-five days, the official said.Kumar had reached Delhi on June 22 amid speculation that he might meet the BJP top brass to seek a decent share in the Union cabinet during its next expansion but soon after landing at the airport, the chief minister said he had come on a personal visit for his eye treatment. PTI||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nitish-returns-to-patna-after-cataract-surgery-in-delhi-101625071461661.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Barhate’s wife arrested in MCOCA case||The wife of Ravindra Barhate, Right to information (RTI) activist, on the run from the Pune police in multiple cases, was arrested along with one other person by the Pune police crime branch on Wednesday. The arrested persons were identified as Sangita Barhate and Pitambar Dhivar, according to a high-ranking officer of crime branch who wished to remain anonymous. The woman was arrested in the case registered at Hadapsar against Barhate and multiple others including a dismissed Constable and a journalist in which the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) has been invoked. This gang of 8-10 people are booked for using RTI-gained information to grab land from scores of people. At least 10 cases have been registered against them. The police are on a lookout for Barhate who has been evading arrest and approaching courts to get anticipatory bail. However, even the Supreme Court has denied anticipatory bail to Barhate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/barhates-wife-arrested-in-mcoca-case-101625070201646.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Data corruption costs private company a loss of ₹50 lakh||A major pump and valve manufacturing company located in Pimpri allegedly suffered a loss of ₹50 lakh after data on their systems was corrupted. The data was corrupted on February 27 around 7:14pm in the company premise, according to the police. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Narendra Vasant Deshpande (52), a resident of Warje-Malwadi and an employee of the company. The company employee has lodged a complaint with the Pimpri-Chinchwad police that unauthorised access to the company servers was gained and used to corrupt around 150 data files. The data files contained information about employees of the company, according to the complaint. A case under Sections 43(c) (f) and 66 of Information Technology Act was registered at Pimpri police station. Police inspector Bhojraj Misal of Pimpri police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/data-corruption-costs-private-company-a-loss-of-rs-50-lakh-101625070141596.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Man booked for forging medical records during 2017 SRPF recruitment||A case of cheating and forgery was registered against a man for forging medical tests during the recruitment process of 2017 at the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF). A total of 50 positions of armed officials were to be filled through the recruitment procedure in 2017. There was a due process that candidates were required to follow in order to get a medical test done. However, the accused allegedly got a test done from some man in Sassoon hospital and got forged stamps and documents that were later submitted at SRPF ground-2. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Lakshman Uttekar (57), a resident of Jagtap Dairy area of Wakad, Pune. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 467, 468, 471, and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Wanowrie police station. Assistant police inspector Bhagwan Kamble of Wanowrie police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-booked-for-forging-medical-records-during-2017-srpf-recruitment-101625070081618.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Man claims to be army officer, dupes homeowner of ₹50k||A 24-year-old man was duped of ₹50,000 by a caller who claimed to be an armed forces officer who was interested in renting the complainant’s house. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Suboth Lonkar (24), a resident of Dhanori area of Pune. Lonkar’s mother had listed an apartment they own on an online real estate aggregator platform and was looking for tenants. On March 2, he got a call from a man who claimed to be a defence official. He showed interest in renting the property listed and asked for pictures of the property. When the complainant sent pictures of the place, the man agreed to rent the place and asked for UPI payment details, according to the complainant. As the woman did not have a Google Pay account, he requested her to download and make a payment of ₹1. After sharing the information, the man fraudulently gained access to the woman’s account and made two transactions of ₹25,000. A complaint was lodged, and a case was registered at Vishrantwadi police station. Police inspector (crime) Manisha Zende is investigating the case. A case under Sections 419 (personation) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 66(c), 66(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Vishrantwadi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-claims-to-be-army-officer-dupes-homeowner-of-rs-50k-101625070021695.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Barber in police custody for killing second wife in Bhawani peth||A barber was remanded to custody of Pune police by a local court on Wednesday for killing his second wife and locking her inside their house in Bhawani peth area of the city. The arrested man was identified as Saleem Shakeel Shaikh (33) while the deceased woman was identified as Sumaiyya Saleem Shaikh (46). Her body was found on June 18 due to the smell emanating from their house in Sapkal Complex, Bhawani peth area of Pune. The man is suspected to have killed her in the night intermediate of June 13 and June 14. It was the woman’s friends who raised suspicion about the husband. The two lived along with a 15-year-old sister of the arrested man who finally helped the police nail the man, according to the investigating officers. “Saleem was married to one woman and had three children with her. One and a half year ago he had a love marriage with the now-deceased woman. While his first wife and children lived in Mundhwa, his second wife lived in Bhawani peth. The now-deceased woman learned about his extra marital affairs which led to fights between them. It was during one of these fights that he strangled her to death and locked the house,” read a statement from Samarth police station. After having killed her, the man first took the 15-year-old to his relative’s place in Pratapgadh region of Uttar Pradesh. Since then, he was roaming in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Gujarat, in order to evade arrest, before coming back to Pune, according to the police. “A friend of the woman had come looking for her as her phone and the accused man’s phone was off too. We learned about the teenager and went to UP and found the girl who used to live with them and narrated the incident to us. Meanwhile, his family in Mundhwa had also fled upon his insistence. When we found them, we told them to come back to Pune and set a trap for him. When he came to Pune to meet his family, we arrested him,” said Police inspector (crime) Ulhas Kadam of Samarth police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 342 (wrongful confinement) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Samarth police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/barber-in-police-custody-for-killing-second-wife-in-bhawani-peth-101625069961740.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Cluster development allowed for Mhada redevelopment in Pune city||The Maharashtra government has given a nod to apply for the cluster development policy for the re-development of Mhada properties in the city. Pune has a total of 40,000 Mhada flats which are old and in need for redevelopment. Recently, the Maharashtra government approved three FSI (Floor Space Index) for the Mhada propoerties in Pune which was earlier at 2.5 FSI. Despite allowing 2.5 FSI, developers are not coming forward in Pune for the redevelopment. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar called a meeting with urban development and housing department to discuss the Pune city Mhada properties redevelopment issue on Tuesday. Siddharth Dhende who was present for the meeting said, “Many Mhada properties are not getting redeveloped due to various issues. For example, the Maharashtra Housing Society located near Nagpur chawl is near the airport and the prison where high rise is not possible. If the developers are allowed to do cluster of various Mhada plots, they can use the remaining FSI on other plots. The urban development department and Mhada minister Jitendra Avhad both accepted it and asked Pune Mhada to submit the proposal for same.” Pune city has various Mhada buildings which were erected since 1965 and now in a bad condition. The residents are demanding redevelopment but due to various reasons, the work cannot be restarted. Ajit Pawar also accepted that the situation in Mumbai and Pune is different and Pune would need different rules. Dhende said, “Many approach roads to Mhada buildings are either six or nine metres wide. It is bringing in restrictions for high rise buildings. Even many amenities like garden, playground, water tank were developed in the Mhada societies and they are coming in between various plots. By considering this, it has been demanded to get a site margin discount like SRA for Mhada buildings.” BOX Mhada buildings located at following places in the city Lokmanya Nagar (Sadashiv peth), Agarkar Nagar (Band Garden road), Bhamburda (Gokhale Nagar), Laxmi Nagar (Parvati), Mharshingar, Phulenagar, Maharashtra Housing Board Yerwada, Netaji Nagar (Wanwadi), Swami Vivekanand Nagar (Hadapsar), Hingne Mala (Hadapsar), Golf Club Road, Kothrud, Bavdhan, Wadgaonsheri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cluster-development-allowed-for-mhada-redevelopment-in-pune-city-101625069841667.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Shiv Sena joins hands with NCP for Ahmednagar mayor’s post||After joining hands at state level, traditional rivals in Ahmednagar, Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have joined hands to win the mayoral elections of Ahmednagar Municipal Corporation (AMC) unopposed as Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) did not field any candidate for the polls slated on Wednesday. In 2018, BJP had teamed up with NCP corporators to dump Shiv Sena, which had cornered maximum number of seats, leaving the party embarrassed. The AMC has 68 members in total but after corporator Sripad Chhindam lost his post, there are 67 corporators in the house. Shiv Sena has the highest tally of 23 corporators followed by NCP which has 18 corporators while BJP has 15 corporators and Congress has five elected members. The BSP has four corporators, SP has one and one independent candidate in the municipal corporation. The Shiv Sena fielded Rohini Shedge for the mayoral post and needed 34 corporators to back her candidature which would give the party a majority in the civic body. The Congress however decided to stay neutral in the election scheduled to be held on June 30. The outgoing mayor of Ahmednagar Municipal Council is a BJP candidate backed by NCP. The current post is reserved for a scheduled caste candidate in female category and top Shiv Sena leaders had met CM Uddhav Thackeray over the issue. Later, a meeting was held between Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and minister Eknath Shinde along with NCP and Shiv Sena over the issue of finalization of the name of the candidate. Ahmednagar MLA Sangram Jagtap was also present for the meeting. In the meeting it was unanimously decided to support Shiv Sena for the mayoral post of AMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/shiv-sena-joins-hands-with-ncp-for-ahmednagar-mayor-s-post-101625069781613.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Sant Tukaram Palkhi prasthan today, no foot pilgrimage||On Thursday, July 1, the prasthan (departure) ceremony of the Sant Tukaram Palkhi will take place. All the necessary safety arrangements are in place by the Dehu temple administration and the state government. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, for the second consecutive year, the pilgrimage on foot has been cancelled by the state government. The impact on the economy of the Dehu and Alandi villages and Ssveral other villages on the route of the palkhis, which walks all the way towards Pandharpur, over 18 days, is substantial. As per earlier experience, Abhay Tilak, chief trustee of the Alandi Devsthan temple trust, claims the total value of “Wari economics” each year is at ₹1,000 crore. “Wari is a big event in the state which happens every year for the last 300 years, and every year there is increase in the number of warkaris joining the palkhis. The wari is not only for those 18 days, but its preparations starts way before. Right from the route, roads, making all other necessary arrangements at the villages, as well as arrangements by NGOs and local organisations, all goes into the preparation. The wari tradition economy is valued at ₹1,000 crore and has been impacted due to Covid-19,” said Tilak. Every year tens of thousands of pilgrims walk from Dehu and Alandi to Pandharpur, all devotees of Sant Tukaram and Sant Dnyaneshwar. This year both the saints will be taken by MSRTC buses to Pandharpur, with only a few selected warkaris on the bus. Sanjay More, chief of this year’s Tukaram Maharaj Palkhi said, “We are all set for the palkhi prasthan ceremony. The entire temple has been sanitised and 100 Warkaris along with temple trustees and administrative staff will be allowed inside the temple. Covid safety protocols will be followed strictly during the ceremony and we appeal to people not to come to Dehu for the ceremony as curfew has been imposed in the Dehu and Alandi villages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sant-tukaram-palkhi-prasthan-today-no-foot-pilgrimage-101625069721602.html
30-06-2021||Other||Sikh girls’ marriages in J&K: Issue blown out of proportion, says Kendri Singh Sabha||Chandigarh Sikh intellectuals who met at Kendri Singh Sabha in the city on Wednesday said that issue of marriage of two Sikh girls in Jammu and Kashmir had been blown out of proportion for political reasons, and as required by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “Sikh leaders in Delhi whipped up the issue, with aggression, as required by the BJP to consolidate the majority community as the Sangh Parivaar’s vote bank,” said Khushhal Singh, general secretary, Kendri Singh Sabha. Intellectuals of Sikh organisations added that the point of concern is that Sikh leaders in Delhi intentionally kicked up a religious frenzy over the issue, competing with one another in holding demonstrations in New Delhi.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa flew to Srinagar to bring back the two Sikh girls, while a former president of the DSGMC organised a protest in New Delhi.“It is a known fact that every religious community in India opposes inter-religious and inter-caste marriages. There is a difference in rigidity shown by different religious communities on this account,” Khushhal added, pointing that the Indian Muslims were also no different. “The actions of Sikh leaders are objectionable. They were too loud and could not hide their motive of playing the political game of polarisation, for and on behalf of, the ruling BJP,” added Khushhal. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sikh-girls-marriages-in-j-k-issue-blown-out-of-proportion-says-kendri-singh-sabha-101625067981511.html
30-06-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Bengaluru Metro to resume services from July 1||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) on Wednesday said the metro services in the city will be operational from 7am to 6pm on weekdays from Thursday, reported news agency PTI.The metro rail services in the city will be available from morning to evening with a frequency of five minutes in peak hours and 15 minutes in non-peak hours from Monday to Friday.Also read | Covid-19: Karnataka govt to decide on opening of temples to publicThe BMRCL in a statement also informed that depending on the patronage, the trains would be operated with increased or decreased frequency.The metro services will not be functional on weekends in view of Covid-induced curfew in the state.Earlier, the BMRCL said that under the Unlock-2 guidelines, the metro train services were available from June 21 from 7am to 11am and from 3pm to 6pm on weekdays and suspension of operations on Saturdays and Sundays or weekends.The BMRCL has also decided to begin a token system, which was suspended in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak. The smart token system has been decided to start undertaking single journeys from July 1 in addition to smart cards.Karnataka on Wednesday registered 3,382 new Covid cases and 111 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The new cases and deaths took the state tally to over 2.8 million (2,843,810) and the toll to 35,040, the health department said, reported PTI.The active caseload of the state currently stands at 76,505, the health data showed.The state has a positivity rate of 1.97% and a case fatality rate of 3.28% on Wednesday.Meanwhile, Bengaluru Urban district reported 813 new Covid-19 infections in the previous 24 hours, while 11 people died due to the disease, according to the health department data.The Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) had also helped the state government during the second wave of Covid as it established a 100-bed COVID Care Centre to deal with the exponential surge in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-bengaluru-metro-to-resume-services-from-july-1-101625062577784.html
30-06-2021||Gurugram||Farmers adamant on repeal of farm laws won’t serve any purpose: Haryana CM||Haryana chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday said the protesting farmer unions should not remain adamant on repeal of the new central farm laws, adding that making it a precondition for talks with the government does not serve any purpose.He also claimed that only a "handful of people" were opposing the farm laws and that "common farmers are happy".“Those spearheading the agitation are in reality not farmers. Real farmers have no objection with the farm laws, they are happy,” he said.The chief minister further alleged that those opposing the farm laws are only doing so due to political reasons.“Their Punjab team is doing so because polls are approaching there. But there are no polls due in our state. Here the agenda is to defame the government using political angle. And the Congress is also supporting them in this,” he said.Khattar said the word “kisan” (farmer) is a sacred one, but some incidents like the alleged sexual exploitation of a woman from West Bengal at the Tikri border last month have "prompted people to raise questions".On Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar's appeal to the protesting farmers to end their agitation and his invitation for talks, Khattar said, "The farmer unions are adamant on only one thing -- repeal of the farm laws -- without being able to pinpoint at any shortcomings of the laws."“It does not serve any purpose if they remain adamant on just one thing and making it a precondition for talks with the government,” he said at a press conference here.“What I feel is that Kisan word is a very pious word. Everyone, including common people, government and I would say even those leading this agitation have faith and respect towards farmers. But the sad part which has come out of this agitation is that some incidents have happened prompting people to raise questions," he said in an apparent reference to the sexual exploitation incident at Tikri border.The Haryana Police had last month launched a probe into allegations by the father of the victim woman, who died after showing COVID-like symptoms, at a hospital in Bahadurgarh in Jhajjar district, that she had been raped by two men she had accompanied to the farmers protest site at Tikri border.The chief minister also referred to the death of a 42-year-old man whose family members alleged that he was set on fire by four people in Bahadurgarh.According to the complaint lodged by the victim's brother, the four men were part of the ongoing farmers agitation at the Tikri border near Delhi.“There has been sexual assault, murder, and also disputes with local people about roads being blocked for which even panchayats have been held,” Khattar said.He also referred to the alleged targeting of BJP-JJP leaders in the state over the farm laws.“I condemn their undemocratic way of work. We are exercising restraint. And what are they (those spearheading the stir) saying that the ministers, MLAs, chief minister, deputy CM cannot go to attend public functions. After all those running the government, it is their responsibility to go among the people and listen to them,” he said.“We have always exercised restraint as they (protesters) are our own people… we do not want confrontation. When they say some things, we tolerate it as they are our own people. But exceeding it beyond limit is not in anyone's interest,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-adamant-on-repeal-of-farm-laws-won-t-serve-any-purpose-haryana-cm-101625063855465.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Building owners with Reliance stores seek Punjab CM help for reopening||A group of building owners who have rented their premises to Reliance Industries for operating its various businesses across Punjab on Tuesday sought the intervention of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for reopening of their stores which were laid siege by protesting farmers for the past several months.Farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws are not allowing Reliance stores to operate in Punjab.The owners said they are in a deep financial crisis and moving towards bankruptcy as they have not been getting any rental incomes for the past 7-8 months because all Reliance retail outlets are closed due to farmer protests.They said the agitating farmers have put their tents outside various stores.Reliance has around 275 stores in Punjab and all of them are shut, they said."We are bearing losses in crores as the buildings are on loans from banks and we have to bear the burden of huge EMIs, municipal taxes, electricity and water charges, etc. Moreover, the livelihood of lakhs of workers, employees and their families has also been adversely affected," said Prabhnoor Singh Walia from Kapurthala in a statement here.He added that "farmer leaders warn us of severe consequences if we open the stores. We have even approached the district police and other local authorities but in vain. We have also met Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders and 'Kisan Jathebandeyaan' a couple of times and raised our concerns but to no avail".As per the agreements with the company, no rental payment can be made in case there is no billing or the store is closed due to agitation, Walia added."We are all Punjabis and fully support the farmers, but such forced closure of Reliance's stores is only harming Punjab, as Reliance procures a lot of products locally, provides huge direct and indirect employment to Punjabis and pays huge taxes to the state."No corporate would be interested to invest in the state if they are not allowed to operate peacefully," said Dharampal Singh Nain from Jagraon.Nirmal Singh from Jalandhar said, "We have borrowed loans and invested all our hard earned money in the properties, but such forced closure is ruining us."He added that the stores are open in all other states. "But in Punjab, farmers are not allowing to open even those stores which are under essential services, so we are here to request the CM for help.""We also appeal to the farmers associations to carry on their protest peacefully against the government but allow Reliance to open its stores."Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) has already said in a regulatory filing that it has no plans of entering contract or corporate farming, and it has not purchased any agricultural land in India for the purpose of contract farming," said Manav Sandhu from Taran Taran.Sandeep Singh Brar, officer on special duty to the Punjab CM who interacted with the aggrieved building owners, assured all possible support to them and promised to take it up with the CM, as per the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/building-owners-with-reliance-stores-seek-punjab-cm-help-for-reopening-101625061248437.html
30-06-2021||Kolkata||‘This is a planted game’: Mamata on criticism of Bengal govt over fake vaccine drives||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) accusing it of spreading misinformation regarding the West Bengal government in connection to the fake vaccination programme.“The state government is taking strong action in the fake vaccine scam. There is a discussion on West Bengal every day on national TV. The BJP dictates TV and they are spreading misinformation,” Mamata Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Banerjee also said that she suspected the home ministry to be behind this. “It's a planted game from the home minister's office, I am sure about it,” Banerjee further added.TMC MP Mimi Chakrabarty had busted a fake vaccination camp run by Debanjan Deb earlier this month. The TMC MP also risked her own health as she had received jabs at the fake vaccination centre earlier. Mimi’s suspicion arose after she did not receive a vaccine certificate which prompted her to contact the police and which led to Deb’s arrest.The West Bengal government came under pressure after Trinamool Congress MPs and other government officials were seen with Debanjan Deb. Last week TMC MP and Bengal Indian Medical Association chapter’s chief Santanu Sen denied any involvement with Debanjan Deb after his pictures with Deb surfaced on the web. He also said that he did not know Deb personally and did not ask him why he wanted to get his picture clicked with the lawmaker when the photo was taken.Debanjan Deb, 28, who has been charged with criminal conspiracy, forgery and cheating, conducted other fake vaccination camps as well. Deb also drove around with a blue beacon in his car masquerading as an IAS officer working with the state government. Kolkata Police also revealed that Deb carried out a raid as an IAS officer, according to news agency PTI.The opposition parties other than the BJP have also questioned the state government over how Debanjan was allowed to carry on with these scams. The Calcutta high court asked the West Bengal government to file a report on the fake vaccine scams organised by Debanjan Deb by Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/this-is-a-planted-game-mamata-on-criticism-of-bengal-govt-over-fake-vaccine-drives-101625061262778.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Winner of The Diana Award, Kaif Ali: Youth has the power to change the world||The most prestigious accolade a young person, aged 9-25 years, can receive for their social action or humanitarian work, is the Diana Award. And recently, an architecture student of Faculty of Architecture & Ekistics, Jamia Millia Islamia, Kaif Ali has been honoured with it. Ali has been awarded for his work on Covid-19 Innovation –Space era, which is a module for demountable and portable shelter space for Covid-19 era and beyond. He started working on this project during March last year when the pandemic was raging. “I noticed when people were being isolated at home or at Covid centres, it was not entirely isolating and there was still a risk of spreading the virus. Tackling this very problem, I have created an intermediate space, which allows people to isolate completely. The shelter is portable and can be set anywhere, so people can even isolate near their locality. The shelter also follows all norms of social distancing and Covid protocols,” he says.The shelter can be designed with prefabricated sheets, or by using shipping containers. A standard shelter unit contains 4 shelter units, with 96 quarantine friendly beds, with a flexibility of modulation as per requirements. With a passion for humanitarian causes, Ali has designed refugee camps as college projects, and confesses on feeling passionate about it. He adds, “I have been tirelessly doing innovations in the humanitarian shelter domain. To make refugee camps or disaster relief camps and have participated in international competitions about the same.” And, when the pandemic hit us, Ali saw it as an opportunity to serve the society by his innovations. Admits to being a multi-tasker, Ali was working on space era, all while attending online classes, but, never saw it is as a problem and always felt passionate for his work. “It doesn’t feel like work because of the passion and dedication I have for it. Neither my college, nor any government body has asked me to do this project, it is all driven by my passion,” says the awardee.Having done this project all by himself, Ali feels proud of himself and wants to inspire youth. “Initially I asked my peers, if they want to join me on this project. But, they didn’t understand it. They thought using shipping containers is not a ‘new’ idea. So, I did it alone and I am happy it is being received well. With various organisations recognising my work and having received many awards, I am happy and proud that my efforts didn’t go in vain. I did something good for the society,” he adds. With a message for youth out there, Ali says, “I want all the young citizens to follow a three I’s formula, that is to imagine, initiate and inspire. I firmly believe that youth has the power to change the world and serve the society from our own professions. With consistency and courage, youth can inspire the coming generation.” With hopes of continuing to serve the society, Ali wants to further work for sustainability and bring out a youth perspective for climate adaptation and mitigation strategies. “I want to be a youngest sustainability professional and work in climate leadership domain,” he concludes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/winner-of-the-diana-award-kaif-ali-youth-has-the-power-to-change-the-world-101625060607476.html
30-06-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand CM says 30 minors rescued from being trafficked to Delhi||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday said that as many as 30 minor girls and boys were rescued last week owing to the steps taken by the state government to end human trafficking and migrant workers’ exploitation, news agency PTI reported.In a statement, Soren explained that on June 24, a crackdown by the state police department led to the rescue of 30 children from the Ranchi railway station and Birsa Munda airport. “They were being trafficked to Delhi,” the chief minister added, as reported by PTI.Soren further stated that his government is providing ₹2,000 per month to trafficking survivors towards living expenses until they “attain 18 years of age.” He added that besides the financial aid, the girls would get free education and vocational training that would enable them to become independent.Soren said that a proposal has been given for the setting up of an anti-human trafficking unit, especially in the sensitive regions of the state. Furthermore, women police officers will also be appointed across the state to keep a check on human trafficking in the rural areas. The chief minister stated that the government will soon come up with a detailed plan to rehabilitate children whose parents have succumbed to Covid-19.Addressing the issue of migrant workers, who suffered severely during the nationwide lockdown last year due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, Soren said that his government was concerned about the workers’ welfare.According to the PTI report, the chief minister pointed out that despite the pandemic-induced migration crisis, the state has handled the matter sensitively. He said earlier this month his government ensured the safe return of Jharkhand-based migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh’s Deoria district. “Thirty migrant labourers including women and children were brought back to Jharkhand,” he added.Interestingly, earlier this month, a skill mapping of 250,056 migrant labourers, who returned home to Jharkhand, showed that 177,186 or 70 per cent of the returnees are skilled labourers, while the rest 72,871 are unskilled workers, according to the state government’s assessment. The mapping was done on Soren’s instructions with the aim for the government to provide them with jobs as per their skills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-cm-says-30-minors-rescued-from-being-trafficked-to-delhi-101625059373872.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Maha to vaccinate bedridden people at home on trial basis, Pune to be first||Maharashtra government on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court that it would soon commence home administration of coronavirus (Covid-19) vaccine for people, who are immobile or bedridden on an experimental basis, with the introduction in Pune district first, news agency PTI reported.State advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told the division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni that the government will not “refer the proposal to the Centre” and that they will take their “own decision”, the PTI report further stated.On Tuesday, the state government filed an affidavit in the high court, citing that there would be conditions imposed in the trial home vaccination such as taking a written consent from the beneficiary’s family and a certificate from the family doctor taking full accountability in case of any adverse reaction to the vaccine.However, the court, reported PTI, quashed the condition of asking for a certificate from a family doctor, terming the act to be ‘impractical’. “How can a doctor take responsibility? Do not put such an impractical condition,” Chief Justice Datta was quoted as saying by PTI.The court was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by two lawyers - Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, asking for a direction to the central government and the state government to implement door-to-door vaccination for senior citizens above 75 years, specially-abled persons and those who are bedridden.Initially, the Maharashtra government in its affidavit on Tuesday said that it would have to take approval from the Centre. However, after the court pointed out that states like Kerala, Jharkhand and Bihar have already started the initiative, the Maharashtra government came up with their latest decision on Wednesday.As of now, the matter has been posted for further hearing on Thursday in presence of the chairman of the Maharashtra Covid-19 task force.Earlier this month, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that his department is working towards rolling out door-to-door vaccination across the state. At the time, the minister also emphasised that the beneficiary’s family and a family doctor have to give in writing that the former can be administered the Covid-19 vaccine dose and that it would be their responsibility should anything adverse happen.However, Tope had stated that the door-to-door vaccination will not be applicable for all citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maha-to-vaccinate-bedridden-people-at-home-on-trial-basis-pune-to-be-first-101625058257046.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Fleecing complaints: Three private hospitals refund ₹21 lakh in Panchkula||Three private hospitals in Panchkula that accepted the allegations of overcharging Covid patients have refunded ₹21 lakh to the complainants in the presence of deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.The cheques were handed over by representatives of Paras Hospital, Alchemist Hospital and Wings Hospital to Covid patients and their family members on Tuesday.Singh said that now, the entire due amount has been settled. While Paras Hospital refunded ₹12,91,092 for 13 patients, Alchemist Hospital and Wings Hospital refunded ₹6,39,347 and ₹1,77,654 to five and three patients, respectively.The families had met Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and complained of inflated bills. Taking cognisance of the complaints, Gupta had directed the district administration to constitute a committee to conduct an inquiry. It was headed by additional deputy commissioner (ADC) Mohd Imran Raza.Singh said that initially, notices were served to the hospitals and their reply was sought. Then, they were given a personal hearing, where they accepted to overcharging in certain cases. The DC said that he had directed all such private hospitals to refund the excess amount charged by them to the complainants at the earliest.Hospitals told to self auditHowever, Singh said that much more needs to be done in this direction. He also directed the three private hospitals to conduct a self-audit of bills and inform patients or their family members about the refund admissible to them, if any, through phone or email.“I have issued a notice, in which they have been directed to complete self-audit of bills between April 1 and May 15 by July 31. A review meeting will be held after 30 days,” he said.He said that anyone with complaints of overcharging can report it to the ADC’s office on panchkulaadc@gmail.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fleecing-complaints-three-private-hospitals-refund-21-lakh-in-panchkula-101625058861674.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||More than 2,000 kids in Delhi lost either one or both parents to Covid-19: DCPCR survey||More than 2,000 children in Delhi have lost either or both their parents to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since the pandemic hit the country last year in May, according to a survey conducted by the Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR). The survey revealed that 67 of them lost both their parents to the disease.As many as 651 children lost their mothers and 1, 311 lost their fathers to the viral infection. The Delhi government has decided to pay compensation of ₹2,500 per month to such children."The Commission has been able to trace more than 2,029 children who have lost either one or both their parents due to Covid. Of these, 67 children are those who have lost both their parents, whereas 651 children have lost their mothers and 1,311 their fathers due to the disease," it said, reported news agency PTI.The DCPCR had also rolled out an all-day operational helpline number for citizens to report any such case or seek any such information regarding child rights. The number is: 9311551393.The helpline number has been used to undertake various well-being surveys and identification of children who have lost their parents to the disease using the data provided by the Delhi government's health department, according to the commission.The details of the children have been shared with the department of women and child development for necessary action and to ensure enrolling eligible beneficiaries in schemes notified by the state government for such children, as per the statement of the commission.On May 14, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said the government would bear the cost of education and upbringing of the children orphaned by the pandemic.Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month announced welfare schemes for children who lost their parents to Covid, including ensuring a corpus of ₹10 lakh when they turn 23 years and providing for education.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-than-2-000-kids-in-delhi-lost-either-or-both-parents-to-covid-19-dcpcr-survey-101625053427049.html
30-06-2021||Patna||On CCTV: Property dealer shot dead by 2 men on Bihar highway. They fired 7 shots||Patna: A property dealer travelling on a motorcycle was forced to stop and shot dead by two men in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur on Wednesday morning, police said. A CCTV camera captured the brazen attack on the busy Sitamarhi-Muzaffarpur national highway that shows the assailants spent about a minute at the spot after the first shot, firing repeatedly to make sure that the man was dead.Police said they found seven shell casings from the spot.The dead man was identified as Nawal Kishore Singh, a property dealer from Sheopur districtMuzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant said Nawal Kishore Singh was the brother of a former chief and district board member, Srinarayan Singh, who filed his papers to contest the Bihar elections as a candidate of a regional party Janta Dal Rashtravadi in October-November last year. Srinarayan was killed during campaigning on October 25, 2020.Police said Wednesday’s incident took place at about 5.30am when the property dealer was going somewhere from Ahiyapur. Nawal Kishore was forced to stop his motorcycle between Old Zero Mile and Vijay Chhapra on the Sitamarhi-Muzaffarpur highway, about 100 km from state capital Patna.When one of the two men got off the motorcycle and moved towards Nawal Kishore, he appeared to have figured something was amiss and tried to run. According to the CCTV footage, the assailant fired the shot on his back. Nawal Kishore fell. The assailant fired at him again, and again over the next 60 seconds. At one point, the assailant walked back to the motorcycle and got a second weapon to fire again. They eventually sped away towards Sitamarhi.Witnesses told the police that the men also killed a street dog who had been barking incessantly at them.“The dog ran a few metres and collapsed to his death”, said Ramsagar Shah, who has a tea stall near the spot.Local residents said it appeared the gunmen fired about 15 shots but the police stressed they found only seven shells.Police said they were trying to question two men present at the spot for a lead about the assailants. They are also seeing if the CCTV footage helps to identify the accused and are examining phone details of the dead man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/property-dealer-shot-dead-by-2-men-on-bihar-highway-they-fired-7-shots-cops-101625057363183.html
30-06-2021||Other||Kanimozhi recalls father’s arrest 20 years back||Tamil Nadu’s ruling Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) lawmaker Kanimozhi and several social media users posted a picture showing her father, late M Karunanidhi, sitting on the road outside Chennai’s central prison exactly 20 years back on June 30, 2011, following his dramatic post-midnight arrest. Karunanidhi, who was then 78, was roughed up after police barged into his room while he was sleeping. He was dragged out even as he shouted “they are killing me” repeatedly. Karunanidhi’s archrival, J Jayalalithaa, was the chief minister then. He faced charges of irregularities in the construction of flyovers and was arrested around 1.30am.Also Read | ‘BJP stands for everything we do not want Tamil Nadu to become’: KanimozhiKarunanidhi was produced before a judge in the early hours of the morning and remanded in judicial custody after getting treatment at a hospital. He described what happened at his home to the judge and broke down. As police drove him straight to prison, he staged on a sit-in outside while Kanimozhi sat alongside him.On Wednesday, Kanimozhi tweeted the photo of the sit-in and wrote, “Unforgettable day.” She said though she was sitting alone with him, thousands of their supporters were fighting for him.Chief minister M K Stalin, who was also an accused in the case at that time, surrendered on June 30, 2001, before the principal sessions judge in Chennai and was sent to prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kanimozhi-recalls-father-s-arrest-20-years-back-101625054421490.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Stop political rallies during the pandemic: Bombay HC to govt||The Bombay high court on Wednesday said it was time to prepare for the third Covid wave by learning from the devastation caused by the second wave and that the state government must ensure that no more political rallies were held during the pandemic, failing which the court will take strict action.“You will have to start activating machinery to stop political rallies defying Covid protocols. We will not allow this to happen. We are shutting down courts for physical hearings and these political leaders are organizing rallies with thousands of persons. The last rally was on the issue of naming of airport with over 25,000 people present. Can it not wait for Covid to get over? The court was referring to a large rally held two days ago to oppose naming of Navi Mumbai Airport after Shiv Sena patriarch Balasaheb Thackeray while demanding that it be named after late socialist leader DB Patil. The first phase of the airport is yet to be completed. There have been other political rallies demanding Maratha and OBC (other backward class) quotas. The court asked why these rallies could not wait and said it would not allow them during the pandemic. The instruction from the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni came during the hearing of a public interest litigation over shortage and black marketing of anti-Covid drugs during its procurement and distribution. “Everyone is trying to take mileage. Why? Let it wait for some time. Are vaccination camps less important? We should all take lessons from the second wave and be prepared for the third wave. We all invited it and saw what happened. We should avoid it,” the bench noted. The second wave of the pandemic is said to have worsened due to unchecked political events such as holding of elections in several states and violation of Covid-19 protocols in organising the Kumbh Mela at Haridwar earlier this year. The court also wanted to know from the government counsel why political leaders were not informing the electorate that the state government was not the authority to decide on the issue of Maratha reservation and that a review petition was filed in the Supreme Court. Earlier last month, the division bench headed by justice Ravindra Ghuge at Aurangabad court made similar observations and restrained politicians and ministers from conducting physical ceremonies and functions including for inaugurating projects until lockdown restrictions were eased. The bench suggested that such events could be organized virtually.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/stop-political-rallies-during-the-pandemic-bombay-hc-to-govt-101625053941362.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees drop in Covid-19 cases; reports 94 single-day infection, 6 deaths||Delhi reported 94 new coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the previous 24 hours, down from Tuesday’s 101 cases in a single day, thereby taking the cumulative infection tally of the national capital to 1,434,188, the health department’s daily bulletin showed. The positivity rate of the city was logged at 0.12%, yet another decline from the preceding day’s 0.15%, the bulletin data added.As many as six fatalities were recorded that took the death toll of the capital to 24,977. The total number of recoveries has reached 1,407,832 following the recovery of 240 patients in the previous 24 hours, the data further stated.Although Wednesday’s numbers indicate a decline from Tuesday’s 101 new cases, it is still more than those reported on Monday and Sunday. Moreover, on Monday, with 59 new coronavirus cases, Delhi recorded the lowest daily spike in cases since April last year.Delhi vaccinated 203,153 beneficiaries in the previous 24 hours, of which, 165,789 were inoculated with the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, and the remaining 37,369 were given the second dose. According to the bulletin data, 7,753,986 people have been administered vaccine doses in the national capital so far. While 5,972,617 have only taken their first dose of the vaccine, as many as 17,81,369 have received their second jabs as well.Last Saturday, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said that vaccination in Delhi is happening at a “record pace” and that it is going to “protect Delhi” from the possible third wave of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-drop-in-covid-19-cases-reports-94-single-day-infection-6-deaths-101625052349791.html
30-06-2021||Noida||Protesting farmers, BJP workers clash at UP Gate site near Delhi||Ghaziabad: Hundreds of workers from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and protesting farmers camping at UP Gate protest site in Ghaziabad briefly clashed on Wednesday afternoon, police said. The incident took place when the farmers, who were holding their protest on one side of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) objected to a gathering of local BJP workers on the opposite lane to welcome a party leader.“They (BJP) were on the other side of the DME and the farmers objected to the gathering. We came to know about 10-15 minutes earlier that the BJP workers had gathered to welcome their leader. We rushed to the spot and controlled the situation,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).Singh said both sides intend to file complaints against each other.BJP workers claim they had gathered near the starting point of the Hindon elevated road connecting to the expressway to welcome Amit Valmiki, the party’s newly-appointed secretary who was arriving from Delhi.“There were about 300-400 workers including 20-25 women...We were on the other side of the expressway (Delhi-Ghaziabad carriageway) near the starting point of the Hindon elevated road. The farmers were on the other side in their camps. Suddenly, hundreds of them came to our side by jumping the central verge and attacked us,” said Sanjeev Sharma, city president of the BJP’s Ghaziabad unit.He said several party workers including several women were injured and about 30-40 vehicles damaged. “Later, we met the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police and briefed them about the incident. A complaint will also be filed shortly,” Sharma, added. The farm leaders, on the other hand, contradicted the BJP charge, insisting that the attack on them was a conspiracy to malign their peaceful protest.The farm protest at UP Gate started on November 28 - they occupied the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway as well a few days later -- against the three farm laws passed by the Centre that they say, will threaten their livelihoods by forcing them to sell to corporate giants with greater bargaining power at poor prices instead of government-run markets.The government insists the laws will bring competition and widen farmers’ market access.“It is a new conspiracy taken up by the BJP to malign the farmers’ movement. This has happened time and again. They came on the pretext of welcoming their leader and damaged their own cars. This is another conspiracy staged by them. We will shortly give a police complaint to the police,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, UP-Gate site spokesperson from ‘Samyukta Kisan Morcha.’Bajwa said they have been protesting peacefully for months and will remain peaceful. He asked the police to act against the BJP workers, adding that “if there is no action, we will decide the future course of action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/protesting-farmers-bjp-workers-clash-at-up-gate-site-near-delhi-101625050583421.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to set up lab for genome sequencing at PGI Rohtak||Haryana health minister on Wednesday said that the state government has given orders for the setting up of a laboratory for genome sequencing at the Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences in Rohtak, following the detection of the first case of the Delta plus variant of coronavirus (Covid-19) in Chandigarh, news agency ANI reported. “The patient’s contact tracing is being done,” news agency ANI quoted Vij as saying.This comes after Dharam Pal, advisor to the Chandigarh administration on Tuesday stated that the contact tracing process of the patient with the Delta plus variant of Covid-19 has been completed and that there was nothing to worry about. “We are keeping a close watch on the situation,” Pal said.According to a statement from the Chandigarh administration, the first Delta plus variant case in the Union territory was reported after 50 random samples of the region’s citizens between May and June were sent to the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) lab on June 6 for Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS).The Delta plus variant was identified in a 35-year-old resident of Vikas Nagar Mauli-Jagran, who had tested positive for Covid-19 on May 22.Notably, the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday confirmed that the total number of Delta plus variant cases of Covid-19 has now risen to 51 from 48, with Maharashtra recording the highest number of cases. Other affected states include Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Jammu and Kashmir, and more. As many as 12 Indian states and Union territories, and an equal number of countries have so far been hit by the variant of Covid-19, which the Indian government has hailed as a “variant of concern” for its deadly nature.The health ministry on Tuesday also clarified that the Delta variant, of whose subtype is the Delta Plus, can undergo about 15 to 17 mutations. However, the ministry also stated that the variant is very localised and that it has been isolated and cultured at National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune.Several states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Punjab, among others, have taken cognisance of the rising cases of Delta Plus variants of Covid-19 and re-imposed or extended lockdown-like restrictions. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday extended curbs till July 10, with relaxations on opening pubs and bars with 50 per cent capacity. The orders that will come into effect from July 1 were passed following a high-level review meeting chaired by Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-set-up-lab-for-genome-sequencing-at-pgi-rohtak-101625049951954.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s Tales: When Pune city became Shaiste Khan’s military camp||When young a Shivaji Raje was sent to Pune along with Jijabai and Dadoji Konddev, Shahaji Raje equipped him with his own Ashta pradhan mandal (ministry of eight). Dadoji Konddev was the “karbhari”- in charge of running the entire jahagir (feudal land grant) from Indapur and Supe, to Baramati and Shirwal, on behalf of Shahaji.The jahagir also included a region of 12 mavals (sub regions to the west of Pune), which were remote and known for rice cultivation.Shivaji Raje, essentially an employee of Shahaji Raje, was made “Pot Mokasdar” (sub-letter of land rights), directly in charge of 36 villages in the Karyant maval, stretching from fort Sinhagad to Pune city. By the age of 15-16, Shivaji started actively looking after the entire jahagir. He, along with Dadoji Konddev, managed to subjugate various Deshmukhs of the 12 mavals, including Bandal Deshmukh. He took stringent action against powerful miscreants and sexual offenders such as the Patil of village Ranjhe, which helped with recognition of his power, even at a young age.Under Adilshahi, the forts were ruled by central powers, while the flat productive lands were part of jahagirs. However, except for fort Sinhagad and Purandar, which were connected to the mainland, remote forts were largely neglected. With his base as Pune, the period between 1645 and 1647 was effectively utilised by Shivaji to conquer various forts in the Maval region of Pune. Fort Sinhagad was the strategic fort to rule over Pune city. Shivaji took over Kondhana (Sinhagad) by bribing the Adilshahi governor and with help of Honap Deshpande. In 1645, fort Torna was conquered with help of a small infantry led by Yesaji Kank, Tanaji Malusure and Baji Pasalkar. Rajgad hill (Murumb Deo Dongar) was taken over and was built into a formidable fortress with treasure found at Torna. Fort Rajgad later went on to become first fort capital of Maratha Empire. After the death of Dadoji Konddev in 1647, Shivaji consolidated his powers by taking over Supe. He raided Junnar and retrieved a huge treasure and horses. His activities irked the Adlshahi court and Fateh Khan was sent to act against Shivaji. However, Shivaji managed to defeat Fateh Khan at Khalad-Belsar, but lost his comrades Baji Pasalkar and Godaji Jagtap in the battle. When Nilkanthrai, the commander of Purandar, died, Shivaji under the pretext of solving a dispute, first arrested, and then recruited the surviving heirs under his independent rule. Subsequently, forts Rajmachi, Lohagad, and Rohida were included in the newly formed “Swaraj”.After 1655, Shivaji Maharaj preferred staying at forts Purandar, Sinhagad and Rajgad. The departure of the ruler from Pune affected the morale of local people, there was a lull in city life and the population receded. The development of Pune, kick-started by the arrival of Shivaji, came to an abrupt halt, and Pune became just another town on the map of the Deccan.The death of prominent Adilshahi sardar, Afzalkhan at the hands of Shivaji in 1656 was a shocking event and made all of India take note.After accession to the throne in 1659 after emperor Shahajahan’s death, Aurangzeb took rein over most of India, including the Deccan. Shivaji Raje’s “swaraj adventures”, by then, had attracted the attention of the Mughal court. Shivaji’s new stature placed him in the way of the southward expansion of the Mughal Empire. He had already earned Aurangzeb’s wrath by pillaging Aurangzeb’s domains.Without wasting any time, Aurangzeb sent his maternal uncle and trusted commander, Shaiste Khan as subhedar (governor) of Deccan to defeat Shivaji in 1660.Shaiste Khan arrived via the Phaltan-Baramati route and tried to capture fort Purandar. But, Marathas defended the fort and Shaiste Khan had to retreat to Saswad. He eventually came to Pune and took over the entire region from the Marathas. His commanders captured fort Sangramdurg at Chakan after fierce resistance from Firangoji Narsala for two months. Shaiste Khan descended into the Deccan with a huge army of 40-50 thousand. And on conquering Pune in May 1660, Shaiste Khan made Lal Mahal, the former residence of Shivaji Maharaj, his base. There was no prominent town in the region of the 12 mavals, except Pune, to accommodate such an army. The city also provided the necessary space along the river banks. The fertile region around Pune was raided for grains and other requirements. The population of Pune swelled overnight and the entire town was made into a military camp. Krishnaji Kalbhor was given the Deshmukhi of Pune in 1662. The original Kasba peth, Shahapura and Somwar were not enough to accommodate the requirements of the camp. Hence, Shaiste Khan went on to settle a new peth, Shastapura, along the river and beyond the Nagjhari stream, which is the present day Mangalwar peth. The military also brought in various artisan communities to settle in Pune. Prominent among them were shikalgars (weapon makers) and kagajis. A separate Kagazipura was settled to the east of Kasba for paper making.Shivaji Maharaj waited for the right opportunity to reconquer Pune and on April 5, 1663, he secretly attacked the Mughal camp in Pune. Shivaji was at Sinhagad, 20km from Pune, and under the pretext of a marriage procession managed to sneak in 200-300 Maratha soldiers dressed as the marriage party and as labourers, with the help of Pune’s Kotwal.It was the month of Ramadan, the Muslim month of fasting, and security around Lal Mahal was slack. At midnight Shivaji and his squad of men sneaked into Lal Mahal, which he was intimately familiar with. He led the men towards the cook house next to the women’s quarters and opened up a passage into Khan’s harem. Shivaji Maharaj managed to sever the fingers of a fleeing Shaiste Khan. A general and a number of officers were killed that night and many officers fled through the narrow lanes of the town. This attack on the heart of a Mughal military camp instilled great terror in the minds of the Mughal soldiers and particularly, Shaiste Khan. Shivaji and his troops swiftly retreated to the nearby Sinhagad and mislead the Mughal troops in the direction of Katraj ghat, to follow bullock carts which were lit-up. This tactic of deflection led to the coining of the phrase “Katraj ghat dakhawane”!Shaiste Khan left Pune and the Deccan in the next three days to return north, in extreme embarrassment. Saili Palande-Datar is an indologist, environmentalist, history researcher and farmer. She can be reached @ sailikdatar@gmail.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-when-pune-city-became-shaiste-khan-s-military-camp-101625050222176.html
30-06-2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh Yadav says Uttar Pradesh will see democratic revolution in 2022||Akhilesh Yadav of Samajwadi Party on Wednesday said that there will be a democratic revolution in Uttar Pradesh in 2022 against the current politics. Referring to the current politics as "negative", "disruptive" and conservative", Yadav said the state assembly polls will witness not elections but a revolution against such differential politics."United against today's disruptive, conservative, negative politics, new politics of exploited, neglected, oppressed, humiliated, Dalit, oppressed, deprived, poor, farmers, workers, women and youth is taking birth," Yadav said on Wednesday in a tweet.The assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled to take place in 2022.The former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh also said that in 2020, the state will witness a democratic revolution against " disruptive politics" and not elections. Yadav said this as he took a dig at the current Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) regime, which is led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath."In 2022, there will be no election in UP, there will be a democratic revolution," Yadav added.The SP supremo is confident about his party's win in the next election. He has exuded confidence that the party would gain 350 seats of the total 403 assembly seats, as he claims that the people are against the BJP government.Yadav has accused the ruling party of deceit and "negative" politics earlier too. On Tuesday, he accused the saffron party of damaging the hopes of people and playing with their sentiments. He said that the party is not interested in truth and does not have faith in the Constitution and moral values."The truth is that the BJP is not interested in development, but in destruction. It does not have any faith in the Constitution and moral values. It has damaged the hopes of people and played with their sentiments. The BJP is doing politics using deceit, force, terror and allurement," PTI quoted Yadav as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/akhilesh-yadav-says-uttar-pradesh-will-see-democratic-revolution-in-2022-101625044003150.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools have to admit EWS category kids as per allotment: Sisodia||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Wednesday announced that city’s private schools have to admit students from economically weaker section (EWS) category even if there were no general category admissions in those schools this year.Under the Right to Education Act, 25% of seats in entry-level classes -- nursery, KG, and I -- in all private schools are to be reserved for the EWS/Disadvantaged group (DG) category. Private schools declare the seats to the Directorate of Education every year and the education department conducts a draw of lots to allot EWS seats. In practice, schools admit one EWS student from the government’s allotted list for every three general category students admitted by them.“Around 32,500 EWS seats have been allotted to different schools based on the draw of lots this year. Usually, EWS parents can go and get their children admitted to private schools. Schools conduct one EWS admission for every three general category admissions,” Sisodia said.While talking about how the Covid-19 pandemic has derailed admissions for general category students due to multiple reasons, Sisodia said, “Many parents approach me saying that though their child’s name appeared on the list, schools are denying admission as there has been no general category admissions this year. The government has now decided that even if there are no general category admissions yet, the EWS students have to be admitted to the private schools as per the allotted list.”EWS students are entitled to free textbooks, writing material, and uniforms till Class 8, for which the government reimburses a fixed amount. The education minister said, “The government provides ₹2,260 per month to these schools for each EWS student for fee and other expenses. We are ordering schools that they conduct EWS admissions even if there have been no general category admissions and the government will reimburse them accordingly,” he said.He said since education is likely to continue in online mode for the time being, the Delhi government schools are organising a special parent-teacher meeting between July 19 and 31.“Parents are requested to go to the school so that the teachers are able to guide them on their role in the online mode of learning. For class 6 students, the government has decided to rope in teachers from municipal corporation schools as well,” he said.This will ensure a smooth transition from municipal corporation schools to Delhi government schools. Every year, around 170,000 students move from municipal schools -- that offer education only up to Class 5 -- to government schools in Class 6. Before the pandemic, students and parents interacted with the government school teachers as soon as classes started. However, since the pandemic has caused activities to move online, it was necessary to conduct this PTM with teachers who have previously taught the child in classes 4 and 5, Sisodia said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-have-to-admit-ews-category-kids-as-per-allotmentsisodia-101625046260795.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Jeweller shot dead in robbery at store in Mumbai’s Dahisar||A shopkeeper died when three unidentified robbers fired a round inside his jewellery store in Dahisar east of Mumbai on Wednesday.The incident took place at about 10.45am when three robbers arrived at Om Sairaj Jewellery store at Gavde Nagar in Dahisar east.They fired one round at the shopkeeper, killing him on the spot. The robbers then filled two bags with jewellery before fleeing the spot.According to the Dahisar police, the number plate of the bike was folded so no one could take down its registration number. Police have gathered the CCTV recordings of the road and are trying to trace the accused.“A check post has been set up at all exit roads. We have also alerted our informers to look out for the robbers,” said a police officer from Dahisar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/jeweller-shot-dead-in-robbery-at-store-in-mumbai-s-dahisar-101625044401302.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir, Sidhu spar over misguided missile attack||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal and Punjab Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu sparred on Wednesday after the former caustically called the cricketer-turned-politician “a misguided missile”. Addressing mediapersons after paying obeisance at Golden Temple with his wife and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Sukhbir said: “Sidhu is a misguided missile, which has no control. It can hit anywhere, including himself.” Also read: Punjab MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu meets Priyanka GandhiThe SAD chief was replying to a question related to Sidhu’s criticism of Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh over the probe into the 2015 sacrilege incidents. Sukhbir, who was the state deputy chief minister and held the home portfolio at that time, was questioned in the Kotkapura firing case by the Punjab Police special investigation team in Chandigarh on Saturday. “Over the past 25 years, Sidhu hasn’t been loyal to anyone. He deserted cricket, left the BJP and turned to the Congress only to criticise its leaders. Earlier, he would make Prime Minister Narendra Modi happy with a few dialogues and now he uses the same dialogues for Congress president Sonia Gandhi,” the Akali leader said, adding, “Punjab doesn’t need a dramatic actor like him. Punjab needs a sober person to lead it for its progress and development.” Sidhu, who earlier in the day announced his “long meeting” with Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in New Delhi, promptly took to Twitter to hit back at his Akali rival, saying that his aim was to destroy Sukhbir’s “corrupt business”. “Guided and aimed at you to destroy your corrupt businesses. Until your Sukh Vilas built on Punjab’s ruins is not turned into a public school & public hospital to serve Punjab’s poor, I won’t relent!” the firebrand Congress leader posted on the microblogging site. Kejriwal making fake promises on power: SukhbirOn Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s promise of free power in Punjab if the Aam Aadmi Party is voted to power next year, Sukhbir said instead of making electricity free up to 300 units in the national capital, the AAP chief has been making fake promises in Punjab. “The Delhi government has been providing only 200 units of free electricity, but its CM is promising 300 free units in Punjab. Moreover, the 200 units being provided to poor people are out of the free electricity scheme when power is consumed over and above 200 units. In Punjab, 200 units of electricity are already free,” Sukhbir said. He said, “Kejriwal doesn’t know anything about Punjab. He is speaking about providing 24-hour power supply. He must know that round-the-clock electricity supply was given by our government.” Farmers facing brunt of power cuts Criticising the Capt Amarinder Singh government, he said it had failed to run all thermal plants. “Power plants need maintenance. Due to poor planning, farmers are getting only four-hour electricity supply instead of the promised eight hours for sowing paddy. When our government was in power, we provided eight-hour electricity to the farmers. Besides, the state government has stopped canal water for farmers, especially in the border areas,” he said. He criticised the shortage of vaccines to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. “The shortage of vaccine in the state is a concern. The state government should ensure adequate vaccine for all,” Sukhbir added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-a-misguided-missile-akali-chief-sukhbir-101625043140732.html
30-06-2021||Kolkata||TMC MP Mimi Chakraborty recovering now after falling prey to fake vaccine camp||Trinamool MP Mimi Chakraborty who had to be hospitalised a day after she reportedly fell prey to a fake vaccine racket in Kolkata is recovering and is fine now. On Wednesday, the MP took to Instagram and posted her health updates where she said that she was doing well and her gall bladder issue will also be fine in some time."If u ask me how worst days look like well I have just experienced it and consequences were pain, physically and mentally," the MP wrote and then thanked her followers on the social media platform.The actor-turned-politician fell ill on Saturday and was admitted to a hospital, a few days after she was reportedly administered some fake vaccine.According to reports, the actor-politician was invited to a vaccination camp in the city, which was organised by Debanjan Deb, who impersonated as a joint commissioner of the civic body, Kolkata Municipal Corporation. The MP took a dose of the vaccine from the camp but received no SMS from Co-Win, which made her suspicious about the entire set-up. After she raised an alarm, the fake vaccination racket, which organised another vaccination camp in the city, was busted. Debanjan Deb has been slapped with a charge of an attempt to murder, though he claimed that the vaccines were not fake and he had written to Serum Institute of India seeking vaccines.The fake vaccination apparently has no connection with Trinamool MP's illness as she had some gallbladder issues from before. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has recently commented on the issue and said that the government has no role in organising the vaccination drive. She said she had also spoken to Mimi to enquire about her health. She has a gall bladder-related problem, the chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-mp-mimi-chakraborty-recovering-now-after-falling-prey-to-fake-vaccine-camp-101625041897152.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||World Asteroid Day: Delhi youngsters peer into the sky for asteroids||While skywatching is a hobby for some and a distant dream for others, some youngsters in the Capital are peering at the sky to learn about the keys of the cosmos. On World Asteroid Day, some young asteroid discoverers tell us what makes them, in a world of video games and social media, go on asteroid quests.For 18-year-old Shubham Gupta, who is anxiously waiting for his board exam results, Delhi’s resident young astronomer Aryan Mishra’s lecture on the subject. two years ago, opened up the world of amateur astronomy. “I was in 10th grade when Mishra sir set up Delhi’s first astronomy lab in our school. I soon immersed myself in the equipments, reading voraciously about planets, stars and more. During the pandemic, I participated in an asteroid search campaign online, where we analyse astronomical data given by the International Astronomical Search Collaboration (IASC) — an online scientific programme that helps youngsters discover near-Earth objects,” says Gupta. After seven preliminary discoveries, Gupta finally found one asteroid for which he was granted a provisional certificate this June. “Now, this asteroid’s orbit will be tracked by NASA and other space agencies. The discovery has emboldened me to pursue my dream of studying more about space,” he adds. A similar interest in space inspired 16-year-old Delhiite Kshitiz Goel to pursue astronomy under the guidance of his teachers at school. “I was immersed in my studies, since this is my board exam year, and between the stress of economics and accounts, astronomy is what gave me some respite. My sister and I would spend time discussing about planets and stars, so I decided to spend my summer vacations looking for asteroids,” says Goel, who has discovered two asteroids. “For five days after my study was confirmed, I was in utter disbelief,” he shares.“All kids need now is a stable internet connection and a will to learn,” says Mishra, who had made the headlines after discovering an asteroid at the age of 14. He is now a 21-year-old college student mentoring youngsters across Delhi and setting up astronomy labs across the country. “There are various platforms, websites where youngsters can help professional astronomers discover galaxies and learn more about space,” he adds.How they discover asteroids:- Enthusiasts can use original datasets from Pan-STARRS telescope in Hawaii and analyse the data through a software called Astrometrica.- When a participant discovers a moving object, it is called a preliminary discovery in the process of asteroid hunting. - After the object is observed twice, it is called a provisional discovery, which gives the asteroid the provisional name.- It takes three to six years to make more observations and discover the orbit of the object. After this, the astronomical body is moved to numbered status and can be named by the student discoverers!Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/world-asteroid-day-delhi-youngsters-peer-into-the-sky-for-asteroids-101625041700850.html
30-06-2021||Jaipur||75-year-old woman found dead inside factory in Jaipur||A 75-year-old woman was found dead inside a factory owned by her family in Jhotwara industrial area of Jaipur on Wednesday, police said.Nirmala Khemka used to stay alone in the factory, police said, adding her body with injury marks on the head was found lying in a room.“The body has injury marks on the head. Prima facie, robbery or theft does not appear to be the motive of the murder,” DCP West Pradeep Mohan Sharma said.The factory was owned by the woman’s husband Rajesh Khemka who died one-and-a-half-years ago. Since then, the couple’s son, Rajesh, was managing the factory.Rajesh lives with his family in Shastri Nagar area while his mother used to live in a room on the factory premises.“The body has been shifted to the mortuary of a hospital and the matter is being probed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/75yearold-woman-found-dead-inside-factory-in-jaipur-101625040560622.html
30-06-2021||Lucknow||Mukhtar Ansari ambulance case: UP STF arrests driver, probe underway||Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force on Tuesday evening arrested the driver of BSP leader Mukhtar Ansari's ambulance, Salim, from Jankipuram area that will help in facilitating the investigation going on against Ansari's ongoing cases.Also Read: UP suspends transport officer in Mukhtar Ansari ambulance caseIn the interrogation by the STF team, Salim revealed his closeness to Mukhtar and also admitted to being a part of his gang for a long time.As per the information received by the STF unit in Varanasi, Salim is an active member of the Mukhtar Ansari's gang and the driver of his ambulance against whom a reward of ₹25,000 had been announced for its arrest by Kotwali Nagar police station in Barabanki.On this information, the team of STF field unit Varanasi, under the leadership of Inspector Punit Parihar, came to know that Salim is present near Jankipuram Pioneer School. On this, the STF team reached the place and using necessary force got him arrested.During the interrogation, Salim said, "I have been associated with Mukhtar Ansari for almost 20 years."As of April 12, according to the police, around 52 cases are registered against Ansari in Uttar Pradesh and other states.Earlier in February, the UP government accused the Punjab government in the Supreme Court, alleging that the latter (Punjab) was colluding with Ansari who is wanted in UP in connection with various criminal cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mukhtar-ansari-ambulance-case-up-stf-arrests-driver-probe-underway-101625038958980.html
30-06-2021||Other||Man arrested for raping woman doctor in Odisha||Odisha police have arrested the son of a dhaba owner in Angul district on charges of raping a 38-year-old woman doctor while delivering a food parcel at her house earlier this week.Police said the survivor’s brother sent her food from a local dhaba where he was having his dinner on Monday evening. The accused, Sukanta Behera, the 35-year-old son of the dhaba owner, went to the doctor’s government accommodation to deliver the food.“Finding her alone, Behera sexually assaulted the woman doctor and then threatened her with dire consequences if she reported the matter,” said Angul SP Jagmohan Meena. an FIR, Behera was arrested and forwarded to court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-arrested-for-raping-woman-doctor-in-odisha-101625038580390.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar market closed over Covid-19 protocol violations||The Delhi government has ordered the closure of markets in East Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar and adjoining areas until July 5 over alleged violation of Covid-19 safety protocols.“Market shopkeepers, vendors and general public in main bazaar Laxmi Nagar are not following the Covid-appropriate behaviour. Due to large footfall, market associations and shopkeepers were unable to ensure Covid protocols on last Sunday, in the aforementioned market. The guidelines/directions of Covid-19 protocols are being contravened in the main bazar, Laxmi Nagar, which may cause super spreading of the coronavirus,” said an order issued on Tuesday by the district administration in East Delhi.Also Read | Hot, dry Loo-like winds blow over NW India instead of humid easterliesThe order, a copy of which HT has seen, added, “Main Bazar Laxmi Nahar from Vikas Marg to Laxmi Public School, Kishankunj, and its surrounding bazars and markets like Mangal Bazar, Vijay Chowk, Subhash Chowk, Jagatram Park, Guru Ramdas Nagar, etc are hereby restricted to open with effect from 10 pm on June 29 till 10 pm on July 5, or further orders, whichever is earlier. These restrictions are applicable except shops dealing with essential goods and services.”A hard lockdown was imposed in Delhi on April 19 in the light of a surge in Covid-19 cases. From May 31, as cases started to drop, the government started scaling down restrictions in a phased manner. Markets in the city were allowed to open from the third week of June but in strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-laxmi-nagar-market-closed-over-covid-19-protocol-violations-101625036900438.html
30-06-2021||Other||Four killed, 4 others injured in J&K road accident||Four people, including a child and two women, were killed and four others were injured when a vehicle carrying labourers from Chhattisgarh to Srinagar from Jammu plunged into a gorge near Khooni Nallah in Jammu & Kashmir’s Ramban district on Wednesday.Also Read | Drones spotted over Jammu’s Kaluchak, Kunjwani military stations againPolice said the labourers were going to Srinagar to work in brick kilns. “At 5.30am, the vehicle on its way to Srinagar from Jammu carrying labourers met with an accident and plunged into a deep gorge near Khooni Nallah,” said Ramban’s senior police superintendent PD Nitya. Four people were rescued that including a two-year-old child, who succumbed to his injuries at a hospital. “Prima facie, it appears the driver was speeding and lost control over the vehicle,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-killed-4-others-injured-in-j-k-road-accident-101625033960556.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu meets Priyanka Gandhi||A day after former Congress president Rahul Gandhi declined plans of meeting Navjot Singh Sidhu in New Delhi, the Punjab MLA tweeted a photo with party leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and declared the two had a “long meeting”. Though the former Punjab minister’s office claimed that Sidhu had been called to Delhi for a meeting with Rahul, sources said no meeting was fixed between Rahul and Sidhu. Also read: No meeting was scheduled with Sidhu, says Rahul GandhiRahul, the former Congress president, said on Tuesday, “There is no meeting. I don’t know what fuss you are making.” He made the remark while leaving his Tughlaq Lane residence in Delhi. However, the party sources said that there was speculation that Sidhu, who was camping in the national capital, may meet Rahul and Priyanka soon. The two siblings are trying to bring all Congress leaders, including Sidhu, on a common platform and present a united Congress ahead of the elections early next year. Quelling infighting in Punjab Congress Rahul has been meeting leaders from Punjab over the past few days amid the infighting in the state Congress and ahead of a revamp of the party and the state cabinet. The Congress leadership is all set for a revamp of the state unit ahead of the assembly elections. Rahul Gandhi has met ministers, MLAs and MPs, including Brahm Mohindra, Vijay Inder Singla, Balbir Singh Sidhu and Rajya Sabha member Shamsher Singh Dullo and MLA Lakhvir Singh Lakha. He has already met state Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and Rajya Sabha member and former Punjab Congress chief Partap Singh Bajwa. At loggerheads with Punjab CM Sidhu, who had resigned from the Punjab cabinet after he was divested of the local bodies portfolio in 2019, has been at loggerheads with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. He has attacked the chief minister over the alleged delay in justice in the 2015 incidents of sacrilege and subsequent police firing. Singh had slammed Sidhu for continuously attacking him over the sacrilege issue and termed the former’s outbursts “total indiscipline”. Early this month, Sidhu appeared before a three-member panel set up by the Congress to resolve the infighting within the party’s state unit. On June 22, Capt Amarinder Singh appeared before the panel, headed by Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, in Delhi. However, he returned to Chandigarh without an audience with party president Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat and former MP J P Aggarwal are members of the panel. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navjot-singh-sidhu-calls-on-priyanka-gandhi-101625033900177.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||48 live cartridges recovered near Mumbai’s Aarey Milk Colony||Police on Tuesday night recovered 48 live cartridges (0.2mm) near Mumbai’s Aarey Milk Colony following a tip-off about the bullets lying in a parking area, an officer said.Prasad Pitale, a local police officer, said they were informed about the bullets at 9pm. It was not immediately clear who left the cartridges in the parking area and why.Also Read | Maharashtra police to transfer officers posted in Mumbai for over 8 years“We are scanning closed-circuit television recordings of cameras installed in the area to find out who came there. Since it is a parking area, there would be several people who must have visited the area,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.Police were recording statements of security guards posted in the parking area and other witnesses who saw the cartridges and informed the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/48-live-cartridges-recovered-near-mumbai-s-aarey-milk-colony-101625033721307.html
30-06-2021||Patna||FIR against 6 prisoners in Bihar after video of them smoking, using phones goes viral||A day after a video showing inmates of Chhapra District Jail smoking cigarettes and using cellphones in a prison barrack went viral on social media, the prison authority issued a show cause notice against three officials and lodged an FIR against six inmates with Bhagwan Bazar police station.The 48-second video, which went viral on Monday evening, had been shot before June 25. It shows gangsters Rupesh Kumar, Anil Kumar, Sunil Singh, Rohit Kumar, Nitesh Kumar and Awinash Rai smoking cigarettes inside their barrack along with other inmates and using smart phones. Also Read | Juvenile board lets off minor boy, his brother after he clears Class X examThe Chhapra jail does not have a jammer. Saran SP Santosh Kumar came to know about the video on June 28, following which an inquiry was conducted. An inspection of jail premises was carried out at midnight in which six mobile phones were recovered from the barracks of the inmates in the video, following which the jail superintendent Manoj Kumar Sinha lodged an FIR against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/fir-against-6-prisoners-in-bihar-after-video-of-them-smoking-using-phones-goes-viral-101625033480401.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal reshuffles five IAS, transfers two HPAS officers||The Himachal Pradesh government has reshuffled the departments of five Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, who were among the 41 officials transferred in a major rejig last week. Besides, the government has transferred two Himachal Pradesh Administrative Service (HPAS) officers. Also read: Indian military personnel to train in US on cybersecurity, command in the offingRajkrishan Pruthi, who was under posting as special secretary, agriculture, has been shifted as agriculture director. During the previous transfer, he was given the additional charge of the agriculture director. Chander Prakash Verma, who was under posting as special secretary, personnel, special secretary, tribal development, and additional commissioner, tribal development, and commissioner, departmental enquiries, has been posted as special secretary, industries. He shall also hold the charge of special secretary, agriculture, special secretary, tribal development-cum-additional commissioner, tribal development and commissioner, departmental enquiries. Amarjeet Singh, the director, public finance-cum-public enterprises, special secretary, finance, and director, treasuries, accounts and lotteries, shall also hold the charge of the post of special secretary, personnel. Anurag Chander, who was under posting as special secretary, excise and taxation and public works, and director, estates, managing director, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Development Corporation, and managing director, Himachal Pradesh Mahila Vikas Nigam, has been sent to the home department for further posting. Nivedita Negi under order of posting as additional deputy commissioner, development, and project director, District Rural Development Agency, Chamba, will be the special secretary, excise and taxation and public works. She shall also hold charge of the post of director, estates. HPAS officer Shiv Krishan has been posted as the district tourism development officer, Mandi, relieving Kuldeep Singh Patial of the charge. Sub-divisional officer (civil), Jogindernagar, Amit Mehra goes as additional district magistrate, development, and project director, District Rural Development Agency, Chamba, while the Jogindernagar tehsildar will hold the additional charge of sub-divisional officer (civil).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-reshuffles-five-ias-transfers-two-hpas-officers-101625032460277.html
30-06-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram man arrested in ₹3 crore cheating case||A Gurugram resident, who had taken a payment of ₹3.03 crore from a private company for providing face masks but did not do so, has been arrested, the Noida Police said on Tuesday.An FIR was lodged in the case on January 10 this year at the Phase 3 police station in which Aman Mehra was one of the accused, the officials said.“Mehra and the other accused had created forged documents to get the company's order for delivering face masks and received an advance payment of over ₹3.03 crore for the work,” a police spokesperson said."However, the accused did not deliver the face masks neither returned the money that they had taken from the company," the spokesperson said.In pursuance of the case, Mehra, who lives in Sector 40 of Gurugram, was arrested from his residence, the official said.The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections 420 (cheating), 467, 468, 471 (all related to forgery), the police said, adding further proceedings are underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-man-arrested-in-rs-3-crore-cheating-case-101625031865065.html
30-06-2021||Patna||Forged PAN card used to book parcel in Darbhanga station blast||Investigation in the parcel blast at Darbhanga station in Bihar on June 17 has revealed that a forged PAN card was used in booking the packet from Secunderabad station, sources said.They said the income tax department revealed that the PAN card details were forged and the original card belonged to someone abroad. The parcel, booked in the name of one Mohd Sufian from Secunderabad, exploded upon arrival at Darbhanga junction. No one was injured in the low intensity blast. Forensic report of the empty 50 ml glass bottle retrieved from the site is still awaited. In Hyderabad, three persons, including two siblings, were taken in police custody from Mednipatam. “Imran and Nasir were detained by sleuths of National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Counter intelligence Wing of Telangana police a couple of days ago, following an investigation based on the CCTV footage from Secunderabad station,” said a senior official on the condition of anonymity. The siblings are likely to be taken to Delhi. Also Read | Ward councillor doles out gifts in lucky draw to boost vaccination driveTwo other alleged suspects, Mohd Kasim and Kafeel, were arrested from UP.Earlier, a team of NIA led by SP Navin Tyagi visited Darbhanga station on June 25. It collected all necessary information about the blast probe conducted by railways police. Meanwhile, a fact-finding team of CPI (ML) led by party MLAs Birendra Prasad Gupta (Sikta) and Manoj Manzil (Agiaon) reached Darbhanga station on Tuesday where they were joined by leaders of Insaaf Manch, AISA and Inquilabi Noujawan Sabha. They spoke to local shopkeepers at the railway platform, besides the officers of the GRP and inquired about the blast. They alleged that the issue was being blown out of proportion to create communal tension by naming members of a minority community. MLA Manzil said no shopkeepers in the vicinity claimed to have seen the blast, they all said they had heard about it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/forged-pan-card-used-to-book-parcel-in-darbhanga-station-blast-101625029699974.html
30-06-2021||Kolkata||Covid vaccine shortage forces Bengal govt to cut down on first dose||The West Bengal government has decided to cut down on administering the first dose of Covid-19 vaccines due to acute shortage and to cope with the growing number of persons whose second dose is due. The state government has directed all the districts and state-run hospitals to reserve at least 50% of the available vaccines for the second dose. “Due to acute shortage of vaccine, second dose will be given priority until we receive adequate quantity of vaccines. We are now left with only around 600,000 doses,” said a senior health department official. Data available with the state government revealed that as on June 29, at least 670,000 people were due for the second dose of Covishield vaccine, while another 160,000 were due for Covaxin vaccine’s second dose. The total number of second doses due is around 379,000. Also Read | Two more arrested in fake vaccination racket in KolkataThe maximum overdue amount of the second dose was reported from Kolkata. While the overdue for Covishield in the city was 58,428 on Tuesday, for Covaxin it was 25,021. “For Kolkata Municipal Corporation, first dose will not be given for the next two days,” said the official, adding that by July-end around 600,000 people will be due for the second dose in Kolkata alone. Districts have also been asked to identify the all the persons whose second due is due and schedule their vaccination in a time bound manner. For Covishield, the due date for second dose is after 12 – 16 weeks and for Covaxin it is 4 – 6 weeks after the first dose. Beyond the due date period on is considered overdue for the second dose. Till date the West Bengal government has administered 21,700,000 vaccines, of which 16,700,000 were the first dose. Only 4,980,000 people have received the second dose. The maximum vaccines were given in Kolkata – 2,580,000 first doses and 630,000 second doses. The daily count of Covid-19 cases has dropped from more than 20,000 in mid-May this year to around 1,600 on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid-vaccine-shortage-forces-bengal-govt-to-cut-down-on-first-dose-101625024179793.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra police to transfer officers posted in Mumbai for over 8 years||The Maharashtra director general of police has issued an order for transferring all inspector cadre officers, who have served for more than eight years in Mumbai, outside the city. This would then include police inspectors, assistant police inspector and police sub inspectors. According to additional director general of police Rajkumar Vhatkar’s order, a proforma has also been prepared for the same.Also Read | Third Covid wave in Mumbai likely to be less deadly than second: StudyThe officers were given a choice to opt for three preferred districts, including their home district.Tuesday was the last day for submitting the preferences.Sources said so far a list of 727 officers has been prepared and the process will begin today.Earlier, on March 24, as many as 86 Mumbai police personnel, including 65 from the Mumbai crime branch, were transferred. The move had come shortly after controversial Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency in connection with Antilia explosive scare and the murder of Thane auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran. Among the 65 transferred crime branch personnel, 28 were police inspectors, 17 assistant police inspectors and 20 police sub-inspectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-police-to-transfer-officers-posted-in-mumbai-for-over-8-years-101625022979700.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi weather: Heatwave-like conditions likely to continue today||Delhi is likely to continue witnessing heatwave-like conditions on Wednesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature in Delhi touched 43 degrees Celsius, which was the highest recording this year, with IMD classifying it as the first heatwave day this season.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 29 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 42 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 27.4 degrees Celsius – one degree below normal and the maximum temperature was 43 degrees Celsius – six degrees above normal.Also Read | As monsoon plays truant, Delhi suffers first heat wave of seasonDelhi appeared to be headed for an early monsoon this year, with IMD initially predicting its arrival on June 15, at least 12 days ahead of its usual arrival date of arrival on June 27. However, weather conditions changed since then and in subsequent forecasts, IMD officials said that the monsoon in Delhi was on “halt” and was unlikely to hit the region till at least the first week of July.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 6 am stood at 191. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 195, which is in the moderate category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and 401 and 500 ‘severe’.On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “AQI is likely to stay in the high end of the Moderate category with PM10 as the lead pollutant for the next three days. AQI may touch the Poor category for a short period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-weather-heatwave-like-conditions-likely-to-continue-today-101625021599703.html
30-06-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru water supply to be disrupted for 2 days starting today||Bengaluru will witness disruption in water supply in several parts of the city on Wednesday and Thursday. This will happen because the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will carry out repair work to fix a leakage in one of their water pipelines.The BWSSB has been sharing posts on its Twitter handle about the water supply shutdown on June 30 and July 1.According to the water supply board, the leakage has been found in pipeline from Thorekadanahalli to the state capital.The list of localities where water supply will be disrupted are: Shettihalli, Kammagondanahalli, Mallasandra, Bagalagunte, T Dasarahalli, HMT ward, Peenya 2nd stage, 3rd stage, 4th phase, Rajagopal Nagar, Ganapathi Nagar, MEI Colony, Lakshmidevi Nagar, BHCS Layout, Happy Valley, part of BDA layout, Uttarahalli, Bellandur, Ibbalur, Koramangala 1st Block, 4th Block, 4th C Block, J Block, Military Campus ASC center.Siddhartha Colony, Venkatapura, Teachers Colony, Jakkasandra and Jakkasandra extension, ST bed area, Part of Jayanagar 4th T block, Arsu colony, Thilak Nagar, NEI layout, East End A & B main roads, Krishnappa Garden and BHEL layout, BTM 2nd stage, Mico Layout, NS palya, Gurappanpalya, Sudguntepalya, Bismillah Nagar, J P nagar 4th to 8th Stages and Puttenahalli will also face disruption, according to BWSSB.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-water-supply-to-be-disrupted-for-2-days-starting-today-101625016681841.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: The return of Kaushambi biryani||The lane is littered with empty carts. This stretch of Kaushambi at the congested Delhi-UP border in Anand Vihar used to be crammed with super busy mobile street food establishments. The smoggy air would smell of diesel, but one could also get the whiff of freshly fried parathas, pickles and chutneys. One stall made yummy pooris served with rasse wali aloo subzi. Many carts offered various adaptations of biryani. The most extraordinary was Uttaranchal Dhaba, owned by a fellow from that hill state, which was the only eatery here with a large table, around which folks would settle down to wholesome thali meals with garma-garam phulkas. Then the second surge began.Now our world is reopening, again. The informal food lane, mostly serving the passengers of the adjacent bus terminal, is starting to show a few signs of life, though the blue awning of a chhole bhature stall is still lying collapsed upon the counter, as if the sky had fallen upon the place. Nearby, the hopeful owner of Sharma food cart is repainting his cart. Shiv Mahima Parathe Wale has dozens of parathas on a thali beside a pile of deep-fried green chilies. And one of the area’s best biryani carts, too, is back.Shiv Shudh Shakahari Biryani has shudh shakahari, pure vegetarian, ingredients—matar, paneer, soya chaap and gobhi. Rishab bhai, the cart owner, makes the dish at home in Indirapuram. This late morning the biryani is inside a huge deg, or cauldron. On lifting the lid, you glimpse at steaming saffron-shaded rice cratered with vegetables and whole green chilies. A second layer of vegetables is buried deep under the rice. Rishab bhai serves by thrusting his ladle vertically into the biryani, so that both the layers of veggies come out in the single serving—much like the way you might eat tiramisu, getting all its many delicious layers in every single bite. Each spoonful of the biryani transports you anew into a fresh gust of taste and fragrance.The area has a few other biryani stalls too, but they are yet to open. During the second surge, Rishab bhai was hibernating at his village in Bulandshahr, UP. His recently married brother runs a similar cart in nearby Ghazipur. Both serve the same biryani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-the-return-of-kaushambi-biryani-101625010328190.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal logs 167 fresh Covid cases||Himachal Pradesh recorded 167 fresh Covid-19 infections on Tuesday taking the state’s tally to 2,01,980 while the death toll mounted to 3,461 after one more patient succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 44 were reported in Mandi, 23 in Chamba, 19 in Una, 16 in Kangra, 14 in Hamirpur, 13 in Shimla, 11 in Bilaspur, nine in Sirmaur, seven in Solan, five each in Kinnaur and Kullu and one in Lahaul-Spiti. Recoveries reached 1,96,837 after 203 people recuperated while the active cases came down to 1,654. In terms of the caseload, Kangra remains the worst-hit district with 45,854 cases followed by Mandi where 27,127 people have been tested positive to date and Shimla with 25,854 cases. Solan has 22,213 cases, Sirmaur 15,325, Hamirpur 14,361, Una 13,284, Bilaspur 12,651, Chamba 11,175, Kullu 8,899, Kinnaur 3,238 and Lahaul-Spiti 2,701.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-logs-167-fresh-covid-cases-101624996577814.html
30-06-2021||Lucknow||Mayawati hits out at UP govt over Ambedkar centre proposal||A political controversy broke out on Tuesday over a proposed Ambedkar centre in Lucknow with Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailing the initiative by the Uttar Pradesh government and Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati calling it an act of deception.The row came months ahead of crucial assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, where Dalits are expected to play a key role.President Ram Nath Kovind laid the foundation stone for the Bharat Ratna Dr Ambedkar Memorial and Cultural Centre in Lucknow. “Today, our legal system is progressing on the path suggested by him on many issues like property rights for women. This showed that Babasaheb’s visionary thinking was far ahead of his times,” Kovind said.PM Modi hailed the UP government’s decision. “The ‘Bharat Ratna Dr. Bhimrao Memorial and Cultural Centre, Lucknow’ will further popularise the ideals of respected Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar among the youth.But Mayawati, a former chief minister of the state, criticised the initiative. “After neglecting Babasaheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar and harassing crores of his oppressed followers during their tenure, they are laying the foundation stone of ‘Cultural Centre’ in the name of Baba Saheb as the assembly elections are nearing, if not drama then what it is?” Mayawati tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mayawati-hits-out-at-up-govt-over-ambedkar-centre-proposal-101624996028511.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster Kala Sekhon arrested after dramatic chase in Bathinda||Wanted gangster Manjinder Singh, alias Kala Sekhon was arrested on Tuesday from Jassi Bagh Wali village in Bathinda district after a dramatic chase by the police.Sekhon, who is facing 11 criminal cases, including that of supplying firearms in a murder case registered at Kotkapura, sustained a bullet injury in the thigh and was rushed to the Guru Gobind Singh Government Medical College in Faridkot. Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) BS Virk said Sekhon was given first aid at the civil hospital and he was out of danger. Virk said as per a complaint filed by inspector of CIA Dalvir Singh, Sekhon injured himself with his pistol and the police party did not open fire at him.“We are trying to recover Sekhon’s pistol that he threw somewhere while trying to escape on a tractor,” said the SSP.Before his arrest, Sekhon did a live session on Facebook while driving the tractor. He was heard claiming not to be a criminal and saying some suspected persons were attacking him in a case of mistaken identity. Virk said a team of Faridkot police reached Bathinda to round up Sekhon who allegedly supplied weapons to a group who opened fire on Harvel Singh, a history-sheeter, in Rishi Nagar area of Kotkapura on June 22. Krishan Pal, a 26-year-old youth from Haryana who was one of the assailants, was killed in crossfire that day. The Bathinda SSP said sensing that he was surrounded by the police, Sekhon drove the tractor from fields to his relative’s place at Jassi Bagh Wali village.“Claim made by Sekhon on Facebook that he was shot at during police chase will be probed. The medical team has noted details of injuries and forensic experts will investigate the matter,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-kala-sekhon-arrested-after-dramatic-chase-in-bathinda-101624996403154.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||J&K reports 308 Covid cases, six deaths||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 308 fresh coronavirus disease infections and six deaths on Tuesday.The active cases in the Union Territory have come down to 4,805. While the Valley contributed 209 cases and four deaths to the daily tally, while the remaining 99 infections and two fatalities were reported in Jammu. The recovery rate has touched 97.1%. So far, 3,15,298 cases and 4,316 deaths have been reported in J&K.Srinagar and Jammu districts have together contributed for about 1.22 lakh cases and 1,960 deaths of the total. With 1,133 fatalities, Jammu is leading in virus-induced deaths, followed by Srinagar with 827 casualties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jkreports-308-covid-cases-six-deaths-101624996339166.html
30-06-2021||Other||Take strict action against illegal mining: Jai Ram tells officers||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday asked officials to take strict action against those carrying out illegal mining in the state. Thakur said that Swan River in Una district and Mand area in Kangra district were more prone to illegal mining. “To check illegal mining and transportation of mineral, the state government has established five check posts at Garget, Pandoga, Bathri, Polian and Mehatpur in Una district,” said the CM, adding that the government has decided to not allow mining lease within two kilometers from the limit of the municipal corporation and committees, 1 km from Nagar Panchayat without a no-objection certificate. Similarly, no mining lease was being granted within 200m of any water supply and irrigation scheme and within 200-500m upstream and downstream of bridge, he said. “The state government has also made penalty provisions for illegal mining more stringent. The provision of fine up to ₹5 lakhs and imprisonment up to two years has been made for the offence of illegal mining,” said Thakur.He said penalty provision for illegal storage of mineral has been fixed ₹50,000 besides market sale price of the total material.Additional chief secretary, industries, Ram Subhag Singh assured the CM that effective steps would be taken for checking illegal mining and systematic and scientific mining will be ensured. Director general of police Sanjay Kundu said more legal powers must be vested in police personnel to address illegal mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/take-strict-action-against-illegal-mining-jai-ram-tells-officers-101624995978266.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC rejects bail plea of man held with 2,300 intoxicating tablets in Tarn Taran||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday rejected the bail application of an accused in an intoxicating tablets seizure case, observing that drug trafficking is rising at an alarming rate in the region. The petitioner, Jasbir Singh, alias Mota was arrested with 2,300 intoxicating tablets in September 10 last year and a case under sections 22 (C) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against him at the Patti police station. Jasbir had approached the HC after his regular bail plea was rejected by a Tarn Taran court in January this year. He was accused of possessing intoxicated tablets of commercial quantity without permit or licence.“Drug trafficking has ruined the lives of young men and women. Suppliers make the youth use drugs for small monetary considerations. They have destroyed the fabric of our society and led youth to the wrong path,” said Justice HS Madaan.“I have heard counsel for the parties besides going through the record. The contraband recovered from the possession of petitioner/accused amounts to commercial quantity, attracting Section 37 of the NDPS Act. In the present case, I do not see any reason for believing that the petitioner is not guilty of such offence and that he is not likely to commit any offence while on bail,” the judge added.He also pointed out that “such people need to be dealt with firmly and no sympathy should be shown to them”. The state counsel had earlier said if the accused was granted bail, he was likely to go absconding and even temper with the prosecution evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-rejects-bail-plea-of-man-held-with-2-300-intoxicating-tablets-in-tarn-taran-101624995799412.html
30-06-2021||Other||Boy struck by lightning while searching for mobile network in Maharashtra’s Dahanu||A 17-year-old boy died after he was struck by lightning while trying to get mobile network on top of a tree in Osarvira-Mankarpada village at Dahanu late on Monday evening. The victim, Ravin Bachu Korda, fell from the tree after he lost balance due to the shock after being struck by lightning, while his three other friends also received minor burns and fractures after falling down. Two boys are admitted in the government hospital at Kasa, while another boy is admitted to Vedant Hospital at Dhundalwadi. “The injured have been identified as Mehul Anil Mankar, 14, Deepesh Sandip Korda, 14, and Chetan Mohan Korda, 13,” said Dahanu tehsildar Rahul Sarang.“We are analysing the situation in regard to the issuance of compensation to the victim. But as per the recent GR (government resolution) we can award can natural disaster compensation only if the area received more than 65mm of rainfall. But on Monday, the area did not receive that much rainfall and hence, we are studying the situation for the compensation claim. My team is at the village in this regard and a report is awaited,” said Sarang. Residents of the villages in the Wada-Dahanu belt climb on teakwood trees to catch signals on their mobile handsets as there is no mobile network in the these areas. “Even students climb trees to check their results. Villagers choose only teakwood tree because it is the tallest in the area and its branches are strong. The Centre has digitalised all transactions but we are still living in the early years when mobile network was new in our country. Due to weak network, we are compelled to climb the tall teakwood trees and talk. It’s a huge risk as there are chances of falling and suffering fractures or even dying, especially during the monsoons,” said Shashi Thakur, a resident of the area.“Our grampanchayats have written letters to all service providers to improve network by building mobile towers, but there is no response from them,” said Vasant Bhoir, another resident.“The mobile handsets are of no use as there is no or poor network but we have to recharge our phones to talk to our relatives, internet and hence we have to climb onto trees,” said Machindra Agiwale, a journalist with a leading Marathi newspaper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/boy-struck-by-lightning-while-searching-for-mobile-network-in-maharashtra-s-dahanu-101624995797814.html
30-06-2021||Other||Driver’s body found in Maharashtra Khandala, 2 held||The highly-decomposed body of a 45-year-old Virar was found in a forest near Khandala on Sunday. The car which Santosh Jha, an app-based cab driver was driving, was found near Kolhapur, a few metres away from the Maharashtra-Karnataka border. Two brothers from Kandivli have been arrested by Virar police in the case.“On June 17, he had taken the accused to Panvel, for which he charged them ₹700. But near Panvel, the brothers told him to take them to Khandala and agreed to pay ₹5000,” the missing complaint filed by Jha’s son Prem, 22, stated. “A fight broke out between Jha and the passengers over fuel near Khandala toll. The accused are in police custody remand. We do not know the motive behind the murder and are investigating further,” said senior inspector Suresh Warade of Virar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/drivers-body-found-in-maharashtra-khandala-2-held-101624995737779.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kejriwal’s promise of free power may cost Punjab ₹5,000 crore a year||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener Arvind Kejriwal’s promise of providing 300 units of electricity free to every household every month if his party forms government in Punjab will have a significant budgetary ramification for the state exchequer as the annual power subsidy bill is likely to cross ₹15,000 crore from the existing ₹10,668 crore.The state has a total of 80 lakh power consumers of which 50% are already availing subsidy. The Delhi chief minister’s announcement, if implemented, will make all the consumers eligible for subsidy. The AAP government in the national capital has been able to sustain the free power subsidy for Delhi residents through a significant reduction in losses due to electricity theft. Also, the Congress high command’s instructions to the Amarinder Singh government to consider giving 200 units of free power to urban domestic consumers will also enhance the subsidy burden if the proposal is implemented.If the next government gives free 300 units to all domestic consumers, the total domestic subsidy will touch the highest in country. Of ₹10,668 crore power subsidy bill for the current financial year in Punjab, ₹6,735 crore is in free electricity for farmers. The subsidy for free 200 units to SC/BC/BPL domestic consumers is ₹1,627 crore. At present, the number of domestic consumers getting 200 units of free power is around 15 lakh. “Though exact calculations can’t be made right now, this will increase the power subsidy bill by another ₹5,000 crore even by conservative estimates,” said VK Gupta, a power sector expert. “But here the catch is that you have to pay the entire bill if the consumption crosses beyond 300 units,” he added.A senior corporation official said, “Delhi gives ₹1,600 crore annual power subsidy while we already are giving over ₹10,000 crore for the same. The subsidy amount ultimately comes from the pockets of consumers. But it is not good either for the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) or the power sector on the whole.”Earlier, the Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PSERC) in its tariff order announced a reduction of 50 paise to ₹1 per unit for domestic consumers in the state. The move resulted in a relief to 69.15 lakh consumers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kejriwals-promise-of-free-power-may-cost-punjab-rs-5-000-crore-a-year-101624995683670.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab running out of vaccine stock, no clarity on fresh supply of doses||With Punjab running out of Covishield vaccine stock on Tuesday and left with 1.12 lakh doses of Covaxin, only 29,589 jabs were administered on Tuesday and there was no clarity on the state getting fresh supply from the Centre . “There has not been any communication from the Centre about allocation of fresh doses of Covishield for Wednesday. The state is likely to get 60,000 Covaxin doses in the next couple of days,” a senior government official involved in the inoculation drive said. The demand for the Covishield is more in the state and a large number of people, especially the international travellers, are shying away from taking the Covaxin dose. The Centre’s vaccine data reveals that the state was scheduled to get 21 lakh doses of Covishield and Covaxin in June but got only 17 lakh doses till Tuesday. For private hospitals in Punjab, the Centre has proposed 6.25 lakh doses. But there was a poor response from private hospitals as they booked only 60,000 doses. “Of the 60,000 doses for which the private hospitals have already made payment, not a single dose has arrived in the state,” said a senior official. Chief minister Amarinder Singh has reiterated the demand for more jabs from the Centre to vaccinate the entire 18-45 age group to complete the vaccination of all eligible persons in the next two months. Even as he ordered opening of vaccination to the entire population in the 18-45 age group, the CM said focus will remain on covering the categories prioritised earlier. Currently, 4.8% of Punjab’s eligible population is fully vaccinated, with Mohali district leading the chart. The CM said the state government had already vaccinated 62 lakh eligible persons and was utilising the stock without any wastage. “The state had been repeatedly taking up the issue of inadequate doses with the Union government. I will take up the matter again with the Union health minister on urgent basis and also the Prime Minister, if needed,” said Amarinder. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu questioned the BJP-ruled states like Haryana and Gujarat received the lion’s share of doses from the Centre. 98% protection among police personnel after 2 doses Citing a study on the Punjab Police showing 98% protection among their personnel after receiving two doses of vaccine, Amarinder asked the health and medical education departments to continue monitoring vaccine efficacy in the light of the new variants of concern. Of around 79,000 Punjab Police personnel having been vaccinated so far, 57% have received the second dose. The study, conducted between February 3 and June 28, showed that of the total deaths during this period 15 were of those not vaccinated at all, nine of those who had received one dose, and only two who were fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-running-out-of-vaccine-stock-no-clarity-on-fresh-supply-of-doses-101624995681622.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana MC panel to explore viability of reusing 37 defunct buses||The municipal corporation (MC) commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has formed a committee to look into the possibilities of bringing into use the 37 city buses worth 17 crores that have been lying defunct in the depot on Tajpur Road for years. The committee has been directed to submit a viability report regarding what will be the cost of taking up the repair work and whether the civic body will be able to successfully operate the buses in the city area.The decision was taken during the meeting of the Board of Directors of Ludhiana City Bus Service Limited held at MC Zone D office on Tuesday.The buses have been dumped at the site for over eight years now and are lying in a dilapidated condition with many of their parts stolen in the past. They are gathering dust with burst tyres and weed all around. Tall claims had been made by Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and Congress to revive the buses during their respective tenures in the MC house, but nothing was done at the ground level.The project was started in February 2011 with the target of introducing 200 buses under the Jawahar Lal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM), but the authorities have not been able to properly run the 120 buses which were purchased then. Out of the 120 buses, only 83 were transferred to the contractor who is currently running the service in the city, and 37 are gathering dust at the depot.The contractor informed that only ten buses are being run in the city owing to the losses incurred by him amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-mc-panel-to-explore-viability-of-reusing-37-defunct-buses-101624995678372.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Firm roped in for garbage lifting in Ludhiana seeks revision of tipping fee||Increasing troubles for the Ludhiana municipal corporation (MC) and city residents, the third party hired by the civic body for lifting garbage has given an ultimatum that it would cease its operations after June 30 (Wednesday) if its tipping fee (rate per tonne for lifting garbage) is not revised. Over 1,100 metric tonnes (MT) of garbage is generated in the city on a daily basis and MC has been paying ₹324 per tonne as the tipping fee to the company. Citing hike in diesel price and maintenance expenses, the company has now demanded that the civic body should at least pay ₹435 per tonne.Mayor Balkar Sandhu convened a meeting with MC officials in this regard at his camp office on Tuesday, following which a committee was formed to look into the matter. The committee comprises senior deputy mayor Sham Sundar Malhotra, leader of opposition in MC House Harbhajan Singh Dang, councillors Jai Prakash and Yashpal Chaudhary besides few civic body’s health branch officials.The panel has been asked to find out the viability of lifting the garbage by MC on its own and look into the demand of the company.As per the information, the company had sent the ultimatum to MC on June 10, but the civic body took it into consideration at the last minute. One of the officials, who wished to remain anonymous, said it will be a herculean task for the MC to lift the garbage on its own as it has no machinery, such as tippers, required for transporting the trash to the main dumping site on Tajpur Road. The civic body has already been facing the wrath of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) over its failure in dealing with solid waste properly.A member of the committee and leader of opposition in MC house, SAD councillor Harbhajan Singh Dang said the panel is deliberating on the possibilities to continue the lifting process and the report will be presented before mayor Balkar Sandhu on Wednesday. Mayor Sandhu said the final decision will be taken after going through the report of the committee. MC is also working to hire a new contractor for solid waste management in the city, he added. As per the sources, MC is deliberating on increasing the tipping fee till the time a new contractor is hired. A2Z company had terminated its contract with MC on February 4 and the civic body made a stopgap arrangement by roping in the third party to whom A2Z company had sublet the work of lifting garbage from the city. The BJP councillors had earlier targeted mayor Balkar Sandhu for allegedly favouring the contractor. Garbage collectors dump the waste collected from houses at over 40 secondary garbage dumping points in the city. Tipping fee is paid to the company for shifting the garbage from secondary dumps to the main site of MC on Tajpur Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/firm-roped-in-for-garbage-lifting-in-ludhiana-seeks-revision-of-tipping-fee-101624995621678.html
30-06-2021||Other||Online evaluation tests for govt school students from July 5||The state school education department has decided to conduct virtual examinations from July 5 to make the online study of the current academic session of government school students more effective.Lakhvir Singh Samra, district education officer (secondary), and Charanjit Singh, deputy district education officer (secondary), said that as per the instructions of the department the online exams for students of Classes 6 to 10 will be conducted from July 5.The education department officials further said that despite the closure of schools amid the Covid pandemic, government school teachers were imparting education to students through various means of social media and television. The school education department is also continuing the education of the students by broadcasting the lectures prepared by the teachers of the government schools on the regional channel DD Punjabi of Doordarshan. The department is also sending learning material to the students daily in the form of slides.Disclosing this here on Tuesday, district media coordinator cum -principal Davinder Singh Chhina said that before the June holidays, the teachers had finished the syllabus of their respective subjects. Repeated lectures were also aired on Doordarshan. The tests are being conducted so that the students can assess their learning so far.The marks scored by the students during these exams will be included in the continuous and comprehensive evaluation (CCE) marks to be taken during the annual examinations.The DEO urged the students to appear in the exams. He also appealed to the parents and the teachers to ensure that 100% attendance is reported in the online exams.Jasbir Singh Sekhon, district mentor science, Sanjeev Taneja, district mentor mathematics, along with other mentors said, this test will help the students know their academic level and make it easier for the teachers to plan forthcoming lessons according to the children’s requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/online-evaluation-tests-for-govt-school-students-from-july-5-101624995620528.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Tech boost to Ludhiana police as new, improved cyber cell starts operation||Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal on Tuesday inaugurated the newly renovated and modernised cyber cell of the district police at Sarabha Nagar.Agrawal said with the increased public dealing in cyber cell, a need was felt to upgrade and regulate the working environment of this particular area of policing. The new cyber cell consists of offices for ACP Cyber 1 and 2. This would allow better and efficient distribution of work. Moreover, new hardware and software infrastructure will be added to the cyber lab to ensure quick, timebound redressal of complaints and technical and scientific investigation in cases of cybercrime. The police chief added that along with enhancing the capabilities of Ludhiana police, this upgrade would create an overall public friendly environment by providing better facilities. “Moreover, it would ensure greater privacy to the complainants which would encourage more and more people, especially women, to reach out to us,” he added. Agrawal said they had been receiving about 300-400 complaints every month. Despite this huge workload and impact of Covid-induced lockdowns, the cyber cell has had an impressive performance in 2020, he added. Nearly 1,700 complaints have been disposed of resulting in the registration of 28 FIRs in 2020. The cyber cell has ensured recovery of about ₹40 lakh in the past one year as well, Agrawal said. The police have been relying on social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter to spread awareness among the public regarding various types of cybercrimes like ATM frauds, credit card frauds, cyber bullying, blackmailing, OTP frauds, and child pornography among others. Besides this, the police chief said, the cyber crime unit (CCU) is also receiving complaints through National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal which is functioning under the Cyber Crime Prevention against Women and Children scheme.The commissioner also warned the citizens against sharing their personal and financial details with anyone and urged them to update the privacy settings of their social media profiles to prevent misuse. He said people can lodge their complaints on the official email id (cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in) or can approach the cyber cell Ludhiana directly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tech-boost-to-ludhiana-police-as-new-improved-cyber-cell-starts-operation-101624995619521.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s largest Transport Nagar cries for attention||Despite tall claims made by the Ludhiana civic body regarding development and cleanliness drives, the area touted as the largest Transport Nagar of Punjab lies in a state of despair with deep potholes, waterlogged roads, garbage strewn across lanes and choked sewer lines. With the advent of monsoon, the transporters are set to bear the brunt for civic body’s apathy this year too. Spread across 114 acres, Transport Nagar caters to 1,200 transporters who run their business in the area where over 1,000 trucks move in and out on daily basis. Frequent breakdowns are reported due to poor condition of roads, which have not been rebuilt for over a decade, say transporters. They add that the sector is already reeling under losses due to the pandemic and the filthy conditions coupled with serious waterlogging witnessed in the area are not only taking a toll on their business, but also on their health. Press secretary of Ludhiana Goods Transport Association, Jagdish Jassowal, said, “Roads here have not been repaired for the last at least 12 years and accidents take place often due to deep potholes. Frequent breakdowns are also reported, especially after waterlogging when potholes are not visible to the truckers. Sometimes, a breakdown costs around ₹5,000 to a transporter and it becomes difficult to meet these additional expenses during the pandemic, when many of the transporters are struggling to make ends meet. Last week too, we faced major inconvenience after rain.” “Many of the carts and rickshaws tend to overturn on uneven paths, due to which goods get damaged. Many of us refrain from bringing our private cars here fearing potholes,” he added.A transporter, Sarabjit Singh, said, “Transport Nagar is a low-lying area and failure of authorities to clean the sewer lines and an internal drain (nullah) passing through the locality results in waterlogging. Sewer lines have been clogged for years, but no one is paying heed to the problem. Accumulated rainwater from adjoining areas like Industrial Area-A also flows into Transport Nagar. Silt and garbage can be seen spread at every nook and corner of the area, due to which foul smell also gets emancipated in the vicinity.”Encroachments irks transportersA large number of encroachments in the form of kiosks and dhabas also irk the transporters as they face shortage of space to park trucks. They rue that sewer connections of such establishments have been attached to sewer lines illegally, resulting in blockage. Transporters say that the authorities had been working on the plans to shift the Transport Nagar out of the MC limits, but nothing concrete has yet been announced regarding the same. They claim that they have at multiple instances approached the authorities, including mayor Balkar Sandhu, in the past more than a year, but nothing could save them from suffering due to waterlogging and potholed roads during the monsoon this year. President of the association, Didar Singh, said, “There is not even a single patch of road without potholes in Transport Nagar. During monsoon, it becomes difficult to reach our offices due to waterlogging. Mayor Balkar Sandhu also visited the area last year and assured that road construction will commence soon, but to no avail. We are forced to work in pitiable conditions and are planning to meet the authorities again.” Meanwhile, mayor Balkar Sandhu said tenders for different projects worth crores have been approved for development of Transport Nagar as MLA Surinder Dawar had also expressed concern over the same in the past. He is pursuing the case, he added. MLA Dawar also said that tenders for development projects worth over ₹6 crore have already been floated for construction of roads and other projects. “A delegation of transporters apprised me of the problems recently, following which I also convened a meeting with the mayor. The work will soon commence at the ground level. Directions have also been issued to officials to clean the sewer lines and accumulated silt and garbage in the area.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-largest-transport-nagar-cries-for-attention-101624995618409.html
30-06-2021||Other||Mumbai man booked for sexually assaulting daughter gets bail||A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) court recently granted bail to a man booked for sexually assault his seven-year-old daughter, after the court noted that the child had changed her statement several times.“It appears that the victim girl has changed her statement and given names of her maternal uncle and her father. No doubt, all the statements of the victim speak about penetrative sexual assault. However, initially she claimed that she has been assaulted by her maternal uncle and in her other statement, she claimed that it was her father and another maternal uncle,” said the court.The court added that as the girl was in the custody of the child welfare committee, there was no possibility of the father contacting her.The case was registered at JJ Marg police station on June 29 last year by the girl’s paternal aunt wherein she alleged that she was sexually assaulted by her maternal uncle. During the investigation, it was revealed that, there was a dispute between the girl’s parents. Her mother had taken her to her maternal house on June 13, 2020, and returned after two days.On June 28, 2020, the girl disclosed to her paternal aunt that while they were at their maternal house, her maternal uncle sexually abused her. The family lodged the case against the maternal uncle on the next day.On July 20, 2020, the girl made a statement that her father has sexually assaulted her and also threatened that she should not disclose the incident to anybody. She also alleged that she was forced to take name of her maternal uncle and later claimed that another maternal uncle abused her when she was in Class 1.The prosecution objected to the plea claiming that the medical evidence shows that the girl was subjected to sexual abuse. The father, however, claimed his wife was suffering from a mental disorder and was hospitalised. Further, they claimed that the girl was subjected to sexual abuse by her maternal uncle and he was falsely implicated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-man-booked-for-sexually-assaulting-daughter-gets-bail-101624995197735.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Sangrur sacrilege case: SGPC chief, Singla meet Jolian residents||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief Bibi Jagir Kaur on Tuesday visited the gurdwara in Sangrur’s Jolian village where a ‘bir’ (copy of Guru Granth Sahib) was found burnt on Friday.She demanded that relevant provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Preventions) Act and Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code be added in the case.“I gave a cheque of ₹10 lakh to the residents of the village for gurdwara maintenance. However, a delegation of SGPC earlier in the day met senior police officials seeking UAPA in the case. Also, we demand Section 302 of the IPC and fast-track hearing to punish the guilty in the case,” said Jagir Kaur.The SGPC chief said that two sewadars will be recruited at the gurdwara and their salary will be paid by the SGPC. “We also honoured the youths, who saved the birs after the firing incident, with ₹13,000 each,” she added.When asked about Sikh outfits holding SGPC responsible for such incidents across the state, she said, “Sikh organisations should not try to take political mileage of the incident and the community should unite.”Meanwhile, Punjab school education Vijay Inder Singla along with Sangrur Ramvir deputy commissioner, SSP Vivek Sheel Soni visited the village and assured the residents that besides finding out the truth of the matter, strict legal action would be taken against the culprits. The cabinet minister directed the SSP to complete the probe at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sangrur-sacrilege-case-sgpc-chief-singla-meet-jolian-residents-101624995081756.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Drone threat: Villagers in Punjab’s Adampur told to keep vigil on outsiders||In the wake of the recent drone attack at Jammu air force station, Jalandhar deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori on Tuesday directed the panchayats surrounding Adampur air force base to keep a close watch on outsiders that seek to enter their villages.He also asked police officials to launch a special verification drive of tenants and PGs in nearby villages to ensure foolproof security of the station.Presiding over a meeting of Airfield Environment Management Committee, which takes place every six months, issues ranging from construction near the airbase to proper implementation of solid waste management rules were discussed at length. Thori, accompanied by Air Commodore GVK Reddy and Wing Commander Dr Wassane, was briefed of the progress achieved on the issues discussed in the last meeting.Thori asked local bodies officials to ensure proper functioning of solid waste management plant at Sham Chaurassi while implementing door-to-door garbage collection in Sham Chaurasi and Aawalpur. He also ordered to do away with the open garbage dumping near the air force station while issuing instructions to put an end to any kind of construction within the prohibited area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/drone-threat-villagers-in-punjab-s-adampur-told-to-keep-vigil-on-outsiders-101624995080728.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||PIL challenging jobs to kin of Punjab MLAs withdrawn||A public interest of litigation (PIL) challenging Punjab government’s decision to give jobs to sons two of MLAs was withdrawn on Tuesday.The plea filed by one Bikramjit Singh Bajwa, a Mohali resident, was withdrawn in view of court’s observation that as appointment letters have not been issued to anyone, no cause of action survives.Bajwa said he would challenge the appointments again, if job letters are issued to the beneficiaries. The plea was withdrawn with a liberty to file a fresh one, if there is a cause for the same.The government’s move announcing jobs to two Congress MLAs’ sons earlier this month had resulted in a big political storm, and even people from within the party had opposed it. Subsequently, it is learnt one of the MLAs has turned down the government offer. The jobs were offered to the sons of Fateh Jung Bajwa and Rakesh Pandey, bringing them under the ambit of terror-affected families. Bajwa’s son was offered a job of an inspector and Pandey’s son of a naib tehsildar.The plea had argued that only C and D category jobs could be given under compassionate appointments policy and not group A and B. Further, it was also argued that these appointments have to be made “immediately” and not after 20-30 years as happened in this case. He had also argued that under the compassionate appointments policy, the grandchildren are not covered, hence the government decision is illegal and liable to be set aside.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pil-challenging-jobs-to-kin-of-punjab-mlas-withdrawn-101624995079352.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays order on name change of Amritsar mall||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday stayed an order passed by the Amritsar district administration asking a shopping mall not to use the word Ambarsar in its name.The court of justice Lisa Gill acted on the plea of VR Ambarsar Mall who had challenged the deputy commissioner order of April 23. A response from the state government has been sought by October 10, while staying the impugned order.As per the petitioner, it purchased “Trillium Mall” and renamed it as it became part of the Virtuous Retail Group. The name was changed to VR Ambarsar keeping in view the fact that it is a colloquial name of the city and is close to the hearts of its inhabitants. Initially, the mall received a complaint in July-August 2020, against using this name and subsequently, the complainant moved the district administration, which passed the order in question.Senior advocate Chetan Mittal had told the court that the Amritsar city is colloquially known as Ambarsar. The word Ambarsar has also been used in various movies, shops, songs, etc. There is a market which is also known as Ambarsar Bazaar. Ambarsariya Di Hatti and Ambarsar Badiyaan have been used at various places and there is no bar in using the word Ambarsar as per the Emblems and Names Act (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950, he had argued.The court was further told that IK Gujral Punjab Technical University, Amritsar campus, which is a state university, has also referred that the city is colloquially known as Ambarsar. “There are various news articles and social media pages which claim that the word Ambarsar is an emotion and not just a word and they prefer to call it so. There are various cities with colloquial names like Benaras for Varanasi and Delhi is also known as Dilli,” he had told the court adding that the action did not mean that the city’s name has been changed.The court was also told that there was nothing reflected in the order and the complainant – Jai Punjab Welfare Society, has referred in the complaint as hurting the religious sentiments. Otherwise, there is no such prohibition in any of the Acts. Using the name does not even hurt the religious sentiments, rather it is a traditionally, usually and commonly used name, it was argued.In the order, the administration had said the name of the city is Amritsar in government notifications and changing nomenclature to Ambarsar is wrong.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-order-on-name-change-of-amritsar-mall-101624995078235.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab DGP calls for synergy between BSF, police to counter drone threat||Stressing on the need to carry out evidence-based and pro-active policing, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta on Tuesday assured total support to the Border Security Force (BSF) to counter the drone operations at Punjab borders.“It was in September 2019, that the use of drones for smuggling weapons was first established in Amritsar and since then, such flying machines and delivery platforms are being used frequently for smuggling of drugs and weapons, and now, the terrorist attack in Jammu using drone has become another major security concern,” said Gupta adding that more than 60 drone sightings have been reported by the BSF, Punjab Police and the people of the state over the last 20 months.The DGP was in Gurdaspur for a high-level meeting with senior officials of BSF and Punjab Police deployed in the Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts. ADGP internal security RN Dhoke, IG border range SPS Parmar and DIG BSF Prabhakar Joshi, along with about 8 BSF Commandants among others were present in the meeting.Giving a call for total synergy and teamwork between BSF and Punjab Police, he said that it was high time that both the elite forces worked as one and activated good-old human intelligence by gathering and sharing real-time information.He asked the BSF officials to share sector-wise inputs of movements of suspected persons with the Punjab Police so that they can keep a sharp vigil on their activities and ensure penal action against such elements.The DGP directed the SSPs of Gurdaspur, Batala and Pathankot to list out border villages and develop a robust intelligence network by ensuring close collaboration between the police, public, Guardians of Governance, NGOs etc in every village so that they promptly notify about any criminal activity taking place in their villages.He also gave instructions to increase the police checkpoints, especially at night, in their respective jurisdictions and ensure checking of maximum vehicles.DGP Dinkar Gupta also ordered the SSPs to list out and take action against all the proclaimed offenders (POs), bail jumpers and absconders in NDPS Act, Arms Act and UAPA. He also directed them to ramp up the drug recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-dgp-calls-for-synergy-between-bsf-police-to-counter-drone-threat-101624995025331.html
30-06-2021||Other||EOW to probe financial matters worth ₹10 crore or more: Mumbai Police commissioner||The increase in complex white-collar crimes that require specialised investigation as well as the limited manpower in the economic offences wing (EOW) of the city police has prompted the top order of the force to decide that henceforth, EOW will investigate only cases offences involving ₹10 crore or more. Crimes involving amounts under ₹10 crore will be investigated by police stations. Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale issued a standing order to this effect on Monday and directed all the 100 police stations in Mumbai to follow the rule with immediate effect.Cases involving amounts less than ₹10 crore but are complex in nature and require specialised skills in investigation as well as those having social/inter-state ramifications may be investigated by EOW with prior permission of the police commissioner. The local police need to send a proposal for such cases to the commissioner for an approval of transfer. The branch investigates banking frauds, company’s frauds, scams in government projects, multi-level marketing or investment frauds, housing frauds, general cheating, etc.“Investigating officers of other cases of financial crimes at police stations seek timely guidance from senior EOW officers. The joint commissioner of police, EOW, may call for papers of any case of economic offences that is being investigated by the local police, for scrutiny and proper directions in investigation,” stated the commissioner’s order. The complaints of such frauds of more than ₹10 crore should be sent to EOW office with the complainant to avoid delay after registration and transfer. “The move intends to reduce the burden on the agency. EOW is a special investigation agency and it must only investigate cases that are complex in nature and require a dedicated probe. These would include cases of mass cheating, or those involving multiple companies, banks or state boundaries. Simple cheating or fraud cases can be probed at the police stations, even if it involves a huge amount,” said an EOW inspector. In 2018, EOW – the specialised branch that investigates major financial scam and banking frauds – registered 123 cases involving financial frauds worth ₹4,072.11 crore. The department registered 110 cases involving white-collar crimes, worth ₹34,219.84 crore, in 2019. Subsequently, last year, amid the pandemic, EOW officers lodged 57 financial frauds cases worth ₹9,681.48 crore. This year, the wing has probed 58 such cases involving ₹2,223.90 crore. Previously, police stations used to probe crimes below ₹6 crore. Initially the amount to be probed by police stations was limited to ₹50 lakh as per a special order dated March 29, 2007. It was raised to ₹3 crore in May 2014, when EOW was a part of the Mumbai crime branch. The government separated EOW from the crime branch vide a government resolution dated May 27, 2016, and appointed a joint commissioner of police-rank Indian Police Service (IPS) officer to head the wing, like the crime branch.“With the changing scenario in crimes, it is imperative to strengthen the economic offences wing in terms of efficiency and maintain quality standards by modifications in earlier orders in this regard. Mumbai being the financial capital of India is a perennial target of economic offenders. Due to rapid globalisation and advancement in technology, it has become feasible for offenders to commit financial crimes from any corner of the world. Also, the number of cases, quantum of property involved and impact of such crimes has increased significantly in the past few years,” a senior police officer said.“Though the major portion of such cases is handled by the EOW effectively, to meet multifarious and increasing challenges in financial crimes, it needs to take up selected cases for in depth and scientific investigation. Following this guideline, the lower limit of cases to be taken up for investigation by EOW was raised to ₹6 crore on September 13, 2018. It has now been increased to ₹10 crore and above, the officer added.According to an officer from the agency, the move will benefit victims of fraud up to ₹10 crore, as they no longer need to visit the EOW headquarters at Crawford Market but can instead lodge a complaint at the local police station and follow it up there. “As Mumbai is the financial capital of the country, many corporate giants, financial institutes and banks are headquartered in the city. This is one of the reasons why fraudsters, especially those involved in Ponzi schemes, target the city,” said another police officer. In April, Nagrale had transferred 13 police officers serving in EOW for over five years to side branches. More officers who served in the branch for more than four years are slated to be moved soon in the upcoming general transfers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/eow-to-probe-financial-matters-worth-10-crore-or-more-mumbai-police-commissioner-101624995025900.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Man kills two minor sons before committing suicide in Faridkot||A 35-year-old man allegedly murdered his two minor sons before hanging himself to death at Faridkot military station in on Tuesday.Police suspect that the man, who hailed from Kalaibari village in West Bengal’s Uttar Dinajpur district, was depressed over his wife’s alleged infidelity.He was working as a labourer at a construction site of Military Engineer Services and stayed with his wife and three children — a girl aged 10 and two boys aged 7 and 5.Station house officer Karandeep Singh said that neighbours found the two minor boys dead on the floor while their father’s body was hanging from the ceiling fan. As per preliminary investigation, the labourer was upset after his wife allegedly eloped with another man on Monday.The police officer said prima facie it seems that the man strangulated both his sons to death before committing suicide, while his daughter was unharmed.“We have not recovered any suicide note from the spot. We are investigating all the possible angles, while his wife is still missing. We have also informed the deceased’s relatives back in West Bengal,” the cop said.A case has been registered against the man under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code at Faridkot city police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-kills-two-minor-sons-before-committing-suicide-in-faridkot-101624995023956.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Kotkapura violence: SIT to quiz Sikh preacher Panthpreet, others on July 2||In its second round of questioning in Faridkot, the special investigation team (SIT) probing the Kotkapura firing incident of 2015 will question Sikh preacher Panthpreet Singh, a key witness in the case, on July 2.Eleven others, including six cops who were on duty at the time of the incident, have also been summoned by the SIT.Panthpreet Singh, along with the other preachers including Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwalae, was leading the protest and was present on the spot when the protestors were cane-charged and gun shots were fired by the police, leading to injuries to a number of protestors, who were seeking action the incidents of sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib that had occurred the same year.“We are appearing before the SIT at the designated place and date,” said Panthpreet’s son Jaswinder Singh. The incident occurred early morning on October 14, 2015, two days after protests started at Kotkapura. A case was registered on the complaint of Ajit Singh of Barnala who suffered injuries after being hit by gunshots.As per a notice received by the witnesses, SIT members led by ADGP LK Yadav will camp in Faridkot on July 2 for questioning.The state government reconstituted the SIT in April this year after Punjab and Haryana high court rejected findings of the previous SIT.In its previous visit to Faridkot in May, the SIT had questioned then Ferozepur range inspector general of police (now ADGP) Jatinder Jain, then Faridkot SSP Sukhmander Singh Mann, then Kotkapura DSP (now SP) Baljit Singh Sidhu, DSP Maninder Singh Bedi and some junior cops.Others who have been called include Himmat Singh, Surjeet Singh, Kala Singh Amarjeet Singh, Gurpreet Singh, constables Rachpal Singh, Kulwinder Singh, Ranit Singh, Praveen Kumar, Dalip Singh and Pradeep Singh of different battalions of Punjab armed police.Earlier on June 26, the SIT had grilled SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who was the deputy CM Punjab in SAD-BJP government when the firing incident took place and also held the charge of home department. Before that, on June 22, former CM Parkash Singh Badal was questioned.The Yadav-led SIT has already questioned former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, and other top officers IPS Sahota and Rohit Chaudhary, and suspended IPS officer PS Umranangal.Plans to meet preacher Dhadrianwalae tooThe SIT is also planning to meet Sikh preacher Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwalae and ask questions related to Kotkapura incident. Dhadrianwalae has returned from a US tour two days back and sources revealed that a process has been initiated to meet the preacher who is based near Patiala. The SIT is expected to meet him at a place of his choice for which a date is yet to be finalised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kotkapura-violence-sit-to-quiz-sikh-preacher-panthpreet-others-on-july-2-101624995022900.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||HIV +ve drug addicts struggling to get help in Sangrur||Drug addicts having HIV infection or hepatitis C are struggling to get rehabilitation in Sangrur as de-addiction centres are turning them away due to such illnesses.Four such persons who, with the help of a local NGO, reached Sangrur Red Cross De-Addiction Centre on Tuesday were denied admission due to HIV and hepatitis C.The members of NGO Youth Power Group claimed that they, along with the four addicts, met deputy commissioner Ramvir who directed them to the de-addiction centre. However, the authorities of the centre refused to admit them citing the illnesses.“Being denied treatment and rehabilitation disappointed the victims. We suspect that all four addicts might be HIV positive, but it is the responsibility of the administration to rehabilitate them,” said Vikramjit Singh Sidhu, chief of Youth Power Group.“The families of these addicts, who hail from a locality notorious for drug abuse, approached us. We rushed to admit them. We demand that the administration organise a medical camp for all residents of the area,” he added.A 26-year-old drug addict said they used to consume chitta, but when one of his friends died due to drug overdose in the past, he realised it was time to seek help or there would be no one to take care of his little daughter if he too meets the same fate as his friend’s.Red Cross De-addiction Centre project director Mohan Sharma said that two youths were HIV positive and had hepatitis C and they were referred to civil hospital as such patients can’t be admitted to rehabilitation centre.DC Ramvir said all men who wanted rehab would be admitted and given free treatment.Civil surgeon Anjana Gupta said she has received the details of these addicts and one was suffering from HIV. “We have sent our teams and they will be given treatment soon. However, their relatives and friends will be screened,” added CS Gupta.Deputy superintendent of police (rural) Satpal Sharma said they have already declared the concerned locality as a hotspot for drugs. “Two drug addicts and their fathers were also facing cases under the NDPS Act. If these men want rehab with the help of an NGO, the police will help them,” added Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hiv-ve-drug-addicts-struggling-to-get-help-in-sangrur-101624995021790.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||HRTC to purchase 205 new buses||The Himachal Pradesh Transport Corporation will soon add 205 new buses to add to its fleet, it was decided in a meeting of board of directors on Tuesday.Transport minister Bikram Singh had presided over the meeting. At present, HRTC has 3,400 buses. The minister said daily wagers working at bus stand will now be paid ₹ 275 a day as opposed to an hourly wage. The directors also gave the nod to build a modern bus stand at Bilaspur, Rewalsar and Bhoranj. New bus stands will be built in Shimla and Dharamshala under the Smart City Mission. Singh said the medical bills of all employees, and pensioners have been paid and instructions have been given to transfer pensions in a time-bound manner. “The staff are being paid on time and pending financial benefits are being released gradually.HRTC will start bus services on 317 inter-state routes,” he said, adding that the routes will be increased as occupancy increases. An office of the transport corporation will be built at Nagrota Bagwan. The corporation will also construct a commercial complex at Theog and a workshop at Baijnath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hrtc-to-purchase-205-new-buses-101624994778264.html
30-06-2021||Other||UG, PG students who lost parents to Covid-19 to get full fee waiver: Maharashtra edu minister||The annual fees of undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) students who lost one or both their parents to Covid-19 will be waived off until they complete their education, state education minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced on Tuesday. The announcement came a day after Samant called for a virtual meeting with vice-chancellors of all state universities to discuss fee reduction, considering the economic slowdown that has affected families across the nation.“Students who have lost their father/mother/parents to Covid-19 will not have to pay their fees until the completion of their UG or PG course. We are also waiving off miscellaneous fees for other students in the coming academic year,” Samant said in a press conference held in the city on Tuesday evening. He added that fees charged for gymkhana, extra-curricular activities, college magazine, sports fund, computer, medical aid fund as well as youth festival, which are anyway subsidised, will be waived off in full for the upcoming year. “As maintenance of laboratories and libraries and purchase of e-content has already been invested by colleges, a 50% discount will be applied on these charges. However, as the dormitories are not being used by students, dormitory charges will also be waived off,” added Samant.While students and parents have welcomed the move, it has received mixed reactions from colleges affiliated with state universities. “Full waiver will affect unaided colleges, because we depend on fees to pay salaries to our staff. Thankfully, the government will be reimbursing tuition and development fees for such students to colleges, because unlike aided colleges where salaries are paid by the government, expenses in unaided colleges are bore by the management,” said T A Shiware, chairman of Mumbai Association of Non-Government Colleges. He, however, added that this decision is a good move to support students affected by Covid-19. Last week, Samant had announced a rebate of ₹16,250 to engineering students from government-aided institutes for not using the library, gymkhana and other facilities on campus, as students have not attended physical classes in over a year. This decision will benefit nearly 20,000 students across the state.In the press conference, Samant clarified that tuition and development fees levied by aided as well as unaided colleges will not be discounted. “Only miscellaneous fees including gymkhana, computer fees, sports fee, medical fund etc will be discounted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ug-pg-students-who-lost-parents-to-covid-19-to-get-full-fee-waiver-maharashtra-edu-minister-101624994657774.html
30-06-2021||Other||IIT- Bombay students can now curate their course, choose subjects||Students of Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) will now have the option to enrol for courses of their choice under a new multi-disciplinary programme launched this year.The Liberal Arts, Sciences, and Engineering (LASE) programme will be available to undergraduate students at the beginning of their second year, wherein students can choose from a variety of courses offered by the institute’s departments and schools. The batch of students admitted to undergraduate programmes this year will become the first beneficiaries of this programme when they graduate to their second year in 2022.Students will continue to be admitted through the Joint Entrance Exam. However, at the beginning of the second year, a select group of students can enrol for LASE. “The selection of these students will be based on some criteria the details of which are yet to be finalised,” said Anurag Mehra, professor in the department of chemical engineering and one of the coordinators of the LASE programme.The process works similar to a branch change. In the second year, LASE students will study foundation courses as well as some other courses available in the institute. Faculty advisors will guide students in making this decision, said Mehra.All first-year students will have a common curriculum. Thereafter, if they enrol in the LASE programme, the students will be free to choose a course of their choice, apart from some prerequisite courses such as maths and physics, which will be compulsory. Broadly, students will have five categories – engineering sciences, natural sciences, social sciences, art & design and design your own custom concentration – to choose from. At the end of the four years, they will be granted the Bachelors in Science degree in any of the above categories, or the one that they specialise in.“For example, a student is interested in the field of healthcare, they can choose a course from the biosciences and bioengineering department, electrical engineering or some management courses from the school of management,” said Mehra.IIT-B director Subhasis Chaudhuri said that LASE students will take a set of ‘foundation courses’ in their second year, which are focussed on areas such as modern South Asian history, history of science, contemporary digital societies, current social structures, reading and writing literature, apart from subjects in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). “The motivation behind such courses and the programme as a whole is to enable the cultivation of diverse all-round proficiencies for those who want to explore different fields, venture out in new directions or pursue untrammelled and untraveled paths,” said Chaudhuri.“Liberal arts are often misunderstood as courses in the fields of Arts. It is actually a multidisciplinary education tool encompassing the study of natural sciences, social sciences, arts and humanity. With the LASE programme, we want to give students the flexibility to choose any course they want. It’s like a buffet of courses available to the students,” Mehra added.Chaudhuri said, “Today’s aspirational youths are more exploratory in their pursuits, be it academics, career or financial matters. Our efforts have primarily been in creating such academic opportunities that our students can pursue freely. It’s just one more way of telling our student that they can be the one that they wish to be rather than what we want them to be.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iit-bombay-students-can-now-curate-their-course-choose-subjects-101624994419462.html
30-06-2021||Other||Tourism experts say finance minister’s 500K tourist visas, ₹1-lakh loan offer an eyewash||A day after finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced 500,000 tourist visas for free as well a loan of ₹1 lakh each to the regional level guides (RLGs), tourist associations and federations have called the government’s move an eye wash. According to them, the government’s announcements that claim to boost inbound tourism have no practical holding. Jerroo Bharrucha, president of tourist guide association (TOGA), Mumbai, said, “RLGs have existed long before the Ministry of Tourism and Culture (MOTC) was formed, but the way we have been treated in recent times is depressing. We represent and showcase all that is good in India and hence, we are the face of India as tourists spend maximum time with us.” “We have helped tour operators to build their tourism empires as all rolling business is brought by our work. The government of India should be doling out cash compensation to us instead of asking us to apply for loans. They know very well that many tour operators have not paid RLGs throughout India for work done in 2018 to 2020,” added Bharrucha. Tourist guides alleged that the finance minister’s announcement was like being given a beautifully-wrapped box only to find castoffs inside. “We were euphoric about were getting something but later realised what we will actually be getting. Which bank is going to give us a loan on a licence that the tourism ministry is not renewing till we sign on dotted lines? In case we get the bank loan, how are we supposed to repay when there’s no work,” Bharrucha questionedDr Subhash Goyal, president, Confederation of Tourism Professionals of India, said that the finance minister’s announcement is too late and too little. “Already, 10 million people have become jobless and thousands of companies have become bankrupt. Without the announcement of the date for issuance of e-tourist visas and free visas will be meaningless. The money saved by not giving free tourist visas can be utilised for giving grants to the tourist guides and tourism workforce,” Dr Goyal said, adding, “Giving loans to tourist guides and small tour operators is also meaningless because how will they return the loan and pay the interest when there is no business? ” The highly-fragmented tourism sector includes stakeholders such as travel agencies, individual travel agents, car rental agencies and tourist guides whose businesses were practically wiped out as the pandemic put a stop to travel. CRISIL Ratings Limited said the sector critically needs opening up of inbound and outbound travel, which is currently very restricted. “With improved vaccination rates, we expect opening up in the second half of this fiscal, but that would also be contingent on policies of foreign countries. Domestic travel though should start to bounce back, as state-level lockdowns ease,” CRISIL said. Manish Gupta, senior director, CRISIL Ratings said, “The move to provide 500,000 free one-month tourist visas till March 31, 2022, amounts to only ₹100-crore allocation, but importantly, it sends out a message that India is getting ready to welcome tourists. This could provide a boost to budget-conscious travellers before the inbound season, which typically starts from October.”Sourav Mukherjee, head, India and Middle East of travel tech services firm RateGain, said that giving 500,000 free visas will give the much-needed start to the inbound segment, mainly for tourists. “This is a much-needed move for the industry and leisure destinations. However, we still need to wait till the process starts. This will not be a boost as such but will act as a kick start. We could have said this was a boost only when the inbound sector would have had some movement already. But if the government could also create confidence among the tourists, it will immediately have a positive effect on the leisure segment,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tourism-experts-say-finance-minister-s-500k-tourist-visas-1-lakh-loan-offer-an-eyewash-101624994418801.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||HC directs BSNL to replace obsolete tech to improve connectivity Himachal||The Himachal Pradesh high court directed Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) to prepare a roadmap to install the latest solar panels to power 191 communication towers situated in extremely backward areas of the state and get approval from the authorities concerned within one month.In an order passed on Monday, the division bench of justice Talok Singh Chauhan and justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia observed that the primary reason for inadequate bandwidth and broadband signal in tribal and far-flung areas of the state was erratic supply of electricity. The court said BNSL officials say though they have solar back-up but it us using outdated and obsolete technology. “Therefore, in the given circumstances, we are of the considered view that old and outdated technology needs to be phased out gradually and the batteries need to be replaced by Lithium-NickleCobalt-Aluminium (NCA) Lithium-Nickle-Magnese-Cobalt (NMC), Lithium-Iron-Phosphate batteries or any other batteries with latest technology in a phased manner,” the court said.The court said that during the previous hearing, the court had asked the Himachal Pradesh Electricity Board to obtain instruction, as to why, there were frequent shut downs of the main transmission line in such areas.HPSEBL official Sanjeev Maria said they will resolve the issue by constructing a sub-station. He said much progress could not be achieved for want of adequate work force, which now has been made available to the board with appointments of 1,800 assistant linemen and 250 junior engineers. A progress report in this regard will be submitted to the court on the next date of hearing.The court also arrayed service providers who constructed the communication towers and are maintaining them as party respondents and issued a notice to them.The court also said that rates for laying cables in the state were probably the highest in the country at ₹1,600 per metre and has granted four weeks’ time to the advocate general to apprise the court regarding this aspect.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-directs-bsnl-to-replace-obsolete-tech-to-improve-connectivity-himachal-101624994418321.html
30-06-2021||Other||University of Mumbai’s academic council approves engineering course in Marathi||Less than a month after the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) allowed colleges to offer engineering programmes in eight regional languages including Marathi, the academic council (AC) of the University of Mumbai (MU) on Tuesday approved to start the course material in Marathi in all affiliated engineering institutes. AC has also decided to introduce subjects such as artificial intelligence and data science, artificial intelligence and machine learning, cyber security, internet of things, data engineering, cyber security including blockchain technology, among others, considering the industry needs, said a spokesperson for the varsity. “There will be radical changes in the manner in which engineering will be taught henceforth. AICTE gave its go ahead earlier this year but the science and technology faculty has already been working on introducing newer subjects with respect to emerging industry demands and trends,” said a statement released by MU on Tuesday. AC also approved the concept of “school” for the first time, which will bring together subjects from various departments under one roof making it easier for students to opt for interdisciplinary subjects in a single course. “MU will be introducing different schools, including the school of Indian languages; English and foreign languages; social sciences; and performing arts, all with aim of giving students the option of more subjects under the same head. This is a positive step towards giving students more freedom in choosing their subjects in various courses,” said Leeladhar Bansod, deputy registrar, public relations, MU. He added that for the first time, regional case studies will be included in various courses of the commerce department to enhance research skills of students. Using provisions under the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, the academic council is preparing to hand over autonomy to various departments of the university, allowing academic independence and flexibility in curriculum. As of now, five departments of the university have already been awarded autonomy.2021-22 academic year calendar announced AC has approved the academic calendar for 2021-22 year, bringing relief to colleges as well as students. While the two semesters have been scheduled from June 14 to October 30, 2021, and November 15 to May 1, 2022, winter and summer breaks have been scheduled to give a good break for the stakeholders. For 2021-22, Diwali break is scheduled for two weeks from November 1 to 14, whereas the summer break has been slotted from May 2 to June 11, 2022.The 2022-23 academic year will begin from June 12 next year, said a statement released by MU.“Last year, as a large chunk of the first semester was wasted trying to figure out reopening of colleges, summer and winter breaks were limited to one or two weeks only. This time, the academic year is planned well, giving colleges and students a much-deserved break,” said the principal of a suburban college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/university-of-mumbai-s-academic-council-approves-engineering-course-in-marathi-101624994297678.html
30-06-2021||Other||RTI data: IITs not following reservation rules for faculty||None of the 22 Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) have more than six teachers belonging to the Scheduled Tribes (ST) community, while 18 of them have 10 or less candidates from the Scheduled Castes (SC) category on their faculty rolls. Seven IITs had 10 or less faculty members from the other backward classes (OBC) community. The data was revealed by 22 of the 23 IITs in response to a query filed by an alumnus of IIT-Bombay (IIT-B) early this year under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. Data for IIT-Mandi was unavailable. None of the 22 IITs, including Delhi, Bombay, Madras and Kharagpur, follow reservations in their faculty positions. The Centre mandates a reservation of 27% in faculty positions for candidates from OBC category, 15% from SC and 7.5% from ST community. At IIT-B, only six (0.9%) of the 684 faculty positions are from SC community, one (0.1%) is from ST and 10 (1.5) from OBC category. At IIT-Madras, of the 596 faculty members, 16 (2.7%) are SC candidates, three (0.5%) are ST, while 62 (10.4%) are OBC. Pawan Goenka, retired managing director and chief executive officer of Mahindra Group and chairperson of the board of governors of IIT-Bombay and IIT-Madras, said, “The board of governors of IIT-B and IIT-Madras is well-aware of the gaps in diversity with respect to the reserved categories and gender. But we also know that it is not due to lack of efforts. These IITs are taking proactive steps to address these gaps while going through the recruitment process as per the prescribed norms. I am sure the other IITs are also doing the same.” In July 2019, education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, while answering a question in the Lok Sabha, revealed that the sanctioned strength of faculty in all the 23 IITs was 8,856, of which 2,813 positions were vacant. Of the 6,043 faculty in IITs, around 2.5% (149) were from SC and 0.34% (21) from ST communities. Despite repeated attempts, Amit Khare, secretary, higher education, and Rakesh Ranjan, additional secretary for IITs at the Ministry of Education, did not respond to HT emails. ‘Good quality teachers a priority’ Goenka said IITs were sensitive to the reservation rules. “Currently IITs have a fairly large number of vacancies which they are trying to fill but sufficient high-quality candidates have not been available across all categories. IITs need candidates with PhD, high-quality research papers, and good teaching ability. These have to largely come from within the top engineering colleges in India or good universities abroad. The number of PhD students graduating from the IITs, specially the older ones, has been increasing significantly in the past four years as a result of the increase in intake post 2011. I believe this will help to address the issue in the coming years,” he added. Data shows that seven IITs—Bhilai, Gandhinagar, Goa, Indore, Jodhpur, Palakkad and Patna—have no ST faculty on their rosters. In fact, except Dhanbad, Dharwad, Jammu and Tirupathi, the ST faculty at all other IITs constituted less than 1% of the total faculty count. PB Sunil Kumar, director of IIT-Palakkad, said, “We give all relaxations as mandated by the Centre’s norms, and in addition, make sure that at the least, a few among the applicants from reserved communities are given a chance to present their case to the selection committees. We do face problems in finding the right candidates as the pool of applicants from such communities is small.” “The current education system permeates discrimination in the name of merit. The idea of merit doesn’t take into account the social, emotional, academic, cultural and intellectual gap in students coming from diverse backgrounds,” said Govardhan Wankhede, former professor and dean, school of education, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai. Few senior faculties from reserved categories IITs follow a flexible cadre system for the appointment of faculty. The sanctioned strength of faculty at different grades, such as professor, associate professor and assistant professor, is not fixed. Until 2019, reservations were only applicable for recruitment of assistant professors, which is the entry level. This is why most faculty members from reserved categories were in the assistant professor category across all IITs. Fifteen of the 23 IITs, including IIT-Mandi, do not have a single SC or ST professor, while seven do not have even one SC or ST associate professor. IITs also do not have promotions. Each position is filled as a fresh recruitment. This means assistant professors at an institute have to apply for recruitment as an associate professor and compete with other candidates. Avatthi Ramaiah, chairperson, Centre for Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policies at TISS, said the discrimination was systemic. “If a reserved category candidate has applied, the law mandates that the selection committee should have a member from the category. Most times, it is this member that bats on behalf of the reserved category candidate alone. There is resistance from all quarters because the department members have a set idea of who they want,” said Ramaiah, who has served on several selection committees. Corrective measures At IIT-B, departments have to forward all applications from SC and ST candidates to the selection committee. S Sudarshan, deputy director, academic and infrastructure affairs at IIT-B, said, “Prior to the reservations, departments had the liberty to forward shortlisted candidates to the selection committee. However, a few years ago, after the reservation policy came in, the policy was changed. Now departments have to forward all applications from SC and ST category to the selection committee as long as they meet the basic eligibility criteria.” IITs at Palakkad and Goa are conducting special drives to identify suitable candidates from diverse backgrounds. “We are only six years old and are still in the early stages of recruitment. However, we have already conducted one such drive last year,” said Kumar. IIT-Goa director BK Mishra, too, said that the institute is currently conducting a special drive to improve the number of faculty members from SC, ST and OBC categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rti-data-iits-not-following-reservation-rules-for-faculty-101624994117807.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Bambiha group claims responsibility for ex-Jalandhar Youth Cong chief’s murder||JALANDHAR Gangster Davinder Bambiha group has claimed the responsibility for killing former Jalandhar Youth Congress chief Sukhmeet Singh Deputy, who was shot dead on June 20. In a Facebook post, the group claimed that Sukhmeet, was leaking their information to the rival group and didn’t pay heed to their warning to stop his activities. Jalandhar assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Harsimrat Singh trashed the allegations. “But we have asked our cybercrime wing to probe the matter,” he said. Sukhmeet, 43, was shot dead in broad daylight by three unidentified assailants in the Gopal Nagar area of the city on June 20. Sukhmeet was convicted in the 2008 Mickey kidnapping case and was sentenced to life imprisonment. Police said Sukhmeet, also a former councillor, was going from the Workshop Chowk to Gopal Nagar on a bike when a car following him hit his two-wheeler from the rear. Sukhmeet fell from the bike and the assailants fired 10-11 rounds at him. He sustained 8-9 bullet injuries and was rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bambiha-group-claims-responsibility-for-ex-jalandhar-youth-cong-chief-s-murder-101624993998970.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 13,197 kids lost one of their parents to Covid||The number of children who lost either of their parents to Covid-19 has mounted to 13,197 in Maharashtra. While 11,659 of them lost their father, 1,538 lost their mother to the virus. A total of 409 children have been orphaned after losing both the parents, according to the data collected by the women and child welfare department. Acting on the Supreme Court direction, the state constituted task forces in each district to identify such children and avert trafficking and illegal adoption. Women and child welfare officers have reached out to families with deaths due to Covid-19 and facilitate them with counselling, legal and financial aid. The process for enrolment of orphaned children whose extended family members are not able to look after them has begun. Pune has the highest number of children who have lost either or both parents (1,380), followed by Nagpur (1,206), Thane (1,103), Mumbai (762) and Nashik (508). Thane has the highest number of orphaned children (53), followed by 36 in Nagpur and 34 in Pune. Of the orphaned children, 221 are boys and 180 are girls. WCD minister Yashomati Thakur said: “The task forces appointed under the chairmanship of district collectors are working to help these children with the help of child welfare committee in the districts. We have taken full responsibility of their further studies for which technological support in the form of laptops, android phones is being provided to them as immediate steps. We have signed a memorandum of understanding with two not-for-profit organisations, Indian Psychiatric Society and Project Mumbai, for technological and psychological support.”Thakur added, “We have already announced ₹5 lakh in fixed deposit accounts of these children till they turn 18. Until then, financial aid will be given to children under Balsangopan Yojana.”District administrations have been helping such children with counselling, fixing responsibility of their parenting to relatives, as well as ensuring financial aid, custody to child care institutions and legal adoption, if needed. “As the basic principle of the Juvenile Justice Act (JJ Act), we prefer the custody to remain with extended family in case of orphaned children. Family care is important for their upbringing. Such children in custody with relatives, such as uncle or grandparents, are given financial assistance of ₹1,125 per month under our Bal Sangopan scheme. The scheme is applicable for the children who have lost either of their parents,” said an official from the department. According to the officials from the department, the number of children who have lost their parents to Covid-19 is expected to go up further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-13-197-kids-lost-one-of-their-parents-to-covid-101624993637750.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 80% of total beds, and 83% of oxygen beds vacant, says BMC||While Mumbai has reported a reduction in weekly positivity rate over the past few weeks, the bed occupancy rate in the hospitals too has gone down. More than 80% of the Covid-19 beds across hospitals in Mumbai are vacant, and about 83% of the oxygen beds are vacant, according to data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Of the 20,015 total beds available for Covid-19, 16,038 are vacant, while of the 10,519 oxygen beds across Mumbai, 8,828 are available. In comparison, 52.35% ICU beds are vacant, and 44.7% ventilator beds are vacant. Of the 2,523 ICU beds, 1,321 are vacant, and of the 1377 ventilator beds, 616 are vacant across the city. Mumbai’s overall positivity rate is 10.13%. So far, the city has conducted a total of 7,104,722 Covid-19 tests. On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 556 new cases, and 12 deaths, taking the total number of cases in the city to 721,516 and the toll to 15,426. The case fatality rate in the city at present is 2.14%. The active cases in the city are 12,684. About 43% of the active cases are asymptomatic, 48% are symptomatic and 9% are critical. On Monday, Mumbai conducted 31,769 Covid-19 tests. The positivity rate for the day is 1.75%. Currently, the city’s recovery rate is 96%, and the overall growth rate of cases has drastically gone down to 0.09%. Fifteen of the 24 wards in the city have a growth rate more than Mumbai’s average growth rate. The growth rate in K-West ward, corresponding to areas of Andheri West, has the highest growth rate of 0.16%. G-North ward, corresponding to Dadar, Mahim, and Dharavi, has the lowest growth rate of 0.06%. Mumbai’s doubling rate is now 721 days. There are 10 active containment zones and 70 sealed buildings in the city||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-80-of-total-beds-and-83-of-oxygen-beds-vacant-says-bmc-101624993578181.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC: ‘When will you set up body to oversee illegal construction?’||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday asked the state government and civic bodies, including the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), to put an end to building collapses that result in loss of lives by taking urgent steps to curb uncontrolled illegal constructions. The HC further sought to know when it would be acting on the suggestion given by it four years ago to constitute an authority that would only oversee the issue of illegal constructions in the city. The court also asked the BMC to respond to the court-appointed inquiry commissioner’s preliminary findings in Malwani building collapse case. The next hearing is scheduled on July 2.A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the suo motu public interest litigation instituted by it in September 2020 following the Bhiwandi building collapse incident which claimed around 40 lives, was informed that justice (retired) JP Deodhar, who was appointed as commissioner of inquiry on June 11, had visited the site of the building collapse at Malwani and prepared a preliminary report. On June 11, after hearing about the circumstances that led to the Malwani building collapse which led to 12 deaths had described it as a man-made disaster and ordered a judicial inquiry and appointed a former HC judge to conduct the probe. The preliminary report submitted on Tuesday was based on the findings on the terms of references which included availability of sanctioned plan for structure, structural audit report and on whom the responsibility can be fixed and which officials were responsible to maintain vigil and supervision of unauthorized and illegal structures in the area. After perusing the preliminary report the bench observed, “Sum and substance of the findings was that there was a single storied structure on which three floors were raised in an absolute unauthorized manner and no permission was taken from authorities and the inquiry commissioner has fixed responsibility.” When senior counsel Aspi Chinoy for BMC sought a week’s time to respond to the report, the bench allowed the same but said that the civic authority should decide on which of the recommendations made by justice Deodhar were acceptable to them. “As per report, more than 8000 structures are there in the particular western suburb and how many of them are unauthorized is yet to be ascertained. Ask your officers to take the issue seriously.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-when-will-you-set-up-body-to-oversee-illegal-construction-101624993459052.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 27-year-old run over by train||A 27-year-old woman died and two other persons were run over by a train on the trans-harbour line at Pawane MIDC on Tuesday. According to the police, the deceased, Nazma Shaikh, Ezbul Shaikh, 39, and his wife, Shenur Shaikh, 28, were crossing the railway tracks below the Pawane bridge around 4.05pm. A train, which was going to Thane from Vashi, ran over Nazma and she died on the spot. Ezbul jumped into a nearby nullah and suffered injuries due to the fall, Shenur also jumped into the nullah, but she was partially hit by the train. They were later admitted to Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) Hospital at Vashi. Vishnu Kesarkar, senior inspector of Vashi GRP, said, “Prima facie, it appears that trains came from both sides (Thane and Vashi) when these people were crossing the tracks, and they got confused. Nazma’s husband was also with them, but he was walking around 20feet behind them when the accident took place. All of them were from Kopar Khairane and would sell fish in local markets.” “There is a proper bridge for crossing the tracks in the area where the accident took place. The railways have also developed protective walls on both sides of the tracks to prevent illegal crossing,” Kesarkar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-27-year-old-run-over-by-train-101624993457735.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Covid curbs extended till July 10 in Punjab, opening of bars allowed||Amid rising concern over delta plus variant, chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered extension of the Covid restrictions till July 10, but allowed opening of bars, pubs and taverns at 50% capacity from July 1. Skill development centres and universities have also been allowed to open, subjected to the staff and students having taken at least one dose of the vaccine.Announcing the relaxations at a high-level Covid review meeting, the CM made it clear that the bars, pubs and taverns would have to strictly maintain social distancing protocols, and waiters/servers/other employees should have taken at least one dose of the Covid vaccine. He made it clear that it would be the responsibility of the owners to ensure that the conditions are met. Expressing satisfaction over the decline in positivity rate, the CM noted at a Covid review meeting that in some districts, it was still over 1%. The delta plus variant of the infection is a matter of concern, making it essential to continue with the curbs, he stressed.Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said the genome sampling of as many as 489 samples, including 276 sent in April, 100 in May and 113 in June, were still pending with the central lab. She also clarified that the delta plus variant was found in samples sent by the state government in May, whose results were given recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-curbs-extended-till-july-10-in-punjab-opening-of-bars-allowed-101624993398795.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||16-year-old drowns in Thane quarry||A 16-year-old boy drowned in a quarry in Kalwa on Tuesday afternoon. According to Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), the deceased, identified as Jeet Verma, had gone for a swim in the water in the quarry at Thakur pada around 2.30pm, along with seven of his friends, identified as Dhruv Verma, Prem Chavan, Farukh Shah, Ishak Khan, Vishal Yadav, Rohit Chaudhari and Abdulla Ghani. “Jeet seems to have misjudged the depth of the water and drowned,” said Santosh Kadam, chief, TMC’s regional disaster management cell. Jeet’s friends raised an alarm and the Thane Fire Brigade was informed, after which personnel from the Kalwa police station, RDMC, the Thane disaster response force and the Jawahar Baug unit of the Fire Brigade rushed to the spot. “We had to call it off in the evening, as the visibility was decreasing. We will resume the operation on Wednesday morning,” Kadam said. All eight youths were residents of Mhatre Compound in Poud Pada, Thane. The Kalwa police have initiated an inquiry into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/16yearold-drowns-in-thane-quarry-101624993397698.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra limits height of Ganesh idols to 2-4ft, no processions||Amid the second wave of Covid-19, the state government has, for the second year in a row, put restrictions on Ganesh festival to avert the spread of the virus through crowding. The 11-day festival starts from September 10. The state has banned immersion processions, restricted the height of idols to 2-4 feet and has also advised people to immerse the idols in artificial ponds near their homes. In the guidelines issued by the home department on Tuesday, the state has restricted the height of the idols to 4ft for public pandals and 2ft for household idols. Mandating to keep the festival a low-key affair, the state has clarified that no relaxations can be given for the festival in the existing norms. The guidelines also advise avoiding cultural programmes, and suggest organising blood donation and health camps instead. “Do not organize any processions for the home arrival or immersions of Ganesh idols. The traditional ‘aarti’ shall be performed at home instead of the immersion places. Children and senior citizens should avoid going for immersions. Try to avoid traditional idols and use idols made up of metal or marble for worshipping. If the idols installed are made of clay or are eco-friendly, then they can be immersed at home itself. If not possible at home, the idols should be immersed at a nearby artificial pond,” it said further.Community mandals should try to arrange for online darshan of idols. They should also arrange darshan through cable network, website, Facebook etc., added the circular.“The pandals may be disinfected, thermal screening be arranged for and physical distancing and other Covid-related norms be strictly adhered to by devotees turning up at mandaps to seek darshan of Lord Ganesh,” the state home department said. The state government also urged them to display health related advertisements during the 10-day festival to create awareness.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-limits-height-of-ganesh-idols-to-2-4ft-no-processions-101624993338257.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s drinking water stock can last for 65 days: BMC||With the good rain in June, the stock in seven lakes supplying drinking water to Mumbai is around 17.44% till Tuesday, which can last for around 65 days. Last year, the water level in seven lakes was 8%, while in 2019, it was just 6% the same day. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials said a water cut is not on the cards at the moment. However, it will monitor the rainfall through the first two weeks of July. The water level in the seven lakes supplying drinking water to the city is 252,459 million litres, of the total capacity of 1,447,363 lakh million litres. According to the BMC’s data, on Tuesday, Tulsi lake was 74% full, followed by Vihar with a stock of 62.39%. Last year, at this time, both Tulsi and Vihar had mere 30% and 20% water stock. The stock of Bhatsa, which supplies 55% of the total annual water requirement, is at 14.94%, up from 7% last year at this time. In Tansa, the water level is 31.42%, which was 10% last year at this time; Modak Sagar was at 38%, compared to 20% last year at this time. Upper Vaitarna’s water level is 0%, same as last year. Middle Vaitarna has 13.54% stock, against 11% last year. Powai Lake that supplies water to the civic body for non-potable purposes overflowed on June 12. Last year, it got full on July 5. The seven lakes are bifurcated into two systems – the Vaitarna system supplies to the western suburbs and the island city, and the Bhatsa system supplies to the eastern suburbs. The lakes are situated in Mumbai as well as neighbouring Thane and Palghar districts. A BMC official from the hydraulics department said, “The rain forecast for this year is good, and it looks like there might be no need for any water cut. However, we are monitoring the situation. A decision will be taken in the coming days based on the rain pattern in July.” The city experienced 20% water cut last year in August 2020, amid the Covid outbreak owing to low level of water storage in the lakes. BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal had also prepared a backup plan to bring water to Mumbai from Bhandardara dam in Ahmednagar, if required. Before 2020, no water cut was imposed in 2019, owing to good rainfall in catchment areas. The BMC had imposed a 10% water cut in 2018, a 20% cut in 2016 and a 25% cut in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-drinking-water-stock-can-last-for-65-days-bmc-101624993278765.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Attack on cops: Sidhana gets interim protection from arrest||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted interim protection from arrest to gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana in a case related to an alleged attack on police personnel during the tractor rally on the Republic Day this year by farmers protesting against the new agri laws.Additional sessions judge Shivaji Anand granted him protection from any coercive action till July 19 and directed him to join the investigation.Three days ago the court had granted him interim protection from arrest till July 3 in another case related to the Republic Day violence.Delhi Police had earlier announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for providing information about Sidhana. Fearing arrest, he moved Delhi’s Rohini court seeking anticipatory bail in the two cases.Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee’s (DSGMC) legal team is pursuing the matter.Senior advocate Ramesh Gupta Senior appeared for Sidhana along with advocates Rakesh Chahar, Jaspreet Rai, VPS Sandhu, Jasdeep S Dhillon, APS Mander, Prateek Kohli, and Sankalp Kohli.On January 26 this year, protesters from the Singhu border reached GT Karnal Road, where they destroyed the police barricades, rioted with swords, and ran their tractors over the police officials with an intention to kill, according to the FIR.“Police tried to intervene and stop them. Water cannon was used to disperse the protestors, tear gas shells were fired. The mob started throwing back tear gas shells towards the police,” it stated, adding that various policemen and one DTC driver suffered injuries.As per the FIR registered on the complaint of Inspector Anil Kumar, the protester, with their pre-planned objective, deviated from the rally routes agreed upon by the farm unions and caused violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attack-on-cops-sidhana-gets-interim-protection-from-arrest-101624993278319.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine hesitancy in rural belt major hurdle for Panchkula health dept||They unleashed dogs at them, threatened them with stones, hurled abuses, used vulgar language and even denied them entry in some villages, but the health workers of the Panchkula administration won’t give up trying to convince people to get Covid-19 vaccination.The district health department has vaccinated 2,32,257 persons to date, achieving a target of 56.5%. Vaccinating 100% of the population is a distant dream, as there are areas where people are too reluctant to get a jab.On June 3, ASHA workers visited the slums of Gandhi Colony to encourage people to get vaccinated. However, they had to leave after the slum dwellers unleashed dogs at them.An ASHA worker said: “We had one of the worst experiences. We had just set out a table in the slums, when an addict came and started abusing us and threatened us with stones and sticks. In no time, two dogs were unleashed and we had to run like anything.”As they tried to save themselves, people were laughing instead of helping, the worker added.‘All efforts went in vain’Dr Lakshmi Sirohi, nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccination of all primary health centres in old Panchkula, said though the team was called back, they did not give up and contacted the sarpanch, but all efforts went in vain.In one of the videos, a person could be seen shouting at a female health worker, saying that if a child dies, he will pick their children from homes. The worker said: “People use vulgar language and hurl abuses at us. It’s quite unsafe as well as many drug addicts are there. However, all are not bad. There are a few good people as well who support us.”She said that out of the 2,000 living there, hardly 200 had been vaccinated after a lot of effort.Dr Sirohi said: “There are a few communities where there is more reluctance. One such community is Deha and 50-55 of its people live in Kharak Mangoli village; none have been jabbed.”The health officials have been trying to vaccinate people in Navanagar village for the last three months, but auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) are still “not allowed to enter the village”. It has a population of around 300 and all are migratory workers.In one village, only 2 adults inoculatedIn Sultanpur village, only two adults out of 1,100 population have got the shot. Nearly 80% people are below the poverty line, and are largely illiterate.Dr Ashwani from Hangola village said: “A man of Yamunanagar died a few days after he was vaccinated. And the rumour spread like wildfire that he died because of vaccine. First the residents refused for a month, then they urged the younger population be vaccinated first. We will visit them soon and see how the youth responds.”Dr Monika Shori, medical officer at CHC Nanakpur, said: “Some elderly man in the adjoining village died a few days after getting the vaccine. Villagers believed that he died because of the vaccine. Because of this rumour, we had to face a lot of problems.”When the team visited at the end of April, they were asked to return. They tried again after 15-20 days, but got the same response. They tried convincing one person, who was visiting their OPD, but he refused twice fearing that he would die.Finally, 2-3 persons from the village got the jab, when a camp was organised in a religious place. So far, only 10-12 persons from the village have been jabbed. “People are still reluctant and ANMs still cannot enter their village,” Dr Shori said.Dr Meenu Sasan, district immunisation officer, said: “We are vaccinating over 5,000 persons a day. Reluctance has come down, but still there are areas where people are not ready. Usually such areas are those where the illiteracy rate is high and people are poor.”“We keep on visiting such areas, educate people, and try to win their confidence. It takes time in some cases,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccine-hesitancy-in-rural-belt-major-hurdle-for-panchkula-health-department-101624993158243.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC to take over upkeep of Phases 8A, 8B in industrial area||After two years, the Mohali municipal corporation will finally take over the maintenance of the Industrial Area in Phases 8A and 8B from the Punjab Small Industries and Export Corporation (PSIEC) in the first week of July. This comes as a relief to owners of more than 800 industrial units in the area. For two years, the maintenance work was stuck in a bureaucratic maze, and neither the PSIEC nor the MC were attending to poor condition of the area, which is marked by overgrowth, dilapidated roads and non-functional streetlights. Despite the civic body collecting around ₹16 crore in property tax from the industrial plots here, only ₹1 crore has been released for development work. For two decades, the area was under the PSIEC, but after a series of meetings with officials in 2019, it was decided that its maintenance will be handed over to the civic body. Municipal commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “Everything has been finalised and we will be taking over the maintenance in the first week of July. Tenders have been floated for various maintenance work. Also, nine PSIEC employees have been shifted to MC.” For the last four years, industrialists and workers have been complaining about the poorly-maintained infrastructure. Mohali Industries Association (MIA) president Yogesh Sagar said, “Due to bureaucratic maze, the maintenance has been severely affected for the last two years. Streetlights are non-functional, choked drains cause waterlogging at the merest excuse of rain and heaps of garbage dot the landscape, attracting stray dogs and cattle.” Vivek Kapoor, vice-president of MIA, said, “The authorities concerned are testing our patience now. Due to the poor condition, we don’t even feel like going to our units. Even the central scheme of introducing a special purpose vehicle to improve infrastructure remains on paper. The tragic part is that it has been almost two decades now, and we are still asking for basic amenities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-to-take-over-upkeep-of-phases-8a-8b-in-industrial-area-101624993101122.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Four vaccination centres to open in evening too||With the aim to administer at least one dose to all the eligible population till July end, the Chandigarh health department has decided to open four vaccination centres in evenings as wellfrom Wednesday.The vaccination centres at Government Multi Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, and the three civil hospitals — Sectors 22 and 45 besides Manimajra — will operate from 5pm to 9pm, except on Sundays, in addition to the morning shift of 9am to 3pm. People can simply walk in to get the jab as no prior slot booking is mandatory on the Co-WIN app.“Many people, especially the business class, have to report to work by 9am, and hence they cannot wait for their turn at the vaccination centres. To help these working men and women, we have decided to open evening vaccination centres,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director health services, Chandigarh, adding that the health department has enough vaccine stock to cover all people before the possible third wave.According to the latest electoral list, a total of 7,09,180 people are eligible to take vaccine in the 18+ age group. So far, 4,33,666 (61%) have taken their first dose.Free ride for seniors, people with disabilitiesMeanwhile, the social welfare department has launched free pick-up and drop facility for the disabled and senior citizens from their house to the nearest vaccination centre. As many as 242 residents availed themselves of this facility on Tuesday by contacting the toll-free number 9915023456. The drive aims to provide inclusive, seamless and accessible delivery of vaccination to maximum number of disabled persons, senior citizens and their caregivers, as they are most vulnerable and have co-morbidities that may put them at a higher risk of contracting the virus, stated a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhfour-vaccination-centres-to-open-in-evening-too-101624992498550.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s new civil hospital to come up over 8.7 acres in Sector 66||Mohali is being developed as the medical hub of Punjab with government medical infrastructure being scaled up multi-fold, said Balbir Singh Sidhu, the health and family welfare minister, on Tuesday while informing that the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) had allotted 8.72 acre land for the construction of a new civil hospital in Sector 66.The civil hospital in Phase 6 has been converted into a medical college.Prime land in Sector 66, valued at over ₹18 crore, has been given for the hospital which would soon successfully cater to the large majority of the local population right up to Dera Bassi. It will be equipped with all medical facilities and the latest medical equipment, the minister said.“Punjab chief minister has assured issuance of immediate instructions to the state finance department for the release of funds for the construction of the hospital,” informed the health minister, while thanking Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, the minister for housing and urban development, for the early release of the letter of intent (LoI).Aayush Hospital in Dera BassiMeanwhile, in pursuit of providing best health services in the region, a first of its kind Aayush Hospital is being set up in Dayalpura, Dera Bassi, the minister apprised. The 50-bed Aayush Hospital aims to treat various diseases and promote healthy living in a natural way, and would be built over an area of more than 9 acre.The work on the medical college is going on in full swing and it will help cater to the growing demand of doctors in the state, he added.The BSc nursing college will also come up on 3 acre land near the government college campus, for which the department of higher education had issued no objection certificate (NoC) for the same, he added.Simultaneously, medical facilities are being provided to the remotest corners of the city, he said, adding that the community health centre in Phase 3B1, the primary health centre in Saneta and the dispensaries in Sectors 69 and 79 were other health care institutions added to Mohali.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-new-civil-hospital-to-come-up-over-8-7-acres-in-sector-66-101624992318366.html
30-06-2021||Chandigarh||Three health infra projects stuck at Chandigarh’s GMCH||Three major health infrastructure projects—a sports injury centre, a new emergency-trauma centre and a mother-child care centre—all planned to come up at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32 (GMCH-32), have been marred with long delays.All the three projects have been approved three to four years back and the funds too allocated for their completion.The mother and child centre, though conceptualised long back, was approved in 2019 and ₹38 crore were allocated for it. The new emergency and trauma centre to come up at an estimated cost of ₹52.77 crore also got the final nod of the administration in 2019. The sports injury centre to come up at a cost of ₹32 crore was approved in 2018.While the future remains uncertain for the sport injury centre, the mother and child care centre is back to the drawing board stage. For the new emergency and trauma centre, even though the work contract has been allotted, after several hiccups the work is still to pick up pace.Sports injury centre plans put on back burnerPlans for the sports injury centre, which was to be only the second such facility in the country, has been put on the back-burner. “The priorities of the department have changed now, and there is a rethink over the project,” said CB Ojha, UT chief engineer.The facility was proposed to be built on 1.6 acres near GMCH-32. As per the original plan, the centre was to have a six-storey building with two basement and parking facilities. Also planned were several key diagnostic facilities like CT scan, MRI and emergency services. Facilities like hydrotherapy lab, physiotherapy units, operation theatres, rooms for resident doctors, the nursing staff and wards were all incorporated in the centre’s plans.Meanwhile, the mother and child centre is yet to get to the implementation stage. “The client department has once again requested changes in the architectural plans of the facility. After incorporating these changes, a final plan will be made and thereafter only the tendering process will start,” said Ojha.The centre, with around 330 beds, is planned to come up in the K-block area of GMCH-32. As per the previous architectural plan approved, it would be spread over 1.11 sq ft area having seven floors plus a basement.Tender allotted for new trauma centre last yearIt was last year that the UT engineering department had allotted the tender to a city-based firm for the construction of the new emergency-cum-trauma centre at GMCH.A target of 18 months was decided for the completion of the project, which was around February 2022. “But the construction work has been marred with delays. Earlier, the work on the project couldn’t start as the permission to cut around 70 trees was not given. The nod by the environment department came only recently. Then there was the issue of oxygen supply: with the second Covid wave at its peak, there was a ban on oxygen supply for industrial and construction purposes,” said a UT official.The 280-bed facility spread over 1.4 lakh square feet will come up in the place of the existing covered parking block in front of Block A.The creation of the new facility, an exercise pending for at least a decade, will be a major upgrade for GMCH-32. Since its inception in 1996-97, GMCH has been catering to patients from Chandigarh, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and several other, farther states. At any given point, there are at least 350 patients admitted in the emergency. “We have all the clearances in place now, and the work on the site has started,” said Ojha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-health-infra-projects-stuck-at-chandigarh-s-gmch-101624992198233.html
30-06-2021||Other||Ambedkar always worked for an egalitarian society, says President Kovind||Lucknow: President Ram Nath Kovind said here on Tuesday that equality was always top on the mind of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar, as he had realized that integrated development of the country was not possible unless the governments worked to bring about equality in society. Speaking at a virtual foundation stone laying ceremony of Babasaheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Memorial Cultural Centre to come up in Aishbabh area here, the President said Ambedkar worked to bring about equality in society and incorporated the same in the Preamble of the Constitution of India. “As chief architect of the Constitution of India, he mentioned equality in the Preamble to the Constitution,” said Kovind. Governor Anandiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and other dignitaries attended the foundation stone laying ceremony organized at Lok Bhawan here. As chief minister Yogi Adityanath, in his address earlier, had pointed out that Ambedkar launched a newspaper titled ‘Samta’ 93 years ago, Kovind said the foundation of memorial and cultural centre was being laid on the day when Ambedkar pushed the idea of equality in society. “This day is important for us because Dr Ambedkar began his journey for equality 93 years ago on this day and we are witness to this journey being taken forward by laying of the foundation stone of Ambedkar memorial and cultural centre,” said Kovind. He said Ambedkar had a special connection with Lucknow. “Bodhanandji, who was like a guru for Baba Saheb, and Bhadant Pragyanandji, who gave ‘diksha’ to him, lived in Lucknow and Dr Ambedkar used to visit them,” he said. Kovind referred to the convocation ceremony of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow in December 2017 and said he paid tributes to Bhadant Pragyanand by visiting the latter’s memorial. He said all the places associated with Baba Saheb Ambedkar had special importance for the people of country. The union government had developed the places linked with Babasaheb as pilgrimage centres. The Ambedkar memorial centre in Delhi had been working to take Babasaheb’s ideals to people around the world. He said the UP government had also decided to spread his ideals and set up a memorial and cultural centre in his name in Lucknow. Top quality research should be done at the research centre to be set up at the memorial and cultural centre in Lucknow, he said, adding that the central university set up in the name of Ambedkar in Lucknow and proposed research centre would have coordination to take ahead the ideals of Babasaheb.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambedkar-always-worked-for-an-egalitarian-society-says-president-kovind-101624992018089.html
30-06-2021||Other||Ambedkar centre to have 25-foot-high statue of Baba Saheb||Lucknow: The Babasaheb Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar Memorial Cultural Centre, foundation of which was laid by President Ram Nath Kovind here on Tuesday, will have a 25-foot-high statue of Dr Ambedkar, according to state government officials. As per officials, the centre will come up on 5493.52 sq metre nazul land in front of the Aishbagh Eidgah. The project’s estimated cost is ₹45.04 crore. The centre will have an auditorium with the capacity to seat 750 people, a library, research centre, picture gallery, museum and a multi-purpose convention centre. It will also have a cafeteria, dormitory and other facilities. Speaking at the foundation laying event, chief minister Yogi Adityanath pointed out that construction work of the centre would soon start. The Yogi Adityanath cabinet’s nod for the project just about nine months before assembly polls in February-March next year is being viewed as an attempt to woo Dalit voters. The project is also being seen as the BJP’s answer to Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati’s grand Ambedkar Memorial spread over 107 acres in Gomti Nagar, which came up during her tenure as the Uttar Pradesh chief minister in 2008.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambedkar-centre-to-have-25-foot-high-statue-of-baba-saheb-101624991777579.html
30-06-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination rate drops again in Maharashtra owing to short supply||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said the Covid-19 vaccination rate has dropped amid a short supply of doses, even as the state plans to inoculate more than one million people every day. The state recorded 8,085 new infections. “We want 70% of our population to be vaccinated at the earliest, so that the severity of the third wave is reduced by achieving herd immunity. We could vaccinate only 380,000 people on Tuesday, against our daily average of 700,000 over the past few days. If you ask me about the remaining stock with the state, it has dropped down to almost zero,” he said. The state administered just 384,499 doses on Tuesday. Tope said there was no need to fear the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19 as its characteristics have not been proven, as of yet. The government also announced it would continue the genome sequencing of more than 3,500 samples of probable Delta Plus variants, at least for the next three months. Tope also said that, of the 4,000 samples collected from across the state through genomic sequencing, 21 were found to have been affected by the Delta Plus variant. “Of the 21 patients, 20 got discharged and one died. The person who died was 80 years old and had also comorbidities. We cannot exactly say he died due to the Delta Plus variant. In such circumstances, there is no need to fear the variant,” said Tope.He said the government is taking various steps like collecting about 100 samples per district for genomic sequencing and they have collected 4,000 such samples till date. “It is up to the people who need to take precautions and their behaviour will determine whether we will get the third wave or it will be delayed,” he added. However, the state government last week had kept the base of its lockdown restrictions as level three.Mumbai on Tuesday recorded 566 new cases and 12 deaths, with its toll reaching 15,426.There were 190,140 tests done on Tuesday, while the number of recoveries clocked was 8,623.The total number of active patients in Maharashtra currently stands at 117,098, while the total number of cases right from the Covid-19 outbreak has now reached 6,051,633. With 16,467 active patients. Pune tops in active cases, followed by Thane with 15,935 patients.The death toll has now reached 121,804, with Pune leading with 16,688 deaths, followed by Mumbai with 15,426 patients.Another issue which has grabbed headlines is there are indications that 2,040 people have been administered fake vaccines. “The preliminary report shows that they have been administered saline water instead of the vaccine. We have sent their data to the central government,” said Tope. He said they will be checked after 28 days after they have been administered the vaccine and the decision will be taken after consultations with the central Government.The scam is being investigated by the Mumbai Police and 10 people have been arrested till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-rate-drops-again-in-maharashtra-owing-to-short-supply-101624991657610.html
30-06-2021||Other||Turning waste into value: Banana yarn opens new avenues for rural women||Lakhimpur Kheri When Poonam Devi, president of Ma Saraswati self-help group (SHG) of Samaisa village under Isanagar block received a letter of intent from a Gujarat-based Altmat company for procuring their homemade banana fibre a few weeks back, her face lit up with joy. In the letter, the company had not only placed an order for 200 kg of extracted fibre from banana stalks at Rs. 110 to Rs. 150 per kg but assured to build a long-term relationship with the self-help group. The letter of intent opened up new opportunities of livelihood for the 40 women of the SHG,, including Poonam Devi. Isanagar is located between the Ghaghra and Sharda rivers where floods and erosions are routine and residents have limited sources of livelihood. Apart from traditional crops, the block is also famous for banana farming, which drew attention of Kheri chief development officer (CDO) Arvind Singh, who has earned repute for his innovative and successful projects like Operation Kavach, Operation Chaturbhuj and Operation Mamta etc. According to Singh, banana farming always left huge stock of banana stems as wastage after harvesting of the fruits. Singh told Hindustan Times that banana stem could be used for extracting fine quality fibre to be used in textile industry if properly processed and it could also add to the income of the rural womenfolk. “An idea to set up fibre extraction unit in Samaisa village hit me which would not only solve the banana stem wastage problem but employ dozens of women, providing them additional source of income,” he added. “We started a pilot project of extracting fibre from banana stems, engaging Ma Saraswati self-help group in December 2020,” CDO Arvind Singh said. He said,, “Required equipments for extraction were procured from Gujarat and necessary training was imparted to the women.” The fibre extracted from banana stems was sent to some companies for quality check and its saleability. “Our efforts yielded results when Altmat company of Gujarat expressed its willingness to procure 200 kg of banana yarn extracted by the SHG and provided a token money of ₹21,,000,” he said. The CDO informed that several other companies had also placed orders for the yarn. The authorities have decided to replicate the project in other blocks of the district if successful. According to SHG women, extraction of banana yarn or fibre from the stem yielded Rs. 100 per kg of yarn. Each SHG member can extract four to six kg of yarn per day which means income of Rs. 400 to ₹600 per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/turning-waste-into-value-banana-yarn-opens-new-avenues-for-rural-women-101624991537641.html
30-06-2021||Pune||From July 1, platform ticket to cost ₹10 at Pune railway station||For passengers traveling from the Pune railway station, a platform ticket which was increased to ₹50 earlier, has now been reduced to ₹10 from July 1. From now onwards at Pune, Kolhapur, Sangli and Miraj railway stations under the Pune railway division, platform tickets will cost ₹10.As the unlock process began in the state, several restrictions were eased, due to which passenger movement on the railways also increased. Taking this into consideration, various special trains on 10 different routes will now be restarted by the railways. These were on hold for the last few months due to a low response. One of the major trains starting is the Indrayani Express on the Pune-Mumbai route from July 1.Along with Pune-Mumbai Indrayani Express, special trains on the Nagpur, Ajani, Amravati and Ahmedabad routes will also resume.Kolhapur-Nagpur special train going via Pune will resume from July 2, while the Nagpur-Pune and Pune-Nagpur special train will start from July 4. The Ajani-Pune express special will start from July 7 and the Pune-Amravat-Pune express special will start from July 8. The Pune-Ahmedabad special trains, running three days a week, every Monday, Thursday and Saturday, will start from July 1.“All these special trains starting will be completely on reservation basis and passengers need to book tickets prior to the journey. Those passengers with the prior reservation will be allowed to travel, while passengers should follow all Covid safety measures like wearing a face mask and keeping a social distance while travelling,” said Pune railway division spokesperson Manoj Jhawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/from-july-1-platform-ticket-to-cost-rs-10-multiple-special-trains-resume-service-101624990638080.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||3 killed, 1 critically injured as lift crashes at construction site in Dwarka||Three workers were killed and another injured after an elevator malfunctioned and came crashing from the seventh floor of a Delhi Development Authority (DDA)’s under-construction housing society in Dwarka’s Sector 14, in south-west Delhi, on Tuesday afternoon.A case of death by negligence, negligent conduct with respect to machinery and pulling down or repairing building, and causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others has been registered under Indian Penal Code sections 304A, 287, 288 and 337, police said. The construction company that was carrying out the work at the site has been named in the FIR, the police said.Police said BG Shirke Construction Technology Pvt Ltd is carrying out the construction at the site. HT tried to contact the company (Delhi office) on two landline numbers mentioned on its website but the calls went unanswered. An email was also sent on two email IDs mentioned on the website.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said around 4pm, the police control room was alerted that some construction workers had “fallen off a height” at a DDA construction site in Dwarka Sector 14.“A total of four workers sustained injuries after the lift, meant for taking workers from the ground to the upper floors, broke while on the seventh floor. Three of them were rushed to Shree Hospital in Dwarka’s Sector 12 while another was taken to Tarak Hospital near Dwarka Mor,” said the DCP.A labourer, Deepak Yadav, said that there were only four workers in the lift when it came crashing down. Yadav said he was working on a different block when he witnessed the mishap.Police said two labourers, identified as Basant and Mangal Prasad Singh, were declared brought dead at Shree hospital while Panna Lal Yavad was pronounced dead on arrival at Tarak hospital. The fourth worker, Surender Rai, is undergoing treatment at Shree hospital and his condition is critical. He was found unfit for recording his statement, the police said.Investigators said they have initiated a probe to ascertain the exact sequence of events leading to the mishap and also to ascertain if there was any safety norms violation on the part of the construction company or its contractors.When contacted, a DDA official said on condition anonymity, “An inquiry committee is being constituted to look into the matter and appropriate action will be taken based on the finding of the report.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-workers-killed-one-critically-injured-as-lift-crashes-at-dda-construction-site-indwarka-101624988718619.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt bans fishing in Yamuna, says water too polluted||The Delhi government’s animal husbandry department on Tuesday banned fishing in parts of river Yamuna, citing the high pollution levels in the water.“It is hereby brought to the notice of all concerned that in view of the high pollution levels in the Yamuna waters, as per the provisions made in the rules (formulated under Indian Fisheries Act, 1897), the issuing of fishing licence in two portions of public waters is suspended till further orders,” the notification read.The notification further said fishing will be prohibited in a portion of the Hindon canal, Ghazipur drain and Shadipur drain (road drain 0 to 17000); and portion of river Yamuna, from groyne number 85 (downstream), New Okhla barrage, to Delhi boundary.Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said the most recent data on river pollution levels was not readily available with the agency. Officials also said compared to the rest of the river, fishing pockets usually are less polluted and the dissolved oxygen levels in the water are high enough to support aquatic life.Contrary to popular notions, despite the highly polluted state of the Yamuna in the national capital, portions of the river are still frequented by fishermen who depend on the river for their livelihood. According to them, even though aquatic life has reduced drastically over the past two decades, owing to pollution and low water flow in the Delhi portion of the river, fish varieties such as puthi and golden fish, are still common in parts of the river.On Tuesday, images of the white, toxic foam floating over the water in the Kalindi Kunj portion of the river started doing rounds on social media, drawing outrage from environment activists and public.“Disgusting state of river Yamuna in Delhi, as disgusting as its politics and politicians residing here. Thousands of crores spent on cleaning the river, tall promises and aartis, and yet a sewage canal in the name of a river, (sic)” tweeted environment activist and founder of environment protection NGO Swechha, Vimlendu Jha, tweeted alongside with murky pictures of the river.High phosphate content in the wastewater because of detergents used in dyeing industries, dhobi ghats and households is the main reason leading to the formation of toxic foam in the Yamuna river, an official of the Central Pollution Control Board had said earlier.Earlier this month, on June 14, the DPCC had banned the sale, transport, storage and marketing of soaps and detergents that do not comply with the new BIS standards, in order to control the discharge of pollutants into the river water in an effort to control the foam in the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-bans-fishing-in-yamuna-says-water-too-polluted-101624988663545.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||SC issues notice to Delhi police on plea to release seized oxygen concentrators||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Delhi Police on a petition filed by Matrix Cellular (International) Services Private Limited demanding release of oxygen concentrators seized as case property in an alleged case of hoarding involving South Delhi-based businessman Navneet Kalra.A three-judge bench headed by justice RF Nariman sought response of the Delhi police in three weeks. The petitioner firm challenged a May 27 order of the Delhi high court refusing to release oxygen concentrators worth ₹3.5 crore lying idle with the police as case property.For Matrix, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi submitted that the high court was wrong to assume that the seizure was part of black marketing when the government has not fixed any maximum retail price (MRP) for oxygen concentrators. He stated that the police found mischief with the products sold by the company when other products were available on similar price across e-commerce sites.The high court, while rejecting the plea raised by Matrix, held that the oxygen concentrator, is covered within the definition of drug as per Section 3(b)(iv) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. It relied on a February 11, 2020 government notification which said that device includes an instrument, apparatus, used for treatment, sustaining life, etc. Later, another order was issued by the Centre on June 29, 2020 which prohibited increasing MRP of oxygen concentrators more than 10% in a year.The high court said, “The facts show the petitioner was engaged in selling untested oxygen concentrators to people desperate for these devices and at exorbitant prices through false representations, especially, when the State and the whole country saw a unprecedented surge of Covid-19 infections and severe lack of oxygen cylinders and/or concentrators….Hence, the investigation being at initial stage, the reliefs sought for in this petition cannot be granted by this court.”The Delhi Police seized the concentrators from restaurants where businessman Navneet Kalra has a substantial stake. The police lodged a case against Kalra and employees of Matrix and recovered 524 oxygen concentrators at the instance of the accused persons. Each device was allegedly being sold for about ₹70,000, according to the police.The high court directed the police to put an identification mark on the concentrators and held no fault with the action of the police to seize the concentrators prior to lodging of first information report. The court said, “Even if it is assumed, there were some irregularities in its procedure to seize, it shall not vitiate the seizure. The only requirement is the court needs to be careful in scrutinising the seizure memo.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sc-issues-notice-to-delhi-police-on-plea-to-release-seized-oxygen-concentrators-101624988662861.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Sisodia alleges attack by BJP workers during school inspection in east Delhi||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said that local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and their supporters vandalised a school in north east Delhi’s Rohtash Nagar, damaged his official vehicle, broke open the gates of the school and misbehaved with teachers.“BJP leaders and goons protesting construction of school in Rohtas Nagar sabotaged the school and vandalised my official vehicle. They misbehaved with female teachers, engineers and workers by breaking into the school. Why BJP supporters have a problem with construction of schools and education,” Sisodia, who holds the education portfolio, tweeted in Hindi. He also tweeted photographs of the purported attack on his Twitter account on Tuesday morning.Delhi BJP leaders denied the allegations that party workers were involved in the alleged attack.Sisodia, who also the education portfolio, was in Rohtash Nagar to inspect the construction of a government school. He has been inspecting the ongoing construction of new rooms and blocks in Delhi government schools for the last one week. On Tuesday, he visited schools in Babarpur, Karawal Nagar, Shivaji Park and Gokalpur. Delhi government runs nearly 1,030 schools across the capital.Sisodia’s cabinet colleague, health minister, Satyendar Jain, also shared photographs of the incident and blamed the BJP for it. “The BJP may try any tricks but they will not be able to stop us. They may launch thousands of such attacks, but we are not going to be threatened. We have pledged to serve Delhi and its residents and nobody can stop us,” Jain tweeted in Hindi.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said Sisodia’s tweet alleging attack on his team and school staff by local BJP workers is a proof of his intolerance for “public protest”.“No BJP worker entered the school premises so there is no question of any attack on school staff or labour. Some local BJP workers assembled there and wanted to apprise the deputy chief minister of local problems related to Delhi Jal Board and ration, but he refused to meet them after which they raised slogans. The matter ended after police intervened,” Kapoor said.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said two separate complaints were received at the Shahdara police station from the school management. The first complaint was about an unidentified mob creating a ruckus and manhandling school’s staff during a protest. The second complaint was filed later and it mentioned damages caused to some flower pots on the school’s campus.“We are examining the complaints and further action would be taken accordingly,” said the DCP.About the Sisodia’s allegations that his official vehicle was damaged by the BJP party workers, police said that no complaint regarding that was received from the deputy chief minister or the Aam Aadmi Party till Tuesday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sisodia-alleges-attack-by-bjp-workers-during-school-inspection-in-east-delhi-101624988662112.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Two years on, five planned bus terminals in Delhi yet to be built||In January, 2019, the Delhi government announced it will build at least five new bus terminals in Narela, Dwarka sectors 4 and 12, and Vikaspuri and modernise the three existing ones in Azadpur, Nehru Place and Najafgarh. Over 2.5 years later, even a single one these projects is to take off, with transport minister Kailash Gahlot blaming “bureaucratic hurdles and the Covid-19 pandemic” for the inordinate delay.“Gradually, we are revisiting the files and looking at what can be done to revive these projects. The locations of these terminals were identified after demand assessment in those areas,” Gahlot said.A senior transport official said the government had floated tenders for construction of new bus terminals and modernising the existing ones. The projects were to be commissioned by December, 2019. “Designs for the eight terminals were finalised in 2019 itself. But the tenders failed; it did not get as many bidders as were required,” said the official, on condition of anonymity.As per the request for proposal (RFP) document, the terminals were to be built as lively urban spaces where passengers could easily and conveniently access multiple transport modes such as buses, auto-rickhshaws, e-rickshaws and so on, as well as amenities such as food courts, ATMs and mohalla clinics.The Nehru Place, Azadpur and Najafgarh bus terminals were to have an aerodynamic canopy, held up by tree-like columns. The canopy was designed in a way to serve as a shelter and help in rainwater harvesting, officials said.The public plaza of the terminal would have space for kiosks, shops, and hawkers with a round-the-clock anchor store. It was planned as a space through which the cash-strapped Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) could also garner some revenue from outdoor signage and digital media integrated into the architecture of the public amenities on site.Officials said after reassessing the project requirements, fresh tenders are likely to be floated in a month or two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-years-on-five-planned-bus-terminals-in-delhi-yet-to-be-built-101624988660751.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police lodge FIR over child pornographic content on Twitter||The Delhi Police on Tuesday registered a first information report (FIR) in connection with the child sexual abuse and child pornographic material available on microblogging site Twitter, a complaint regarding which was received from the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) last month.“Acting on the NCPCR’s complaint regarding availability of child sexual abuse and child pornographic material on Twitter, in the form of various accounts and links, a case has been registered by the cyber cell unit (CyPAD) under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the Information Technology (IT) Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Investigation into the case has been taken up,” said Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.On being asked whether the FIR was registered specifically against the microblogging site, a CyPAD officer, who asked not to be named, said, “It is an FIR that has been registered against the unlawful activities involving various accounts and links on Twitter. The case is not against any individual or company. We will investigate the case to ascertain the culprits and fix responsibility, who could be individuals as well as the company.”When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said, “Twitter has a zero-tolerance policy for child sexual exploitation (CSE) and we have a proactive approach to combating sexual exploitation of minors on our service. We have been at the forefront of responding to the evolving challenge of preventing the exploitation of children on the Internet and will continue to aggressively fight online child sexual abuse, as well as invest in the technology and tools that are essential to stay ahead of this issue.“We will continue to invest in proactive detection and removal of content that violates Twitter rules and work with law enforcement and NGO partners in India to tackle the issue,” the spokesperson continued.According to the CyPAD officer quoted above, a total of 13 screenshots pertaining to child sexual abuse and child pornographic material on Twitter and the accounts that posted them were received on Monday from the NCPCR. A majority of the accounts were not accessible. But since child sexual abuse and pornographic materials were visible in the screenshots, the FIR was registered for further investigation, the officer said.“We will now be approaching Twitter to seek its assistance in collecting details about the users of the accounts from which the objectionable materials were uploaded. Our further probe would proceed based on the information that Twitter shares with us. We are also trying other options to identify the users of the accounts in question,” the officer said.The NCPCR filed the complaint on May 29 with Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava, seeking an FIR against Twitter Inc and Twitter Communication India Private Limited (TCIPL), following its inquiry into the availability of child sexual abuse and pornographic material on the site.It asked the police chief for a copy of the FIR and action taken report in seven days. It sent a reminder on June 8 and summoned the CyPAD’s deputy commissioner of police, Anyesh Roy, to appear before the commission on June 29 (Tuesday) with the action taken report.In its complaint, the NCPCR also mentioned the registration of an FIR against Mohammad Zubair, co-founder of fact-checking website Alt News, by the Delhi Police’s cyber cell last year on a complaint the commission had received in regard to online threats and repeated incidents of stalking of a minor girl on Twitter allegedly by Zubair.The commission also expressed its discontent against Twitter and said the “Twitter handle of Mohammad Zubair is still active and there seems to be no action initiated or taken by Twitter against the aforesaid person, who has exposed a minor to harassment in the virtual world”. Zubair had denied the allegations to a news agency and added he would take legal recourse.The commission said it also conducted an inquiry into the spreading of child sexual abuse material and porn sites on the internet, web and social media platforms, including Twitter.“It was also observed by the commission that the toolkit for deep and dark web was also available on Twitter. Thus, giving access to all, including children, to obtain such material,” the complaint read.An official at Twitter, who asked not the named, said the site employs PhotoDNA technology, its own proprietary tools, and other systems to detect behavioural signals and remove media with such content. Viewing, sharing or uploading such content was prohibited on the site, the official added.“In 2019, we launched a feature in our search prompt that is aimed at deterrence of child sexual exploitation (CSE). The prompt was developed in collaboration with the ministry of home affairs and NGOs in India to blacklist specific CSE search keywords in Hindi, English, Bengali and Kannada,” the official further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-lodge-fir-over-child-pornographic-content-on-twitter-101624988658753.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: For third day, Delhi vaccinates more than 200,000||More than 202,000 people in Delhi were vaccinated against Covid-19 on Tuesday, a senior government official said, as the capital crossed the 200,000-mark for the third time since the Centre revised the vaccination policy on June 21 to provide free doses for all.Government records said around 204,000 were vaccinated on Monday, while the highest single-day vaccination -- 207,000 -- was reported on Saturday. Delhi reported less than 10,000 vaccinations last Sunday as all government-run vaccine centres were closed in the city.As per government data, of the 7.5 million vaccine doses administered so far in the Capital, around 4.1 million people have received at least one dose, and 1.7 million people have received both doses.“Turnout at vaccination sites in Delhi is very high now. Around 75% of it is people in the 18-45 years age group. Currently, Delhi has a capacity of administering 225,000 vaccine doses per day. We hope we are able to increase that in the coming days, for which vaccine supplies have to be scaled up,” said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) legislator Atishi, while reading out the government’s vaccine bulletin in a video press briefing on Tuesday.The city has 1,374 vaccine sites spread across 763 locations – ranging from hospitals to dispensaries and schools -- which offer doses for free. The centres are currently open for all age groups and have the provision for on-spot registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-for-third-day-delhi-vaccinates-more-than-200000-101624988657529.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||Make malaria a notifiable disease in Delhi: Health minister Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday postponed Delhi’s target of achieving zero indigenous transmission of malaria by two years, to 2022, and asked the Delhi government to make malaria a notifiable disease in the Capital.During a review meeting with lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain and mayors of the three MCDs, he also pushed the authorities to develop a community-driven approach towards eliminating the disease.While Delhi reported 228 cases of malaria last year, including the first death due to the disease in at least nine years, the city has seen only 11 cases of malaria till June 26 this year.“The target for elimination of malaria in Delhi has been postponed to 2022. This target is not impossible to achieve for Delhi because it is among Category 1 states where there is less than one case per 1,000 population. When it comes to malaria, in the last two to three years, the mortality has gone down by over 80% in the country which is a historic success,” said Dr Vardhan.There are 448 districts in the country where the annual parasite incidence or the number of cases of malaria per year per 1,000 population is less than one. These districts have been listed in category 1 and were given the target to achieve zero indigenous cases by 2020, according to the National Strategic Plan for Malaria Elimination (2017-2022). This is in line with the country’s target to achieve zero transmission by 2027, and maintain it for three years, to achieve malaria elimination by 2030.Noting down steps to be taken in this regard, Dr Vardhan said, “Capturing actual data from the Hospitals and taking preventive actions in the areas of infection is critical to achieve elimination. So is the regular reporting from the private sector essential for taking timely preventive measures and for accuracy of data pertaining to incidence of malaria. Further,as we move towards elimination, 10% of all fever cases need to be screened for malaria so that no cases of malaria can escape detection.”A senior official from the Union health ministry said, “This was not a hard target. The WHO (World Health Organisation) only recognises national level elimination and so the states were given sub-national targets to work towards. For Delhi, the challenge also is that many patients come in for treatment from neighbouring states and give Delhi addresses of their relatives, making it difficult to track the origin of the case.”Dr Vardhan added, “Malaria and dengue have not been made notifiable disease in Delhi despite being discussed every year. This is very important if we have to eliminate the disease. We need to know where every single case is being reported from, what is the environment nearby, and how we can prevent breeding. If the disease is made notifiable, we will be able to track every single case and develop micro-strategies.”Declaring a disease notifiable makes it legally mandatory for hospitals and private practitioners to report all cases to the administration. During the pandemic, Covid-19 as well as the secondary fungal infection, mucormycosis, were made notifiable disease in the state.According to a senior official from the North Delhi municipal corporation, which manages data for vector borne diseases like dengue, malaria, and chikungunya for the city, said, “The proposal for making malaria and dengue notifiable diseases was sent to the Delhi government in 2019. The file is still pending with the law department because – one, legal provisions are hard to change and take time, and two, the pandemic meant that the offices weren’t really functioning for almost 15 months.”‘Not an easy target’It will be extremely difficult to achieve the target of 2022 for Delhi, according to PL Joshi, former director of National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme. “This is because field level activities were disrupted completely by the pandemic. All field level workers that helped in malaria surveillance were mainly working to control Covid-19,” he said.He added that the other challenge was that most of the cases were caused by plasmodium vivax in Delhi. There are four plasmodiums that cause malaria in humans – falciparum, vivax, ovale, malariae – the most common being the first two.“Vivax malaria relapses and hence is difficult to eliminate. The treatment protocol is for 14 days so compliance is an issue; there is a need to follow up every case to ensure that they complete treatment and check for relapse. Currently, there is also no way to detect the plasmodium when it is dormant in the liver,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/make-malaria-a-notifiable-disease-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-101624988597538.html
30-06-2021||Delhi||50-75% saplings planted in Delhi between 2016-19 survived: Audit by FRI||The survival rate of new saplings planted in the National Capital between 2016 and 2019 has been between 50% and 75%, which is considered “good”, according to the third-party plantation audit conducted by Forest Research Institute, Dehradun.VK Dhawan, forestry expert at FRI Dehradun, who is leading the plantation audit for the Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi, said that the plantation between 2016 and 2019 was analysed based on field data, and it was found to be “good”. “After analysing data from all the divisions of the Delhi forest department, we have come to the conclusion that the survival rate of plantation in Delhi has been between 50 and 75%, which is good.”Around 6.7 million new saplings were planted in Delhi during the plantation season from June to September, between 2016 and 2019. The Delhi forest department had planted more than 3 million saplings last year, too.He explained that 40-50% survival rate is considered “average”, 50-70% is considered “good”, 70-80% survival rate is considered “very good”, and 80-90% is considered “excellent”.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government had roped in FRI experts to conduct the plantation audit for the Delhi forest department, to ascertain an overall picture of the survival rate of new saplings planted in the city, the kind of species planted, and the benefits of planting such species. On Tuesday, FRI experts said that a draft audit report, the initial findings of which has been accessed by HT, will be submitted before the Delhi government this week, and the final report will be released by July-end.The environment department had also directed all other greening agencies in the city, including Delhi Development Authority (DDA), three municipal corporations in Delhi (east, north and south), New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), and the Public Works Department (PWD) among others, in 2019, to conduct similar third-party audits to ensure more effective plantation drives.Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai said that FRI has completed its audit. “FRI Dehradun has completed analysing plantation between 2016 and 2019. The final report will be released by July end,” he said.The report suggested that the Delhi government focuses more on planting of native varieties, instead of exotic species, Dhawan added. “We have noticed that the Delhi forest department chooses very good plant species, and have largely planted native species, medicinal varieties, species that are known to control pollution levels and increase oxygen levels among others. They have also planted varieties of Ficus — that are known to be good for birds as they feed on the seeds — in many parts. So, the choice of species has been good, but there are some areas in the Capital where exotic species were planted, which require more care and are also not good for the ecology around it.”Exotic plant varieties require more water and nutrients from the soil, compared to native species.He said that exotic species such as bottle brush, varieties of eucalyptus, and others were found more around central Delhi.The FRI, in the report, has also given a detailed plan for the eradication of Prosopis juliflora or mesquite, which is an invasive species like Kikar, that interferes with the growth of native species planted around it. FRI experts have mentioned that the Kejriwal government must ensure “gradual removal” of this species by clearing the seeds and shortening the canopy of trees.“We have suggested to the Delhi government to consider planting along the Yamuna Pushta area since a lot of plants are being affected due to flooding of the river during monsoons. Either additional plantation should be done there, or plantation should be focused on parts where it is not affected by flooding,” Dhawan said.Meanwhile, environment experts said that such a third-party plantation audit will act as a “guiding document” for future plantations in the city. “Such third-party evaluation helps in assessing survival rates, drawbacks where growth is not up to the mark, and implement strategies to improve the efforts in the following years. Such plantation drives are organised every year, and it is important to know how many new saplings have survived, to fix accountability on the agencies,” said CR Babu, professor emeritus, Centre for Environment Management of Degraded Ecosystems, Delhi University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5075-saplings-planted-in-delhi-between-2016-19-survived-audit-by-fri-101624988598076.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Female Sambar deer hit by vehicle in Pune, rescued||A Sambar deer had a close brush with death after getting hit by a speeding vehicle on the Kalyan Nirmal Highway (NH-222) in Pune district on Monday. Wildlife SOS and officials from the forest department rushed to provide on-site treatment and the Sambar was later released back into the wild. The incident occurred on the Kalyan Nirmal Highway (NH-222) near Vadkhal village, located in the Otur forest range of Pune district. Wounded and in severe shock, the Sambar was found sitting on the side of the road by concerned passers-by. They immediately alerted the forest department who contacted Wildlife SOS for medical assistance. Yogesh Ghodake, range forest officer, Otur, said, “Due to the quick intervention of the forest department and Wildlife SOS, the Sambar deer was able to receive timely help and safely return to the wild.” By the time a three-member team from Wildlife SOS joined the forest department, a huge crowd had gathered on the highway to catch a glimpse of the animal and take pictures of it on their cell phones. The forest officers immediately stepped up to control the crowd while Wildlife SOS veterinarian Dr Nikhil Bangar provided on-site treatment to the injured deer. The Sambar, according to forest department, could be around four-year-old. Dr. Nikhil Bangar, wildlife veterinary officer, Wildlife SOS, said, “The Sambar was in a state of shock and was unable to move, so we administered fluid therapy to help her regain strength. Fortunately, the deer had not sustained any severe injuries and we provided topical treatment for minor abrasions on the body. On recovering from the stressful ordeal, we diverted her towards the green patch on the side of the road.” Kartick Satyanarayan, co-founder and CEO, Wildlife SOS, said, “It is not uncommon for us to receive rescue calls where an unsuspecting animal has been injured due to negligent or rash driving. Such callousness not only puts the life of the animal at risk but also poses a threat to the safety of humans. However, we are glad to see that more and more people are making a conscious decision to help out animals in distress.” The Sambar (Rusa unicolor) is a large deer native to the Indian subcontinent, southern China and Southeast Asia. Male sambar has unique stout and rugged antlers that are typically up to 110 centimetres long in adult individuals. Over the years, the Sambar population in the wild has been threatened due to loss of habitat and poaching, making them a vulnerable species under the IUCN Red Data List. This species is also protected under Schedule III of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/female-sambar-deer-rescued-after-getting-hit-by-vehicle-101624982297263.html
30-06-2021||Ranchi||Reduce private hospitals’ vaccine share to 5% in state: Jharkhand to Centre||The Jharkhand government has requested the Centre to reduce the share of vaccination in private hospitals from 25% to 5% in the state, owing to a host of factors such as demography, paying capacity and share of private hospitals in the state till date.Jharkhand’s additional chief secretary (health), Arun Kumar Singh wrote to Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Monday, requesting the Centre to provide 95% vaccines to the state government.“It is requested to reduce the share of vaccination in private hospitals from 25% to 5% in the state of Jharkhand. Atleast 95% of the vaccines for the state of Jharkhand should be allocated from the government route to enable equitable distribution of vaccines. This would also ensure adherence to the constitutional mandate of equity, equality and reasonable opportunity for all citizens,” Singh’s letter read.Substantiating the state’s request, the additional chief secretary underlined that 75% of the state’s population lives in rural areas having negligible access to private hospitals. Demand of vaccines in private hospitals even in urban centres is limited owing to lack of purchasing parity, as 37% of the population is below poverty line (BPL).The health secretary also highlighted that 13 of 24 districts in the state are scheduled tribal districts and 19 districts fall under left wing extremism (LWE) affected districts, where hesitancy about vaccination has been a key challenge.“A virtual meeting with private hospitals across the state was organised on June 16 to analyse their demand for procurement of vaccines on payment basis and it was found to be very limited. As a matter of fact, only three private hospitals in the state ordered for vaccines in the earlier scheme of vaccination for the age cohort 18-44 years, that too in minimal quantities and had to struggle to utilise the available stock. As you are aware, since the advent of Covid-19 vaccination in private hospitals on Jan 30, 2021, the share of calculation in private hospitals in the state has been less than 2% till April 30,” the secretary argued in his letter.As per the latest health bulletin, Jharkhand till now has vaccinated 67.73 lakh of its 3.29 crore population. While 57.27 lakh persons have received the first dose, 10.44 lakh persons have been given their second dose as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/reduce-pvt-hospitals-vaccine-share-to-5-in-state-j-khand-to-centre-101624982177831.html
30-06-2021||Pune||PMPML to develop 30 depots on PPP basis at ₹11,666 crore in Pune||A total of 30 bus depots of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will undergo complete renovation as part of depot modernization programme of the depots at a cost of ₹11,666 crore. The proposal to develop these depots was taken during the board meeting held recently and is likely to get approval from the final top authorities. PMPML has 13 depots of which four are reserved for electric buses. The newly renovated depots will have workshops along with ample parking facilities for the buses while the upper floors will accommodate hospitals, hotels and offices and other commercial establishments. VK Associates, a private agency was entrusted to carry out a feasibility report after which it conducted a survey of the depot. Following their report, the PMPML decided to take up the project. The survey report found out that the depots can be developed according to the areas where they are located. The agency has estimated that the modernization would fetch profits up to ₹1,516 crore for PMPML annually once the depots are developed and the space leased for commercial activities. The depots besides having facilities for buses will also have commercial offices, hotels, hospitals, which will bring in the desired revenues. At present, PMPML is facing a severe financial crunch and is not in a position to procure a loan from the banks. According to the PMPML authorities development of the depot will be carried out on a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model basis or by leasing out the property. PMPML managing director and chairman Rajendra Jagtap said, “There are 17 depots and 13 open spaces under PMPML jurisdiction. The decision to develop these places will be taken during the board meeting.” In a big decision a few days ago, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML) authorities will be constructing a dedicated mega charging station at its Manjri–Budruk-Shewalewadi depot to cater to the rising demand of electric buses in the near future. At present, the passenger traffic of the PMPML (before pandemic) was at 10.47 lakh on daily basis and the fleet utilization of the hired buses of the PMPML is more than PMPML-owned buses. The gap between revenue and expenditure was Rs23 crore in 2011-12, which increased to ₹315 crore in 2019-20According to the PMPML authorities, the projective cumulative losses of the PMPML for the next 10 years will be close to ₹9,600 crore. The current fleet size of PMPML consists of around 2,300 buses but around 1,400 buses remain on the streets daily (pre-pandemic times).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-develop-30-depots-on-ppp-basis-at-a-cost-of-rs-11-666-crore-101624981937803.html
30-06-2021||Pune||Maharashtra issues Ganeshotsav guidelines amid Covid situation||The state government’s home department on Tuesday issued a notification regarding this year’s Ganeshotsav asking mandals to keep the height of public idols at four feet and the domestic ones at two feet. The restrictions are imposed to contain the Covid outbreak as the popular festival is scheduled to begin on September 10. The government’s letter gives guidelines on the 10-day celebrations and last day of immersion procession. Mandals have been instructed to arrange “darshan” of the diety online and avoid crowd at the daily prayers and offerings during the 10-day festival. Devotees are requested to make idols out of metals, marbles and other substance instead of traditional plaster of Paris and immerse ecofriendly idols at home. Civic bodies are instructed to set up artificial tanks and ponds for immersion. The guidelines states that mandals should not hold processions on the first and last days, and children and senior citizens should avoid visiting immersion spots. Mandals should also help municipalities, police, government authorities and health officials by following health norms. Mahesh Suryavanshi, treasurer, Dagdusheth Ganpati Mandal trust, said, “We welcome the state government’s guidelines for this year’s Ganeshotsav. We request the authorities to arrange meetings with local Ganpati mandals and share the guidelines in detail for each city as the festival is celebrated differently at various places. The festival celebrations in Mumbai and rest of Maharashtra are completely different. The issue of mandap set-up faced in Pune last year should be resolved this time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-issues-ganeshotsav-guidelines-amid-covid-situation-101624981817190.html
