08-04-2020||Today's||2 lockdown violations that reveal the weak spot of Indian State | Opinion||Article 14 of the Indian Constitution promises equality under the law and that everyone must be dealt with equally. Our Constitution provides protection to religions, classes and categories in education, reservation, the criminal law is agnostic in the matter of determining guilt. If you break the law, the penal code and other statutes treat all persons equally, though sentences awarded may vary. The recent controversy in Delhi regarding the Tablighi Jamaat continuing to house thousands of people in its premises or a few hundred found at Gurdwara Majnu ka Tila, despite the impending threat of Covid-19 and the closedown of religious institutions, are issues of public safety, health and consequential criminal sanctions. Even after the curfew (under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code) and directions under the Disaster Management Act were in place, the continued presence of large numbers at such religious places has posed a health hazard not only to those present, but to each individual who came in touch with these potential carriers of the Sars-CoV-2 pathogen. As per reports over 21,200 people have been placed under quarantine on this account alone, and the human cost that these follies will bring are yet to be discovered in the weeks and months ahead. What this tragedy exposes is the Indian state’s unstated inability to act with speed and effectively against religious communities and institutions, even where there is a blatant breach of law. A thought process, which instead of enforcing the law, effectively looks at the collateral issues and possible repercussions of action against those who profess or propagate religion is the weak spot of the Indian state in its application of law. Whether it is the Tablighi Jamaat gathering or the Majnu Ka Tilla Gurdwara crowd, (both in Delhi), such gathering of persons for religious functions was clearly in breach of the law and FIRs have been registered. But the investigation is only a reactive, and not preventive approach to the breach of the law which will take its course if a chargesheet is eventually filed with prosecution. What is a matter of further anguish is that while the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and of Section 144 Cr.PC were in force, its breach, punishable also under penal provisions for the spread of disease under Sections 269, 270 and 271 (Indian Penal Code) is being questioned in some quarters.Others err no less while portraying it as a communal issue, which it neither was nor is. Such angularities have to be discarded because our purpose must only be to ensure that every resource, legal or otherwise, be applied effectively to contain this dreaded disease. To term this health and public safety issue as a communal issue, or alternatively castigate a community, is a breach of the law and may invite criminal action.The pan-India effort to enforce our laws while dealing with Covid-19 is an issue of health, enforcement of criminal law, public safety and order. Whether preventive action is sought to be taken by state authorities or prosecution launched, we, as Indians and as members of the human race occupying this planet must realize, that it is time for us to act as one world and one people, and in India as one nation. It is time to step beyond our differences and focus on the larger good – that the protection of 130 crore people in India is ensured by effective and equal enforcement of the law.There are brave men and women in the field - doctors, paramedics, government employees, police officers all of whom are risking their lives, and those of their families, to ensure that we tide over this crisis with minimal loss of human lives. Doctors who treat their patients do not examine or consider the caste, creed or religion while saving lives. Nor do police and government officers enforcing the lockdown.And while the law must be equally applied irrespective of caste, creed and religion, those who question the application of the law or alternatively seek to focus on this exclusively health and safety issue on communal lines are, in fact, obstructing the national cause.(Sidharth Luthra is former Additional Solicitor General of India, and Ketaki Goswami is a lawyer)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/2-lockdown-violations-that-reveal-the-weak-spot-of-indian-state-opinion/story-KGWR65jbvgU8q7t8a6KKAI.html
08-04-2020||Today's||Political leadership is up and ready. Now it’s time for the bureaucracy | Opinion||We, as a human race, are at war with this deadly coronavirus, called Covid -19. Various countries, in their past, had to face similar kinds of catastrophic diseases and had to suffer the devastating consequences. Each time, the human survival spirit overwhelmed the catastrophe and recovered from the shocks and life moved on. With immense scientific advancement and extraordinary communication infrastructure availability, it seems the human race is better equipped to tackle the current pandemic. India also is currently under lockdown to prevent the spread of the coronavirus and reduce its impact on our people.It is heartening to note that despite various hardships faced by a large section of our vulnerable population, people have overwhelmingly cooperated with the lockdown, and by and large, adhered to the governmental guidelines.Our medical professionals, governmental machinery, policing system have shown exemplary professionalism in enforcing the rules set out by the government to contain the spread of this deadly virus. They deserve the nation’s gratitude, applause and fullest support. Certainly, the battle has just begun and we have a long way to go before we declare victory over it. Undoubtedly, we had never faced this kind of situation ever in the past so it is a big challenge for the administrative machinery. Though our system has shown its remarkable capacity to handle various kinds of emergencies such as earthquakes, tsunamis, hurricanes and other such major upheavals, this situation is totally unprecedented and requires long-term sustained efforts on the part of our bureaucratic system to turn the tide.This, in turn, requires quick, decisive and reasoned decision making at all levels of the government. Fortunately, the political leadership of our country is ready and willing to take tough decisions as is clear from the decision taken to declare a countrywide lockdown for 21 days.My personal experience of working under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is that if you are taking decisions with honest motives and in the interest of the people at large, there is no need to fear anything. I enjoyed full freedom as per law to decide issues and act as per my best judgement. So it is now for the bureaucracy to take this situation as a challenge and steer the country out of the woods with their dedication and commitment to the onerous task at hand.Unlike other countries such as in Europe, our system is burdened with manifold responsibilities. On the one hand, it has to contain the spread of the virus by enforcing the guidelines regarding social distancing and lockdown, on the other it has to ensure that critically-ill patients are given all the necessary medical treatment and support. In addition, large quarantine facilities are to be created and run properly to ensure containment of the virus. Along with this, maintaining the uninterrupted and regular supply of essential goods is a huge responsibility that requires skilled coordination and administrative effort. Then there is the problem of the migrant labourers, daily wage workers and such others whose livelihood has been severely affected by the lockdown.The system has to ensure that these vulnerable sections of the population are taken care of by ensuring that money is transferred to their accounts without any delay. It is the job of the bureaucracy at the higher levels to not only ensure the transfer of money sanctioned to the needy but to also regularly assess the actual requirement based on concrete data depending on how long the lockdown continues. The system has to act in such a coordinated and thoughtful manner that the common people of our country should have the satisfaction that the government is standing with them in their hour of need to look after them.Also Read: Government looks at ways to restart business ops post lockdownI am sure that those at the helm of affairs must have taken all the available facts and data into consideration to suggest to the decision makers the future course of action to combat the coronavirus. This strategy has to look holistically into the experience of the past month, the spread of the virus, preparedness of our health system, supply of masks and other personal protection equipment, ventilators, economic condition of the most vulnerable section of the population, the essential item supply chain situation, rabi crop harvesting and grain market operations to name a few. Let us remember that this coronavirus will be controlled, sooner than later, but our country’s economy has to be brought back on rails at the earliest. For this to happen, our bureaucracy has to put their best foot forward and show to the country why they are called the steel frame. Time has come for that.(VS Pandey is a former IAS officer. He retired as secretary, department of fertilisers in the Government of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/political-leadership-is-up-and-ready-now-it-s-time-for-the-bureaucracy-opinion/story-C2JUI0vOf2NwJpV2it0PWN.html
