01-04-2021||West Bengal||Left stands vindicated on truth behind Nandigram killings, says CPI(M)||Days after Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee accused her then confidant and present rival Suvendu Adhikari of being involved in the 2007 violence in Nandigram, the CPI(M) on Thursday said the remarks vindicated the party's stand and "exposed the truth about the incident" in which 14 people lost their lives. "From the right-wing RSS, the fundamentalist forces to the ultra-Left and the Maoists -- all ganged up, brought in illegal arms to create this unrest in Nandigram in 2007. Now, everything is exposed. Both Mamata and the Adhikaris have confirmed this," said Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury. At a public meeting on Sunday, Mamata accused both Suvendu Adhikari and his father Sisir Adhikari of allowing the police to enter Nandigram in 2007. She also accused the father-son duo of allowing "police wearing slippers" to enter the village in West Bengal's East Midnapore district. Fourteen villagers protesting against land acquisition in Nandigram were killed, many by police firing, on March 14, 2007. The Left Front, led by the CPI(M), was in power in Bengal then. Reacting to Mamata’s remarks, Yechury said the comments finally "vindicated" his party's stand on the incident that occurred more than a decade ago. "There are reports that Suvendu Adhikari has claimed Mamata knew the value of every bullet that was fired and the names of those on whom they were fired on. This is the fact, we had said it then and it was correct. The truth has been exposed but it took them more than 10 years to admit this," Yechury told PTI. He also said Thursday's violence in Nandigram will have an effect on polling. "Violence is still underway in the town and people are not being allowed to vote. The Election Commission is silent on the matter," the Left leader said. Speaking of Mamata’s letter to Opposition parties, calling for a unified fight against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), he said the CPI(M) was pushing for such a stand from all the secular, non-BJP parties in the run-up to the 2019 general election. But he added that his party had not received any such letter from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo. The CPI(M) was quick to latch on to Mamata’s comments to train its guns on the TMC. On its verified Facebook page, the party wrote that Mamata’s speech had proved that "her TMC" plotted a deep-rooted conspiracy and the then Opposition party in Bengal was behind the killings of the 14 villagers in Nandigram in 2007.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: EC acting at behest of Amit Shah, says Mamata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Thursday that Central forces deployed in her constituency were helping the BJP under instructions of Union Home Minister Amit Shah hours after she was holed up in a polling booth to look into allegations of rigging. Mamata alleged that the Election Commission was following instructions of Shah and not acting on complaints of alleged irregularities that she and her party had lodged. She also threatened to move court. "The CRPF, BSF are acting under the instructions of Home Minister Amit Shah....they are only helping the BJP," she told reporters outside a polling station in Nandigram constituency, according to PTI. Despite sporadic violence and accusations of vote fraud in Nandigram, the TMC supremo said she was confident of victory from the constituency where she had a decade-and-half ago led a farmers' movement against a chemical hub planned by the then Left front government. She demanded that Shah, who had earlier campaigned for Suvendu Adhikari, her rival in Nandigram, must "control the BJP goons brought from outside". "This is shameful. The people will give them a befitting reply. The way even women journalists have been heckled is disgraceful," she said. Earlier, as voting began for the second phase of elections, Mamata chose to stay indoors at her rented house in Reyapara, and monitor proceedings. But in the afternoon, after receiving word about trouble brewing at Boyal Maqtab primary school booth number 7, a known trouble-spot in the constituency, she decided to move out. Her convoy left for the Boyal school around 1.10pm. There she barged into the polling booth and asked the presiding officer why there were so many complaints. She also spoke with the booth agents and others, who alleged that the BJP had captured the booth since morning and were not allowing anyone to vote. From the booth, Mamata spoke with Governor Jagdeep Dhankar and wrote a two-page letter to the Election Commission of India. “I am the candidate here, so this letter has to be treated as an FIR," Mamata was heard saying. While the chief minister was inside, there were clashes between rival camps.  More police personnel were rushed to the school to prevent an escalation in violence. The chief minister's presence seemed to encourage the Trinamul supporters to get aggressive. "I am afraid of the safety and security of the local people once polling is over. There are many outsiders who are in the area and they pose a threat to the locals. I cannot leave now," Mamata said. Two observers from the Election Commission met Mamata at the booth and tried to pacify her, but she wouldn't budge. EC special observer Nagenra Tripathi also arrived at the spot and gave a patient hearing to Mamata. Voting which started in the booth at 7.00am ended at 6.30pm. Later, Mamata slammed the Election Commission for "inaction" despite her party lodging several complaints and threatened to move the law courts over it.  "We have lodged 63 complaints since morning. But no action has been taken. We will move the court over it. This is unacceptable," the chief minister said seated, in a wheelchair outside booth 7 in Boyal.  "The EC is working on the instructions of Amit Shah," she alleged. "Goons from other states are creating ruckus here," she added. The chief minister, however, said she is more worried about the fate of democracy given the use of money and muscle power than her personal victory. "I am not worried about Nandigram, I am confident of victory. (But) I am worried about democracy," Mamata said as she showed the 'V' for victory sign to a gaggle of press photographers. The feisty TMC boss said she would win a majority of the 60 seats that had gone to polls in the first and second phase. Mamata is battling her former lieutenant Suvendu Adhikari, who has crossed over to the BJP, in the prestigious Nandigram constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Don't believe in seasonal faith: Modi’s jibe at TMC leaders||Making a strong Hindutva pitch at the hustings in Bengal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Thursday attacked TMC leaders for calling those wearing saffron, sporting tilak and choti as "rakshas", and declared he does not believe in "seasonal faith". He also said a BJP wave was blowing across Bengal where the party will win over 200 of the state's 294 assembly seats. "Earlier, Mamata Didi had issues with chants of 'Jai Shri Ram', over immersion of Durga idols. Now TMC has problems with people wearing saffron, sporting tilak and choti (tuft of hair), they are calling them 'rakshas' (demons)," Modi told an election rally in Joynagar. He was referring to the recent public declaration by Mamata Banerjee of her "gotra" (clan), an unusual thing for the Bengal leader to do, during the campaigning for the Nandigram seat. The revelation had prompted Union Minister Giriraj Singh, who sports a choti, to ask," Do you consider Rohingyas and other infiltrators as 'Shandilya' (Mamata's gotra) and offer them the red carpet." Singh's comment invited a sharp retort from TMC MP Mohua Moitra. "Giriraj says Mamata's from the Rohingya clan. Proud of it. Far better than being from the chotiwala rakshasa clan," Moitra tweeted. Singh often identifies himself as "Shandilya" on social media. The prime minister also hit back at the TMC for calling his Bangladesh trip unethical and violative of the model code of conduct for elections and defended his visits to temples there. The TMC had written to the Election Commission alleging that Modi's recent visit to Bangladesh violated the model code of conduct in place for the Bengal Assembly polls and some of his programmes there were "intended to influence the voting pattern" in certain constituencies. "I visited one of the 51 Shaktipeeth Jeshoreshwari Kali temples in Bangladesh. TMC has taken umbrage. Is it wrong to pay obeisance to Shri Harichand Thakur (founder of the Matua sect) at Orakandi? "I don't believe in showing seasonal faith (shraddha). We always take pride in our faith and tradition," he asserted. The Matuas, a Dalit community, wields considerable influence in several districts of Bengal and can tilt the scales in favour of any party in quite a few seats. He also mounted a scathing assault on the TMC supremo for her accusations against "people of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh". "You have taken oath of the Constitution which doesn't permit you to speak against other states or people of other states," he said, obviously referring to Mamata's claim that BJP has brought goons from UP and Bihar to influence the outcome of the election in Nandigram where she is pitted against her former confidante-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari. Taunting Mamata for her decision to relinquish her Bhawanipore seat and contest from Nandigram, Modi said she is now realising that she committed a mistake. "The mood that prevails indicates Nandigram is doing at the very outset what Bengal wants to do," he said. Nandigram is among the state's 30 Assembly seats where polling is underway on Thursday. The prime minister said Mamata’s appeal to 14 leaders of other parties to unite against the BJP stemmed from her anxiety over impending defeat. "She is seeking support from people who in her eyes are outsiders and tourists and whom she would not have the time to meet earlier," Modi said. "For Didi, Bengal is a playground, but for BJP the state will be the ground for development, education and industries," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata camps at booth after word spreads about 'rigging'  ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee walked in and stayed put at a polling booth in Nandigram on Thursday afternoon amid complaints of rigging and booth capturing during the second phase of voting in Bengal. Contesting from Nandigram, Mamata stayed indoors at her rented house in Reyapara, when she received information about trouble brewing at Boyal Maqtab primary school booth number 7, a known trouble-spot in the constituency. Around 1.10pm, Mamata's convoy left for the Boyal school. She was there for over 39 minutes till reports last came in.  Voting started in the booth at 7.00am and is supposed to continue till 6.30pm. Mamata barged into the polling booth and asked the presiding officer why there were so many complaints. She also spoke with the booth agents and others, who alleged that the BJP had captured the booth since morning and were not allowing anyone to vote. From the booth, Mamata spoke with  Governor Jagdeep Dhankar and wrote a two-page letter to the Election Commission of India. "I am the candidate here, so this letter has to be treated as an FIR," Mamata was heard saying. While the chief minister was inside, there were clashes between rival camps.  More police personnel were rushed to the school to prevent an escalation in violence. The chief minister's presence seemed to encourage the Trimamul supporters to get aggressive. "I am afraid of the safety and security of the local people once polling is over. There are many outsiders who are in the area and they pose a threat to the locals. I cannot leave now," Mamata said. Two observers from the Election Commission met Mamata at the booth and tried to pacify her, but she wouldn't budge. EC special observer Nagenra Tripathi also arrived at the spot and gave a patient hearing to Mamata. Earlier in the morning, Trinamul sources had said Mamata would leave for North Bengal on Friday morning instead of Thursday evening. Throughout the day there were reports of clashes and intimidation in different parts of Nandigram. A Trinamul polling agent refused to return to the booth after being forced to leave facing intimidation. When the police personnel went to bring him back, his family members said the forces from the central agencies could not protect him forever. In neighbouring Chandipur, a BJP worker Gour Pradhan was critically injured after being allegedly attacked by one Nantu Pradhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata monitors Nandigram amid reports of violence and booth jamming||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday visited several booths across the high-profile Nandigram constituency, where she is pitted against her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, as sporadic incidents of violence and allegations of booth jamming marred the voting process in the second phase. According to the TMC sources, Banerjee, who had earlier decided to leave the area for campaigning in North Bengal after the polling ended at 6:30 PM on Thursday, changed her plans this morning. "She has decided to stay back and leave tomorrow. Banerjee will monitor the situation in the area, and if needed, she will go to spots," a senior TMC leader accompanying her had said. After monitoring the situation in the assembly segment, where local TMC leaders complained that their election agents were not being allowed to enter booths, Mamata left her rented residence at Reyapara around 1 pm. She then visited polling centres at Sonachura, Reyapara, Balarampur, Boyal, Nandigram block 1 and 2. "She will also travel to various villages and booths in areas where there have been reports of threats, intimidation and jamming," Mamata’s election agent Sheikh Sufiyan said. In the Boyal area in Nandigram, villagers alleged that BJP supporters stopped them from going to polling booths. As soon as Mamata reached Boyal, BJP supporters chanted 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans. Supporters of the two parties then indulged in violence, as TMC leaders demanded re-polling in booth number 7, police said. A huge police contingent was rushed to the spot to control the situation, they added. Meanwhile, Adhikari's convoy was allegedly attacked with stones at two places while visiting booths in the assembly constituency. His motorcade was also gheraoed as TMC supporters shouted slogans against the BJP leader. Security forces patrolling the area dispersed the mob, making way for his convoy to move onwards. "I am used to such protests by TMC goons. They are all followers of Mamata begum. Let them do whatever they want till the results are out on May 2," Adhikari told reporters. According to TMC sources, Mamata, who was scheduled to leave the area for campaigning in North Bengal after the end of polling at 6.30 pm, changed her plans this morning. The entire Nandigram constituency has been placed under Section 144 to avoid any untoward incident. Meanwhile, a BJP worker, identified as Uday Dubey, was found hanging near the Reyapara area in Nandigram Block-1. The BJP claimed that Dubey had suspectedly ended his life, as he was being constantly threatened by the TMC goons. The ruling party in West Bengal termed the allegation as "baseless". A team of police personnel has been deployed there to avoid any untoward incident. The second phase of polling in Bengal's eight-phase elections, including in the high-stakes Nandigram seat, recorded a high voter turnout of 71.07 per cent till 3 pm. Though the situation was tense in a few areas with a few skirmishes reported, tight security cover in all 30 constituencies which went to polls averted any major incidents. Strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols has been ensured in all places, officials said. The entire Nandigram constituency has been placed under Section 144, to avoid any untoward incident. In another incident, a person was detected with a fake voter ID and was subsequently arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata locked in her war room in Reyapara as fierce battle rages on||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee decided to stay at her war room in the Reyapara area during the polls on Thursday in the Nandigram assembly constituency where she is locked in a fierce prestige battle with confidante-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP. She is monitoring the situation in the high-profile constituency where polling began at 7 am as local TMC leaders complained of their election agents not being allowed to enter several booths, according to the party sources. There have been no reports of violence or clashes among political activists in the constituency, barring an incident in the Bhimkata area in Nandigram where the BJP candidate faced an agitation by a group of TMC workers who shouted slogans against him, an Election Commission official said. Around 17 per cent of electors exercised their franchise in the first two hours of the polling in the agrarian constituency in Purba Medinipur district, he said. According to the TMC sources, Banerjee, who had earlier decided to leave the area for campaigning in North Bengal after the polling ended at 6:30 PM on Thursday, changed her plans this morning. "She has decided to stay back and leave tomorrow. Banerjee will monitor the situation in the area, and if needed, she will go to spots," a senior TMC leader accompanying her said. Banerjee, who has camped in Nandigram since March 27, had on Wednesday alleged that goons from other states have come to Nandigram to foment trouble and intimidate the voters. Meanwhile, the TMC alleged that its polling agents have been threatened by the BJP in various booths in Nandigram Block 2. "Our agents were not allowed to enter several polling booths in Nandigram Block -2. Voters have also been stopped from exercising their franchise in some areas. We will lodge complaints with the EC," a TMC leader said. The BJP, however, denied these allegations. Adhikari cast his vote soon after polling began on Thursday morning and exuded confidence of winning the seat by a record margin. "I am confident about my victory and not here to make any personal attack like my opponent. You have seen how people were coming out in the area as I went there to cast my vote," he added. Meanwhile, a BJP worker, identified as Uday Dubey, was found hanging near the Reyapara area in Nandigram Block-1. The BJP claimed that Dubey had suspectedly ended his life, as he was being constantly threatened by the TMC goons. The ruling party in West Bengal termed the allegation as "baseless". A team of police personnel has been deployed there to avoid any untoward incident. The second phase of polling in Bengal's eight-phase elections, including in the high-stakes Nandigram seat, recorded a high voter turnout of 58 per cent till 1 pm. Though the situation was tense in a few areas with a few skirmishes reported, tight security cover in all 30 constituencies which went to polls averted any major incidents. Strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols has been ensured in all places, officials said. The entire Nandigram constituency has been placed under Section 144, to avoid any untoward incident. In another incident, a person was detected with a fake voter ID and was subsequently arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: At Nandigram, voters must choose between ‘Begam’ and ‘Gaddar’  ||A little over 200m is what separates chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her former confidante-turned-bete noire Suvendu Adhikary in Nandigram’s Reyapara. The residence where Mamata is staying on Wednesday night is on the same road linking Nandigram block-II with neighbouring Chandipur, where Adhikary has an election office. On Wednesday evening, Adhikary wasn’t in at his Reyapara office. Those at the office without the mandatory protection against the novel Coronavirus could not care less. The battle they have in hand on Thursday could decide the fate for Bengal, though in the second phase polling will be held in 29 more Assembly seats. Ever since the 2007 anti-land acquisition movement, which made Nandigram a household name across the length and breadth of the country, the land here has acquired a terrifying silence. Wednesday has been no different. From 2008 onwards, Nandigram has rejected the Left and stood firm with Trinamul in elections. Adhikary, BJP’s most prized catch this election, had received 66.79 per cent of the total votes in 2016. His nearest rival from the CPI had around 26.49 per cent, while the BJP then had a measly 5.32 per cent of the vote share. In the Lok Sabha polls three years later, Trinamul’s vote share in the Nandigram Assembly segment of the Tamluk parliamentary seat was above 62 per cent, while the Left vote had shifted en masse to the BJP, which notched up a little less than 30 per cent. Some portion of the Trinamul vote too appeared to have gone to the BJP. For Adhikary contesting on any party symbol a victory would have been assured, had it not been for his rival, the state chief minister who decided to contest against him. The Left has fielded a rookie Minakshi Mukherji, with support of the Congress and the Indian Secular Front, but that fight is likely for another day despite a very spirited campaign by the young politician. The battle for Nandigram is between Mamata and Adhikary, where the Left may or may not get to play a role. The total number of voters in Nandigram is around 2.70lakh with around 62,000 Muslim voters. For years since the 2007 movement, the Adhikary family have been running the show in the two adjoining Midnapores. What has happened this time in the district is reminiscent of the time when Mamata had floated the Trinamul Congress, and her immediate support base was so wide that in several places the Congress office signboards had to be changed. The leaders, the workers remained the same. The 62,000 Muslim votes would have been assured for Mamata, though the Peerzada of Furfura Sharief, Abbas Siddiqui, the chief patron of the Indian Secular Front, a partner of the Left-Congress alliance, has campaigned here for Mukherji. The question remains how far can the Peerzada split the Muslim votes that could be a threat to Mamata. The run up to the polls has been testimony to the bitter acrimony between the two rivals. Mamata addresses Adhikary as “Gaddar (traitor)”, while he reciprocates with the epithet “Begum” for the chief Minister, accusing her of Muslim appeasement. “Muslim clerics never asked for allowance, she gave it on her own. She has been bribing the community to keep her vote bank intact. She is the aunt of Rohingyas and illegal immigrants,” Adhikary has repeatedly said. On the other hand, Mamata has squarely blamed the Adhikary family for the March 14, 2007 violence in Nandigram when 14 villagers were killed in alleged police firing. That incident is seen as the turning point in Bengal’s politics that sounded the death knell for the CPM-led government. Mamata’s claim that the police could not have entered Nandigram without a nod from the Adhikarys even when the Left was in power has raised questions why the chief minister had not broken her silence till now? Both Mamata and the Adhikarys owe their political power to the Nandigram movement. On Wednesday, a number of Trinamul leaders complained about the presence of outsiders in the area to the election commission and the police. “In areas like Birulia our voters are being threatened by goons from the BJP,” said a local Trinamul leader. Birulia bazaar is where Mamata had injured her leg on March 10 during the early days of the campaign and has been since moving around in a wheelchair with her leg plastered. The BJP on the other hand complained that the Trinamul was bringing in outsiders via the river-route _ Nandigram is accessible from both Howrah and South 24-Parganas. Despite the complaints, there was hardly any movement by the central forces in the area. No one in Nandigram seems to be willing to take any chances. The Left which was left dangling with just 4.49 per cent votes too alleged to have received threats from both its rivals. “We have filed 1,717 complaints with the authorities,” said a CPM local committee member. In the remaining 29 seats, BJP had emerged as the number two in most places (some Assembly segments like Kharagpur Sadar, Narayangarh, PIngla and Debra it led in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls). This time none of the seats would be an easy contest, but all eyes will be on Nandigram. The authorities in Nandigram have imposed Section 144, prohibiting assembly of more than four people around 500metres from the booth from 6am on Thursday. Will that be enough in a high-pitched battle?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: The price of polarisation in Nandigram ||Sheikh Yasin, 29, chokes with rage as Suvendu Adhikari’s voice carries to his Asadtala home in Nandigram from a ground around 1km away on Monday evening. The BJP candidate, who is contesting against his former leader Mamata Banerjee, is delivering a speech pockmarked with innuendoes aimed at polarisation that have typified his campaign. In his 25-minute address to a gathering of 1,500 three days before polling in Nandigram, Suvendu refers to Mamata as “begum” and declares that “a small Pakistan” has been created at some gram panchayats in Nandigram. Yasin, a tailor, could hear Suvendu over the sound system from his Asadtala home. “I was born here. I grew up here. Suddenly, I hear that I am a Pakistani. Not just me, all the Muslims living here are being called Pakistanis. Who has given him the right to call us Pakistanis?” asks Yasin, seething. Yasin and many others then gather on a road in Asadtala to protest in front of Suvendu’s convoy as it leaves the Hindu neighbourhood in the Boyal II gram panchayat at Nandigram. The protesters, including several women holding Trinamul flags, raise slogans against Suvendu while his followers retort with “Jai Shri Ram” chants. Tension simmers but central forces and the local police intervene just in time. It’s now namaz time for Yasin and the others. As the group queues at a source of piped water for their ablution, several of its members share with this correspondent their sense of insecurity and anxiety stemming from the sudden change in Nandigram, where Hindus and Muslims had together taken part in the anti-land-acquisition movement of 2007 that hastened the fall of the Left government. “I have more than 100 Hindu friends with whom I grew up…. Today, I feel awkward interacting with them as it plays at the back of my mind that some of them may consider me a Pakistani. He (Suvendu) has to explain why he calls us Pakistanis,” Yasin says. Sheikh Sirazul, in his early sixties, nods. “We have always taken part in pujas and the Hindus in our festivals…. Muslims here had always facilitated immersion processions passing through our neighbourhood. During azan, the Hindus used to tune off the celebratory music (during their festivals). Today, many of them shout ‘Jai Shri Ram’ while passing by the mosque. Some of them have threatened to pull down the mosque and construct a temple there. The sense of amity has gone and this change has happened so fast, in less than three months,” says the carpenter, puffing at a beedi. Yasin, Sirazul and Asma Bibi repeatedly underscore that they had never been involved in politics, their daily struggle for existence keeping them busy. “Today, we don’t have a choice…. Only Didi can save us and we are with her,” says Asma, who could not study beyond Class XII because of poverty. ‘70:30’ game The air of insecurity in the Asadtala slums contrasts sharply with the environs of Suvendu’s air-conditioned and fortified election office in Reyapara. The two-storey building is abuzz with activity. Young men and women, many of them speaking in Hindi, hunch over laptops, keying in data with the help of local people conversant with the geography of Battleground Nandigram that has over 2.57 lakh voters. “The polarisation of the minorities is complete. But the question is over the extent of reverse polarisation. How far are the Hindus polarised in our favour?” asks a youth in Hindi, sifting through demographic data from Nandigram I and II, the two blocks that make up the Assembly constituency. Others present in the room, including some of Suvendu’s closest aides, smile in affirmation, indicating that if the Muslims in Mohammadpur, Kendamari, Samsabad, Daudpur and Kalicharanpur in Nandigram I — the minorities make up over 40 per cent of the population here — are backing Trinamul, the Hindus in Boyal, Khodambari, Amdabad and Birulia in Nandigram II — where Hindus total 75 per cent — are behind the BJP. One of Suvendu’s aides checks internal reports on his smart phone and says the BJP nominee is sure to win with a margin of at least 20,000 votes. “The Hindus will overwhelmingly vote for Dada, the mathematics is simple,” he says, confirming again how the attempt at overt religious polarisation has poisoned Bengal politics. BJP poll strategists busy with micro-level calculations based on voters’ religious identities is perhaps the abiding picture of the fight in Nandigram — and the rest of Bengal. Gone are the days when the polarisation agenda — not new to Indian politics — used to be executed covertly. Suvendu, and the BJP in general, has been blatant in the objective of sowing divisions, his publicly stated mission being to engineer a 70:30 split of the electorate to facilitate a formidable Hindu consolidation. Not only has Suvendu, a Trinamul deserter, made an overwhelming number of temple visits this poll season, he has also surpassed the most extreme Hindutva leaders with his polarising speeches. Sample these: ⚫ If begum comes back to power, the state will turn into a mini-Pakistan. ⚫ They have created a small Pakistan at various gram panchayats in Nandigram and they burst crackers when Pakistan wins (in sporting events). Which chief minister in India goes to an Id prayer wearing a hijab? ⚫ If begum wins, you won’t be able to read the Lakshmi Panchali, you won’t be able to put teeka on your forehead or wear kanthi (beads). ⚫ Begum loves Bangladeshis and Pakistanis, she is an aunt of the Rohingya. ⚫ Her slogans have been copied from Bangladesh. “Maa-Mati-Manush” was a slogan with Khaleda Zia, “Joy Bangla” was Mujibur Rahman’s slogan, “Khela hobe” was the slogan of Narayangunj MP Shamim Osman. Some BJP insiders feel that even Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the Hindutva poster boy known for his overtly communal agenda, has been more restrained during his Bengal campaign. Many Muslims in Nandigram say the communal speeches by Suvendu, who had represented the area as a Trinamul MLA, have shocked them. “He was the apple of our eyes…. We could have given our lives for him. He has changed so much,” says Sheikh Jased, sitting at a tea stall in Samsabad Meer Bazar. This correspondent approached Suvendu after the Asadtala meeting and asked whether such divisive addresses were fair. The BJP leader did not offer a direct answer. He smiled and said: “I will win.” He left amid chants of “Jai Shri Ram” from his supporters. Will it work? Armed with a well-oiled polarisation plan and the financial heft of the saffron ecosystem — Bengal never before saw the flexing of such money muscle in an election — Suvendu has undoubtedly scripted a new chapter in the state’s politics. Several Trinamul leaders this correspondent spoke to admitted in private that the manner in which Suvendu’s campaign had taken off while Mamata’s had suffered following her injury in Nandigram and brief return to Calcutta, had left them unnerved. “We hadn’t expected him to resort to such extreme polarisation. We had been slightly on the back foot even two to three weeks ago,” says a source. The question, however, is whether Suvendu’s polarising campaign, and its rub-off effect on the rest of Bengal, will yield the desired result. Unlikely, insist Trinamul insiders. Suvendu’s Hindutva agenda has firmly brought the Muslims under the Trinamul fold. Even staunch Left supporters have said they would vote for Mamata to keep the BJP at bay. Mamata appears likely to receive over 90 per cent of the 68,000 Muslim votes. The community makes up over a quarter of the electorate. Of the 1.9 lakh Hindu votes, Suvendu has to corner close to 70 per cent, which seems a tall order given Mamata’s appeal among women and Trinamul’s core support base in different parts of Nandigram, according to Trinamul supporters. Others feel Suvendu might get more Hindu votes if his polarisation attempt succeeds in complete consolidation, in which case the contest can become too close to call. But Ranjit Jana, a businessman favourably disposed to Trinamul, says: “Suvendu’s polarisation plan is working to some extent. I would say, out of 10 friends, four or five have been swayed, but not everyone. The election arithmetic is in Didi’s favour. Even in the worst case scenario, she will win by around 15,000 votes.” According to him, the anti-incumbency facing Trinamul can be attributed largely to Suvendu and his aides, and his departure will help Mamata. If Suvendu exudes confidence, so do Trinamul leaders. They feel the margin will not be less than 40,000 because they think Mamata has derailed Suvendu’s divisive agenda with her inclusive campaign and repeated reminders of how she had led the movement to protect the land of the local people. “The 2007 movement is still very close to the hearts of the people of Nandigram…. To pursue his aspirations, Suvendu has not only dumped many of the people who were the faces of the anti-land-acquisition movement, he has also used his clout with the Centre to restart cases against them. This will boomerang,” a Trinamul source says. The Trinamul leader, however, is cautious against complacency — being aware of the challenge Suvendu poses with his poll management skills and use of money and muscle. “That’s why Didi is camping here even on polling day so that he can’t play his tricks,” the source says. Third angle Far away from the high-pitched duel between Mamata and Suvendu, CPM candidate Minakshi Mukherjee, president of the party’s youth wing, comes across as a calm face with a conscience. “This binary that the battle is between the BJP and Trinamul is so wrong…. It has been created by a section of the media,” says the young candidate who has earned plaudits with her astute arguments at rallies. The focus on religious identities is aimed at diverting attention from the bread-and-butter issues that affect the poor people of Nandigram, Minakshi says. That Nandigram needs a better deal is clear if one speaks to the youths. There are hardly any employment opportunities in the organised sector in the area. The returns from agriculture are so low that the people who had protested against land acquisition 14 years ago have started leasing out their land to businessmen to convert them into fisheries. The shape the Nandigram contest has taken has obscured several issues, key among them being whether a plural Bengali society can afford such blatant polarisation along religious lines. “I can’t comment how far Suvendu will go as a politician, but he will surely enter the history books as someone who brought hatred out in the open in Bengal politics,” said a social scientist, requesting anonymity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-132
01-04-2021||West Bengal||CRPF jawan’s body reaches home in Jalpaiguri||Hundreds of residents at Paschim Salbari in Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri district mourned Jagannath Roy, 33, a CRPF jawan who died in an ambush last week by terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir, as his mortal remains reached his village on Wednesday. On March 25, a CRPF team had been attacked by a group of terrorists at Lawaypora on the outskirts of Srinagar. Two CRPF personnel had died on the spot while Roy sustained severe injuries. He succumbed to his injuries on Monday. Senior officials of the CRPF carried his mortal remains in a convoy from Bagdogra. As it reached Jurapani village in Dhupguri block, hundreds of local youths rode bikes ahead of the convoy that was headed for Roy’s village Paschim Salbari. At Paschim Salbari, his body was first taken to his home and from there to a nearby ground where hundreds of people paid Roy their last homage. Officials of the civil and police administration of Jalpaiguri, leaders of political parties and people in general offered their last respect to Roy. Then, CRPF officials paid their tribute and a gun salute. Later, his last rites were performed in a location near his home. The deceased CRPF jawan is survived by his wife, a three-year-old son and 60-year-old mother, said residents. “He had left for Jammu and Kashmir on February 13 and he had planned to visit his family again after a couple of months. His death is really an unfortunate incident. We are with the bereaved family,” said K.K. Kalyani, Jalpaiguri district Trinamul president.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Horse trading or internal feud? ||Terracotta horses of Bankura are facing tough competition from politicians, who have jumped over political hurdles with alacrity in the run-up to the Assembly elections in Bengal. Mahadeb Kumbhakar, a 45-year-old terracotta craftsman, is immersed in making a pair of horses at his one-storey house in Panchmura village. The order has been placed by a Calcutta boutique and despite the March afternoon heat, Mahadeb cannot afford leisure as he has to meet the deadline. “I am very busy now. I have to deliver this order within three days. I am just finishing the clay work. Now I need to paint and burn it,” says Mahadeb, working on the terrace. “I have more orders to finish within a week,” he adds, showing a few unfinished works kept a few metres away and near a wall flaunting an appeal to vote for the Trinamul candidate. Panchmura village, around 24km from its subdivisional town Bishnupur and 165km from Calcutta, is famous for its terracotta works, mainly the long-necked horses that are internationally famous. There are more than 270 craftsmen like Mahadeb in Panchmura village — families that have been involved in the craft for generations. The artisans say the terracotta crafts have their roots in the 7th century AD during the time of the famous Malla dynasty of Bankura’s Bishnupur. The journey has been long and the art got its first national recognition in 1969 when artisan Rashbihari Kumbhakar received a National Award from then President Dr Zakir Hussain in New Delhi. Aditya Mukhopadhyay, a researcher on terracotta horses, however, says: “The long-necked horses were used as decorative art during the Malla dynasty. It evolved over centuries and around 200 years ago Panchmura village became the hub of the craft when the horses began to be used at religious events. This practice opened up a market for these horses.” Mukhopadhyay, who is the author of the book Ashwanama, has penned the history of long-necked horses. Bhutnath Kumbhakar, the great grandson of Rashbihari, is now secretary of the Panchmura Mritshilpi Samabai Samity. Bhutnath says the demand for terracotta horses have increased during Mamata Banerjee’s tenure as chief minister. “The demand has gone up because the state government has publicised our work by organising fairs and selling our crafts at Biswa Bangla kiosks,” he says. Mahadeb, who used to earn Rs 80,000 annually till 2012, now earns around Rs 2.3 lakh. Asked about the popularity of terracotta horses, Trinamul spokesperson Dilip Agarwal gives a political twist to the query. “Why only terracotta horses, there is demand for our (Trinamul) horses in the BJP as well,” Agarwal says, referring to Trinamul leaders switching sides this poll season. The conversation soon veers from clay horses to horse-trading. Asked what made Trinamul leaders defect to the BJP, Agarwal says: “Those who went to the BJP camp had either been rejected or had not been doing well in our party. As soon as they joined the BJP, they ran into protests from old-timers in the saffron camp.” The BJP had lead in all the 12 Assembly segments of Bankura in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Four seats in Bankura voted on March 27. Trinamul hopes that when the remaining seats go to polls on April 1, the deserters will taste defeat because of discontent with them within the BJP. The BJP’s experience with Trinamul’s “horses”, Agarwal says, has not been a happy one with old-timers in the saffron camp rebelling against the new inductions. Trinamul turncoat Shyamaprasad Mukherjee, 70, who has served as chairman of the Bishnupur municipality, been the local MLA and also a minister in Mamata’s cabinet, has been facing fierce opposition since the day he joined the BJP in December. BJP workers openly protested Mukherjee’s induction and he was driven away when he turned up at the party office in Bishnupur town. Later, posters were put up allegedly by BJP old-timers, warning the party of trouble if Mukherjee was nominated from Bishnupur. Sensing the mood, the BJP did not make him a candidate and he has so far kept himself away from political activities. Left in the lurch, Mukherjee made a futile attempt to meet Mamata on March 15 during her visit to Durgapur. The overture was refused. Not all Trinamul deserters have met the same fate as Mukherjee. The BJP has fielded Tanmoy Ghosh, another Trinamul warhorse, as its Bishnupur candidate against Trinamul’s Archita Bid. A popular businessman, Ghosh had been a Trinamul councillor in Bishnupur and got the BJP ticket within 24 hours of joining the party. Ghosh’s induction brought another wave of protests by BJP workers. Sujit Agasty, the party president of the Bishnupur organisational district, however, says: “The anger of old-timers is now history. We sat with our party workers and resolved the issues. Now our entire force is working to ensure the victory of Tanmoy Ghosh in Bishnupur. We will win all seats in Bankura.” Another Trinamul turncoat and the BJP’s nominee for the Taldangra constituency, Shyamal Sarkar, also faced resistance from saffron old-timers. “A large number of BJP workers are against Sarkar for two reasons — one, as a Trinamul man he had been harsh in confronting BJP workers two years ago; two, he is an outsider as he lives in Khatra,” a BJP insider said. Sarkar, however, brushes aside the internal feud. A “storm” in favour of the BJP will ensure his victory, Sarkar says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal target: 5 lakh Covid jabs a day||The Bengal government has decided to upgrade its infrastructure to a point where five lakh people can be administered the Covid-19 vaccine every day in a bid to counter the rising number of positive cases in the state, once the required number of vaccine vials are made available by the Centre. “Right now, we have the capacity of administering more than three lakh vaccines a day,” said a senior state government official. “But we want to ready our capabilities to administer five lakh vaccines a day so that we can give more vaccines to all eligible people as soon as we get the required number of Covid-19 vaccines from Delhi. This will help us tackle the virus that is spreading once again in the state.” The number of Covid-19 positive cases has again started rising in the state in the past few weeks. The state government has started preparing the groundwork to tackle the situation amid the poll season to ensure that the situation does not spiral out of control. In the third week of March, a total of 2,400-odd Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the state. But the figure jumped to 4,400-odd in the fourth week of March. In October 2020, when the pandemic was at its peak in the state, the state had over 37,000 active cases. The number of active cases is rising again. It reached 5,000 from 900 within two weeks. The situation may turn critical as large gatherings are seen in political rallies during the ongoing poll season where Covid-19 safety protocols are hardly followed, said sources. Though most positive cases are found mainly in Calcutta, North 24-Parganas and areas surrounding Asansol in West Burdwan these days, officials fear the fresh wave might hit other districts too with political rallies in districts and leaders and political workers travelling to different districts from Calcutta and its adjoining areas. Along with preventive measures to contain the spread of the infection, the state government is putting stress on vaccination. The more people are vaccinated, the more efficiently can the spread of the infection be arrested, officials said. “So far, 50 lakh doses of vaccines have been administered. Six lakh people have got both the doses of vaccines. We want to reach out to three crore frontline workers, the aged people and people with comorbidities within a short period. Nowadays, we are giving vaccines to some 2.5 lakh people a day and that’s why we are readying infrastructure to give 5 lakh vaccinations a day,” said a source. The state government has also once again started restoring Covid-19 hospital beds in government hospitals and in private hospitals that had been requisitioned by the government. “About 20 to 30 per cent of the 12,000-odd beds in these hospitals had been released as the number of Covid patients had gone down (earlier this year). But gradually, these beds are being brought back to treat Covid patients,” said another official. The health department also held a meeting with the private hospitals to restore their Covid-19 beds in Calcutta and its surroundings as the number of cases are rising in the city and its outskirts. “During the peak in October last year, we had 3,000 Covid-19 beds in private hospitals. The number went down to 900 but again slowly the beds are being brought back to treat Covid-19 patients,” said a source. Though the requirement for hospitalisation is comparatively less in this phase, the health department is not ready to take any chance. “Out of the 5,000 positive cases, only some 800 are in hospitals. Of them, 10 per cent needed ICU support. But we have to keep infrastructure ready to deal with more cases in the hospitals, if the need arises,” said a source. The health department is also working to increase the number of daily tests to arrest the spread of the virus. This time, the department has upgraded its laboratory facilities to conduct more RT-PCR tests compared to the rapid tests. “During the peak of the pandemic, we had conducted 42,000-odd tests a day and we are gradually increasing the number of tests again,” said a health official. “A total of 17,869 tests were done on Tuesday. The number of tests will be increased and now 70 per cent of the tests would be RT-PCR tests, which was less than 50 per cent last year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Veteran Siliguri face joins BJP ||Nantu Paul, a veteran politician of Siliguri and a former Trinamul councillor of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, joined the BJP in Calcutta on Wednesday. It is Paul’s fourth political party in his political career that spans 33 years, and started from the CPM. The CPM and Trinamul apart, he was also in the Congress briefly. Paul and his wife Manjushree, also a former councillor, were inducted into the BJP by the party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya along with some other Trinamul leaders. “My only aim is to work for Siliguri’s progress. Without central assistance, it can never happen. That is why I joined the BJP,” Paul said over the phone. In 1988, Paul was elected ward commissioner of the then Siliguri municipality on a CPM’s ticket. In 1994, when the civic body was upgraded to a municipal corporation, he was elected councillor. He stayed with the CPM till 2004 when he joined Trinamul. After a couple of months, he joined Congress, and in 2006, contested from the Siliguri Assembly seat and lost to Asok Bhattacharya. In 2014, he rejoined Trinamul and stayed on. But last month, as the Trinamul leadership announced Omprakash Mishra as its Siliguri nominee, Paul quit Trinamul and announced that he would contest as an Independent from Siliguri and filed his nomination on March 24. But on Wednesday, Paul said he would withdraw his nomination and support the BJP’s Siliguri  nominee Shankar Ghosh. Asked for his reaction, Ranjan Sarkar, the Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul president, said Paul was expelled from Trinamul after he submitted nomination as an Independent and violated party rules. “He has lost is credibility….his presence in the political arena will not affect our party in any manner,” said Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata sets Opposition unity ball rolling against the BJP||Mamata Banerjee has raced off the blocks to offer to work “wholeheartedly” with several like-minded parties for a united and effective struggle against the BJP’s attacks on democracy and the Constitution. “We can win this battle only with unity of hearts and minds, and by presenting a credible alternative to the people of India. After the conclusion of the ongoing Assembly elections, I suggest that we deliberate on these issues and chart a plan of action,” Mamata said in a letter to a host of non-BJP parties. Mamata’s letter, dated March 28, has been sent to Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Uddhav Thackeray, M.K. Stalin, Akhilesh Yadav, Tejashwi Yadav, Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti, Jagan Reddy and Arvind Kejriwal. The Bengal chief minister has written to Sonia although the Congress, in alliance with the Left, is fighting the Trinamul Congress in Bengal. However, Mamata did not send the letter to the CPM. She chose to send the letter to CPI-ML (Liberation) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, whose party had differed with the Left Front on the issue of identifying BJP as the “main enemy” in the ongoing Assembly polls. “…I strongly believe that the time has come for a united and effective struggle against the BJP’s attacks on democracy and the Constitution. As the Chairperson of All India Trinamul Congress, I shall work wholeheartedly with you and all other like-minded political parties in this battle,” Mamata wrote in the letter. The chief minister has made the first move without waiting for the Assembly results, prompting some to suggest that she has realised first hand the peril of letting the BJP go unchallenged. Others felt that Mamata was positioning herself at the forefront of a possible Opposition platform against the BJP, regardless of the outcome of the Assembly elections. In the letter, the chief minister explained in detail how the BJP was trying to establish a “one-party authoritarian rule” in India by diluting the powers of state governments. “It was surprising that no party has raised its voice against the recent developments that will hurt the federal structure of the country. The chief minister took it on herself to ring the alarm. She is looking at a larger coalition of forces in her battle against the BJP,” said a Trinamul leader. He added that Mamata’s immediate need to sound out her possible allies about the resolve to fight the BJP stemmed from the BJP’s all-out offensive in the 2021 battle for Bengal. Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, Mamata had made a similar attempt to cobble together an anti-BJP alliance across the country and reached out to key Opposition leaders. “We want all Opposition parties to work together. We should help the strongest Opposition party in a state to fight the BJP (in the Lok Sabha polls),” Mamata had then said after one of her several parleys with Opposition leaders in New Delhi. Although her 2019 initiative failed to make much progress after the BJP swept the parliamentary polls, Mamata this time cited the example of the National Capital territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill to underscore the need to fight the BJP. Mamata said in the letter:  “With this law, the BJP government at the Centre has snatched away practically all the powers of the democratically elected government of Delhi, and vested them in the hands of Lt Governor, a nominee of the Centre.…” Mamata pointed out how the central agencies like the CBI and ED were being unleashed against leaders of non-BJP parties or how the Centre was deliberately withholding funds for non-BJP states. “Predictably, these institutions target only non-BJP leaders, and never those belonging to the BJP,” she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Why no action on my attackers, Mamata asks Election Commission ||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday accused the Election Commission of India of not taking any action against those who allegedly attacked her car on Tuesday when she visited Nandigram’s Balarampur, the charge made on a day the poll panel deployed 30 women central force personnel for her rival, BJP nominee Suvendu Adhikari. “Armed goons from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have taken shelter in Nandigram to foment violence. I am tired of complaining with the Election Commission. Today the police are under their (commission) control. Why didn’t they take action against goons when they attacked my car and heckled me yesterday (Tuesday?” Mamata asked in her campaign rally in Hooghly’s Goghat on Wednesday. She alleged that bike-borne goons threaten voters through the night in areas like Boyal, Gokulnagar and many others. “If I ask my boys to chase them (BJP people), you will run away. Don’t think it is because of my weakness that I am not asking (them) to do so. I want to complete the polls peacefully. I have recorded the names and taken the images of those goons... After the polls, we will bring them to book even if they hide in Delhi or Uttar Pradesh,” said a visibly angry Mamata. Several BJP supporters had banged on the bonnet and the windows of Mamata’s car and heckled her when she visited Balarampur on Tuesday.  She was also heckled at two points in Reyapara and Tengua earlier in the day. Trinamul sources said the alacrity with which the EC acted on the BJP’s complaints smacked of favouritism. The EC on Wednesday deployed 30 women constables of the central forces for Adhikari — Mamata’s aide-turned-rival in Nandigram that votes on Thursday — following reports that he faced protests by women wherever he went to campaign. “It was found that Adhikari faced agitation and was chased by a group of women with brooms and ladles at many places during his campaign. Accordingly, the commission deployed women personnel for his security. The team will guard Adhikari when he moves on the day of poll tomorrow (Thursday),” said a senior district official in East Midnapore. The EC also deployed four armed constables (not from central forces) for the security of Nandigram’s CPM nominee Minakshi Mukherjee and gave a Y-category security ring for BJP’s Moyna candidate and former cricketer Ashoke Dinda after they were attacked allegedly by Trinamul-backed goons on Tuesday. “The security of several political persons has been increased as per necessity,” said Smita Pandey, East Midnapore district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Poll paper filing triggers Trinamul-BJP fight||A Trinamul supporter suffered a bullet wound and 27 others from his party and the BJP were injured during a clash in front of the subdivisional administrative office here on Wednesday afternoon. Police had to lathicharge the Trinamul and BJP supporters who came for the filing of nomination papers by Trinamul’s Barrackpore nominee Raj Chakraborty and BJP’s Bijpur nominee Subhranshu Roy — at the SDO office. Trinamul supporter Siraj Ali, who got a bullet on his leg, was admitted to the BN Bose subdivisional hospital along with a dozen others. Chakraborty’s leg was hurt during stone-pelting by the mob. Roy’s car was allegedly vandalised by Trinamul supporters. Police sources said a country-made pistol was recovered from the spot from which at least three rounds were fired, but the Barrackpore police commissionerate refused to confirm firing. So far, police have arrested six persons, including four BJP activists, on attempt-to-murder charges. The Election Commission has sought a report from North 24-Parganas district administration. Police and local sources said trouble started at 3pm when Trinamul’s candidate Chakraborty was leading a rally after filing his nomination papers and BJP candidate Roy was entering the administrative building to submit his papers. Chakraborty claimed theirs was a peaceful rally till BJP supporters attacked them. “BJP supporters began pelting stones and opened fire. It was a planned attack as the BJP is fast losing ground here. All these happened in front of the police who were mute,” he added. Trinamul’s Naihati nominee Partha Bhowmik also blamed Roy and his men. Roy refuted Trinamul’s allegations. “Everyone knows who organised the attack. One of its candidates who did not want me to submit my nomination organised this attack. I was the target and they wanted to kill me today,” Roy alleged. “They first tried to prevent me (from filing papers), but somehow the police took me away. When I was coming out of the administrative building, I heard Trinamul supporters’ abusive slogans against me,” Roy said. He alleged that despite the situation going out of control, the police remained silent and kept the central force inactive. “It remains a mystery why jawans of the central force were made to wait despite Trinamul goons going on a rampage,” Roy said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Mamata voices poaching fear||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday asked people to ensure that the Trinamul Congress got handsome majority as she apprehended that the BJP would employ poaching tactics if her party won the Assembly polls by a slender margin. “I can only form the government if our candidates like Becharam Manna, Ashima Patra and Dilip Yadav win the election. We can’t form a government if I win alone. We are contesting 291 seats and our friends in the (Darjeeling) hills are contesting the remaining three seats. I have to win at least 225-230 seats and I can’t form a government if I don’t win those,” said Mamata at rally in Singur on Wednesday. “Otherwise, the BJP will buy some traitors for Rs 5 lakh or Rs 5 crore. So, you have to cast more votes for Trinamul candidates for the party to win more seats and save it from traitors.” Opposition parties had been saying the BJP would buy out Trinamul MLAs to form the government if the ruling party got a marginal majority. Trinamul insiders said the party leadership had already discussed the issue of the BJP’s possible ploy to buy their MLAs as it had been hit by defections in the run up to the polls. The ruling party leaders referred to the incident of Karnataka where the BJP allegedly employed horse-trading to topple the Congress government and grab power. “The BJP is using its money power to grab power in Bengal by any means. So, it is important to make more MLAs win in this election. We have a doubt that if we have 155-170 MLAs, the BJP will indulge in horse-trading to form the government,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Mamata had expressed the fear of horse-trading in a letter written on March28 to anti-BJP leaders, including Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar, Akhilesh Yadav and M.K. Stalin. “The BJP has amassed unlimited resources from questionable sources, which it is using to topple duly elected non-BJP government and to engineer defections in non-BJP parties,” Mamata has written in her three-page letter. A section of Trinamul insiders said Mamata’s move to express her fear was a political alarm for the people of Bengal amid the poll season and a threat for the BJP if it even tried to do horse-trading after the election. “What our chief minister told at her Singur rally is also a pre-emptive attempt to foil any foul play by the BJP. We are getting advantages in a few seats where the BJP has fielded Trinamul turncoats as old timers in their camps are very annoyed with the practice,” said a Trinamul leader in Hooghly. The BJP criticised Mamata for her apprehension of horse-trading saying all such allegations were nothing but her signs of defeat. “First, she had said outsiders were going to loot the polls. Then, she said the ECI was conspiring against them. Then, the narrative shifted to EVM hacking and now, she is alleging possible horse-trading. All these are signs of her inevitable defeat,” said BJP’s chief spokesperson Shamik Bhattacharya. Mamata on Wednesday held three back-to-back rallies in Hooghly’s Goghat and Singur, and Howrah’s Uluberia and accused the BJP of parachuting leaders from outside with cash to influence voters with an appeal to the Election Commission to conduct raids on hotels where the BJP leaders were staying. “The goons from outside are staying at resorts in Arambagh with bags full of cash. Snatch the bag of cash from them. I will reward those who will help to seize the bag with cash. They can’t fight alone against Mamata. They can’t fight against a daughter here. You will inform police and the Election Commission about the goons,” Mamata said at the rally in Goghat. Mamata said in Singur that her government would set up agro-industries on government land in Singur and later would work towards setting up large-scale industries. “We have earmarked a stretch of 11 acres of government land in Singur where we will set up agro- industries and it will create jobs. After setting up agro-based industries, we will go forward to set up large scale industries,” said Mamata. Mamata’s proposal drew sharp criticism from her rivals, including the CPM candidate at Singur, Srijan Bhattacharya. “Mamata Banerjee must apologise to former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharya and people of Bengal as she ruined the hope of youths by destroying an industry that was almost complete in Singur. She is now planning to set up an agro-industry on 11 acres of land after ruining an industry that would have given jobs to thousands of people,” said Srijan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Kafeel Khan endorses CPM duo||Kafeel Khan, the Gorakhpur doctor who was arrested twice by the Uttar Pradesh government and emerged as a symbol of resistance against state oppression, on Wednesday issued a video message to back two young CPM candidates in Bengal — Dipsita Dhar and Aishe Ghosh. Dipsita is standing from Bally in Howrah and Aishe from Jamuria in West Burdwan. “...At such a young age I’ve seen the zeal to take up the nation’s responsibility in them. I’ve seen them working hard…It is my request that you elect them so that our nation develops…Come out of the politics of hatred, of violence, of caste and of religion and make them win,” Khan said in the clip. Speaking to this paper, Khan said he believed democratic institutions of the nation such as the Parliament and Assemblies needed strong voices for public representation, and Dipsita and Aishe had it in them to be those voices. “I’ve known Dipsita for three-four years and Aishe for about a year and a half. I know the kind of work they have done in JNU…I’m not speaking for any party. I’m speaking for these individuals. We need people like them in the Assemblies, who are politically, socially, economically aware, who have plans for the betterment of the people,” Khan said. Khan shot to national prominence in 2017 when many child deaths happened at the BRD Medical College in UP’s Gorakhpur, after the hospital’s oxygen supply was disconnected on August 10 apparently over non-payment of dues. Khan, a lecturer at the department of paediatrics in this college, spent his own money to arrange for oxygen cylinders. Hailed as a hero by the media, Khan was arrested on September 2, charged under several sections and removed as the nodal officer in charge of the encephalitis ward on charges of dereliction of duty and carrying out private practice. The toll because of lack of oxygen mounted to around 63. Acquitted of all charges on September 27 2019, Khan was re-arrested on December 13 from Mumbai by a special task force of UP police under the National Securities Act in relation to an anti-CAA speech he had made at the Aligarh Muslim University. On September 1, 2020, Allahabad High Court dropped all NSA charges against him and he was released. JNU students, including Dipsita who is a national joint secretary of the SFI, and Aishe the incumbent president of the varsity students’ union, stood by Khan during his arrests and demanded justice for him. Aishe led an anti-CAA protest at Delhi’s Jantar Mantar in February 2019 and demanded Khan release from there. In November 2019, when JNU students protested against an alleged fee hike, Khan stood by them. During the 2019 polls, Khan had campaigned for former JNU students’ union president Kanhaiya Kumar and Shashi Tharoor. Kanhaiya contested and lost the Lok Sabha polls on a CPI ticket from Bihar’s Begusarai and Tharoor is the Congress MP from Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram. Asked if he would campaign for the two in Bengal, Khan said he was busy till April 6 in some legal work but was willing to campaign for the two once free. “It was very nice of him to take this initiative for wishing us good luck. I’ve known him since he was first arrested in 2017. Individually and from the SFI we had staged several protests demanding his release. He has also expressed his wish to campaign for us,” Dipsita told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Nadda flags 39 closed mills, insiders demur||BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda said at a poll rally in Hooghly’s Dhanekhali on Wednesday that 39 of the 60 jute mills in Bengal were not operating, but sources in the industry said the figure was wrong. Although no one came on record, sources in the Indian Jute Mills Association (IJMA) said Nadda had been wrongly briefed. Bengal has some 67 jute mills, with five permanently closed. However, 60 mills are running fully or partially, an IJMA source said. Nadda also said the Hastings Mill in Rishra and the Brook Mill in Champdani, both in Hooghly district, were closed. However, both are operational, said the highly placed IJMA source, and pointed out that Nadda had possibly been referring to Northbrook jute mill at Champdani as “Brook”. “Northbrook jute mill, which is at Champdani, is partially operational,” said the IJMA source. “The BJP leader may have mispronounced Northbrook as Brook.” Hastings Jute Mill was fully operational, he added. “This area which is known for jute industries…jute business…This is an industrial belt. But here under the rule of Mamataji (chief minister Mamata Banerjee), 39 out of 60 jute mills are closed. Am I right? (She) ruled for ten years…39 out of 60 mills closed. Now Trinamul’s chapter will also be closed,” Nadda said. “Friends, the Hastings Jute Industry in Rishra has closed down. The Brook Jute Industry in Champdani has closed down…and work was suspended here leaving about 10,000 workers jobless…” Nadda added. He said Mamata couldn’t start the Dunlop factory in Hooghly after promising to do so. Goutam Chatterjee, BJP’s organisational chief for Hooghly district, tried to justify Nadda’s claims. “The mills running currently are almost dying. That is what Naddaji meant. Most workers are employed on contract basis and paid less than what they should get. If the BJP comes to power, we will change all this,” Chatterjee told this paper. BJP leaders, including Nadda, on Wednesday claimed the Centre under Prime Minister Narendra Modi allowed 100 per cent packaging of food grains like wheat and rice in jute bags to support the industry. However, packing food grains in jute bags was made mandatory by the Jute Packaging Materials Act of 1987. Nadda also said that workers at jute mills were not given provident fund benefits and minimum wages. Though jute worker unions agreed they didn’t get provident fund, they blamed the Centre for it. “Provident fund benefits have been destroyed by the policies of the Centre,” said Nagendra Pandey, joint general secretary of Jute Workers’ Federation, who added that most mills were operational. IJMA sources, however, said provident fund for workers had been regularised and arrears of around Rs 20 crore was stuck in litigation. On Wednesday, Nadda also participated in two roadshows in Bally and Pursurah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-133
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: 22 companies for Nandigram voting||Twenty-two companies of central forces were deployed for area domination and Section 144 was imposed to avert any law and order problem in the Nandigram constituency which will go the polls on Thursday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is contesting the seat where the BJP has fielded her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari. Sources said the forces were being guided by the East Midnapore district administration to watch sensitive areas of Gokulnagar, Haripur and Boyal, all of which, according to the chief minister, were “overrun by outsiders”. Ensuring a free and fair election in Nandigram has become a top priority for the Election Commission as Mamata Banerjee, following a visit to Balarampur in East Midnapore where she was heckled, has lashed out at the BJP for “widespread voter intimidation”. Trinamul has alleged that bike-borne criminals are roaming around Nandigram to intimidate party voters and accused the BJP of bringing in outsiders to create trouble in the area. “All land routes are being monitored and vessel movement from Haldia has been shut off since afternoon. Central forces have been directed to keep an eye on the homes of 62 Trinamul leaders, excluding election agent Sheikh Sufian, as they are not allowed to vote,” said a source, referring to the most recent blow suffered by the ruling party in the area when investigations against 63 leaders in connection with the 2007 land agitation were reopened. Sheikh Sufian was later exempted from the same owing to his appointment as the election agent prior to the case’s reopening. “The family members of these leaders, who are absconding, have been informed that they are not to be seen in the area as they can be arrested on sight,” said a police officer, explaining that all presiding officers of the area’s 355 booths had received a list of names. From Wednesday morning, no outsider was allowed into Nandigram, which has had a history of violent agitation and has been in the throes of communal sentiment last week owing to incendiary BJP rallies. Government officials had also completed installing CCTVs and microphones at several “sensitive” booths, with sources saying the rest would be provided with “micro observers”. State police were also monitoring drones deployed over forested areas as of Wednesday evening. “We are going to be observing the live webcast from a few booths. If there are any signs of trouble, we will act immediately,” said district magistrate Smita Pandey.The Election Commission replaced the sub-divisional police officer of Haldia and the circle inspector of Mahisadal late on Tuesday. The Election Commission has attached two IPS officers — Praveen Tripathi and Nagendra Tripathi — with the newly appointed ADG (western zone) Rajesh Kumar for better coordination and supervision of the second phase of elections. EC officials said Praveen had been given the charge to supervise the election in the entire East Midnapore district on Thursday, except Nandigram where another IPS officer Nagendra has been deployed separately. The choice of officers has gained significance given the fact that a few months ago, the Union government had recommended central deputation for Praveen Tripathi as an alleged act of punishment after allegations of negligence had surfaced against him in supervising a road show by BJP leader J.P. Nadda in Bengal. The convoy of Nadda had been attacked during the road show. Following the recommendation of the central deputation, the state government transferred Praveen from the post of DIG (presidency range) to a relatively lesser significant post of DIG (provisioning). Senior officials in the state home department said Nagendra Tripathi’s deployment to monitor election in one of the most sensitive seats was also considered significant because five years ago, when he was a deputy commissioner in the Calcutta police, the Mamata Banerjee government had shunted him as officer on compulsory waiting following allegations of police excess during the 2016 Assembly elections in Calcutta and made him to wait for months before he was reinstated in a policing post.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Drones to keep tabs on voting in Sunderbans||The Election Commission will use nine drone cameras for aerial surveillance of the nine islands that fall under the Gosaba Assembly constituency in South 24-Parganas district during the second phase of the Assembly polls on Thursday. On Wednesday, officials of Baruipur police district conducted trial runs of drones at a few strategic locations. “The trial runs have been successful. The drones will be extensively used on Thursday morning when the polling begins,” said Kamanashish Sen, superintendent of police, Baruipur police district. Gosaba is one of the four Assembly segments, apart from Kakdwip, Sagar and Patharpratima, where polling will be held on Thursday. Polls to the remaining 27 seats in the district will be held on April 6 and 10. Gosaba, one of the major delta islands in the Sunderbans, is covered by several creeks. There are at least nine major islands in the delta. Gosaba is the last inhabited place ahead of the deep forest of the Sunderbans. Because of their riverine location and distance, the islands have become safe havens for goons. “We will use drone technology to ensure free and fair elections. The feed sent by the nine drone cameras from the nine islands will be monitored centrally by a police team. The drones will keep a watch on the vulnerable polling stations identified by the Election Commission,” Sen told The Telegraph. “Our aim is to ensure free and fair polling even at remote locations in Gosaba in the Sunderbans,” Sen added. To sanitise the area and as part of the administration’s confidence building measure, the police, with the support of central paramilitary force, launched a combing operation on the islands under Gosaba Assembly seat from Tuesday night. Gosaba has been under the Election Commission’s scanner since the beginning of the poll process owing to its poor law and order and crime records. Opposition parties, mainly the BJP, have lodged several complaints about alleged stockpiling of arms and bombs by the Trinamul Congress in the area. On March 5, one person was killed and five injured in a blast when they were allegedly manufacturing bombs at Arampur in Gosaba. Local sources said police operation had begun on Tuesday night, a few hours after campaigning ended. A large police team led by SDO, Canning, Gobinda Sikdar, and officer-in-charge of Gosaba police Soumen Biswas conducted several raids at Gosaba and Pathankhali. A senior police officer said: “The combing operation was undertaken as part of a confidence building measure. There has been no arrest. But we are clamping down on unauthorised gatherings. In the past one month, we conducted raids at several places in Gosaba and seized arms. We have arrested many suspected criminals also. So, we launched a fresh drive to ensure that people don’t panic and they participate in the polling process.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
01-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Abhishek, Mithun keep north poll pot boiling||The Trinamul Congress and the BJP intensified their election campaign in north Bengal on Wednesday with Mamata Banerjee’s nephew and MP Abhishek Banerjee and actor Mithun Chakraborty holding rallies for their respective parties. Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek held three public meetings — two in Cooch Behar and one in Alipurduar district where elections would be held on April 10. “The BJP has failed to meet aspirations of people living in two districts even though it has been in power at the Centre for the past seven years. People have elected BJP MPs from the region but they have not done anything. Ahead of the elections, the BJP MPs are promising cash and trying to use money power in an unscrupulous manner,” the Trinamul MP said. He also challenged BJP leaders to come up with a report card on what the central government had done for Bengal since 2014. “While Mamata Banerjee is seeking support from people over the agenda of development and has elaborated what she has done for the state in the past 10 years, the BJP is trying to hoodwink voters with other issues. That is why they do not have anything to speak about, given their miserable performance at the Centre,” said Abhishek. In the Assembly elections this year, both the BJP and Trinamul are persistently focussing on north Bengal, a region with 54 seats which can be the game-changer for any party. While the BJP, which had won seven of eight Lok Sabha seats of the region in 2019, intends to retain its lead in different Assembly segments, Trinamul is striving to revive its support base. While addressing the public meetings, Abhishek also asked voters to “teach a lesson” to turncoats. One of his targets was Mihir Goswami, the former Trinamul MLA of Cooch Behar South, who had defected to the BJP and is contesting as the BJP candidate of the Natabari (also in Cooch Behar) seat. “Some people who have enjoyed all benefits while being in Trinamul have betrayed Mamata Banerjee and joined the BJP. These people should be taught a lesson in the elections,” he said. He also obliquely referred to Nisith Pramanik, the BJP MP of Cooch Behar, who had defected from Trinamul in 2019. This time, Pramanik is contesting from Dinhata Assembly seat. “Those who have been removed from Trinamul have become the BJP’s candidates. When they could not find anybody, they fielded the MP. This person should be defeated,” Abhishek said. Mithun, who has been pitted by the BJP as a star campaigner, also addressed voters of both Cooch Behar and Alipurduar districts. “Those who are contesting the elections should not make false promises. Many people dangle lollipops before the polls….. we should abstain from it and make such commitments to people which we can meet while seeking their support,” the veteran actor advised BJP candidates. He was speaking at a public meeting in Gayerkata under the Madarihat Assembly constituency in Alipurduar district. He also elaborated on some of the points mentioned in the BJP’s election manifesto, which include revision of daily wages for tea garden workers. In Alipurduar, results of three of the five Assembly constituencies depend on the support of the tea garden population. In Cooch Behar, he attended a public meeting at Dinhata in support of Nisith Pramanik. At the meeting, he raised questions over chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s promise to deliver food grains, provided under the PDS, at doorsteps. “We have heard that rations would be delivered at homes. But I have doubt whether the manpower that is required for this exercise is available here…. whether government employees or police or Trinamul supporters will distribute the ration is not clear. This is nothing but a lollipop,” Mithun said. Later, he also attended a road show in Tufanganj. Hundreds had gathered at the road show to catch a glimpse of the actor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-134
