02-04-2021||West Bengal||Don’t need your suggestion on polls, Mamata tells Modi||Asserting that she was winning the election from Nandigram, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday hit back at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said that she does not need his "suggestion" on contesting from any other seat. The prime minister had on Thursday asked Mamata to clarify whether there is truth in the "rumours" that she was going to file the nomination for another seat going to the polls in the last phase, maintaining that the TMC chief has admitted defeat in Nandigram. "I want to tell the prime minister to control his home minister first and then try to control us. We are not your party's members that you will control us," Mamata said at an election rally in Dinhata in the north Bengal district of Coochbehar. "I am not your party's member so that  you can suggest I contest from another seat. I have contested from Nandigram and will win from there," she added. At a rally in Uluberia on Thursday, Modi said that the people of Bengal are prepared if she goes anywhere else to contest, anticipating defeat in Nandigram, where she was up against BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, her former close aide. Mamata , who began her north Bengal tour with the rally here, alleged that the election is not being conducted by the Election Commission but by Amit Shah, the Home Minister. She alleged that the central forces were being used to intimidate the voters. "I want more than 200 seats, since anything less than that will mean they (BJP) will buy the 'gaddars' (traitors)," Mamata said, apparently admitting that TMC MLAs may be up for grabs if her party wins by a slender margin in the elections for the 294-member assembly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
02-04-2021||West Bengal||TMC govt following model of 'Tolabaji', 'Tanashahi' and 'Tushtikaran', says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday lashed out at Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, accusing her of running the TMC government in the state on the 3T model of 'Tolabaji' (extortion), 'Tanashahi' (dictatorship) and 'Tushtikaran' (appeasement). Shah exuded confidence that Mamata, who is contesting her former lieutenant and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat, will lose from the constituency in Purba Medinipur district. Identifying cross-border infiltration as the biggest problem of the north Bengal region, which he claimed faced injustice at the hands of the TMC government, the Union home minister promised to completely stop illegal immigration from neighbouring Bangladesh if the BJP is voted to power in the state. He also promised that the BJP will spend Rs 2,000 crore annually on north Bengal's development and establish an AIIMS to cater to the medical necessities of the people of the region. Addressing an election rally in Coochbehar district's Sitalkuchi, situated near the India-Bangladesh border, he said, "Cross-border Infiltration is north Bengal's biggest problem. The TMC government can never stop it, only we can." "Mamata Banerjee runs the state government on the 3T model of 'Tolabaji' (extortion), 'Tanashahi' (dictatorship) and 'Tushtikaran' (appeasement)," he said. Exuding confidence of coming to power in the state with a massive mandate, Shah said, "We are winning in the first two phases of elections (held on March 27 and April 1). Mamata didi is losing in Nandigram." Shah accused the TMC government of meting out injustice to the north Bengal region. "Mamata didi has done nothing for the development of the region. After coming to power, the BJP will constitute a North Bengal Development Board and spend Rs 2,000 crore annually on the region's development. "We will also establish an AIIMS, which will cater to the medical necessities of not only Coochbehar district but also of the entire region," he said. The constituencies in Coochbehar district will go to polls in the fourth phase on April 10. Results of all the 294 assembly seats will be declared on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
02-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Row over saffron attire||Sporadic incidents of violence and other episodes marked the second phase of the Bengal Assembly polls in which 30 Assembly constituencies voted on Thursday. The Telegraph throws light on a few of those below  Where: Gurudaspur High School, Patharpratima When: 6am What: Kamal Gangopadhyay, 41, a police constable assigned poll duty at Patharpratima in North 24Parganas, was found hanging on polling booth premise. Officialspeak: “The constable appears to have committed suicide because of a personal problem,” said a police officer. Where: Islampur Primary School, Debra When: 11.30am What: BJP candidate for West Midnapore’s Debra constituency Bharati Ghosh was allegedly heckled by Trinamul supporters, accusing her of bringing outsiders and distributing money when she went to a polling station along with some party workers. The BJP supporters blocked a road for about 30 minutes in protest. Trinamul later lodged a complaint against Ghosh with the Election Commission. Officialspeak: “The central force was pressed into action to bring the situation under control. The complaint is being examined,” an EC official said.  Where: Bishnupur at Sabang When: 8am What: Trinamul and BJP supporters clashed near a polling station in the Bishnupur area of Sabang in West Midnapore. At least six motorcycles were set on fire. Officialspeak: “State and central police teams were deployed in the area to maintain law and order,” an EC official said.  Where: Mohammedpur under block 1 of Chandipur When: 9am What: Trinamul candidate for East Midnapore’s Chandipur constituency Soham Chakraborty was allegedly gheraoed by a group of violent BJP supporters when he went to visit a booth in Mohammedpur to check a complaint of manipulation of EVM. The BJP supporters were chanting “Jai Sri Ram slogan”. The security personnel thwarted them when they tried to come closer to him. The brawl led to suspension of polling for 30 minutes. Officialspeak: “The EVM was examined and allegations found baseless,” an EC official said.  Where: Polling stations 112 and 113 When: 9.30am What: Trinamul candidate and actress Sayantika Banerjee complained of EVM malfunction at two polling booths in Bankura. Officialspeak: “EVMs were replaced,” said an EC official.  Where: A Bankura temple When: 7am What: The BJP lodged a complaint against Bankura Trinamul candidate Sayantika Banerjee for distributing money among people in front of a temple. Trinamul sources said the actress began the day by offering puja at a temple in the town when she had given money to some needy persons. Officialspeak: “The allegations will be examined,” an EC official said.  Where: A number of polling stations in Kharagpur When: Afternoon What: Trinamul’s Kharagpur candidate Pradip Sarkar lodged a complaint at the local police station, accusing the state and central forces of noncooperation and assaulting party supporters at a number of polling stations. He threatened to demonstrate in front of the police station if immediate action was not taken. Officialspeak: “Reinforcements were sent so that people can vote freely,” a police officer said.  Where: Kakdwip in South 24Parganas When: 7.30am What: Voting was suspended at a polling station in Kakdwip, South 24Parganas, when a Trinamul agent raised objection against a BJP agent’s saffron attire. The Trinamul agent accused him of influencing voters and asked the presiding officer to send him outside. The presiding officer requested the BJP agent to change his attire, but he refused. Officialspeak: “Our officials intervened and ruled out the allegation since there was no symbol on his attire. There is no colour bar on the attire for agents,” an EC official said.  Where: Bankabor high school, Keshpur, West Midnapore When: 9am What: Habibur Rahaman, polling agent of Trinamul candidate Seuli Saha in Keshpur, was beaten up allegedly by BJP supporters. He was admitted to Keshpur hospital with head injuries. In retaliation, the BJP candidate’s election agent Tanmoy Ghosh’s car was allegedly vandalised by Trinamul supporters. Officialspeak: “The complaint is being examined,” a police officer said.  Where: Booth no. 71 and 87 in Pakhanna village of Borjora constituency. When: 10.30am. What: A group of BJP workers alleged that |Trinamul workers in police uniform allegedly beat them up outside a booth at Borjora in Bankura. Officialspeak: “It was central forces that chased away a group but the allegation of beating them up is incorrect,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Call for ‘autonomous state’||The Bimal Gurung camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha has said implementation of Article 244 (A) of the Constitution, under which “an autonomous state comprising certain tribal areas in Assam” was created in 1969, could be more feasible right now in the Darjeeling hills, Dooars and the Terai. During an interaction with journalists in Darjeeling on Wednesday, Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Morcha’s Gurung cap, said even though the party was looking at three options, with the order of preference being separate state of Gorkhaland, Union territory and implementation of Article 244 (A), the last one seemed more feasible at the moment. “At the moment, Article 244 (A) seems most feasible and this can be worked out with chief minister Mamata Banerjee as a solution for now,” said Giri. Article 244 (A) was inserted in the Constitution in 1969 for formation “of an autonomous state comprising certain tribal areas in Assam” with provision for creating local legislature or council of minister or both. The present state of Meghalaya was made an autonomous state within Assam following the amendment to the Constitution. In 1972 Meghalaya, attained full statehood. The BJP has promised a “permanent political solution” for the hills, Dooars and the Terai in its 2019 Lok Sabha manifesto. “The BJP is not interested in the hills. It will neither provide Gorkhaland nor Union territory status. We have also realised that without the state government’s intervention, a ‘permanent political solution’ is difficult,” Giri said, justifying the party’s push for the new arrangement. Even though Giri was a signatory as the representative of the Morcha to the memorandum of agreement to set up the present Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, the hill leader said on Wednesday that the GTA was no longer acceptable. “We want a body with constitutional recognition,” said Giri, meaning that the new administrative setup should be incorporated through one of the provisions in the Constitution. The GTA has been formed under a law passed by the Bengal Assembly, and not Parliament with the assent of the President of India. Bimal Gurung dumped the BJP in October last year and joined hands with Mamata Banerjee, saying the saffron party was not interested in meeting the aspirations of the Darjeeling hills. Following the renewed alliance between Gurung and the Trinamul Congress, Mamata Banerjee said she would work out a “permanent political solution”. The Morcha said while its demand for Gorkhaland would always remain, it saw more possibility of bringing the hills under Article 244 (A) given the present political ecosystem in the country. Many in the hills believe the new demand raised by Giri is an attempt to find relevance in the local politics. “The Gurung faction is probably trying to create a buzz with a new issue,” said an observer. It is, however, to be seen whether the new issue raised by the Gurung faction will find traction with the people of the region. Even if Mamata does agree to Article 244 (A), the role of the BJP government at the Centre would be decisive as the amendment has to be made by Parliament. “The new constitutional body, however, should include Gorkhadominated areas of the Dooars and the Terai,” said Giri. The demand for the inclusion in the hill administrative body of the Gorkhadominated areas in the plains has been longstanding and it has found few takers at the Bengal government. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has also been pitching for strengthening Article 244 (A) in Assam during the current election to safeguard the interest of tribal majority district in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Communal polarisation in Nandigram||Two “first-timers” stood on the opposite edges of the ravine that polarisation has carved through the heart of Nandigram. Saibul Saha, 45, used to be an active member of the CPM. On Thursday, he voted for Mamata Banerjee for the first time. “This is now down to those from the majority community still able to hold on to their good sense and the minority community, to whom Mamata is practically the only resort…. Nandigram today, the rest of Bengal tomorrow,” said Saha, a voter in Nandigram. Less than 5km away in Gokulnagar, Aparna Ruidas, 52, said with a shrug: “In a first, we voted for the BJP. The reason needn’t be stated. It’s obvious. It’s in my name.” Gokulnagar’s traditional pro-CPM families, who say they could not vote at all out of fear since Mamata came to power in Bengal, were able to exercise their franchise this time. The ground reality in Nandigram will not be pleasant for anyone with a modicum of care for the inclusive ethos of Bengal that have been upheld for centuries. From Sonachura to Bhuta More, Haripur to Kendemari, Gokulnagar to Kalicharanpur, across the length and breadth of the key East Midnapore battleground, alarming signs of an electorate bitterly polarised over communal lines were apparent. Out of the total electorate of 2.57 lakh in Nandigram, minorities account for around 26 per cent. “Let the Mir Jafar (Trinamul Congress turncoat and current BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari) show his face here. We will teach him and his party a lesson that will never be forgotten,” said a middle-aged shopkeeper from a minority community from Garchakraberia. At the other end of the spectrum, a 35-year-old homemaker from Haripur issued a similar threat to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. “Let the Begum (Adhikari’s current communally loaded nickname for his former political boss) come here, we will break the other leg… this time, for real,” the homemaker said, referencing the chief minister’s injury. This degree of polarisation –- aimed at influencing voting decisions solely on the basis of religion-based identity -- is what the saffron camp has been accused of working tirelessly to achieve. Adhikari’s “70:30” formula – dog-whistling the approximate ratio of Hindu and Muslim voters in the Bengal electorate – implies that substantial support from the “70” will be enough to outweigh the opposition of the “30”. The most striking, and often fear-inducing, instance of the polarisation during the day was in Boyal, where Mamata had gone in response to complaints that her party’s polling agent was being kept out of a booth there. The wheelchair-bound chief minister was stranded in the Boyal booth for nearly two hours in the afternoon as two groups gathered outside. Over those two tense hours, the chest-thumping religio-political assertions, with police and journalists outside the booth caught in the middle, appeared quite capable of flaring up into a full-fledged communal riot. Not long after a police contingent pacified the two groups and ensured the departure of the chief minister, a Trinamul leader from the majority community rued what Nandigram had been reduced to. “We used to eat off the same plates. We fought state-sponsored terror, during our historic movement, shoulder to shoulder. The supposed divisions were never an issue for us for generations. Just one all-out attempt by the BJP to win an Assembly election, and we have come to this,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s actions show BJP will form government in Bengal: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was in Bengal to address two poll rallies, on Thursday said Mamata Banerjee’s “actions” in Nandigram showed that she had accepted defeat. “We all saw what happened in Nandigram sometime back. It shows that Didi (Mamata) has accepted her defeat. It shows that a BJP government will be formed in Bengal,” Modi said at a rally in Howrah’s Uluberia. He was referring to Mamata’s visit to a polling booth at Boyal in Nandigram where the chief minister alleged that BJP workers were rigging the polls. Modi addressed another public meeting at Joynagar in South 24-Parganas when Mamata was still inside the school. Expressing his confidence over the BJP’s win in Nandigram, the Prime Minister said Mamata’s actions were reflections of her nervousness. “In the past few days, some of Didi’s decisions have become the biggest opinion poll as well as exit poll in Bengal politics…. When (she) realised the initial trends, Didi left Bhowanipore seat and went to Nandigram. She reached Nandigram and realised her mistake, and the polling mood till now…What the people of Bengal wanted to do, Nandigram is already doing it today. She got angry and insulted the people of Nandigram,” Modi said at Joynagar. Modi also claimed the polling trend in the first phase of elections in the state made it sure that the BJP would grab power in Bengal with more than 200 seats. “Didi, the filing of nomination for the last phase of polls is still left. Please tell us if there is any truth in the rumour that you will file the (nomination) form in a seat….Is this true?” Modi asked at his rally at Uluberia. Trinamul sources later ruled out any possibility of Mamata contesting any other seat. Mamata also took the battle back to Modi when she questioned him for holding rallies in Bengal on the polling days. “…And every time, every election day, Narendra Modi is coming to Bengal to address rallies. Why (should he come on) election day to campaign? If we cannot campaign in poll-bound areas, then why on every election day the prime minister of this country, along with all facilities, including Doordarshan…why will he be addressing the people on every election day? Is it not wrong? Is it not violation of the conduct of election rules (Model Code of Conduct)?” Mamata said while speaking to journalists at Nandigram. Apart from attacking Mamata on the issue of Nandigram, Modi also referred to a letter written by her on Wednesday to leaders of 14 national parties. She had said the BJP was trying to turn the state governments into mere municipalities and establish a one-party authoritarian rule in India. “Her nervousness has multiplied after the first phase of polls….Only yesterday (Wednesday), she has written a letter to many leaders of the nation and appealed for help. The people who are outsiders and tourists in her eyes, whom she never gave time to meet…she is asking for their support now,” Modi said, taking a jibe at Trinamul and Mamata’s “outsider” narrative. Modi also fell back on his party’s polarisation agenda in both his speeches as he questioned Mamata’s intentions behind raising questions over his visit to Bangladesh on March 26 and 27 while polls had started in Bengal. “I went to one of the 51 shaktipeeths, the Jeshoreswari temple, Didi has objections to it…I visited Orakandi where I sought the blessings of Harichand Thakur and Guruchand Thakur for the whole nation, Didi is angry over that…You (the audience) tell me, is it wrong to visit Maa Kali’s temple? Is it wrong to salute Harichand Thakur? Don’t you know us…We are not men of seasonal respect…We know how to respect our culture and customs always…Didi wants to keep the infiltrators happy and hence she has forgotten the people of Bengal,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: 28 TMC poll agents missing in Nandigram||Trinamul failed to depute polling agents in at least 28 booths in Nandigram — an unprecedented no-show by ruling party polling agents in a seat where their party supremo Mamata Banerjee is pitted against turncoat Suvendu Adhikari — amid murmurs of the saffron camp’s money and muscle power. Trinamul insiders alleged that though there were a few instances of polling agents not turning up because of BJP’s threats, in other cases polling agents were “hand in glove” with the saffron camp. “This is unprecedented after we came to power in Bengal in 2011,” said a source. A polling agent in a booth is vital for a party as the person looks after the entire poll process with a right to object if any malpractice is reported. The absence of a polling agent gives an advantage to rivals. The trend of Trinamul polling agents missing in action in Nandigram came to light early in the day when Mrinal Barik, polling agent of Trinamul at booth 7 in Boyal village, was not found at home when a police team along with local Trinamul leaders went there. Since morning, Trinamul workers had started accusing the BJP of not allowing their polling agents to enter booths. Following this, Nagendranath Tripathi, the IPS officer in charge of Nandigram police station, asked a local Trinamul leader to bring his polling agent, adding he would personally ensure that person’s presence in the booth. Tripathi also went to Trinamul polling agent Barik’s home with party workers, but the man was not at home. Barik’s wife Ganga said her husband, a barber, was out on work. “This is a clear example that our person was wooed by the BJP,” said a Trinamul leader, adding that the Trinamul pradhan of Boyal I gram panchayat recently joined BJP and most polling agents had also switched to the new camp. “BJP leaders are threatening us and asking us not to go anywhere near the polling booth...I was scared and did not send my son,” said the mother of another absentee Trinamul polling agent. Sheikh Sufiyan, Mamata’s election agent, ruled out the possibility of the party’s agents being “bought” by the BJP. “They are just too scared,” said Sufiyan. The BJP and the CPM also could not depute polling agents in 30 and 58 booths, respectively, for different reasons. Sources said the BJP could not depute polling agents in minority-dominated areas and the CPM failed because of depleted organisational strength. “It is natural for the opposition parties to find it difficult to depute agents at all polling stations... But this time we (being the ruling party) could not field our polling agents (in all 255 booths) as Suvendu’s men changed everything,” said a Trinamul leader in Nandigram. The Trinamul leader’s take on the Nandigram scenario reminded many of what Mamata had alleged in her speech in Purulia on March 23, that the BJP had been asking some of Trinamul polling agents to work for them (the BJP) on election day in exchange of Rs 5 lakh. The situation was different in other districts like Bankura, where Trinamul polling agents were chosen after necessary checks. “We received a directive from the party in Calcutta to select trusted faces as polling agents. We had selected agents who are very trustworthy... So far, we have no report from any booth without our polling agent,” said Dilip Agrawal, a Trinamul spokesperson in Bankura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata confined at Nandigram booth for two hours||Mamata Banerjee was confined for two hours at a booth on Thursday afternoon as tensions thickened outside and cries of “Jai Shri Ram” rent the air, reflecting the high-voltage face-off between the chief minister and her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. After walking out of the Boyal booth amid heavy police reinforcements, the Trinamul chief alleged widespread rigging, accused Union home minister Amit Shah of engineering malpractice, questioned the Election Commission’s impartiality and blamed the trouble on alleged outsiders who could not speak Bengali. “Listen, I’m not worried about Nandigram. I’m worried about democracy,” the chief minister said. Mamata had got stuck at the booth — flanked by two neighbourhoods divided bitterly between two communities and their contrasting political loyalties — as rival crowds gathered outside shouting slogans against each other. A huge contingent of police in riot gear eventually arrived to rescue her after she made a series of calls — to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, the poll panel, police and administrative officials. Mamata stepped out guns blazing, fingers forming a ‘V’. “I’m going to win Nandigram with the blessings of Ma-Mati-Manush (mother-soil-people)…. For Nandigram and the other seats that voted today, and the 30 seats that did so earlier, for all the seats all over Bengal, I’m showing you V for victory,” she told reporters. “Even in Nandigram, I’m telling you, Trinamul will win over 90 per cent of the votes.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who addressed two rallies elsewhere in Bengal on Thursday, said Mamata’s “actions” in Nandigram showed that she had accepted defeat. Mamata questioned home minister Shah’s role. “The central forces — I’m not going to blame the CISF or the CRPF or the BSF, they are all our friends — I shall only request the Union home minister…. It’s not that they (central forces) are doing this; it’s the Union home minister — he is instructing the CRPF, the BSF and other jawans of the central forces,” an agitated Mamata said. “We are proud of them (the forces). But they are being instructed to only help the BJP and the BJP booths.” She went on: “In this area too, you have seen all the outsiders (who allegedly created the problem), who are not from Bengal. It’s from outside, the goons they have brought in. They cannot even speak Bengali. That’s the unfortunate part.” Mamata had stayed put at her rented Reyapara accommodation till about 1.20pm. She arrived at Boyal around 1.40pm amid accusations of rigging in a booth from where the BJP had allegedly driven out the Trinamul polling agent. Although Mamata accused the BJP of intimidating Trinamul agents, her party sources didn’t rule out the Adhikari camp having “bought them off”. As soon as Mamata arrived, tensions threatened to boil over in the Boyal booth, located in a constituency where Suvendu and his new party had been accused of doing their utmost to polarise the electorate of 2.57 lakh, which includes 68,000 Muslims. Even after the chief minister left, a large police team stayed put in the area to avert any flare-up, a possibility that had loomed. While the BJP mocked Mamata for the booth visit and attributed it to her alleged realisation of impending defeat, Trinamul sources said there was “method in the apparent madness”. “The BJP was banking heavily on electoral malpractice during the lunchtime lull, between 1pm and 4pm, perhaps till the end of polling in the areas dominated by the majority community,” a Trinamul insider said. “She (Mamata) made sure her Boyal intervention was intimidating enough for the BJP. She also hogged the limelight at a time Modi was campaigning in South 24-Parganas.” The source said that had Mamata not visited Boyal, the (roughly) 85 per cent turnout in Nandigram till 6pm would have been much higher on account of systematic rigging. Trinamul repeatedly reached out to journalists to dispel rumours that Mamata had sensed defeat in Nandigram and would be contesting from another seat as well. Like their leader, they insisted she was certain of victory. Mamata alleged rigging at the Boyal booth. “I had been warning (the poll panel) about Boyal for three days. For at least four days, they have unleashed unspeakable atrocities on the people, like breaking the arm of a young man who’s with us…. Our workers are battling death or getting murdered in other parts of the state,” she said. “Our polling agents were beaten up in their homes (on Wednesday night).... I have been telling the police repeatedly, twice, thrice…. Whenever the police came, they (Trinamul polling agents) came and sat (inside the booths). After the police left, the same thing again (Trinamul agents were driven out).” Mamata alleged that the 80 per cent polling the Boyal booth had witnessed till late afternoon consisted entirely of “rigged” votes, while Suvendu said all of it was genuine. “The Election Commission, I don’t know what to say. I’m sorry, I apologise to the Election Commission… for their silence. For their total silence,” Mamata said. “So many letters we have given, but (the commission has been) absolutely one-sided. They are supporting the BJP candidates, and under their instructions the BJP is getting (away with) so many provocations. They are beating up people, murdering them, looting votes.” The chief minister added: “I think it will create another bad history in our democracy. Democracy, which is a festival of the people. If you don’t allow the people to vote, what do you think, Election Commission? Why will people say the Election Commission is impartial? “My humble regards to the Election Commission and all its members, please take care, please take care. What you have done in Nandigram and other parts, don’t behave like this the next time too. Whatever you try, the BJP will not win the election.” Mamata attacked Suvendu without naming him. “The man contesting here for the BJP, his supreme indecency… from last night’s tandob (rampage), goondagiri (hooliganism) in various places…. We have already sent 63 formal complaints to the Election Commission of India and to others also,” she said. “All of you saw how, from the morning, they sat with guns, not letting anybody vote. The people are wishing me everywhere. What does that mean? Irrespective of who they entrust with the responsibility (of handling the elections), the people voted for me.” Suvendu, Trinamul turncoat and the BJP’s catch of the season, dismissed her allegations. “Out of the 350-plus booths in Nandigram, she has been sitting in one. What do candidates do? Candidates visit multiple booths or sit inside party offices and handle the management. But she sat in just one booth,” he said, having visited the Boyal booth after Mamata had left. “With 43 voters in the queue, why did she have to do that for two hours, terrorising the voters? Why the natokbaji (drama)? If a polling agent did leave, there are observers, the EC…. Even I level allegations. There is a system for that. I didn’t know that her situation has become so pathetic that she doesn’t even have people left to send emails (to the commission) for her.” He added: “I’m happy. The CRPF is responding very well; the Election Commission’s work has been fine…. She (Mamata) has insulted the people of Nandigram.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: ‘Didi’ becomes ‘aunty’ for changed Suvendu Adhikari ||BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari did not change his spots on polling day as he moved around Nandigram on Thursday sporting a rare bravado but not forgetting to play the polarisation card at every possible opportunity. “(She is a) 66-year-old aunty. Aunty ko thoda shaant rehna chahiye (aunty should keep her cool)… (She) shouldn’t resort to Gundagiri (hooliganism). Vikas (development) will win, appeasement politics will lose…Begum will lose,” Suvendu told journalists and the comment drew cheers of “Jai Shri Ram” from BJP supporters gathered around him. Suvendu was referring to chief minister Mamata Banerjee with whom he parted ways a little over four months ago. As the polling progressed on Thursday, Suvendu invoked his agenda of polarisation on multiple occasions. Talking to journalists later in the day, Suvendu said 60 per cent of those who shout “Jai Shri Ram, Krishna Krishna Hare Hare, Jai Maa Kali” and celebrate Durga Puja had cast their votes by 12 noon. Throughout Thursday, journalists followed Suvendu around the constituency and he used every moment of the attention he got to show off his confidence as he fought the toughest poll battle of his life. It was around 7.30 in the morning that Suvendu rode pillion on a two-wheeler to the school as the road to the booth was too narrow for his vehicle. It was while leaving the polling station that Suvendu referred to Mamata as a “66-year-old aunty”. Typical of a BJP follower, Suvendu wore a saffron tilak and a saffron scarf throughout the day. Every time Suvendu spoke to journalists, he sounded confident. Sometime he would refer to Nandigram’s polls as a revolution, sometime he would say at least 85 per cent votes would be cast in favour of change. While travelling through Satengabari in Nandigram block 2, some pelted his car and convoy with stones. One of the cars suffered damage. These men, which the BJP alleged were Trinamul supporters, also raised “Go back” and “Joy Bangla” slogans. Suvendu used the opportunity to play the polarisation card once again and said the Trinamul supporters were shouting slogans raised in Bangladesh. “Till now, there was no resistance, no opposition. Hence, there was no complaint. This time, there is great competition. Trinamul is desperate. There are 12 booths in the gram panchayat. That community has presence in two booths. The attack happened there. In the rest of the booths, there are devotees of Jai Shri Ram and Maa Kali,” Suvendu said without clarifying which community he meant. He also said the model of Sheikh Sufiyan, who is Mamata’s election agent, would not work in Nandigram anymore. After visiting a dozen booths, Suvendu received information that Mamata had gone to a booth at Boyal. After about two hours, when Mamata left the booth, Suvendu visited the area in the evening. He assured local BJP workers there that they would be able to cast their votes. “Nandigram’s Trinamul candidate had been sitting for long inside the booth…Ordinary voters couldn’t cast their votes,” he alleged adding that a complaint would be lodged with the Election Commission. Suvendu, who was never in dearth of confidence on Thursday, said he was happy with the performance of the paramilitary forces and the Election Commission. “I’ve no complaints…Healthy polling is on…” he told journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Sporadic clashes, high turnout in Phase 2||Mamata Banerjee criticised the Election Commission’s “inaction” on a day voting was marked by two deaths, sporadic violence, complaints of electoral malpractices and a high turnout, while the BJP welcomed the “free and fair” polling. By 5pm on Thursday, some 80.43 per cent polling had been recorded in the 30 seats spread across four districts that voted in the second phase of the eight-phase Bengal Assembly polls. “Since voting will continue till 6.30pm, the figure is expected to rise. The turnout is on the higher side; normally 80-82 per cent polling is seen in these areas,” a senior government official said. More than 130 complaints of malpractices — including “booth capturing”, voters being prevented from reaching the polling booths, and false voting — were registered, with Trinamul lodging about 90 of them, Election Commission sources said. A commission source said in the evening: “The poll panel inquired into each complaint; none has been found true so far but the final reports on some of them are yet to come.” “There were some law-and-order issues in some instances, and action was initiated soon after the complaints reached the CEO’s (state chief electoral officer) office in Calcutta.” The polling percentage was high despite voting being halted for several hours in at least 250 booths because of malfunctioning electronic voting machines, which had to be replaced. The day began with reports of a murder. A Trinamul Congress worker was stabbed to death in the early hours at Keshpur in West Midnapore — one of the districts that voted on Thursday along with East Midnapore, Bankura and South 24-Parganas. Police said Uttam Dolui, 48, was at a party office in the Hariharpur area of Keshpur when 10 to 15 people attacked him with sharp weapons. He died on the way to hospital. Dolui’s family alleged that BJP-backed criminals had murdered him to create tension ahead of the polling. District authorities said seven people had been arrested. A BJP worker, Uday Dubey, was found hanging at his home in Bhekutia, Nandigram, shortly before polling was to begin. His family said Dubey had been under mental pressure, having received threats from Trinamul workers after he attended a road show held by veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty in support of BJP Nandigram candidate Suvendu Adhikari. Primary investigations suggest that Dube committed suicide but the matter is being probed further, the district police said. Violence was reported from several places including Keshpur, where BJP candidate Pritish Ranjan Konar’s car was attacked in the morning, prompting him to run to Keshpur police station for shelter. The car of one of Konar’s booth agents had been vandalised earlier in the day while it was driving the candidate’s election agent to a booth. In the evening, the polling agent of the Trinamul candidate from Keshpur, Shiuli Saha, was heavily assaulted outside a booth, allegedly by BJP workers. He was hit in the head with sticks and would be admitted to hospital, sources said. Alleged BJP workers attacked the car of actor Soham Chakraborty, Trinamul candidate from the East Midnapore constituency of Chandipur. From Sabang, West Midnapore, Trinamul candidate Manas Bhunia alleged that a group of outsiders had created panic in the area shortly before polling was to begin by targeting the cars and motorcycles of Trinamul leaders and workers. Trinamul lodged some 20 complaints of booth capturing from Nandigram and Moyna, both in East Midnapore. Similar complaints came from Keshpur and Kharagpur in West Midnapore, Barjora in Bankura and Patharpratima in South 24-Parganas. A visibly angry chief minister accused the poll panel of inaction over Trinamul complaints. “We have lodged 63 complaints with the ECI (Election Commission of India) but no action has been taken so far. We will move court,” she said in the afternoon, stuck in a booth in Boyal, East Midnapore. Mamata had arrived at the spot following complaints that the BJP had captured the booth. She was stuck in the booth for nearly two hours as sloganeering Trinamul and BJP supporters gathered outside, thickening tensions. The BJP, which too lodged complaints of electoral malpractices at Debra and Keshpur in West Midnapore and Barjora in Bankura, appeared happy with the polling process on the whole. “The second phase was more or less peaceful. Trinamul has sensed that it is losing ground, so it’s started lodging complaints,” Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh told a television channel. Commission sources said the poll panel had instructed district authorities to act swiftly if there was violence. Detailed reports have been sought from the district authorities on the two deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Stones hit cars of BJP nominee, media||The car of BJP’s Keshpur candidate Pritish Ranjan Konar, along with three vehicles of media persons, were attacked by stones, brickbats and sticks allegedly by Trinamul supporters at Baruna village under the constituency in West Midnapore on Thursday. Keshpur was one of the 30 Assembly constituencies that went to polls on phase two of Bengal elections. Police have arrested nine persons in this regard. The Election Commission sought a detailed report on the incident. BJP sources said Konar, who is pitted against Trinamul’s Shiuli Saha in Keshpur, was told in the morning that Trinamul workers had captured a booth in Gunara village of Keshpur. He was headed there when he was allegedly waylaid by 40-odd Trinamul workers near Baruna. BJP president of Ghatal organisational district Tanmoy Das said Trinamul goons ambushed their candidate at various places. “We could not communicate with our candidate for over an hour after he was attacked by Trinamul goons at Baruna. Later, he was attacked in at least three places. Trinamul has understood its defeat is confirmed and has resorted to violence,” Das said. Trinamul leaders said the attack was by “common people of Keshpur” as a result of the BJP’s attacks on Trinamul. “The BJP has killed and attacked our party workers in some places. The attack on the BJP (candidate) was the result of the anger of the common people of Keshpur. Our party has nothing to do with it,” said Ajit Maity, Trinamul president of West Midnapore. TMC poll agent hurt On Thursday evening, Anisur Rahaman, polling agent of Trinamul nominee Saha, was injured when BJP workers allegedly hit his head with an iron rod near Keshpur. Trinamul sources said Rahaman received injuries in his eyes and was admitted to a Midnapore hospital with severe head injuries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Violence erupts over land-row death||Violence sparked at a village in Dhupguri block of Jalpaiguri district on Thursday after the death of a woman who was allegedly attacked by some people over land. Villagers also attacked the police and their vehicles. Police had to charge batons and burst teargas shells to disperse the crowd. Rapid Action Force (RAF) and central paramilitary forces were brought to the village. A woman civic volunteer sustained serious injuries. Sources said there had been repeated altercations recently among two families of Madhya Dahukimari village, Dhupguri, over a plot of land. A few days back, the families clashed and Minati Roy, 40, from one of the families, suffered injuries. A complaint was filed with the police and she was taken to North Bengal Medical College and Hospital. The police filed a case against some accused who got bail, angering Minati’s kin. Minati died on Wednesday night. As news spread, angry villagers started demonstrating since Thursday morning.  When a Dhupguri police team went to Madhya Dahukimari, some people pelted stones and bricks at them and targeted their vehicles, some ran to the homes of the accused and thrashed them. People alleged the police did not take proper steps against those who had beaten up Minati. Finally, the police had to chase them with batons and burst teargas shells. Ten persons, including a woman, have been detained. Five persons carrying a kilo of brown sugar and Rs 10,000 in cash were arrested by the police in Malda on Wednesday night during a special checking drive on NH12. Police sources said the arrested were coming in a pick-up van from Siliguri which was stopped near Simuldhab area under Malda police station. A packet containing around a kilo of brown sugar (an adulterated derivative of heroin), and Rs 10,000 in cash were seized from them. “They were arrested and taken into custody. A case under NDPS Act has been initiated against them. We are trying to find out the source from where they had obtained the narcotic substance, their destination and other details,” said Alok Rajoria, SP, Malda. Those arrested have been identified as Aviram Mandal, Biswajit Ghosh and Dhananjoy Halder of Malda and Azhar Ali and Sonaram Mahato of the neighbouring South Dinajpur district. In a separate incident, the police arrested Asraul Sheikh from Baliadanga area under Kaliachak police station on Thursday morning and seized an improvised firearm and a live bullet from him. Asraul was wanted in a number of cases, police sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Nandigram sees sporadic violence, ‘no bloodshed’||Vote day Thursday in East Midnapore’s Nandigram, with Mamata Banerjee pitted against her former aide and now rival from the BJP, Suvendu Adhikari, was marked by many incidents of near-clashes between Trinamul and BJP supporters and allegations of poll malpractices. On Wednesday, The Telegraph had reported that 22 companies of central forces were deployed and Section 144 imposed to avert any breach of law and order in Nandigram on vote day. Though there was no bloodshed across 255 booths spread across two blocks in Nandigram, security forces of both state and central governments rushed from one booth to another with complaints pouring in at control rooms set up at the Nandigram BDO office and police station. “We received over 100 complaints at our control rooms till the end of polling. There were no violent clashes as the forces were able to bring several cases of tense situations under control,” said a senior police officer in Nandigram. A police source said two incidents could have spiralled into major clashes had security forces not intervened. “One involved goons who hurled stones at Adhikari’s convoy, in which no one was hurt, and another involved chief minister Mamata Banerjee being confined to a booth in Boyal (for two hours in a tense face-off between Trinamul and BJP supporters),” said a police source. Late on Wednesday and early on Thursday, inter-party fights with crude bombs broke out at Sonachura, Kalicharanpur and Bhekutia. The body of BJP worker Uday Dubey was found hanging at home, his family alleging he had been “tormented” by Trinamul workers. BJP worker Sourav Bhattacharjee’s home was reportedly ransacked late on Wednesday. All three incidents caused local unrest that central forces quelled. “More than 100 complaints were registered with polling officials and we responded with our dispatches immediately, but upon investigation several were not found credible,” said district police chief Sunil Kumar Yadav. “I was on the field throughout the day and found no evidence of voter intimidation or malfeasance,” said Nagendra Tripathi, IPS, who had been deputed by the Election Commission to oversee polling on Thursday. His claim was contested by political parties who lodged complaints of violence and malpractices with the EC and district administration all through the day. CPM leaders also said the police officers were “unaware” of ground realities. “They may be speaking of circumstances immediately surrounding polling booths, but they do not know the condition of people being threatened and browbeaten in their own homes over the past few days and even on Thursday,” said CPM’s Nandigram candidate Minakshi Mukherjee, who toured the constituency since morning. She added that violation of Section 144 happened almost everywhere and the central forces did nothing to disperse those who had gathered unlawfully near polling booths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Active cases cross 6,000 in Bengal||Bengal on Thursday reported the highest number of new Covid-19 infections detected in a day this year, at 1,274, taking the total number of active cases above 6,000 for the first time since January 26. The number of active Covid-19 cases rose by 738 on Thursday to 6,513. This was the 21st consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases. The state reported 534 Covid recoveries. Two Covid patients died, one of them in the city. A 136-day stint of fall in the number of active cases in Bengal, since Vijaya Dashami last year, snapped on March 11. Before the rise since March 12, the active case count had fallen from 37,190 on October 26 to 3,110. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two districts on the Centre’s radar for the second wave of the pandemic, 399 and 344 new infections, respectively, were detected. The recovery rate is 97.14 per cent. The figure has fallen over the past three weeks but is still ahead of the national rate, which is 93.67.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
02-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: TMC launches Rajbanshi vote song||District Trinamul leaders of Jalpaiguri released the Rajbanshi version of Vote-er Gaan (vote song), a song launched by the party across the state during the ongoing Assembly elections, here on Thursday. Since the start of Trinamul’s election campaign, party youth leader Debangshu Bhattacharya composed a Bengali song with the popular phrase “Khela Hobe” that has been picked up by party leaders, including Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee. As the song was played throughout Bengal during Trinamul’s campaign, Trinamul leaders of Jalpaiguri took the initiative to get it translated in Rajbanshi language to reach out to voters in the Rajbanshi-dominated belts of north Bengal where the community influences poll results in around half of the 54 Assembly seats. The party roped in Parimal Burman, a Rajbanshi singer based in Mathabhanga of Cooch Behar and Tapan Roy, a known musician of the community from Dhupguri, and readied the two-minute-38-second-long song. P.K. Barma, the Trinamul candidate of Jalpaiguri, along with some other party leaders, published the Rajbanshi version of the song. “The song gives a message to voters of the state and speaks about development schemes initiated by the state government. We believe this song will be an effective campaign tool as we reach out to people, particularly the Rajbanshis,” said Barma. Vote-er Gaan will be circulated in all districts of north Bengal and played in local markets, prominent crossings and popular locations, said party sources. Chandan Bhowmik, a district coordinator of Trinamul in Jalpaiguri who had taken the initiative, said they are getting the song translated and recorded in Nepali and Hindi languages. “Gorkhas, tribals and different other communities dwell in Jalpaiguri district and in north Bengal as a whole. That is why we have planned to come up with different versions of the song so that voters can easily understand our message,” said Bhowmik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-131
