03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal’s ‘Bhumiputra’ will take over as the new chief minister, PM asserts||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday slammed Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for branding BJP leaders as "outsiders" (Bohirgato) and said it is an insult to the inclusive ideology of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and principles of Indian Constitution. Asserting that Bengals "Bhumiputra" (son of the soil) will take over as the chief Minister after the BJP is voted to power on May 2, Modi said no Indian is an "outsider" in the state. "When the British tried to divide us, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose said - India is one, and the hopes and aspirations of every Indian are the same. Today, there is a lot of pain when instead of propagating the ideology of Netaji, TMC and Mamata Didi are talking about Bohirgato," he told an election rally at Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas district. Didi is talking about outsiders. We are all children of Mother India. No Indian is an outsider here. When BJP forms the government after May 2, a son of the soil will become the chief minister, he said. Calling TMC a "Taka Maar Company" (an enterprise that loots money), the prime minister asked Mamata to control her "goons". "You keep your TMC goons under check. Explain to them - Modi is here! Their bullying will no longer be tolerated. Bengal doesn't want violence and terror. Bengal wants education for its daughters and protection, respect and justice for its mothers," he asserted. Referring to some TMC leaders' claim that Mamata might contest elections from his Lok Sabha seat Varanasi in 2024, Modi mocked the TMC boss, saying this proves that Didi has accepted her defeat. "Didi is now looking for a place for herself outside Bengal. The people of Varanasi and Uttar Pradesh are as large-hearted as the people of Bengal. They won't call her an outsider," he said sarcastically. Claiming that Mamata decided to contest Nandigram on impulse ("tao mein"), Modi said, sensing defeat at the prestigious seat, the TMC decided that she should enter the fray from another seat as well. "But some sensible people then told Didi it will be her second big mistake," he quipped.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Modi blames Trinamul for lack of jobs and Bengal's industrial rot||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday hit out at one of the weakest links in the Trinamul’s armour, the lack of industry and employment opportunities in Bengal, tying it directly with  anti-land acquisition movements led by Mamata Banerjee during her days in the Opposition. “Old industry is shut. The road for building new industry is also closed. The opportunities for doing business and generating employment is also closed. Once people from different parts of the country would come to work in the factories of Bengal. Now the youth of Bengal are going elsewhere,” said Modi addressing an election campaign meeting in Hooghly’s Tarakeswar, about 25 km from Singur, which was once floated as the destination for industrial revival of the state. “They are proud that they stalled industry in Singur. How they betrayed Singur you know it better than me. After using Singur politically they abandoned it. Industry did not come up in Singur and farmers are languishing,” Modi said. The Prime Minister said that the Trinamul government of the last 10 years lacked political will. After taking oath to form the government in May 2011, the first cabinet decision of the Mamata Banerjee government was to return the land that the erstwhile Left Front government had acquired from farmers in Singur for a proposed automobile plant of the Tatas. While work on the factory was on, resistance to the land acquisition  grew with Mamata leading the movement from the front with a now well-known “26-day hunger strike". The Tatas relocated the project to Gujarat’s Sanand and the unfinished automobile plant,  lying desolate along the Durgapur Expressway, was blown up by dynamite in 2016, burying the dreams of an industrialised Bengal. While Modi spoke about betrayal by the Trinamul, his party too had then supported Mamata’s movement against the Left Front government. In this election, the BJP has fielded the former Trinamul minister, Rabindranath Bhattacharya, the face of the Singur movement and one of the fiercest opponents of the automobile factory in Singur. Known in the area as “Mastermoshai”, Bhattacharya switched sides days before the polls. In its rush to find suitable faces to take on the Trinamul, the BJP has fallen back on turncoats of Bengal’s ruling party. While Tarakeswar will go to the polls in the next phase on April 6, Singur is scheduled in the fourth phase. Raising the pitch on alleged corruption by the Trinamul rank and file, Modi said their assets increased while people suffered. "They found opportunity in making money from natural disasters too. The size of their houses and cars have grown bigger. Local administration was being run from the Trinamul party offices,” he said. The Prime Minister sounded confident of a clear majority for the BJP when the results are announced on May 2. “Voters have paved the way for a thumping majority for us. People of Bengal always give priority to a stable government in the state, they vote to bring any party with clean majority and this time they have decided it is the BJP. We have already got a glimpse of what it is going to be on May 2 from the first two phases,” said Modi. While it is true that  since 1977 governments in Bengal have got a clear majority but that was after the state had witnessed in the late 60s the uncertainties of a coalition which proved disastrous. Modi said the Trinamul too was aware of its impending defeat and that is why Mamata was throwing tantrums. "With every phase, Didi’s exasperation is increasing. She is abusing the Election Commission and the security personnel. In a cricket match if a player keeps pointing fingers at the umpire then it has to be understood that there is something amiss with the player’s game. Didi o Didi, you are staring at defeat,” Modi said. Referring to the Trinamul slogan of “Khela hobe (Game on)", Modi said democracy and elections were not games. “The way to serve people, improve their lives is democracy. You forgot it, Didi,” he said. Addressing another election campaign in South 24-Parganas Sonarpur, Modi said Bengal did not want the syndicate raj of Trinamul's goons.  "Whatever artisans make in Bengal, they have to pay extortion money. Even loans under central schemes are not spared," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
03-04-2021||West Bengal||ED attaches assets worth Rs 3 crore of Satabdi Roy, others in Saradha case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has attached assets worth Rs 3 crore of TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh, its MP Satabdi Roy and Debjani Mukherjee in the Saradha chit fund money laundering case. It said a provisional order for attachment of the movable and immovable properties has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The central probe agency said in a statement that the assets belong to "Kunal Ghosh, ex-Rajya Sabha MP from Trinamool Congress (CEO of Media Group Saradha), Satabdi Roy, Lok Sabha MP from TMC (brand ambassador in Saradha), and Debjani Mukherjee who is director in Saradha Group of companies in Saradha chit fund case." Assets worth Rs 600 crore have been attached in this case till now. The ED is probing the money laundering aspect of the alleged ponzi scam since April, 2013. The Saradha group allegedly cheated thousands of depositors, promising abnormally high returns on investments in its illegal schemes. Ghosh, who is out on bail in the case, was suspended from the TMC in 2013 for alleged anti-party activities. He has been questioned by the ED in this case apart from others. He was later reinstated as the party spokesperson. The former TMC MP headed a TV channel and a daily, which was funded by the now-defunct Saradha group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP creating communal atrocities to win elections, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday accused the BJP of engineering communal strife in the state to win the Assembly elections. The TMC chief, while addressing an election rally in Raidighi in South 24 Parganas district, also called upon Muslims not to "fall in the trap of a BJP-aided party from Hyderabad and its Bengal ally that are out to polarise votes." Her jibe was apparently aimed at Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM and Abbas Siddiqui's ISF. Both Owaisi and Siddiqui had earlier denied the TMC's insinuations. The ISF is fighting the elections in alliance with the CPI(M) and the Congress. The TMC supremo also urged Hindus to be on the guard against the BJP's attempts to "instigate communal clashes" and called upon them to chase away outsiders sent to foment trouble in their respective localities. Affirming her Hindu identity, in an apparent attempt to counter the minority appeasement charge against her, Mamata said, "I am a devout Hindu who recites Chandi mantra every day before leaving home. But I believe in our tradition of giving respect to every religion." Taking a dig at BJP leaders having lunch at houses of Dalits, she said, "I am a Brahmin woman. But my all-time associate is a Scheduled Caste woman who takes care of all my needs. She also cooks food for me." "I need not advertise this as those bringing five-star hotel lunch to eat at the courtyard of a Dalit home are anti- Dalit, anti-backward caste and anti-minority in nature," she said. The TMC chief claimed that if elected to power in Bengal, the BJP will implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Register of Citizens (NRC), forcing "many citizens to leave". "They will divide Bengal and its people. Remember how they deleted the names of 14 lakh Bengalis and 2 lakh Biharis in the updated NRC in Assam," she said. Mamata alleged that central forces are terrorising people at every home 48 hours before polling, asking them to vote for the BJP. "Don't be intimidated. Mothers and sisters challenge them. We have no problems if the forces act impartially to ensure free and fair elections but if they act on behalf of a particular political party, we will protest," she said, The chief minister, who is contesting her former lieutenant and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, alleged that there were attempts by "outsiders" to rig the elections in the constituency in Purba Medinipur district. "There were attempts by outsiders to rig the elections in Nandigram by visiting every house before polling. Still, I will win handsomely from the seat. One local goon was accompanied by outsider goons in Nandigram. This is their pattern," she said. Taking a dig at TMC turncoats, she said sitting Raidighi MLA and actor Debasree Roy joined the BJP after not getting a party ticket from the seat. "We don't involve such opportunists in our party," she said. Noting that the TMC is fighting the elections on the development plank, she said, "There has been infrastructural development in Sunderbans. The state government has taken an initiative to provide egg meal at Rs 5 and women involved in SHGs in the region are involved in it."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Yogi holds roadshow in Howrah's Uluberia ahead of polls||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a roadshow here in Howrah district on Saturday as he sought to bolster the BJP's campaign in West Bengal ahead of the third phase assembly elections. Standing atop a vehicle, decked up with flowers and BJP flags, Adityanath waved at enthusiastic crowds that gathered along the road in the Gangarampur area in the subdivision where two constituencies - Uluberia Uttar and Uluberia Dakshin - will go to polls on April 6. Locals queued up on both sides of the road and watched the procession, which inched its way through the narrow streets amid chants of 'Jai Shri Ram'. Adityanath has been visiting several places across West Bengal and holding rallies for BJP candidates. The state registered 84.63 per cent polling in the first phase on March 27 and 86.11 per cent in the second phase on April 1. The third phase of the elections will be held in 31 assembly constituencies in the state on April 6. West Bengal will see five more phases and the last one will be conducted on April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||Calcutta||Bengal logs highest single-day spike in 2021 with 1,733 new Covid cases||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Bengal rose by 1,179 on Friday, to 7,692. This was the 22nd consecutive day of rise in the total of active Covid-19 cases. The state reported 550 Covid recoveries taking the total number of recoveries to 5,71,895 but 1,733 new infections were detected, besides four deaths, two of them in the city. The death toll rose to 10,335. The Covid-19 tally in the state mounted to 5,89,922 on Friday. In Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two districts on the Centre’s radar for the second wave of the pandemic, 513 and 331 new infections, respectively, were detected. The recovery rate among coronavirus patients currently stands at 96.94 per cent, the bulletin said. Altogether 92,25,351 samples have so far been tested for Covid-19 in the state, including 26,986 on Friday, the bulletin added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Why do raids take place only in Opposition-ruled states, asks CM||Mamata Banerjee asked a pertinent question on a day income-tax raids were carried out on M.K. Stalin’s relative in Tamil Nadu. “Why do the raids take place only in Opposition-ruled states? Why can’t the income-tax department conduct such raids in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar or Madhya Pradesh (all BJP-ruled states)? Is the income-tax department, the CBI or the ED suffering from Covid (and thus can’t act in these states)?” Mamata asked. The chief minister said in north Bengal: “I have been in touch with the DMK leaders since the morning. I spoke to Stalin…. The raids are part of a standard strategy of the BJP to use one or the other central agency against its opponents. We have seen it in Bengal too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata refutes Modi’s claim, says only contesting from Nandigram||Mamata Banerjee on Friday directly responded to Narendra Modi’s psychological warfare tactics by declaring she would not contest from anywhere other than Nandigram, where polling had been held 24 hours earlier. In what was seen as an attempt at sapping the morale of the Trinamul ranks, Modi had said on Thursday while voting was on that Mamata would lose from Nandigram and that there were rumours that she would contest from another Assembly seat too. Responding swiftly at a public meeting in north Bengal, Mamata asked Modi on Friday: “Why are you saying all this? Do I belong to your party that you would control me? I will win from Nandigram and will not contest from anywhere else.” Her statement was greeted with loud cheers from the audience. The Trinamul chief addressed another alleged ploy to wear her down. Mamata said the election schedule had been structured to suit the BJP’s political interests and restrict her movements so she could not campaign extensively. “But that will not happen.… I was in Nandigram this morning and I went from there to Calcutta, then to Bagdogra and then I came here to address you in Cooch Behar. From here I will go to Alipurduar and then return to Calcutta.… Tomorrow I will be in South 24-Parganas. You cannot restrict me,” Mamata said. Although the election is over in Nandigram, the seat remained firmly on the political centre stage with both Mamata and the BJP focusing their energies on predicting the outcome there. Mamata said she would win from Nandigram and that her party was in a favourable position in the first two phases of the elections, countering the narrative propagated by Amit Shah and other BJP leaders that the Trinamul talisman would lose. Shah, the Union home minister and the BJP’s key election manager, has been claiming on campaign trail that his party would bag more than 50 of the 60 seats that have voted so far, and that Mamata herself would taste defeat. Both Mamata and Shah were in north Bengal on Friday to launch their parties’ campaigns in the region, which has 54 Assembly seats. Mamata spoke at three public meetings in Cooch Behar and Alipurduar while Shah addressed two in these same districts. “I thank the residents of Nandigram for their support. The elections are in progress and so far, things have been in our favour. Let me make it very clear that Trinamul will make a comeback with 200-plus seats,” the chief minister told a rally in Dinhata, Cooch Behar. Trinamul leaders believe the election roster has been designed to ensure that seats where the BJP is confident of doing well would vote in the first two phases of the eight-leg polls. This would give the BJP the opportunity to create an impression of impending victory and influence voters. Lending credence to the perception, Shah on Friday predicted defeat for Mamata and painted a rosy picture for his party. “She will lose from Nandigram…. Of the 60 seats where elections have been held, we will win more than 50,” he told a gathering at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar. He repeated the claim in Kalchini, Alipurduar. After the first phase, too, Shah had sung the same tune, asserting that the BJP would pocket 26 of the 30 seats. In Dinhata, Mamata rubbished Shah’s claim and accused the Union home minister of using the central forces to vitiate the poll process in favour of the BJP. “I have respect for the central forces, but they have been instructed to favour the BJP in the elections.... I am telling the Prime Minister to control the home minister,” she said. The chief minister repeatedly referred to how the BJP government’s policies had made life difficult for ordinary people, highlighting the fuel price hikes and the contentious farm laws. “I am here to seek your votes because I have done things for you. Tell me, what have they done?” Mamata asked, before pitching herself as the candidate in all the 291 seats that Trinamul is contesting. “Consider me as the candidate and vote.… Please keep in mind that they have a lot of money and will try to buy off traitors even after the elections. So, I need 200-plus seats to run the next government and keep delivering what you want,” Mamata said. She urged the people to be cautious and resist the BJP’s attempts to rig the polls by deploying outsiders. “We fear that after the elections are over in Assam, they might try to bring anti-socials to these areas. We have to thwart all such attempts by the BJP,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC to send 200 more companies of central forces||The Election Commission of India is set to send 200 companies of central forces more to Bengal and they are likely to de deployed from the fourth phase of the polls. The first two phases of the polls are over and the third phase would be held on April 6. “The additional forces would be used from April 10 when the fourth phase would be held. There are enough forces to hold the third phase of the polls,” said a source in the poll panel. As of now, the state has 800 companies of central forces at its disposal. With 200 more companies, the state would have 1,000 companies of central forces. Sources said such a huge contingent of central forces was never deployed in the state for holding polls. “It has been decided that all booths would be guarded by central forces in this year’s polls and that’s why the requirement is much higher,” explained a source. As the first two phases had only 30 Assembly segments each, the requirement of central forces was 700-odd companies. “In the third phase scheduled for April 6, elections will be held in 31 Assembly segments. So, with the existing central forces, the elections could be managed. But from the fourth phase onwards, elections will be held in 40-odd Assembly segments and that’s why the requirement for forces would be higher,” said a source in the poll panel. A section of the officials said as elections in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry would be over by April 6, it would not be a problem for the EC to send additional forces to Bengal. “It is clear that the schedule of elections in Bengal was prepared in a way that maximum number of central forces can be sent to the state,” said an official. The sources said a total of 618 companies of central forces would be deployed in the third phase of the polls scheduled for April 6. “We have 800 companies in the state right now. Of them, 618 companies would be deployed for the third phase. The remaining forces would be used to guard the strong rooms where EVMs have been kept. Forces are also being used to build confidence among the voters in the districts where polls would be held later on,” said another source. The EC on Friday made it clear that the central forces would not enter the booths until they were called in by the presiding officer. The sources said the clear instruction was issued after charges were levelled against the central force jawans that a section of them was influencing voters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Tea garden leader Mohan Sharma leaves Trinamul Congress||Mohan Sharma, a former district president of the Trinamul Congress in Alipurduar, who also headed the party’s trade union in tea gardens, joined the BJP on Friday. Sharma was inducted into the BJP by Union home minister Amit Shah at a public meeting in the Kalchini block of the district on a day Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee launched her poll campaign in north Bengal. “I was neglected and insulted in Trinamul. That is why I decided to quit the party. Along with me, two members of Alipurduar zilla parishad have also joined the BJP. I have 11 zilla parishad members with me and if Trinamul challenges tomorrow, I can prove my majority in the 18-seat zilla parishad,” said the former Trinamul leader who himself is a zilla parishad member. He also said he would work as a common member of the BJP and strive to ensure that the party won all five Assembly seats in the Alipurduar district. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had led in all the five seats. His defection, Trinamul insiders said, has come as a fresh poser for the party. This is because Sharma, who is based in Kalchini, is known to have considerable clout among the tea population of the district and is also popular among the Gorkhas who dwell in Alipurduar. “In our district, there are three seats where residents of tea gardens decide the results. Also, in the remaining two seats, there are some tea gardens. Now that he will be fielded by the BJP to draw support from the tea belt, we will have to strive harder to revive our support,” said an insider. Mridul Goswami, the district Trinamul chief, however, tried to put a brave face. “Mohan Sharma was put in as many as nine government posts. We don’t know what made him take such a decision…. we will continue to work for the party and people will vote us as the BJP has not done anything for the district even after it got an MP from here, unlike the state government that has carried out a series of development works,” said Goswami.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP candidate Dipak Halder hospitalised, finger at Trinamul Congress||Dipak Halder, the Diamond Harbour BJP candidate, suffered multiple injuries when he was attacked by suspected Trinamul Congress supporters while campaigning in his Assembly segment in South 24-Parganas district on Friday. Six BJP workers were also injured in the attack when they tried to save Halder at Haridevpur in the Parulia coastal area. All the victims, including Halder, have been admitted to Diamond Harbour Medical College and Hospital. Police and local sources said the attack had occurred around 9.30am, a little after Halder had begun campaigning. As Halder was moving around at Haridevpur asking people to vote for him, a group of alleged Trinamul supporters armed with bamboo sticks and iron rods arrived and beat up the BJP candidate and his supporters. The personal security men of Halder were also hit with stones. “It was a planned attack by Trinamul as the ruling party is fast losing its support base. They are trying to unleash terror ahead of the polls. People of Diamond Harbour will give a befitting reply to them,” said Halder who suffered injuries to the head, back and chest. Angry over the alleged attack, BJP supporters blocked NH117 at several places, while the party’s state leadership lodged a complaint with the Election Commission blaming Trinamul for the attack. BJP workers jostled with the police when they tried to lift the blockade. The police resorted to a baton charge to break up the protesters. The EC has sought a report on the incident from the South 24-Parganas district administration. A senior officer of Diamond Harbour police district said: “We have received a complaint about an attack on the BJP candidate and are looking into it.” Trinamul has denied the charge. Trinamul’s Diamond Harbour block president Arumoy Gayen said: “We have no connection with the incident. It is a ploy by the BJP candidate to get publicity and malign Trinamul by enacting a fake attack.” The Diamond Harbour mandal committee president of the BJP, Surajit Halder, said: “Trinamul has been using goons to unleash terror among BJP workers so that we leave the battle ground for them. But that will not happen and the situation will change after May 2 as the BJP will win the polls.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee and Amit Shah kick off campaigns in north Bengal||Identity politics took the centre-stage of the political arena in north Bengal as two heavyweights of Trinamul and the BJP — Mamata Banerjee and Amit Shah — kicked off campaign for the Assembly elections in the region. On one hand, Mamata elaborated on the initiatives she had taken for Rajbanshis who form a considerable portion of north Bengal’s population. On the other hand, the Union home minister underscored the BJP’s plans for Rajbanshis, Gorkhas and adivasis. Altogether, there are 54 Assembly seats in north Bengal and support of the Rajbanshi community determines the results in around half of these segments. Also, the Gorkhas and adivasis, who predominantly reside in the hills and the foothills, respectively, matter in another 10-odd seats. Mamata, who addressed public meetings in Dinhata and Tufanganj of Cooch Behar and Falakata of the neighbouring Alipurduar district, was specific about her government’s initiatives for the Rajbanshis. Elections will be held in both the districts on April 10. “We formed a development board and two language academies for them…. We have also decided to recognise around 200 schools where students are taught in Rajbanshi language. The development board has already built around 1,100 houses for economically weaker people of the community,” said the Trinamul supremo. Shah, on the other hand, tried to stoke the sentiments of the community — a considerable portion of them had sided with the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in seats like Cooch Behar, Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri — by elaborating on his party’s promises. “Once we are voted to power in the state, we will constitute a development board for north Bengal which will be provided with an annual corpus of Rs 2,000 crores. We will ensure comprehensive infrastructure development across the region, including the Rajbanshi-dominated belts,” he said. Both the leaders also referred to Panchanan Barma, the most revered statesman and social reformer of the Rajbanshis, and spoke about the Cooch Behar royals. Mamata said the state government had named the university in Cooch Behar after him, installed his statue at the varsity and was developing a second campus in Mathabhanga where Barma had been born. She also said the government was developing his ancestral house into a museum. Shah, on the other hand, said the BJP wanted to install another statue of Burma and develop a museum at his name in Cooch Behar. “We have decided to create a battalion in the name of Narayani Sena (the royal troops) and develop a training centre in the name of Chila Roy (known to be the fiercest fighter of the royal family),” he said. Mamata  said before the Centre came up with an announcement of the battalion, her government had formed a Narayani battalion in the state police which would have its headquarters in Mekhliganj of Cooch Behar. “We want to know what the (BJP) MPs, who were elected from north Bengal, have done for the region,” she asked. The Union home minister said the Centre would confer Scheduled Tribe status on 11 hill communities and work for the “permanent political solution”, both of which are long standing demands of the Gorkhas. “For the tribal population, the central government has taken a number of initiatives, including establishment of Eklavya schools…. We would ensure that they are provided with houses and the daily tea wage is hiked to Rs 350 ,” Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-129
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Shaken, Nandigram keeps fingers crossed||Relative normality was restored on Friday to the key East Midnapore battleground of Nandigram, where Mamata Banerjee took on her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari, but the face-off at Boyal on Thursday remained a talking point with apprehensions about what would happen after counting of votes on May 2. Across the length and breadth of the Assembly constituency — Sonachura to Kendemari, Kalicharanpur to Bhuta More, Haripur to Garchakraberia — return to everyday life seemed imminent as fleet after fleet of buses ferrying central forces personnel left Nandigram. Since the Boyal incident on Thursday afternoon, no major law and order problem was reported from any part of the constituency. The wheelchair-bound chief minister was stranded at the Boyal booth — located between two bitterly divided localities of Trinamul and BJP supporters, belonging to two different communities — for nearly two hours on Thursday. Over those two tense hours, the chest-thumping religio-political assertions, with police and journalists outside the booth caught in the middle, appeared quite capable of flaring up into a full-fledged communal riot. Since Friday morning, both Mamata and her poll rival left Nandigram to campaign for their respective parties for the next phases of the elections. “We will be able to breathe easy for a bit now, with all the phaltu hungama (needless turmoil) of the campaign and the elections finally getting over… at least till the results,” said a sexagenarian barbershop owner belonging to the majority community, who — despite the desperate attempts at communal polarisation by the saffron camp to secure electoral gains — remains a firm Mamata loyalist. “But the shocker of Boyal gave many of us sleepless nights, over what the future holds for the people of Nandigram. We had many, many problems, but communal disharmony was never one of them,” he added. Boyal wore a deserted look on Friday afternoon. The one or two people who could be seen on its narrow lanes were hesitant to talk about what happened there the day before. “I am still too shaken…. I am 76 now. I have not seen such a political divide along communal lines in Nandigram in my life. I haven’t been able to eat or sleep since last afternoon,” said a Boyal resident belonging to the majority community, requesting anonymity. The frontyard of his modest home, where he was trapped with his wife and several grandchildren, was one of the places where the Trinamul-backed mob — from the minority community — had gathered in response to a similar gathering across a field by a BJP-backed mob from the majority community. “I am from the majority community. I will support Didi (Mamata) till my last breath. I used to think the BJP’s efforts to polarise have largely been in vain. After what I saw in my on neighbourhood yesterday (Thursday), I am not so sure of anything anymore,” he added. A shout away from his residence lies the Boyal Maktab Primary School, which housed the booth the chief minister had gone to on Thursday afternoon in response to complaints of electoral malpractice. The much larger police contingent, pressed into service by the poll panel, which had pacified the two mobs and rescued the chief minister, left after the voting process ended in the evening. “We were really scared for the night because the peace ensured by the heavy presence of the central forces is bound to be brittle and anything could happen after their departure. But thankfully, nothing has happened yet…. There have been rumours, some nasty, some absurd. But nothing has happened yet,” said a middle-aged homemaker from the minority community. “The real worry now is over what happens exactly a month later (counting takes place on May 2). Irrespective of which side emerges victorious, renewed tension — with actual violence — cannot be ruled out,” she added. Tension on polling day in Nandigram continues to keep the district police on tenterhooks as additional three companies of central forces were deployed in the constituency on Friday to avert any untoward incident. “To ensure that there is no fresh tension in the sensitive areas of Nandigram, including Boyal, police have been asked to keep a vigil while three companies of central forces have been deployed on Friday. The police will not spare troublemakers,” said superintendent of police, East Midnapore, Sunil Kumar Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: SKM campaigns against BJP in Cooch Behar which will vote on April 10||A delegation of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, leading the protest against the three new farm laws at Delhi’s borders that has entered its fifth month now, is campaigning against the BJP in the agrarian district of Cooch Behar which will vote on April 10. The farmer leaders, who have toured differed parts of the state since March 10 and reached north Bengal on Monday, questioned the BJP’s promise of “Sonar Bangla” by citing examples of states where the party is already in power. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders have made the promise again and again in their campaign speeches. “The BJP leaders are promising a ‘Sonar Bangla’ ….. but if one visits Madhya Pradesh, he will find that the farmers there do not get proper prices for their produce. In Uttar Pradesh, there is complete lawlessness, goons are ruling everywhere and unemployment ratio is high. These people (BJP leaders) should be questioned as to what they have done in the states where they are in power,” Guramneet Singh Mangat, a Morcha representative, said on Friday. “Not only in Bengal…… we are campaigning in all five states where Assembly elections are on. Our representatives are approaching people, especially farmers, and urging them not to support the BJP while explaining to them the evils of the farm laws which the Centre has passed,” Mangat added. Thousands of farmers have been living on the roads at Delhi’s borders since November 26 to push for the repeal of the three laws that they believed will be their “death warrant”. More than 300 protesting farmers have lost their lives since the agitation began. But the BJP-led government at the Centre has been unmoved, refusing to roll back the laws. Since January 22, the government has not even held talks with the farmers. “The Prime Minister says he is just a phone call away from the farmers. But even after 300 of them lost their lives, he did not even bother to make even a tweet,” Mangat said. Around 65 per cent people in India are directly or indirectly linked to agriculture, Mangat said. “It is the support of farmers which has helped the BJP form the government in Delhi with absolute majority. If we farmers can contribute in forming the government, we can also bring it down. We felt it necessary to launch this campaign to prevent the BJP from coming to power in these states. In Bengal, we will try to reach out to the maximum number of people,” another Morcha representative said. The delegation has visited Calcutta, Nandigram, Singur and Asansol so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Did you go to Bangladesh to seek votes? Didi asks Narendra Modi||Mamata Banerjee on Friday referred to her cordial relations with Sheikh Hasina, the Prime Minister of Bangladesh, and claimed credit for the signing of the Land Boundary Agreement in 2015, which paved the way for exchange of enclaves between the two neighbouring countries after deliberations for over 68 years. “I have excellent relations with Sheikh Hasina…. She had asked me to take necessary initiatives so that the enclave issue can be resolved. I had told her that yes, we would do it and we did it,” Mamata told a public meeting in Dinhata. On July 31, 2015, the enclaves — 111 Indian enclaves in Bangladesh and 51 Bangladeshi enclaves in India — had merged with the mainland of both the countries. Those living in these enclaves were granted citizenship by the respective countries. “It was a longstanding demand of the people... Where was the BJP then? Now, they are coming here ahead of the elections and trying to take the credit,” said the Trinamul Congress chief. “Those residing in the enclaves are being provided with all facilities like any other resident of Bengal... We did it?” she asked. Mamata’s attempt to highlight her personal relation with Hasina and take credit for the signing of the land boundary agreement and resolving the impasse over exchange of enclaves is part of a strategy to woo voters along the India-Bangladesh border, a majority of whom being immigrants from the neighbouring country. The Trinamul chief also broached another immigrant-related issue as she raised questions over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent visit to Bangladesh during which he visited Orakandi, the birthplace of Harichand Thakur, the founder of the Matua sect. “Why did you go to Bangladesh? To seek votes? asked Mamata. Modi visited Bangladesh to take part in the country’s 50th year celebration of independence and 100th birth anniversary of Mujibur Rahaman, the father of the nation. The visit was seen as an attempt to woo Matuas in Bengal because of his visit to Orakandi. The lower-caste Hindu immigrants from Bangladesh can become a deciding factor in 25 to 30 Assembly segments in North 24-Parganas and Nadia. “Bangladesh is also the birthplace of Loknath Baba, Anukul Thakur... Did you go there? Why didn’t you?” asked Mamata, suggesting that Modi had visited the Matua pilgrimage hub to placate the community ahead of the election. “Isn’t it a violation of the mode code of conduct?” The chief minister also referred to an incident in which Ferdous Ahmed, a Bangladeshi actor, whose visa had been cancelled for his presence at a Trinamul programme in North Dinajpur ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “They (the BJP) were very vocal then… and now the Prime Minister is visiting Bangladesh and going to specific religious places. But this will jot yield any result. We have carried out a series of development projects for Matuas and for decades, I had been with Boroma (the erstwhile matriarch of the community) till her demise,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Central forces acted at BJP’s behest during second phase, says TMC||The Trinamul Congress and the BJP called on the chief electoral officer on Friday and lodged complaints of electoral misconduct against each other in the second phase of the Assembly polls. A team of Trinamul leaders, including minister Subrata Mukherjee, former Union minister Yashwant Sinha, Derek O’Brien, Dola Sen and Nayana Bandyopadhyay, met CEO Aariz Aftab to allege that central forces had acted at the behest of the BJP during the second phase of the polls on Thursday. “I’ve seen polls in the past 50 years. However, never have I seen such an unashamed interference by the Union government in the poll process,” Mukherjee told journalists after meeting the CEO. The Trinamul leaders also alleged that the first two phases of the Bengal polls had not been free and fair. They accused the central forces deputed to maintain law and order during the polls of influencing the electorate. “The serious issue is…central forces should be deputed during polls. But as a candidate, sometimes I’ve also realised that central forces don’t act impartially during the polls…This time, when such people are in power at the Centre, for whom nothing is inappropriate, everything is appropriate, they can stoop to any levels to win the polls,” said Sinha, a former BJP member who recently joined Trinamul. The delegation requested Aftab to ensure that the polls were conducted freely and peacefully in the coming phases. A BJP delegation led by Sisir Bajoria and Tathagata Roy also called on the CEO. The BJP leaders said while chief minister Mamata Banerjee had the right to visit any booth in her constituency as a candidate, she violated electoral norms by stationing herself at one booth in Nandigram for nearly two hours. “Booth no.7…suddenly Nandigram’s candidate Shri Mamata Banerjee came, she can go to any booth as a candidate, but she cannot sit on dharna on the premises…for almost two hours…she forgot that 144 was imposed…Section 144 went for a toss…when has a candidate sat on a dharna at a booth? This is not done…She came along with all her security personnel and slowed down the poll process. Nandigram is the only Assembly constituency of the 30 (which went to polls on Thursday) where the poll percentage went down by 2 per cent,” Bajoria said. He added that a delegation of the national BJP leaders would meet the top echelons of the Election Commission of India to lodge a complaint on the issue. The BJP also lodged a complaint about the attack on the Diamond Harbour BJP candidate, Dipak Halder, a Trinamul turncoat, on Friday. Representatives of the Sanjukta Morcha — which comprises the Left Front, Congress and the ISF — led by CPM leader Rabin Deb and Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya also met the CEO. They accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of influencing voters by holding public rallies on poll days. Mamata had made a similar accusation on Thursday. “On March 27, during the first phase of the polls, PM Narendra Modi went to Bangladesh and addressed the people there. Though it was in a separate country, the programme was telecast in Bengal as well. Again on April 1, he addressed poll rallies in Joynagar and Uluberia. This is unacceptable and is a violation of electoral norms,” Deb said. He added that the delegation had asked the CEO to ensure that the PM didn’t come for rallies in Bengal on voting days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
03-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP promises to turn Siliguri ‘smart’ ||District BJP leaders published a separate manifesto for the Siliguri Assembly seat on Friday and emphasised that if voted to power, they would carry out a series of important infrastructure works in the city and develop it into a “smart city.” In north Bengal, Siliguri is considered as the most important Assembly seat owing to its geographical location. The BJP has never won the seat. Union minister of state for tourism and culture Prahlad Singh Patel, along with district BJP leaders and Shankar Ghosh, the BJP candidate in the seat, released the manifesto that carries a number of promises, most of which pertain to the infrastructure of Siliguri — the largest urban hub of north Bengal. “We will develop Siliguri into a ‘smart city’ with specific plans… projects for development of infrastructure in sports and education, along with improved drinking water services. The issue of traffic congestion which has been plaguing the city for years would be addressed,” said Shankar. Among other promises mentioned in the manifesto are announcing Bagdogra as an international airport, introducing an underground sewerage system, flyovers and foot bridges and introducing free wi-fi zones in different corners of the city. “All social welfare schemes which we have mentioned in our ‘Sankalpa Patra’ would be introduced for the economically weaker section of people of the city,” Shankar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-130
