04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Jaya Bachchan reaches Bengal to campaign for TMC candidates||Veteran actor and Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan came to Bengal to campaign for Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress during the ongoing Assembly election. She landed at Calcutta airport at 6.30 pm on Sunday. Jaya Bachchan will begin with a campaign for three-time Tollygunge MLA Aroop Biswas, who faces Union Minister Babul Supriyo in defence of his seat, reports NDTV. The rival contestant and the seat are both significant as Babul Supriyo is a popular singer and Tollygunge is Calcutta's 'cinema district' that houses studios where films are shot. As reported by NDTV, Jaya Bachchan's presence also underlines Mamata's plan to take on a ruthless BJP poll machine - to stitch together a pan-India working alliance of non-BJP parties, for this and other elections. Last month Akhilesh Yadav said his party would campaign for the Trinamool. This was after he said the BJP is spreading "politics of hate (and) confusion and propaganda" in Bengal, and said his party "will not allow this conspiracy". The day before Akhilesh Yadav's comment, RJD chief Tejashwi Yadav - who came agonisingly close to beating the BJP in Bihar - said: "It is our duty to strengthen Mamata didi's hands and fight the BJP." The Shiv Sena, a long-time ally of the BJP that split over government formation in Maharashtra, has also backed Ms Banerjee; senior leader Sanjay Raut described her as "the real Bengal tigress". Sharad Pawar's NCP, a member of the ruling alliance in Maharashtra, has also expressed support. The development came days after the Bengal CM wrote a letter to opposition leaders including Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav “for a united and effective struggle against the BJP’s attacks on democracy and Constitution” and suggested that a meeting should be held after the assembly polls to “deliberate the issues and chart out a plan of action”. The letter has been sent to several opposition leaders including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy, DMK leader MK Stalin, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav, CPI(ML) leader Dipankar Bhattacharya, National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
04-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP will put TMC goons in jail after assuming power in Bengal: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday asserted that "goons sheltered by the Trinamool Congress" will be tracked and sent behind bars within a month of the BJP forming government in Bengal. He said the "murdered BJP karyakartas (workers)" including Sudarshan Pramanik from Hooghly district, will get justice once the saffron party comes to power in the state. "TMC goons, listen carefully. After the counting of votes, we will teach you a lesson. Similar things happened in Uttar Pradesh four years back after we formed the government there. "We imprisoned the tormentors of people. In Bengal, we will punish those who are a part of the syndicate raj and demand cut money (commission)," Adityanath said. Accusing the TMC supremo of pursuing politics of appeasement during her 10-year rule, he said Mamata created hurdles in Durga puja, Saraswati puja and Holi celebrations in Bengal, something that never happens in Uttar Pradesh. "Elect the BJP to ensure you are not stopped from taking part in festivals," he said. Mamata's UP counterpart also said she is "allergic" to the chanting of 'Jai Shri Ram'. "Just like the way she doesn't allow Durga Puja here, she is opposed to building of the Ram temple in Ayodhya." He said decisions like giving the go-ahead for construction of the Ram temple and scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir are examples of BJP fulfilling its poll promises of 2019. "In my state, 1.30 crore people have been provided electricity free of cost, every poor family got free ration, everyone is covered under Ayushman Bharat. "In contrast, people of Bengal are deprived of the benefits of central projects, and farmers did not get Rs 6,000 under the PM Kisan Nidhi Yojana. Around 1,000 farmers committed suicide in the past 10 years," he claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
04-04-2021||West Bengal||EC says Mamata’s claim on misconduct in Nandigram booth ‘factually incorrect’||In a strongly worded rejoinder to Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the Election Commission has rejected her claim about the presence of outsiders at a polling booth in Nandigram as "factually incorrect" and "devoid of substance". The EC sent the letter to Mamata on Saturday in response to a complaint filed by her on April 1, when polling was held in Nandigram, alleging irregularities in the polling process. In its point-by-point rejoinder, the EC said Mamata's letter regarding booth capturing and the presence of outsiders at a polling booth in Boyal was "preceded by a massive coverage all over the country... which showed dozens of audio-visual shots of your being in this polling station and literally hurling an avalanche of allegations on some officials working with the government of West Bengal itself, paramilitary forces and eventually the Election Commission". Citing reports received from the ground, including its observers, the poll body said, "It is self-evident from the perusal of all the reports that the allegations mentioned in your hand-written note are factually incorrect, without any empirical evidence whatsoever and devoid of substance." The commission said it is a matter of deep regret that a "media narrative was sought to be weaved hour after hour to misguide the biggest stakeholders, which is the voters, by a candidate who also happens to be CM of the state". At least this should have been appreciated that the "side show" was fraught with immense potential to have an adverse impact on law and order across West Bengal and may be in some other states, it said. "And all this was being done when the election process was/is on. There could not have been a greater misdemeanour," the letter stated. Mamata, who is contesting the polls from Nandigram, had visited a polling booth in Boyal when polling was underway on April 1. According to Chief Electoral Officer Ariz Aftab, wheelchair-bound Mamata was stuck in the booth for almost two hours as two groups raised slogans against each other. A large number of CAPF personnel and senior officers reached there and brought out the chief minister after bringing the situation under control. Later, Mamata blamed outsiders for creating trouble. She also accused the EC of not acting on complaints of alleged irregularities in the polling process in Nandigram lodged by her party, Trinamul Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Are you a god or a superhuman, Mamata asks Modi on poll predictions||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wondered whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi is "god or a superhuman" to make claims of a BJP triumph in the Assembly elections, six phases of which still remain. At an election rally at Khanakul in Hooghly district, the TMC boss, without naming the Indian Secular Front or its founder Abbas Siddiqui, also said the BJP is giving money "to a person" to eat into minority votes. "What do you (Modi) think of yourself, are you god or superhuman," Mamata said, referring to remarks by the PM at public meetings that he will attend the oath-taking ceremony of the BJP government in Bengal and request it to implement the PM Kisan Nidhi scheme as early as possible. Modi had also mocked the chief minister on Saturday, referring to some TMC leaders' claim that Mamata might contest elections from his Lok Sabha seat Varanasi in 2024, saying this proves that Didi has accepted defeat. The TMC supremo alleged that Modi's recent visit to Bangladesh to commemorate its first prime minister Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's birth centenary year had led to rioting in the neighbouring country. "There is a new person on the block who is trying to divide minority votes in the state and he is getting money from the BJP for this," Mamata said in a veiled reference to Siddiqui, whose ISF is fighting the elections in alliance with the CPI(M) and the Congress. "He keeps making communal statements but will not go far," she asserted. Mamata also claimed that Home Minister Amit Shah was instructing the Election Commission to transfer police officers in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata says Modi and Shah want to divide state on communal lines  ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said the BJP, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, wanted to divide Bengal on communal lines like the British had done in 1905. At her four rallies in South 24-Parganas and Hooghly and road show in Howrah, Mamata repeatedly asked the people to keep alive the tradition of communal harmony in Bengal. She quoted Rabindranath Tagore and Kazi Nazrul Islam, narrated an anecdote about Swami Vivekananda and invoked Sri Ramakrishna Paramhansa to make her point. “The BJP wants to divide Bengal in two. Can you recall the Banga Bhanga Movement (against the 1905 partition of Bengal)?” she said at her rally in Tarakeswar, Hooghly. “In 1905, when the country was under them, the British came to divide Bengal. Who were the ones to protest? Rabindranath Tagore was one. He organised the Rakhi Bandhan festival and sang the song Banglar mati, Banglar jol.” She added: “Today, Narendra Modi and Amit Shah are trying to divide Bengal the same way. They want to loot Bengal, they want to ruin Bengal, they want to ruin the culture.” In October 1905, the then Viceroy of India, Lord Curzon, had partitioned Bengal into a largely Hindu west and predominantly Muslim east on the plea of increasing administrative efficiency. The move provoked the Swadeshi Movement, and the partition was revoked in 1911. Bengali luminaries of the day had protested the partition, with Tagore using the tradition of rakhi-tying to symbolise Hindu-Muslim unity. Mamata quoted a couple of lines from a Tagore song, composed in 1905, to send across the message of amity. “Banglar mati, Banglar jol, Banglar bayu, Banglar phol/ Punyo houk, punyo houk, punyo houk, hey Bhagoban,” she recited. A rough translation: “Bengal’s soil, Bengal’s water, Bengal’s air, Bengal’s fruit/ Be blessed, be blessed, be blessed, O Lord.” “The BJP is playing the Hindu-Muslim game in North 24-Parganas and South 24-Parganas too,” Mamata said, before going on to narrate an example of amity. She said that in Nandigram in East Midnapore, a Hindu family that was attacked by “BJP goons” took shelter in a Muslim home. Mamata said: “The wife of Rabin Manna, our party worker from Nandigram who was beaten up by BJP goons, had called me. She told me she was sheltered by a minority family while those who attacked the family were BJP goons.” She extolled the spirit of communal harmony that Kazi Nazrul, Sri Ramakrishna and Swami Vivekananda had promoted. “If you visit Belur Math, you will find a Muslim dargah there. I asked them the reason for having a Muslim shrine there. They told me it had been there since the beginning,” Mamata said. “Swami Vivekananda smoked tobacco offered by a Muslim,” she added. Sabuj Koli Sen, former officiating vice-chancellor at Visva-Bharati who is associated with the Ramakrishna Mission, fleshed out the anecdote. “Swamiji was in Kashmir when he found a Muslim man smoking tobacco from a hookah. He immediately asked for a smoke from the same hookah,” Sen told The Telegraph. Trinamul sources said Mamata’s all-out stress on communal harmony stemmed from her experience in Nandigram, where the BJP had pulled out the stops to polarise the electorate. “Didi has understood the dangerous game being played by the BJP to wrest power in Bengal. So she tried to alert the people before the damage was done,” a Trinamul leader in Hooghly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: BJP's poll manifesto mirror image of Modi govt's policies at Centre||The BJP poll manifesto’s promises to Bengal on healthcare reflect the Narendra Modi government’s policies at the Centre that, some experts say, lack adequate efforts to bolster public hospitals or regulate the private sector. The BJP has pledged three All India Institutes of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) — in north Bengal, the Sunderbans and Jungle Mahal — a medical college in every Bengal district, a twofold increase in postgraduate medical seats and the eradication of malaria and dengue, among other promises. The party hopes to implement in Bengal the Modi government’s two flagship health programmes: the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana (PMJAY) that offers poor households up to Rs 5 lakh in hospital expenses every year, and health and wellness centres (HWCs) offering free primary care, diagnostics and essential medicines. The party’s legislators assert that a BJP win in Bengal would improve health services across the state through the two schemes and through efforts to “incentivise the private sector” to establish more hospitals in the state, including rural areas — another pledge in the manifesto. However, experts flagged the Centre’s inadequate budget allocations for the HWCs and stressed that Bengal already had a scheme, Swasthya Sathi, that too covered up to Rs 5 lakh in hospital expenses and, unlike the PMJAY, was open to everyone. They also underlined that contrary to what some BJP lawmakers were saying, Bengal was not a laggard in healthcare — it bettered not just the national average but the performance of many BJP-ruled states in several health indicators. From its launch in September 2018 till March 31 this year, the PMJAY had supported over 1.77 crore hospital admissions, providing treatment or surgical services to patients with cancers, cardiovascular disease, bone problems, obstetric and gynaecological conditions and other illnesses. “Another big initiative has been the addition of colleges, and undergraduate and postgraduate medical seats. This will impact healthcare in the long run,” Rajdeep Roy, a BJP legislator from Silchar, Assam, said. India’s count of MBBS seats has increased from 54,000 in 2014 to over 80,000 in 2020, while postgraduate medical seats have risen from less than 30,000 to 44,000. Subhas Sarkar, BJP Lok Sabha MP from Bankura and member of the parliamentary committee on health, said Bengal’s health sector had suffered over the years from general neglect. Roy said the Bengal government’s “obstructionist policies” had stalled improvements in healthcare in the state. The other view Health experts, however, say Bengal isn’t doing so badly. “Some of its health performance indicators are better than the national average and significantly higher than those in several other states,” said Indrani Gupta, a health economics professor at the Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi. Bengal, for instance, has 85 hospital beds per 100,000 people, which is higher than India’s average of 55 beds, or the figures for Bihar (12 beds), Gujarat (46 beds) and Madhya Pradesh (37) — all NDA-ruled states. The Centre’s National Family Health Survey 2019-20 found that Bengal’s neonatal mortality, infant mortality and under-five mortality — three key indicators of child health — were lower than the corresponding figures in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Karnataka. Despite the quantifiable gains from the PMJAY and the HWCs, Gupta and other experts are concerned that the Modi government has not done enough to correct India’s low spending on healthcare and that the PMJAY is diverting public resources into an unregulated private healthcare sector. The government’s 2017 National Health Policy had announced a phased increase in the public spending on health, from 1 per cent to 2.5 per cent of the GDP by 2025. “We’re nowhere near that goal. Public spending remains near or below 1 per cent of the GDP even now,” said Indranil Mukhopadhyay, associate professor of public health and economics at the O.P. Jindal Global University. The parliamentary standing committee on health had last year said that to reach the target of 2.5 per cent of the GDP by 2025, the Centre should allocate Rs 160,000 crore for health in 2021-22. “The actual allocation is not even half this figure,” Mukhopadhyay said. Mukhopadhyay estimates that it would take around Rs 9,400 crore per year to support 100,000 health and wellness centres. But the proposed budget allocation for the HWCs in 2021-22 is Rs 1,900 crore. “This is less than half of what (the existing) 50,000 centres need to render the full range of services they were intended to provide,” Mukhopadhyay said. A public health expert in Bengal said it would be misleading to say the PMJAY would make a big difference to healthcare because the state already has Swasthya Sathi. “Besides, the Swasthya Sathi scheme is open not just to the poor but anyone who wants to join,” said Prabir Chatterjee, a physician with public health experience. “If the PMJAY replaces the existing scheme, some people might lose the cover.” He added: “Three new AIIMS in the state would be very good, but this is likely to take years to become reality.” Private sector worries Patients’ rights groups are concerned that the PMJAY would expand the private sector’s dominance in healthcare. “It’s worrying because taxpayers’ funds will go into an unregulated private sector,” said Sulakshana Nandi, a public health expert and member of the Public Health Resource Network in Chhattisgarh. The experience with the insurance-based schemes implemented in several states over the past decade suggests that they sometimes lead to unnecessary treatments or surgeries. Nandi and others say the Modi government could have, had it wanted, introduced regulatory controls by implementing the Clinical Establishment Act passed by Parliament in 2010.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: What BJP promises, what BJP delivers||The BJP’s promise of one job per family in its Bengal poll manifesto comes just when the country is witnessing its worst unemployment rate in four decades under the party’s rule, with economists predicting not much improvement in at least the next three years. The party has also pledged free education for all girl students in Bengal from kindergarten to postgraduate level, a promise that runs counter to the Centre’s falling investment in education. Economists said much of the job crisis owed to the Narendra Modi government’s policies and decisions, and its track record did not inspire confidence it would be able to meet the Bengal promise — a scepticism echoed by job seekers outside the state. Ajeet Sonkar from Allahabad, who has been sitting the recruitment exams of the central government and the Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Services Selection Commission (UPSSSC), said he was “awestruck” at the promise made to Bengal. “The BJP’s past performance suggests it’s an impossible promise,” he said. Earlier this month, the UPSSSC had cited corruption and cancelled the recruitment process for village development officers (VDOs), three years after holding the exam. Over 9 lakh candidates had taken the test. “The Centre’s Staff Selection Commission too is delaying the recruitment exam results by up to two years. There are no government jobs,” Sonkar said. Tribhuvan Singh, a shiksha mitra (contractual teacher without social security) at a government school in Uttar Pradesh is paid a monthly salary of Rs 10,000. He said the state’s nearly 1.72 lakh shiksha mitras had still not been made permanent employees despite the BJP’s 2017 Assembly election manifesto promising to sort out their job issues. “If the BJP government could not ensure job security for us after we had worked for 10 years, how can it provide jobs to every family in Bengal?” Tribhuvan said. One of the experts doubtful about the BJP’s promise to Bengal is economist and former JNU professor Santosh Mehrotra, who has edited the book Revising Jobs an Agenda For Growth that sums up the job situation under BJP rule. The book says that from 2005-06 to 2011-12, India had created 52 million non-agricultural jobs at the rate of 7.5 million a year. But in the following six years, till 2017-18, this dropped to 2.9 million a year. The unemployment rate rose from 2.2 per cent in 2011-12 to 6.1 per cent in 2017-18, the highest in four decades. The unemployment rate among youths aged 15 to 29 tripled from 6 per cent to 18 per cent over the same period. Mehrotra accepted that the job situation had suffered during the last couple of years of UPA rule too, but said the persistent decline under Modi’s rule was a result of policy decisions and, therefore, more worrying. “A policy paralysis after the corruption allegations — some of it still unproven — a global slowdown after 2011, over-lending by the banks were serious problems (that hurt the economy during the UPA’s last years in power),” he said. He said the poor job creation on Modi’s watch even before Covid struck owed to the weakening of four drivers of the economy from 2014 to 2020, largely because of the demonetisation and the unplanned implementation of the goods and services tax. The situation worsened further after an unplanned and stringent national-level Covid lockdown was announced without adequate succour for the people, he added. Mehrotra said the four drivers were: ⚫ Private investment, which was 31 per cent of the GDP when the UPA government ended its term but was 28 per cent in 2019-20. ⚫ The export of merchandise goods, which declined from $315 billion in 2013-14 to $265 billion in 2017-18. ⚫ Household savings, which stood at 24 per cent of the GDP in 2013-14 but had dropped to 17 per cent of the GDP by 2017-18. ⚫ Government investment in the social sector, which remained largely static because of the Centre’s commitment to pet schemes like Swachh Bharat and Mudra Yojana (small loans for small and micro businesses). “All this affected the GDP and job creation. Even if we get 10 per cent growth in 2021-22, we cannot match the GDP per capita of 2019-20,” Mehrotra said. “After recovery, GDP growth is unlikely to be more than five per cent beyond 2023. Job creation will therefore remain stressed in the next three years too.” According to the quarterly data of the Periodic Labour Force Survey, conducted by the National Statistical Office of the central government, the unemployment rate in urban areas had risen from 9.1 per cent in January-March 2020 to 20.8 per cent in April-June amid the lockdown. Arjun Kumar, director of the Impact and Policy Research Institute, a private think tank, said the demonetisation had shaken the confidence of potential employers and the subsequent economic slowdown had affected job creation. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar had told the Rajya Sabha on March 24 that the Centre was adopting measures like the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana under which the government paid the EPFO contributions for two years for private-sector employees who earned salaries below a cut-off. Gangwar also cited the PM Svanidhi Scheme under which collateral-free loans up to Rs 10,000 are given to street vendors “Employment generation coupled with improving employability is the priority of the government. The government is providing fiscal stimulus of more than Rs 27 lakh crore as part of the Atmanirbhar financial package,” he said. Education While the BJP has promised free education for girl students in Bengal, its government has for the first time in years slashed the budget allocation for school and higher education. The Samagra Shiksha scheme, the main vehicle for implementing the Right to Education Act, suffered the highest cut, from Rs 38,750 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 31,050 crore in 2021-22. This scheme undertakes infrastructure development at government schools and provides uniforms and textbooks to children among several other initiatives. Several scholarship schemes have undergone funds cuts. One of them is the National Scheme for Incentive to Girl Child for Secondary Education, which covers all girls from the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes who enrol in Class IX at government and aided schools. A fixed deposit of Rs 3,000 is made for each girl, which they can withdraw along with the interest after reaching 18 years and passing their Class X exam. The allocation for this scholarship plummeted from Rs 110 crore in 2020-21 to Rs 1 crore in 2021-22. For the National Means-cum-Merit Scholarship Scheme, which provides 1 lakh annual scholarships of Rs 6,000 to Class IX students and continues up to Class XII, the allocation has declined from Rs 373 crore to Rs 350 crore. The scheme is meant to prevent meritorious students from poor families dropping out after Class VIII, when the midday meal benefit ends. N. Sai Balaji, a JNU research student said that research scholars were not receiving their fellowship stipends on time. .“The government does not want intellectual growth. It does not want the poor and the marginalised to advance. So, key education schemes, including scholarship programmes, are facing funds cuts,” Balaji said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Hill TMC chooses Bimal over Binay ||The Trinamul Congress has decided to support the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha in what is being seen as a major snub to the Morcha’s Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa faction that had stood by the ruling party when the hills were on fire following the Gorkhaland agitation in 2017. Shanta Chhetri, Trinamul district president of Kalimpong, said: “We have decided to support Bimal Gurung’s faction. Bimal Gurung has shown honesty and sincerity in supporting us and has been campaigning under our flag.” So far, the Trinamul “high command” had left three hill seats to their “friends”, the two factions of the Morcha, with supposedly no clear-cut instructions on who the party cadres should back. But now, Chhetri said their decision to back Gurung’s party had been influenced by a number of factors, including Tamang’s decision not to campaign with Trinamul leaders in the hills, Gurung’s “sincerity to support Trinamul in the plains”, feedback from Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team and the need to sustain Trinamul in the hills. Darjeeling district (hills) Trinamul president L.B. Rai was present during the announcement. While Gurung campaigned under the Trinamul flag, Tamang’s party refused to involve the ruling party leaders in their campaign in the hills though they said they had no problem campaigning for Mamata Banerjee’s party in the plains. “We also have our party that we strengthened in the hills through a lot of hard work. Our grassroots people had started campaigning with Gurung faction leaders and now the leaders, too, will join Gurung’s party in the campaign,” said Chhetri, who is also a Rajya Sabha member. Though the Trinamul leadership said the decision was taken by the “core committee” of the hill leadership, Chhetri later told The Telegraph that they had been influenced by the I-PAC team. “A meeting among our leadership, an I-PAC team representative and Bimal Gurung was held on Friday,” Chhetri told this paper. The Tamang camp, which received support from organisations backing 13 development boards in the hills, seemed taken aback. “Everyone has the right to decide...but am a bit surprised that they (hill Trinamul) decided to support those people who set the hills on fire over us who are trying to rebuild the place…. I am told that Trinamul’s high command was not involved in this decision,” said Anit Thapa. A three-cornered fight between the BJP, Gurung camp and the Tamang camp of the Morcha is being anticipated and any support in a tight contest could be decisive. The BJP is being supported by the GNLF and the CPRM. Some hill residents said Trinamul’s decision not to support the Tamang camp could be a blessing in disguise for this faction because many in the hills saw this faction’s understanding with Trinamul as a problem.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Train runs over 3 rail workers in West Midnapore||Three railway maintenance employees instantly died and one more was injured when the Howrah-bound Falaknuma Express ran over them between Balichak and Tuan stations in West Midnapore around 10am on Saturday. The deceased were identified as gangmen Bapi Nayak, 40, Nipen Pal, 40, and Manik Mandal, 40. Nayak and Pal were residents of Kharagpur and Mandal was from Debra. Their colleague Kisan Besra, from Kolaghat, survived with injuries after leaping off the tracks. “It happened in a flash. I don’t remember hearing a horn,” said Besra from his bed in a private hospital in Calcutta. “We were so focused on our job in the heat that we have no idea how it happened,” Besra, who suffered serious injuries to his left leg, said. GRP sources said a departmental investigation had been initiated. The express train of the South Eastern Railways headed for Kharagpur was speeding at over 100km per hour. The gangmen were reportedly carrying out a routine check and minor repairs of the railway tracks when the accident took place. “The train stopped immediately after and our personnel responded to the incident,” said a source in the railways. Sources said a team, including the additional mechanical engineering, was at the accident site. Divisional railway manager (south eastern), Manoranjan Pradhan, said: “An inquiry team has been formed and an investigation started. The gangmen were carrying out routine maintenance.” An official said workers were on the middle line of the tracks, and according to reports from eyewitnesses no loud horn was heard right before the accident. Other railway officials, however, said the train driver had applied the horn to alert the staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Pre-Puja cash for farmers, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday tried to reach out to farmers in Bengal with the promise that if the BJP was voted to power, the funds of the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana would be transferred to their accounts before Durga Puja. Modi, speaking at a poll rally in the agrarian hub of Hooghly’s Haripal, also asked government officials to start listing eligible farmers so that the money could be disbursed immediately after the poll results are announced on May 2. “…When Bengal’s BJP chief minister, Bengal’s BJP government will take oath, I’ll surely attend that ceremony. I’ll come and tell the new chief minister that brother, I have to send this money from Delhi, please implement this fast in the first cabinet (meeting)…. And listen, every farmer of Bengal… will be getting the total arrears of Rs 18,000 in his bank account…. I’ll say that before Durga Puja the money should reach the accounts of every farmer,” Modi said. At a rally in Haldia in East Midnapore in February, Modi had said that if the BJP wrested power in Bengal, the new government would implement PM Kisan in the first cabinet meeting and clear arrears of three years. On Saturday, he went a step ahead by setting a Durga Puja deadline. The central scheme of providing Rs 6,000 annually to farmers was a point of conflict between the Union and state governments as the latter had refused to implement it initially, saying it had a similar scheme. Later, the state government asked the Centre to route the money through it, a plea Delhi rejected. Modi’s announcement served two purposes, state BJP sources said. First, the Prime Minister was in farmer-dominated Hooghly to win their trust at a time when peasants across the country are up against the Centre over the three contentious farm laws. Second, Modi and his party colleagues Amit Shah and J.P. Nadda are trying to create a perception that the BJP’s victory is certain in Bengal. “If the PM refers to things like first cabinet meeting and disbursement of funds before Puja, the message that we have won is strongly communicated to our workers. Equally, we hope this demoralises Trinamul workers,” a state BJP office-bearer said. On the plight of farmers, Modi referred to Singur too. “...After using Singur for political gain, these people left it in darkness. Today, Singur neither has any industry, nor enough jobs and farmers are fed up with middlemen.” The Prime Minister addressed rallies in Haripal and Sonarpur on Saturday, and in both claimed that Mamata Banerjee’s would lose in Nandigram. “What the results will be on May 2, Nandigram has given a glimpse…,” he said in Haripal. In Sonarpur, he said he had heard that “some intelligent people still left in Trinamul” had advised Mamata against contesting from a second seat, implying she would lose in both. “Didi, if you lose in both seats in Bengal, Trinamul’s future as a political party in Bengal will be jeopardised,” Modi said. He also took a jibe at Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra who had tweeted that Mamata would contest from Varanasi — Modi’s parliamentary constituency. He didn’t name Moitra, but said the decision meant two things — that Mamata had accepted defeat and was trying to look for some place outside Bengal. People of Varanasi will not call her an “outsider”, he said. Modi also dismissed Mamata’s allegation that the BJP paid people to attend their rallies, saying Bengal’s people “can’t be bought”. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath addressed an almost-empty rally in South 24-Parganas’ Falta on Saturday. BJP sources said almost all supporters of the district had gone to attend Modi’s rally. “It is not possible to arrange a lot of people for two big rallies in the same district on the same day,” a district leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission orders three cop transfers||The Election Commission of India on Saturday evening ordered the transfer of three IPS officers in areas where elections are scheduled in the third and fourth phases on April 6 and 10. In place of Alipurduar SP Amitabha Maity, the name of Amit Kumar Singh has been proposed in the order issued by the poll panel. Singh was posted as special superintendent, intelligence branch. The EC instructed two more changes in the police rank and file in Diamond Harbour and Chandannagar, which are scheduled to vote in the third and fourth phases, April 6 and 10, respectively. Deputy commissioner (Chandannagar) Tathagata Basu and deputy superintendent of police Diamond Harbour Mithun De will both be replaced. The poll panel recommended Abhishek Modi in place of Basu and Shyamal Kumar Mandal in place of De. Modi was the deputy commissioner in Asansol under the Durgapur commisionerate. Not much is known about Mandal. The order issued by the poll panel also stated that De should be kept “awaiting posting orders” while the other two transferred officers — Maity and Basu —  should not be given postings related to any electoral duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Gautam Deb releases report card, road map||Bengal tourism minister Gautam Deb, the Trinamul MLA and candidate from the Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat, released a report card and manifesto of his constituency on Saturday. While the report card spoke of the development work executed during the past 10 years by various state government departments in his constituency, the manifesto had an array of promises. The report card said that ever since the Mamata Banerjee government came to power in 2011, around Rs 664 crore had been spent on his constituency for various projects. The Dabgram-Fulbari seat in Jalpaiguri district has 14 wards of the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four adjoining panchayats. “A number of projects, for which Rs 664 crore was spent, have come up in Dabgram-Fulbari during the past 10 years. We also plan to develop this as a ‘model Assembly constituency’ and form a new civic body here for better services to people,” said Deb, considered Trinamul’s tallest leader in north Bengal. “A part of the constituency has areas which officially bear a rural tag… however, over the years, urbanisation has been rapid and people from rural areas want proper civic services like those in the 14 municipal wards of Siliguri. That is why we are stressing the need for a new civic body and include most of these rural areas,” explained a Trinamul leader in Fulbari. Deb in his report card said the north Bengal development department formed by Mamata back in 2011 with Deb as its first minister and the Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority spent around Rs 343 crore to build roads, bridges, sewerage and other infrastructure. The forest department spent over Rs 85 crore for Bengal Safari Park and the Siliguri Municipal Corporation spent around Rs 73 crore on various projects in the 14 wards, the report card said. A big project that came up in Deb’s constituency is Uttarkanya, the branch secretariat of the state government. A separate report card-cum-manifesto for the seat is another strategy for Trinamul to revive its support base here, said political observers. Though Deb had won two back-to-back elections from the seat, his party fell behind the BJP by around 86,000 votes in the Assembly segment in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “He is holding extensive campaigns for weeks now. Now it seems that he wants to reach out to his electorate with a report card so that they can have a clear idea about what the Trinamul government has done in his constituency and what it intends to do in future. Instead of lengthy speeches, this pamphlet is a better tool to tell voters these details,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata happy with EC’s fiat to central forces||Trinamul has welcomed the Election Commission of India’s Friday directive that central force jawans on poll duty would not check identity cards of voters before they enter polling booths. “I just heard about the decision. I welcome the decision and thank the EC. I have seen in Nandigram that central force jawans were checking voters’ identity cards and threatening them,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday in one of her election rallies. Sources said that the EC issued a clear instruction on Friday that central force jawans should not check the identity cards of voters before they enter polling booths after complaints were lodged by the Trinamul that jawans were intimidating voters in the name of checking voter cards. “The rule is clear. The presiding officers will check the voter I-cards after they enter the polling station. If the presiding officer is not satisfied with the document produced by a voter, he can seek help of central force jawans to take the voter out of the booth,” said a source in the poll panel, adding this was the standard practice. “But the poll panel has to give a reminder of the standard practice once again as complaints were coming up about the over-enthusiasm of the (central force) jawans,” the source added. Trinamul sources said as the EC was forced to issue the directive, it was in a way acknowledging that the central force jawans were not following standard practice. “It is clear that the central force jawans were doing something wrong in the first two phases of polls. We had lodged several complaints about the activities of the jawans after two phases of polls,” said a Trinamul leader. Trinamul had lodged complaints with the poll panel that the central force jawans were preventing voters who had queued up without EPIC (electoral photo identity cards) from casting their franchise even though the poll panel rules allow people to vote on producing other documents including Aadhaar card, passport or driving licence. The ruling party in Bengal had also lodged complaints that the jawans were intimidating voters in some places and campaigning in favour of the BJP in some areas. This year, the EC had decided to guard all booths and a radius of 100m around each booth with central forces. Only one national volunteer force person — from the state government — is allowed inside the zone to ensure that queues are formed properly. Trinamul had opposed the decision from the very first, saying the central force jawans, who come from other states, would not understand the language of local people and it might create trouble. The poll panel has decided to deploy 618 companies of the central forces in the third phase of polls on April 6 where 31 Assembly segments will vote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
04-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Don’t let BJP split minority votes, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday accused the BJP of funding Muslim leaders from the state and outside to split the community’s vote bank for political gains in the ongoing Assembly elections. Without naming the Indian Secular Front (ISF) chief Abbas Siddiqui and AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi, Mamata alleged that the BJP was spending crores to use these parties to split the Muslim vote. She appealed to the community not to be influenced by them at all. Her concern about the possible split in her Muslim support base became evident in her speeches in Muslim-dominated Raidighi and Kulpi in South 24-Parganas. “A friend of the BJP has come from Hyderabad (Owaisi). They have also engaged a youth from Furfura (Sharif). They have joined hands...BJP is spending crores of rupees on them. They are trying to divide the minority community. Do not support them...Voting for them will mean voting for the BJP,” she said in Kulpi. ISF chief Siddiqui has been drawing huge crowds, particularly Muslim youths, in the election rallies of the Sanjukta Morcha, outshining that of Trinamul and the BJP. Trinamul initially did not pay much importance to Siddiqui but after he joined hands with the Left Front and Congress to form Sanjukta Morcha, the situation markedly changed. Siddiqui has influence in Hooghly, Nadia, and the North and South 24-Parganas. Trinamul’s concern is with 26 seats in Muslim-dominated rural belt of south Bengal where the Sanjukta Morcha is riding on Siddiqui’s popularity. Trinamul is also worried about the presence of the AIMIM in Murshidabad and Malda. Trinamul insiders acknowledged the huge gathering in the Morcha rallies and activities of Owaisi’s followers in Malda and Murshidabad had become a matter of concern, which Mamata made clear in her back-to-back speeches in Raidighi and Kulpi. “We have around 31 per cent Muslim voters in the state, who are actually the deciding factor in some 100 seats. In 2011 and 2016, most Muslims backed the Trinamul. But such consolidation of Muslim votes appears difficult this time as both the ISF and the AIMIM are likely to eat into our support base among Muslims. This will hit us hard as the BJP is trying to consolidate Hindu votes by polarisation,” a senior Trinamul leader said. “Mamata Banerjee is quite aware that a significant split in the Muslim vote could shatter her hopes of retaining power.” Her concern became obvious in her speech in Kulpi, when she reminded Muslims that because of a split in their votes, the united battle against BJP in Bihar polls was failed. “Don’t allow anyone to split your votes....it will only benefit the BJP. We (the Opposition) lost the Bihar election this way. I will not allow that in Bengal," she said, asking people to vow not to vote for any party except Trinamul. “This will help the Muslims and Hindus to survive, as well as the culture of Bengal,”she said. Mamata in Kulpi also alleged the BJP was paying people to attend their rallies. “Just because they give me Rs 500, will I go to listen to Amit Shah’s meeting? His hands are dripping with riot’s blood, blood is dripping out of his eyes. Chhi! Chhi! Chhi! Which Bengal am I looking at?” Mamata said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi dismissed her allegations. The BJP complained to the Election Commission against Mamata’s comments. Mamata on Saturday said she did not give ticket to former Raidighi MLA and actress Debashree Roy as there was anger against her among the people. Trinamul also fielded Musaraf Hussain, son of former Congress MLA Motahar Hossain, from Muraroi in Birbhum, replacing its present MLA Abdur Rahaman tested Covid positive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-128
