05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: All eyes on cleric who talks jobs, education and amity ||The 31 seats going to polls on Tuesday in the third phase will decide whether the new political equation put forth by the CPM and agreed upon, albeit reluctantly, by the Congress will change Bengal’s political landscape. In their struggle for existence, the two parties have held the hand of a religious leader from the minority community who keeps the skullcap on his head, but talks about education, jobs, Hindu-Muslim and Muslim-Dalit unity and not the dogma that he spewed till even a year ago. The next phase of polls in parts of South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly does not have the high profile focus of the second phase that saw Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikary locking horns in Nandigram. But it will be watched for Indian Secular Front (ISF) chief Abbas Siddiqui, the newest entrant in Bengal’s politics who has latched on to two grand old parties: the Congress and the Left. Both have been out of power in Bengal for some time now. Congress had a brief taste between 2011 and 2012 when it was in alliance with the Trinamul. It is largely forgotten that the Bengal Congress despite its shrunken size had a role to play in putting an end to the 34 years of Left rule in Bengal. The Muslim vote in Bengal is between 28 per cent to 30 per cent and since the 2008 panchayat polls, the vote has shifted from the Left to Mamata. The next phase of polling is crucial because it will decide whether the emergence of Siddiqui has made any dent in Mamata’s support base among the minority community. A shift in the Muslim vote could help the Left in retaining some of the vote share that it had lost to the BJP in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The ISF has fielded 26 candidates _ Bengal has 294 seats in all _ after several rounds of parleys with the CPM. The adjustment has not been smooth with the Congress, for, a section of the party has been uneasy at sharing a dais with the religious cleric turned political leader. “Do you want a government that will say something else to Hindus, Muslims, Dalits and Adivasis? Or, you want a government that will speak in the same voice and language to all the communities?” Siddiqui asked at a rally in Uluberia last week. The Left Front chairman and veteran CPM leader, Biman Bose, accompanied Siddiqui that day.  Some CPM leaders have taken pains to “groom” Siddiqui and keep his focus on socio-economic problems and the importance of communal harmony in a state like West Bengal. “However rough they play we will stop only after hitting the goal. Whatever needs to be done to form the government in 2021, we will do that,” said Siddiqui. The ISF candidates' list for the 2021 polls is a mix of Muslims and Hindus, including Brahmins and Dalits. It has fielded candidates in Kulpi, Mandirbazar Canning East (South 24-parganas), Jagatballabhpur (Howrah), Jangipara, Haripal and Khanakul (in Hooghly) which will vote on April 6. Elsewhere in these three districts, the ISF will campaign extensively for Left candidates. In late November 2019, when the Pirzada was toying with the idea of a political party, Siddiqui had sent out feelers to all major political parties in Bengal, barring the BJP, seeking an electoral alliance or adjustment. It so happened that both the CPM and the Congress, who had then made up their mind to reignite the experiment of 2016, thought it prudent to include another partner, the CPM more welcoming than the Congress. Traditionally, Bengal has never had a Muslim political leader with a pan-Bengal appeal. The Congress or the Left parties have had many a stalwart from the minority community. But none of those leaders, like, say, the Congress’ ABA Ghani Khan Chowdhury, were representative of the community in the strict terms. In 2016, Mamata had picked up the Bengal unit chief of the Jamait Ulema-e-Hind, Siddiqullah Chowdhury, a bitter critic of the Left, who held sway over 900 Madrasas in the state and was believed to have a say in the community. For years, Muslim clerics made appeals from the Trinamul dais to vote against the CPM. At one point of time, Mamata had actively wooed Abbas Sidiqqui’s uncle Pirzada Toha Siddiqui. Siddiqullah went on to become a minister in the incumbent government. The decision then was considered a masterstroke. Cut to 2021. Despite facing her most crucial election, Mamata ignored the overtures of Siddiqui, opting instead to rely on her connect with the community via her “service”. Whether that decison was to her advantage will be known only on May 2 when the EVMs are opened.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Modi’s tone while addressing Mamata ‘unbecoming of a PM’||A news conference was held at Trinamul Bhavan on Sunday to voice concern at the harassment of a woman by the Prime Minister, possibly the first time such a charge has been brought against the occupant of the highest office in the country. The conference was addressed by Bengal minister of state for women and child development and social welfare Shashi Panja, state child rights commission chairperson Ananya Chakraborti and actor and politician June Malia who is a Trinamul candidate from Midnapore. The tone in which Narendra Modi has been addressing chief minister Mamata Banerjee, repeatedly calling out to her as “Didi, o Didi”, was unbecoming of a Prime Minister, the speakers said. Panja said the conference had been called to express concern about the Prime Minister’s behaviour. “We respect the chair that the Prime Minister occupies. He is not showing respect to that chair. So it is becoming difficult for us as well to show respect for the person who occupies that chair,” she said. The way Modi was calling out Banerjee’s name qualified as “taunt kata” or “titkiri mara”, Panja said. The Bengali expressions refer to men making lewd comments about women. This was misogynistic and worrying, Panja said. “That the chief minister of a state was being humiliated in this way was a matter of grave concern,” she added. “The law of the country protects women from such harassment and such heckling,” Panja said. “We believe in the judicial system and we believe that there will be justice.” Malia said she had not imagined even in her nightmares that she would have to address such a matter. She said the Prime Minister’s words were an insult to all women. She added that no Indian Prime Minister in history had ever stooped so low. In a patriarchal society it is very easy to “assassinate the character” of women but the high chair of the Prime Minister should preclude such activity, she said. Chakraborti said that “dharma” meant upholding the right values and she did not feel Modi was following any dharma. The Prime Minister and Union home minister Amit Shah, who are frequenting the state to address electoral rallies, are showing complete disregard for their positions in their speeches, the speakers said. Saying she was quoting from data the Gujarat government had placed in the Vidhan Sabha, Chakraborti said the BJP-ruled state had reported two murders and four rapes every day on an average in the last two years. State capital Ahmedabad reported the highest number of incidents of rape. In two years, 460 rape incidents have been reported in Ahmedabad. Bengal should not be turned into a Gujarat, Chakraborti said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Didi dubs Narendra Modi’s cash order illegal ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had illegally and unconstitutionally instructed state government officials to make a list of farmers eligible for funds from the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. During a poll rally in Hooghly on Saturday, Modi said if the BJP government came to power in Bengal it would transfer the PM Kisan grant amount, including arrears, to the tune of Rs 18,000, to accounts of farmers before Durga Puja. “You are giving instruction to my workers when election is on. What do you think of yourself? Are you God or Superman?” Mamata said without naming Modi at her rally in Hooghly’s Khanakul on Sunday. “Yesterday (Saturday) he came for a meeting (campaign rally) and what he said does not behove a Prime Minister. You may make a speech but as a Prime Minister how can you instruct state government officials to prepare a list in violation of election conduct (model code of conduct)? You have no right to instruct officials of my government. It is illegal and unconstitutional,” she said. Modi, with an eye on the farmer votes, had “issued instructions” to state government officials at a rally in Hooghly’s Haripal on Saturday. The central scheme of providing Rs 6,000 annually to farmers was a point of conflict between the Union and the state governments as the latter refused to implement initially. Later, the state government asked that the cash be routed through them, a plea the Centre refused. “…The government officials here, today I urge them as well, whatever happened in the past 10 years happened...now you’ll get the opportunity to serve Bengal. Now till May 2 when the results come out you have time. Wherever polls are over, officials there should start making the list of farmers, check their bank accounts and Aadhaar numbers, so that as soon as the decision is made, the money starts getting disbursed immediately,” Modi had said. Mamata, who addressed five rallies in Hooghly, Howrah and South 24-Parganas on Sunday, the last day of campaign for constituencies going to the polls on April 6, criticised Modi for his “desperation”. “They will not win 50 seats and dream of coming to power in Bengal. What will happen if I instruct your officials in Delhi?” Mamata said in Baruipur of South 24-Parganas on Sunday. Mamata attacked Modi for saying that he would attend the swearing-in of the new BJP government in Bengal. “Prime Minister, we will not invite you to our swearing-in. Your presence at the oath-taking ceremony means inviting blood in Bengal…Their (BJP) security deposits will be forfeited in many seats,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul and BJP vie for tea and tourism votes ||Political parties, particularly Trinamul and the BJP, are putting every effort to win support from stakeholders of the tea and tourism industries in the run-up to the Assembly elections in north Bengal — set to start from phase 4 on April 10. Tea has been the main employer for decades in north Bengal, a region with 54 Assembly seats. Even today, around four lakh people are directly associated with the sector in five of eight districts of north Bengal. However, the impetus on tourism spiked particularly after Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011, and over the decade this industry emerged as the largest employer with around five lakh people associated with this sector directly and indirectly. During past 10 years, the Trinamul government has managed to increase the daily tea wage from Rs 67 to Rs 202. The state government has also extended social welfare schemes to the tea population, developed roads, opened the first Hindi college of the state in the Dooars tea belt and facilitated the reopening of a number of closed tea gardens. For the first time last year, it also took up the initiative to provide free houses to tea workers under a state-sponsored scheme. “Lakhs of tea garden workers have gained from these initiatives. The BJP leaders and the central ministers, on the other hand, have only made hollow promises. We are confident that the tea population is with us,” said Mannalal Jain, a leader of Cha Bagan Trinamul Mazdoor Union. The saffron camp, on the other hand, has also come up with announcements, keeping in mind the Assembly elections of Assam and Bengal, the two major tea producing states of the country. This year, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman proposed to provide a corpus of Rs 1,000 crore for the welfare of tea workers, particularly women and children. In its Bengal poll manifesto, BJP said that if voted to power in the state, it would ensure tea workers get a daily wage of Rs 350. “We have said that the new (central) labour codes can help tea workers get higher wages and other benefits, too,” said Manoj Tigga, the BJP MP of Alipurduar. In the tourism sector, Trinamul is believed to enjoy an edge over the BJP. Arguably north Bengal’s tallest leader from Trinamul, state tourism minister Gautam Deb — who is hoping to retain his Dabgram-Fulbari seat for the third time, pointed out the major developments in the tourism sector in the region under Mamata’s rule that include “Bhorer Alo,” the mega tourism hub, the Bengal Safari Park, the new tourist destination, Lamahatta, and new accommodations in the hills and Dooars. “During the past decade, thousands have found earning options in the tourism sector, and not just in north Bengal (but the entire state). The concept of homestay accommodations has developed and people even in remote rural areas are earning from home,” said Deb. In recent months, the BJP is also giving importance to the tourism sector. Earlier this year, the BJP-ruled Centre held cultural events in Cooch Behar and Darjeeling to promote local culture and tourism, its first such initiative in the region. “We have tourism in focus and plan to introduce new tourist circuits, along with development of infrastructure. Those have been elaborately mentioned in our poll manifesto,” said Shankar Ghosh, the BJP candidate from Siliguri. “Both the rival political camps have come up with announcements and sops related to these sectors, which makes the 2021 elections more interesting in north Bengal,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Let women poll agents replace cowards, says Didi||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday asked Trinamul leaders to depute women as polling agents to replace “cowards” who leave booths unguarded on vote day in the face of alleged threats from the BJP. Her directive came after her party failed to depute polling agents in some 28 polling stations in Nandigram on April 1, where she contested against her former party colleague and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in what is being seen as the epic poll battle of 2021. “I am not ready to listen to excuses like BJP’s threats or BJP’s attacks for not (someone from Trinamul) being present at the booth on the day of polling. I request those who are not brave, please don’t go to the booth. I am asking you (leaders) to depute women as polling agents in a booth. Assign my Kanyashree sisters, my students as polling agents,” said Mamata at a rally in Hooghly’s Khanakul on Sunday. “In case the bravehearts are not available, find a woman who can argue, who has the strength and place them as polling agents. Depute the women at booths and I will see who comes to threaten (them),” Mamata said. Sources said that though Mamata spoke of the BJP’s threats, in Nandigram many Trinamul agents were actually hand-in-glove with the BJP, indicating the saffron camp’s alleged use of money power. A polling agent plays a vital role in ensuring fairness inside the booth by objecting to and reporting electoral malpractices. Thus, the absence of a polling agent of a particular party gives an advantage to its rivals. Trinamul leaders welcomed the suggestion to depute women at polling booths but they also pointed out  that there were not many women who had the experience to handle the job. “The job is very tough as the agent needs to mark all voters in the list who have cast their votes. We always send experienced persons inside booths. Agents need to be trained about their duties inside the booth. We don’t know whether we will get sufficient women to work as polling agents at this eleventh hour. However, we will try,” said a senior Trinamul leader in Hooghly. On Sunday, Mamata asked her party workers at a rally in Howrah’s Amta to bring polling agents from other places in keeping with new norms of the Election Commission of India. The earlier rule of a polling agent having to be a voter of that specific polling station has been amended this time. The Election Commission this time has ruled a person enrolled as a voter in an Assembly constituency can be a polling agent anywhere in that constituency. “Those who say that they are afraid, don’t allow them to be inside the booth. Now, according to the BJP’s wishes the Election Commission has allowed deputing polling agents from other booths, too. Think about it.  You (leaders) have to keep polling agents always in booths in some pockets where the BJP will try to loot the votes,” Mamata said at a rally in Howrah’s Amta. The chief minister also spoke about the reason for her going to the polling booth in Nandigram’s Boyal on April 1 and staying there for over “three hours”. She said that it was her way to foil the BJP’s “plan” to capture 70 booths with the help of the police or BJP supporters in police uniforms. “They had planned to cast false votes in 70 booths with the help of the police or their (BJP) men in police uniforms. I went and stayed there for three hours. I did not enter inside the booth but waited outside. I know the rule. Let the (Election) Commission send me a notice,” said the chief minister at a rally in Baruipur of South 24-Parganas on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Pre-midnight crowd cheers for young Left leader||A young Left leader took to the stage in Jadavpur’s Gangulybagan at 11.20pm on Saturday before a packed house that cheered her loudly. The sight was unusual, both because of the late hour and because the rally was organised by the CPM, which was ousted from power in Bengal 10 years ago and got a meagre 7 per cent vote share in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. But Minakshi Mukherjee, 37, the state president of DYFI and the CPM’s bet in Nandigram against chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari, proved she was a star, no matter what the results on May 2 say. The Nandigram election got over on April 1, and since Saturday, Minakshi is campaigning for Sanjukta Morcha nominees across the state. She was at Gangulybagan to campaign for CPM veteran and Jadavpur MLA Sujan Chakraborty and the party’s Tollygunge candidate Debdut Ghosh. The moment her arrival was announced, the crowd started chanting “Comrade Minakshi Mukherjee laal salaam”. Youngsters with cell phones rushed to record her speech or click pictures. Chakraborty had defeated Trinamul’s Manish Gupta by 14,942 votes in the 2016 Assembly polls in Jadavpur, considered a Left bastion. “The welcome and warmth of the people of Jadavpur was overwhelming. Most of whom who had turned up for the meeting so late in the night were not party cadres. They were common people, many had lost their jobs or did not have one,” Minakshi told The Telegraph, adding some 4,000 people were present at the meeting that ended around 11.45pm. The CPM believes that individuals do not matter and places party’s policies and programmes above anything else. Still, the CPM did recently tap into the goodwill of former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee who in a recorded message urged voters to support Sanjukta Morcha candidates. “The sight of a crowd waiting to hear Minakshi so late in the night goes to show that individuals do matter in parliamentary democracy,” said a CPM supporter present at Saturday’s rally. Throughout Saturday, Minakshi campaigned for many Morcha candidates. “I’m doing whatever the party is asking me to,” she said. The excitement around Minakshi is not a one-off case, said Indraneel Dasgupta, who teaches economics at the Indian Statistical Institute. “A normal middle-class Bengali citizen still looks up to government jobs. In the last 10 years this area has gone for a toss. Even the private sector gives little employment opportunities in Bengal. As young Left candidates (Minakshi, Dipsita Dhar, Aishe Ghosh, Srijan Bhattacharya, Pratik Ur Rahman) are talking about correcting the situation, many voters are connecting to that,” Dasgupta said, adding that Minakshi also spoke without jargons that added to her appeal. “She is somebody who seems to be speaking to the average person about things that matter in a way that is refreshingly free of jargons. She comes with the credibility of having been there and done that in terms of struggling through life,” Dasgupta said. “Her nomination from Nandigram has added to her popularity.” A state CPM leader admitted that a large crowd so late  was unusual. “We still have a base in Jadavpur, yet this Saturday crowd was an eye-opener for us in many ways.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: TMC to pit Jaya Bachchan against Mithun Chakraborty for campaign||Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan reached Calcutta on Sunday evening to campaign for the ruling Trinamul in the Assembly polls. The actress-politician and wife of Amitabh Bachchan will stay in the city till April 7 and is likely to start her campaign  on Monday from Tollygunge where Trinamul’s Aroop Biswas is pitted against singer-turned-minister Babul Supriyo of the BJP. “Respected actor Jaya Bachchan is in Calcutta to stand by Mamatadi. We are indebted to her. She will herself reveal the reason behind her visit to Bengal through a news conference on Monday,” said Trinamul national spokesperson Derek O’Brien. Sources in the party said that the Padma Shri winner was Trinamul’s answer to actor Mithun Chakraborty, now a  star campaigner of the BJP. Born a Bengali and known for her contribution to both Bengali and Hindi films, Bachchan is a known critic of the BJP government at the Centre. She will reach Trinamul Bhavan on EM Bypass on Monday where she will be received by the party’s parliamentary committee, after which she will address a news meet. A Trinamul source added that Bachchan was roped in to counter Chakraborty’s rallies and road shows. “It can’t be denied that Mithunda is still a star for Bengal and his rallies draw large crowds. Jayadi, we believe, has a similar aura among the Bengali electorate, which we want to use,” the source said. “It is also true that Mamatadi is trying her best to woo women voters and Jayadi might speak against the toxic masculinity of the BJP leaders and how it makes her feel as a woman.” Bachchan will hold two campaign rallies for Trinamul every day from April 5 to 7, and also share the stage with party chief Mamata Banerjee, sources said. On March 1, Akhilesh Yadav, Samajwadi Party chief and former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, had extended his support to Mamata at a news meet. “I will ask all our well-wishers to support Mamata Banerjee, to secure another victory for her…. We fully agree with her concerns about the BJP,” he had said. Mamata had written to leaders of 14 political parties on March 31, urging them to come together to save India’s democracy against the BJP’s alleged autocracy. “We welcome her to Bengal.… Bengal polls will become more colourful with her presence,” said Samik Bhattacharya, Bengal BJP chief spokesperson. “But, all said and done, none of this will help Trinamul’s sinking ship,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata’s Boyal booth charges incorrect, says Election Commission ||The Election Commission of India (EC) has rubbished chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s claims of the presence of outsiders in booth 7 of the Boyal Maktab Primary School in Nandigram and intimidation of voters by central force jawans during the poll process on April 1. The poll panel has termed the allegations “factually incorrect, without any empirical evidence whatsoever and devoid of substance”. Trinamul supremo Mamata, who is contesting from Nandigram, was stuck for over two hours inside the booth. In its five-page reply to the chief minister’s notes to the poll panel, which she wrote by hand when she was stuck in the booth, the EC said that the reports from various levels of officers engaged in the poll process suggest “there was no report of any violence, nor was there any intimidation of voters”. “It is self-evident from the perusal of all the reports that the allegations mentioned in your hand-written note are factually incorrect, without any empirical evidence whatsoever and devoid of substance. In fact it is a matter of deep regret that a media narrative was sought to be weaved hour after hour to misguide the biggest stakeholders which is the voters by a candidate who also happens to be Hon’ble CM of the state.… There could not have been a greater misdemeanour,” EC secretary general Umesh Sinha wrote to her on Saturday. Mamata could not leave the booth — flanked by two neighbourhoods divided between two communities and opposing political loyalties — as sloganeering crowds swelled. Riot police under the supervision of IPS officer Nagendra Tripathi came after she made a series of calls — to governor Jagdeep Dhankhar, the EC, police and administration. Sinha wrote that the situation became tense after she arrived at the booth at 1.45pm. Though Trinamul complained that its polling agent was not allowed inside the booth, the EC letter has pointed out that officials had tried to bring the agent as soon as complaints were received at 7.40am, but the agent was unwilling. At 3.35pm, he added, “Shri Nagendra Tripathi very efficiently took Hon’ble CM away from Polling Station with security coverage. People shouted slogans in favour of Hon’ble CM. Thereafter, immediately other people also left.” (sic) The poll panel also wrote there was “no evidence at all to suggest that the BSF jawans who were deployed at the polling station indulged in any inappropriate behaviour”. “Moreover, the complaint that they did not allow voters to go inside the booth is far from truth.” The letter pointed out that the CCTV camera installed in the booth made it clear that polling agents of the BJP, the CPM and an Independent were present inside the polling station during the entire duration of the polling process. “In the reports of officials at various levels there is no mention of either outsiders or guns and goons capturing the booth,” reads the EC letter. The poll panel on Sunday also asked Trinamul to stop enrolling Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste women under a scheme promised in its poll manifesto by way of a  helpline. Sources said Trinamul promised a monthly aid of Rs 1,000 to all SC and ST women in its manifesto. However, complaints emerged that Trinamul was enrolling women for the scheme in some areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Coal case: Enforcement Directorate arrests first police officer   ||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested Ashok Mishra, inspector-in-charge of Bankura police station, on Sunday, just two days ahead of the third phase of Bengal elections giving the BJP a chance to accuse ruling Trinamul of benefiting from the proceeds of illegal coal smuggling. Mishra is the first police officer to be arrested by one of the two central agencies probing the multi-crore coal pilferage case spanning across several districts of Bengal. “Mishra is instrumental in parking huge amounts of funds in the accounts of several beneficiaries,” said a senior ED officer. “There are reasons to believe about his active involvement in siphoning funds that was collected following pilferage of coal.” A 1995 batch officer, Mishra is believed to be a close relative of Vinay Mishra, a Trinamul youth Congress leader believed to be the kingpin of the multi-crore cattle smuggling case. The CBI had questioned Mishra on three occasions in the past. A few days back the ED had instructed the police officer to appear before a team of its officers in New Delhi for a round of questioning. On Saturday Mishra was interrogated for several hours at ED’s Delhi office. Early on Sunday he was arrested. Vinay is absconding and police have issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against him. In March the ED arrested his brother Bikash from New Delhi. Sources in ED said that Bankura features prominently among several districts from where pilfered coal would find its way to small factory units and other buyers riding a nexus of senior police officers and businessmen who allegedly enjoyed political patronage. A large part of the money that was collected from the sale of pilfered coal across several districts of South Bengal, including Bankura, East and West Burdwan along with Birbhum would allegedly reach these politicians in Calcutta and Mishra played a key role in this distribution of money, ED officials alleged. “Mishra has thorough knowledge of how this nexus of politicians, businessmen and policemen worked. We would want to know from him about the nodes where money went,” said a senior ED officer. “It will help us track the money and identify the trail the money had taken.” Some police officers working in Bankura and West Burdwan districts said on conditions of anonymity that Ashok Mishra would help officers get lucrative postings against money since he enjoyed good rapport with some Trinamul leaders in Calcutta. Sources said Ashok Mishra and another police inspector who is now posted in Purulia and was already questioned by the CBI in Calcutta used to run a racket that ensured lucrative postings of police officers. “The ruling Trinamul and its leaders are direct beneficiaries of this illegal coal smuggling racket... Over Rs 900 crore has been sent directly to Vinay Mishra by the police officer arrested by the ED … This IC (inspector-in-charge) Mishra who has been arrested today was the main architect behind sending it (the money)…” Trinamul turncoat Suvendu Adhikari said. On Saturday, the CBI interrogated alleged coal kingpin Anup Maji a.k.a. Lala and Purulia SP V. Selvamurugan in connection with the coal pilferage case. The CID, also probing the same scam since February, has arrested BJP leader and alleged coal smuggler Rajesh Jha a.k.a. Raju and Randhir Singh, an associate of Anup Maji. Both are now in custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trinamul's hill old-timers shun Gurung backers||The Trinamul hill leadership’s decision to support Bimal Gurung in the three hill Assembly seats this time has provoked some Trinamul old-timers into blaming the new leadership of acting in their “self-interest”. Some “founders” of Trinamul in the hills said they could not forget atrocities allegedly perpetrated by Gurung’s party when in power in the hills. Their main grouse was Gurung’s alleged excesses against them between 2012 and 2017. Chewang Bhutia, president of the party’s Kalimpong block 2, said: “Without consultation, three-four leaders took the decision (to back Gurung) for their personal gain. We will not agree to it.” “We were attacked, our families displaced, we had to flee to Siliguri and other places during the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation,” alleged Bhutia. For this Assembly election, Mamata Banerjee left the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong to Trinamul’s “friends in the hills”. Both Morcha factions, one headed by the Gurung and the other by Binay Tamang, are allies of Trinamul but are contesting against each other. On Saturday, Shanta Chhetri and L.B. Rai, Trinamul district presidents of Kalimpong and Darjeeling, announced backing Gurung. Their reasons were Tamang’s decision not to campaign with Trinamul leaders in the hills, Gurung’s sincerity to support Trinamul in the plains, need to sustain the party in the hills and feedback from Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team. Binny Sharma, a party “founder” in the hills and past district general secretary, said he took up the matter with the party leadership in Calcutta. “The matter has reached our leader Mamata Banerjee’s ears. I was given to understand that there was no such directive from her,” said Sharma. Chhetri on Saturday told this paper the party was working under I-PAC’s direction. “Through The Telegraph we came to know they are claiming the decision was influenced by the I-PAC team. I called the top command in I-PAC and they, too, said the decision had not come through them,” Sharma said in a news meet at Kalimpong on Sunday. Sharma and Bhutia said they would “adhere to any decision of Mamata Banerjee.” “But this decision has not come from her...,” said Sharma. Trinamul started spreading its wings in the hills from 2012 after which the region saw two phases of statehood agitations in 2013 and 2017. During the 2017 agitation, Trinamul was virtually wiped out from the hills but started mushrooming after the Tamang faction of the Morcha tied up with Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Adult female rhino found dead at Jaldapara National Park||An adult female rhino was found dead at the Jaldapara National Park, Bengal’s largest habitat of the one-horned rhino, in Alipurduar district on Sunday. Foresters said its horn is missing and suspect poaching. Senior officials of the state forest department have ordered a probe, but no arrests have been made so far. Sources said on Sunday, forest guards patrolling in Bania 1 & 2 compartments of Chilapata range under Jaldapara wildlife division spotted the carcass. “Preliminary probe showed it died couple of days back. Our men used a metal detector on the carcass and found metal. It seems the rhino may have been shot,” said a senior forest official. Around 300 rhinos reside in Jaldapara. Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forests (wildlife, north), said they have sought a comprehensive report of the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
05-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Trident of worries for Trinamul in South 24-Parganas bastion||Bankim Hazra, 71, a three-term Trinamul MLA from Sagar in South 24-Parganas, is a relaxed man on Friday. The septuagenarian is finally relieved that his toughest ever campaign schedule spanning 10-11 hours a day has come to an end and his fate has been sealed in EVMs on April 1. “I never had to campaign so hard in my entire political life. I fought against the CPM in 2001 and won with little effort. I had barely campaigned for hours a day in 2001. This time I had to leave home around 6 in the morning and never got the opportunity to take a nap after lunch. It was a tough war this time,” said Hazra, adding that with polling day gone, he could now relax a bit and meet Trinamul workers at nearby party offices in a lighter mood. Not only Hazra, all 31 Trinamul nominees in South 24-Parganas, four of whose seats went to polls on April 1, are devoting extra time to avoid a breach in the party bastion. “It is a perform or perish election for us,” said a Trinamul candidate. Elections to the remaining seats will be held in two phases on April 6 and 10. Bengal’s second largest district has a long coastal stretch and a large part of which is the Sunderbans. The district with a population of over 82 lakh is expected to play a crucial role in deciding who forms the government after May 2. Along with East Midnapore, Trinamul has had an unhindered spell of dominance in South 24-Parganas since 2008. South 24-Parganas is the only district in Bengal that staved off the BJP wave in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in which the party bagged 18 seats in the state. Trinamul not only secured all three Lok Sabha seats here but had leads in all 31 Assembly segments. Trinamul insiders said Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek Banerjee had asked all candidates in the district to live up to the challenges of the 2021 polls. Despite Trinamul’s confidence, many party leaders conceded that anti-incumbency, the BJP’s polarisation card and a possible split in minority votes following the Indian Secular Front’s tie-up with the Left and the Congress posed a major challenge to Mamata Banerjee’s party. The other worry was the resentment among the people over corruption involving Amphan relief work. South 24-Parganas has around 36 per cent Muslim population and the community can make or break the fortunes of candidates in at least eight Assembly constituencies. The minority voters are mainly concentrated in constituencies like Bhangar, Baruipur, Canning, Kulpi, Maheshtala and Magrahat. Trinamul sources said that till the last polls, the majority of Muslims had voted the ruling party. However, Trinamul is now facing a challenge from the ISF, launched by Furfura Sharif cleric Abbas Siddiqui who has a following among Muslims in the district. “If you consider Bhangar, around 70 per cent of the voters are Muslims. Till 2019, we had always been sure of winning here. Now the votes will get split between the ISF and Trinamul. The Sanjukta Morcha has left five seats to the ISF in the district, including Bhangar, Mandirbazar and Kulpi. The ISF has fielded the party’s working committee chairman Nawsad Siddique from Bhangar and he is expected to split the minority votes. “It is a fact that Trinamul will have no space among the minorities this time. Believe it or not, the people here have decided not to support Trinamul any more. People are annoyed and they have come to us,” said Naushad, whose party is campaigning against both Trinamul and the BJP. Trinamul, however, is desperate to keep its minority vote bank intact and has been telling people that voting for Naushad will benefit the BJP. To counter the possible split in votes, Trinamul is focusing on how the Mamata government has ensured development in minority areas and developed local infrastructure. “The ISF will not be a factor here as Muslims understand that voting for them will help the BJP. The BJP is asking Hindu voters to vote for them and the ISF is making the same plea to Muslims. We are telling people not to fall into this trap of dividing Hindus and Muslims,” said Saukat Mollah, Trinamul MLA and nominee for the Canning East seat. Alleged misappropriation of Amphan relief aid has become a major hurdle for Trinamul. In its poll rallies, BJP star campaigners, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, are firing salvos at Trinamul over “looted money”. Such widespread had been the irregularities that the chief minister had to intervene. The Opposition parties have identified it as a major poll plank. Mamata in her recent rallies in the district has highlighted how she had spent a sleepless night in Nabanna on the day of the cyclone while the BJP did not bother about the affected people. She, however, conceded that there could be one or two mistakes as the government had tried to provide help in a hurry. “It is true that certain flaws occurred in the distribution of Amphan relief. But it is a closed chapter now. It was a gigantic job and we tried our best to rectify the mistakes. We are hopeful that people will not keep it in mind since they have benefited from the welfare schemes of the government, which we are trying to focus more on,” said Manturam Pakhira, the minister for Sunderbans affairs and Trinamul’s Kakdwip candidate. Left candidates could be in an advantageous position because of their effort to provide help to the needy people after the cyclone. Kanti Ganguly, the CPM’s Raidighi candidate, had supervised construction of breached river embankments in different pockets. Scheduled Castes make up around 30 per cent of South 24-Parganas’ population. They mainly depend on fisheries and collecting honey from forests. The BJP-RSS alliance has tried its best to polarise people against the Mamata government. Several leaders said the polarisation issue was so strong in a few pockets that other issues such as corruption and development might not work. Ganguly, the CPM veteran and the party’s candidate for Raidighi, said he had never seen an election like this in his 60-year political career. Ganguly, like in the past, was the most visible face of support when people needed help post-Amphan. “Yes, people love my party and I will go to them to offer more help if I become an MLA. But the level of polarisation is something I have never seen before,” the leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-127
