06-04-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul Congress will disintegrate after May 2, claims Modi  ||As the thrid phase of polling was on in Bengal on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave voice to a thought that has been shared privately by a large number of citizens, ordinary voters as well as those in the thick of politics: what will be the fate of the Trinamul Congress post the Assembly polls? “The anger against Trinamul leaders among its own party workers is erupting daily. People have started discussing after the staggering defeat of May 2, the Trinamul party will disintegrate. T will go some way, M will go this way and C that way,” Modi said addressing an election meeting at Howrah’s Dumurjola. Tuesday was also the day when the BJP was formed some 41 years ago, emerging out of the remnants of the Janata Party to spread the political and economic ideologies of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. “Situation is such that the polling agents are revolting and she realises this,” said Modi. Since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when Bengal first witnessed the rapid saffron surge, around 26 of Trinamul parliamentarians and legislators have joined the BJP. Ask any voter in Bengal, which party do they expect will face defection in case the BJP falls short of a simple majority. The answer they gave is Trinamul. The biggest catch for the BJP in the run-up to the 2021 Assembly polls was Suvendu Adhikary, the former Trinamul leader from East Midnapore. As long as he was in the Trinamul, he was the only other leader aapart from  Mamata Banerjee who had a strong support base. Since then three MPs – Dinesh Trivedi, Sisir Adhikary and Sunil Mondol—have joined the saffron outfit. Several MLAs in the incumbent Assembly have also switched camps that has prompted the question whether the Trinamul would survive the BJP onslaught in the coming days. Leaders like the octogenarian Singur MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharya, Sital Sardar, Dipak Haldar, Jatu Lahiri and Dipendu Biswas were denied tickets by their former party and are now contesting on the BJP symbol. Sarala Murmu from Malda, however, quit Trinamul and joined BJP even after being given a ticket. The largescale defection from the Trinamul ranks has helped the BJP make up some of its shortcomings. Like its organisational weaknesses. While votes from a vast majority of former CPM supporters and a section of the disgruntled Trinamul supporters may have helped the party take giant electoral strides in the Lok Sabha polls, that is not enough for the BJP to form the first ever government in Bengal. One reason for that is that there isn't much of a Left vote share remaining in the kitty for the BJP to make electoral gains from. Second, without a strong election machinery and organisation, establishing control over large swathes of territory in Bengal is nearly impossible. It was organisation that had helped the CPM government survive for 34 years. It has been the same with Mamata too. The Trinamul chief herself is wary of the situation within her party. In her recent campaign meetings, Mamata has been talking about the remaining “gaddars” – a name that she has given to Trinamul turncoats. Mamata had formed the Trinamul Congress after breaking away from the Congress and weakening the grand old party organisationally in the state, something that she is now trying to accuse her former party colleagues of having done. “Truth does not transform. It remains today what it was yesterday. Didi is threatening the people of Bengal. Didi says amraa dekhe nebo (We will see). We want an opportunity to serve the people of Bengal. Those who attend our rallies, she accuses them of accepting money. Isn’t she insulting you? Don’t you get angry with her? Punish her that she cannot make any such accusations against you,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: Over 70% voting in third phase as parties trade charges||Five candidates, including two women, were assaulted, while clashes between rival political groups erupted during the third phase of polling in West Bengal on Tuesday with the Election Commission reporting a turnout of over 77 per cent till about 5pm, two hours before polling ended. Amid accusations of violence by both the Trinamul and the BJP, police arrested five persons -- three members of the TMC and two of the BJP -- for their alleged involvement in assaulting TMC candidate Sujata Mondal in Arambagh earlier in the day, an officer said. Voting was conducted in 31 seats spread over Hooghly, Howrah and South 24-Parganas with strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols, officials said. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, campaigning in North Bengal during the day, tweeted a video, claiming that central forces on poll duty in Bengal were trying to secure votes for BJP. “The blatant misuse of central forces continues unabated. Despite us repeatedly raising this issue. ECISVEEP continued to be a mute spectator while men in uniform are being misused at several places to openly intimidate TMC voters and influence many to vote in favour of one party,” Mamata tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was addressing a rally in Cooch Behar, countered the chief minister's allegations. Claiming that a BJP wave was blowing across Bengal and that his party would form the next government, Modi said Mamata's angry reactions indicated that she had lost the polls. The turnout in Hooghly was the highest at 79.29 per cent at 5.45 pm and 77.92 per cent and 76.74 per cent in Howrah and South 24-Parganas respectively. In the fray in the third phase of the Bengal polls are hard-nosed politicians, turncoats and political newbies. Among the big contenders whose fortunes are dependent on Tuesday’s voting is former CPM minister Kanti Ganguly, making a third attempt from Raidighi. Former Rajya Sabha MP from BJP Swapan Dasgupta is contesting from Tarakeswar. The BJP has also fielded actresses Papia Adhikary and Tanushree Chakraborty in Uluberia South and Shyampur, both in Howrah. The outgoing Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee is seeking re-election from Baruipur West. Sujata Mandal Khan, the estranged wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan, is the Trinamul nominee in Arambagh. On the other hand, the TMC turncoat Dipak Haldar has been fielded by the BJP in Diamond Harbour. Last week, Haldar was beaten up by alleged Trinamul supporters. Similar attacks happened in Falta as well. Clashes have also been reported between the Trinamul and ISF supporters. Candidates as victims Trinamul nominee in Arambagh in Hooghly Sujata Khan Mandal was chased by a group of alleged BJP supporters at Mahallapara, Arandi, where she had gone to look into complaints of rigging in some booths. “The BJP had plans to rig the booths and would not allow any of our voters to step out of their homes. Once I reached there, villagers started coming out of their homes to vote. BJP goons chased me with lathis and I had to run to the fields to escape,” she said, claiming some of the blows landed on her neck and back. She also demanded that voting be declared void in two of the booths. In Falta in South 24-Parganas, BJP nominee Bidhan Parui alleged he was beaten by Trinamul workers when he was moving around while voting was on. “Voters are not being allowed to come out. Trinamul has unleashed terror in the area,” Parui said. Actor attacked BJP candidate for Uluberia South actor Papia Adhikary was attacked by alleged Trinamul supporters when she went to visit an injured BJP worker at  the Uluberia sub-divisional hospital. “The men were armed with sticks. I have never faced such a situation,” Papia alleged, adding that she would complain to the election commission. State minister and Trinamul nominee Nirmal Maji alleged that two of his security personnel were injured in brick-batting at Muktichowk in Uluberia North. Maji claimed he escaped being hurt as he was wearing a helmet apprehending an attack. Violence against voters CPM nominee for Diamond Harbour Pratikur Rahman intervened in a clash between CPM and Trinamul supporters at Basuldanga, Dakshinpanchannagram. “Two of our supporters were injured. I am not in a position to write text messages, so I am sending voice texts,” Rahman said in a message. In another village, Panakua Bishnupur in South 24-Parganas, a woman was forcibly stopped from going to a polling booth, as per a video that was widely shared. An unidentified man is heard threatening the woman who is heard dismissing him. Home fired upon Debnath Pramanik, a local BJP functionary in Bishnupur in South 24-Parganas, alleged he and his family members were forced to escape to adjoining farms near their homes after they were fired upon. Pramanik claimed he fled Monday night, while his wife and daughter escaped in the morning after repeated gun shots were allegedly aimed at their home. Row over death Sunil Roy, a 72-year-old Trinamul leader, who held the position of booth president in Hooghly’s Goghat, passed away on Tuesday while on his way back from the booth after casting his vote. Bikash Roy, his son and Trinamul’s booth agent in Hatpukur, Goghat, alleged a group of BJP supporters had heckled him while he was leaving the booth. But the BJP nominee, Biswanath Karak, claimed Trinamul was trying to politicise a natural death. EVMs found The Election Commission suspended a section officer, a sub-inspector and three home guards on Tuesday after EVMs and VVPAT sets were found from the home of a local Trinamul leader in Uluberia North’s Tulsiberia village. The incident happened late on Monday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: turncoats, ex-ministers an actors  ||Over 77 per cent votes were cast till 5pm in the 31 seats of Bengal where polling is underway for the third phase on Tuesday amid accusations of violence by rival parties. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday claimed BJP activists were forcibly occupying polling booths and attacking TMC members, including party candidates, and asserted that she would not get bogged down by such "intimidatory tactics". Addressing a public meeting in Alipurduar district, the TMC supremo said her party's nominee in Arambagh, Sujata Mondal, was chased and hit on head near a polling booth by saffron party workers. She claimed she had received over 100 complaints of assault and violence since morning, and that the EC had been duly informed but to no avail. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was addressing a rally in Cooch Behar, countered the chief minister's allegations. Claiming that a BJP wave was blowing across Bengal and that his party would form the next government, Modi said Mamata's angry reactions indicated that she had lost the polls. In the fray in the third phase of the Bengal polls, are hard-nosed politicians, turncoats and political newbies. Among the big contenders is former CPM minister Kanti Ganguly, making a third attempt from Raidighi. The former Rajya Sabha MP from BJP, Swapan Dasgupta is contesting from Tarakeswar. The BJP has also fielded actresses Papia Adhikary and Tanushree Chakraborty in Uluberia South and Shyampur, both in Howrah. The outgoing Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee is seeking re-election from Baruipur West. Sujata Mandal Khan, the estranged wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan, is the Trinamul nominee in Arambagh. On the other hand, the TMC turncoat Dipak Haldar has been fielded by the BJP in Diamond Harbour. Last week, Haldar was beaten up by alleged Trinamul supporters. Similar attacks happened in Falta as well. Clashes have also been reported between the Trinamul and ISF supporters. TMC far ahead Going by numbers, the ruling Trinamul is far ahead of all it’s rivals in the fray. Of the 31 seats where polling is being held, the Trinamul is ahead in 29 seats, while the remaining two are with BJP as per the 2019 Lok Sabha poll results. Rival alliance partners- Congress and the Left- who fought the Lok Sabha polls separately, were reduced to single digits in terms of vote share. The Congress and Left in alliance with the Indian Secular Front are desperate to see a section of the voters it had lost in 2019 return to its fold. In 2016, out of the 16 seats in South 24-Parganas, the Left had won only one seat, the rest going to the Trinamul’s kitty. The Trinamul, in 2016, had won all the eight seats of Hooghly that are voting on Wednesday, though three years later the BJP had marched ahead in two of the seats: Goghat and Pursurah. The biggest worry for the Trinamul is infighting and charges of corruption. Logic of 8 phases Mamata also questioned the logic behind holding Bengal assembly elections in eight phases. "It could have been done in 3 or 4 phases," she said. "Was it not prudent to hold the elections in fewer phases and wrap it up early in view of the COVID-19 situation?" the chief minister asked. Banerjee also claimed that the coronavirus situation was not grim in the state as of now. Heavy security To ensure that the more than 78.5 lakh voters can exercise their voting rights to decide the fate of 205 candidates 618 companies of CAPF deployed to guard 10,871 polling stations, all of which have been marked "sensitive" by the Election Commission. State police forces have also been deputed at strategic locations to aid the CAPF. Sharpening its attack on the TMC over issues ranging from corruption to political violence, the BJP held power- packed campaigns across the three districts over the past few days, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who addressed several public meetings. The TMC chief, who is still recuperating from her injuries, traversed the length and breadth of the three districts on her wheelchair, highlighting her government's development schemes, and hurling barbs at the BJP over price rise, and other central government policies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: TMC alleges attack on supporters||Clashes were reported from several parts of Bengal, where polling is underway in the third phase of assembly elections, with TMC candidates Sujata Mondal and Nirmal Majhi alleging that they were heckled and assaulted by BJP workers, a charge denied by the saffron camp. Mondal, who is contesting the elections from Arambagh, said saffron party men chased her and hit her on the head, when she was out visiting polling booths in Arandi area of the constituency, after having received reports that "voters were not being allowed to exercise their franchise". "My bodyguards saved my life... I came to know that BJP members were thwarting people from casting their votes in Arandi. I went there to find out what went wrong. I was assaulted, hit with bamboo sticks by saffron party men," Mondal, estranged wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan, said. Her rival and BJP candidate Madhusudhan Bag, when contacted, stated that no one from his party attacked Mondal. "It was the villagers who put up a resistance when the TMC leader tried intimidating them," Bag said A section of villagers also claimed that Mondal had threatened them with dire consequences if they "visited polling booths to cast their vote". According to police sources, one of Mondal's security guards had brought out his revolver to resist the attackers from chasing the TMC candidate. Villagers, armed with bamboo sticks, however, drove him away, the sources said. Chief Electoral Officer Ariz Aftab has sought a report from poll personnel in Hooghly district in connection with the alleged attack on Mondal, an official said. Senior TMC leader Firhad Hakim said he has apprised the Election Commission of the Arambagh episode, and was also "in touch" with Deputy Election Commissioner Sudeep Jain. In yet another incident of violence, TMC candidate Dr Nirmal Maji said that he was "heckled" by BJP supporters and his vehicle vandalised when he tried visiting a booth in Uluberia (Uttar) constituency. Majhi was made to wear a helmet and escorted out of the troubled area by the police. One of his security guards sustained serious injuries when bricks were hurled at him, a police officer said, adding that he is currently undergoing treatment at a local hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s minority votes slipping out of her hand, claims Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday slammed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for seeking en bloc voting by Muslims for the TMC and said had his party made a similar appeal to Hindus, it would have been criticised and censored. Asserting that Mamata has problems with people sporting a Tilak and wearing saffron, Modi said the TMC supremo's appeal to the Muslims reflects that her "minority votes are slipping out of her hands." Claiming a BJP wave was blowing across Bengal and his party would form the next government, Modi said Mamata's angry reactions indicate that she has lost the polls. "Didi recently asked all Muslims to vote en bloc for her. It shows that the Muslim vote bank is slipping out of her hands. Had we said the same thing that all Hindus should unite, everybody would have criticised us.The EC would have sent us notices. We would have been censored," he said while addressing an election rally in Cooch Behar. Taking a dig at Mamata's comment, rhetorically questioning whether BJP leaders predicting the party's victory were gods or superhumans, Modi said no one needs be superhuman to predict BJP's victory as the wave in favour of the saffron camp speaks for itself. "Didi's exit is imminent. That is clear after the first two phases of polling," he said. Modi also claimed Mamata had hurt Bengalis' self- esteem by alleging people come to his rallies for money. Accusing the TMC dispensation of indulging in rampant corruption, Modi said: "Didi has started a new tax in Bengal - 'Bhaipo Service Tax'!". "For 10 years, your goons continued to loot Bengal, and you were a mute spectator. For 10 years, injustice with North Bengal continued, but you chose to be a mute spectator," he alleged. Modi said, sensing defeat, Mamata has turned jittery and was criticising everybody and everything, from EC to EVMs. Referring to some TMC leaders' claim that Mamata might contest elections from his Lok Sabha seat Varanasi in 2024, Modi mocked the TMC boss, saying this proves that Didi has accepted her defeat and is looking for another seat. "Didi is now looking for a place for herself outside Bengal," Modi said, who had won the Lok Sabha election twice from Varanasi in 2014 and 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP men forcibly occupying booths, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday claimed BJP activists were forcibly occupying polling booths and attacking TMC members, including party candidates, and asserted that she would not get bogged down by such "intimidatory tactics". Addressing a public meeting here in Alipurduar district, the TMC supremo said her party's nominee in Arambagh, Sujata Mondal, was chased and hit on head near a polling booth by saffron party workers. "They have inflicted serious injury on our Scheduled Caste candidate Sujata, when she visited a booth. They also hit another candidate in Khanakul. In Canning East, security forces prevented our nominee Shaukat Mollah from entering a booth. There had been numerous such instances of attack on our candidates, party workers across the state," Banerjee said. The CM further stated that she has received at least 100 complaints of assault and violence since morning, and the EC has been duly informed but to no avail. Alleging that a deep-rooted conspiracy has been hatched by the BJP leadership in Delhi after experiencing "poor turnout" in rallies, Banerjee said "Security forces have been asked not to resist booth capturing." "Four of our activists have been murdered since the elections began, but no action has been taken. But you (BJP) cannot terrorise us, intimidate us by such acts," Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Of turncoats, former ministers and Rajya Sabha members, and an actress  ||Hard-nosed politicians, turncoats and political newbies, the third phase of polling now underway in Bengal has all the elements. Among the big contenders in Tuesday’s polling are the former CPM minister Kanti Ganguly, making a third attempt from Raidighi. The former Rajya Sabha MP from BJP, Swapan Dasgupta is contesting from Tarakeswar. The BJP has also fielded actresses Papia Adhikary and Tanushree Chakraborty in Uluberia South and Shyampur, both in Howrah. The outgoing Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee is seeking re-election from Baruipur West. Sujata Mandal Khan, the estranged wife of BJP MP Saumitra Khan, is the Trinamul nominee in Arambagh. On the other hand, the TMC turncoat Dipak Haldar has been fielded by the BJP in Diamond Harbour. Last week, Haldar was beaten up by alleged Trinamul supporters. Similar attacks happened in Falta as well. Clashes have also been reported between the Trinamul and ISF supporters. Till 3 pm on Tuesday, 68.04 percentage of votes were cast in 31 seats where polling is underway for third phase. Training her guns at Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, Mamata eyeing a third term in office said that Bengal will be ruled by its own people and “not by anyone from Gujarat.” "I will win Bengal with one leg and Delhi with two legs," Mamata said. Going by numbers, the ruling Trinamul is far ahead of all it’s rivals in the fray. Of the 31 seats where polling is being held, the Trinamul is ahead in 29 seats, while the remaining two are with BJP as per the 2019 Lok Sabha poll results. Rival alliance partners- Congress and the Left- who fought the Lok Sabha polls separately, were reduced to single digits in terms of vote share. The Congress and Left in alliance with the Indian Secular Front are desperate to see a section of the voters it had lost in 2019 return to its fold. In 2016, out of the 16 seats in South 24-Parganas, the Left had won only one seat, the rest going to the Trinamul’s kitty. The Trinamul, in 2016, had won all the eight seats of Hooghly that are voting on Wednesday, though three years later the BJP had marched ahead in two of the seats: Goghat and Pursurah. The biggest worry for the Trinamul is infighting and charges of corruption. In 2017, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had pulled up Chinusrah MLA Asit (Tapan) Mazumdar at an administrative meeting telling him to let go of his “commission” to bring down the cost of a stadium project. While campaigning this time, Mamata promised voters in Hooghly that her nominees —  Mazumdar and Tapan Dasgupa, of Saptagram, will not commit any “wrongs.” Mamata also questioned the logic behind holding Bengal assembly elections in eight phases. "It could have been done in 3 or 4 phases," she said. "Was it not prudent to hold the elections in fewer phases and wrap it up early in view of the COVID-19 situation?" the chief minister asked. Banerjee also claimed that the coronavirus situation was not grim in the state as of now. The country recorded an all-time high of 1,03,558 coronavirus infections in a day pushing the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,25,89,067, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. In West Bengal, 1,957 more people had tested positive for the infection on Sunday. To ensure that the more than 78.5 lakh voters can exercise their voting rights to decide the fate of 205 candidates 618 companies of CAPF deployed to guard 10,871 polling stations, all of which have been marked "sensitive" by the Election Commission. State police forces have also been deputed at strategic locations to aid the CAPF. Sharpening its attack on the TMC over issues ranging from corruption to political violence, the BJP held power- packed campaigns across the three districts over the past few days, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi who addressed several public meetings.
The TMC chief, who is still recuperating from her injuries, traversed the length and breadth of the three districts on her wheelchair, highlighting her government's development schemes, and hurling barbs at the BJP over price rise, and other central government policies. With the Covid-19 situation in the state taking a turn for the worse, polling will be held amid strict adherence to health protocols across all 31 constituencies -- 16 in South 24 Parganas (part II), seven in Howrah (part I) and eight in Hooghly (part I).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||EVMs, VVPATs found at TMC leader's residence in Uluberia||Four EVMs and a similar number of VVPATs were found at the house of a Trinamool Congress leader in West Bengal's Howrah district, following which a poll official was suspended, a senior officer said on Tuesday. The incident happened in Tulsiberia village in the Uluberia Uttar assembly segment, he said. Villagers spotted a vehicle with an Election Commission sticker outside the house of the TMC leader in the early hours, after which they started protesting, he added. Then, it was found that the officer of sector 17 Tapan Sarkar was visiting the TMC leaders house with the EVMs, the official said. The EVMs and VVPATs were seized and the officer suspended, he said. "The four machines are not being used in today's polling. We have sought a report from the District Election Officer," he added. The sector officer claimed that he reached the area very late and found the polling booth closed, following that he decided to spend the night at his relatives residence, unable to find any "safe place" to stay. A huge team of central forces had to be deployed in the area as the locals protested, alleging malpractices. Even the Block Development Officer (BDO) was gheraoed when he had reached the spot to pacify the crowd. BJP candidate Chiran Bera alleged that the incident was part of TMCs plan to rig the election, a charge denied by the ruling party. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said, "This is an old habit of the TMC. It takes time to get over the old habits. They have been caught red-handed and it shows what they are up to." Polling was underway in the area in the third phase of elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: For Mamata Banerjee, real battle begins on Tuesday||The eight-phase battle for Bengal will enter its most interesting arenas in the southern districts on Tuesday, when 78 lakh voters decide the fate of 31 Assembly seats in the third phase of the election. “For us, the real battle begins tomorrow (Tuesday) as the contest comes to our known strongholds,” a Trinamul insider said a day before seven seats in Howrah, eight in Hooghly and 16 in South 24-Parganas go to the polls. Unlike previous Bengal elections, the voting trend in the first two phases — involving 60 constituencies in the western districts — has remained somewhat hazy against the backdrop of unprecedented polarisation and high-decibel BJP claims of a virtual sweep. With the BJP narrative featuring claims by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that Mamata Banerjee has lost in Nandigram, a Trinamul source said, the remaining phases will be a “test of nerves” for the party managers. “But we are ready and the morale of the supporters is very high. Our ground-level management tomorrow will prove that the BJP’s claims have done little to dampen our spirit,” a source said. Having ruled the state for a decade, Trinamul may be expected to boast a well-oiled poll machinery — a crucial asset in Bengal elections — as the Left did in its heyday. The key question is, however, whether organisational strength is enough to prevent the apparent saffron surge in these areas. A common characteristic in these predominantly rural seats, where livelihood depends on agriculture and fishing, is anti-incumbency against Trinamul against a backdrop of corruption charges against the party's ground-level leaders. Besides, with the minority population varying between 10 per cent and 40 per cent in these 31 seats, the electorate has been subjected to a barrage of identity politics propaganda. Trinamul had mopped up 29 of these 31 seats in 2016, with the Left and the Congress sharing the remaining two. Even amid the BJP's stellar show in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul had secured leads from 29 of these constituencies while the BJP led from 2 Hooghly seats. However, these seat numbers may not be the yardstick to gauge the possible intensity of Tuesday's contest, and one may need to look at the vote shares. While Trinamul's vote share in these constituencies rose by a little less than 1 per cent between 2016 and 2019 to reach 51 per cent, the BJP's skyrocketed by more than 30 per cent to end up above 37 per cent. "There's a surge in our favour and our vote share will increase even further. We'll surprise Trinamul in this phase," said BJP Lok Sabha member Locket Chatterjee, who is believed to have been instrumental in expanding her party's base in Hooghly. Of the three districts that vote on Tuesday, Hooghly is expected to produce the stiffest contest between the BJP and Trinamul as the district has a sizeable saffron presence. Injecting an intriguing element into Tuesday's battle will be the fledgling Indian Secular Front, part of the Left-Congress alliance, which is in the fray in seats like Jangipara, Khanakul and Haripal in Hooghly, Canning East and Kulpi in South 24-Parganas, and Uluberia East in Howrah. "The average minority vote in the seats that go to the polls on Tuesday is about 20 per cent, going up to 40 per cent in some constituencies," political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty said. "There is little doubt therefore that identity politics will have an impact." Chakraborty said that Abbas Siddiqui, the man behind the ISF, had been drawing huge crowds. "If he can nibble a part of the Muslim vote, it will hurt Trinamul," he said. That Siddiqui has become a thorn in some Trinamul strongholds was clear from Mamata's campaigns in Hooghly, Howrah and South 24-Parganas, where she urged the voters not to split the anti-BJP vote. Siddiqui's party has sizeable bases in these districts. Sources in the BJP said their party was banking heavily on the ISF to divide the Muslim vote. "In a polarised environment, such a split will surely help us," Chatterjee said. Trinamul poll strategists are, however, not overly concerned about the prospective split in the minority vote, primarily for two reasons. One, support for Mamata among the Muslims is so overwhelming that the ISF is unlikely to secure a share of the minority vote significant enough to hurt Trinamul, they reckon. Second, they believe that Bengal's Muslims are tactical voters and would not make the mistake of backing anyone other than Mamata in such a do-or-die battle. A consolidated Muslim vote bank, however, is not the only asset the Trinamul brains trust is counting on. "Bengal's women are with Didi; that's our biggest strength. Besides, initiatives like the Duare Sarkar have helped us deal with anti-incumbency," a Trinamul leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Will Amphan after-effects hit Mamata in her stronghold||Seated on an earthen dam under the scorching sun with his two grandsons, 70-year-old Robin Koyal of Patlikhanpur village in North 24-Parganas’ Hingalganj stares at the sky. The elderly farm labour is apprehending a “Kal Baisakhi” in the last fortnight of the Bengali calendar year. “Roder tej barlei jhorer bhoy hoi... Gato bachoro tai hoyechilo (whenever the sun beats down, we apprehend a storm),” he tells this correspondent with a vacant look, referring to last year’s Cyclone Amphan that wreaked havoc and rendered him homeless. Ten months after Amphan, when political parties are making promises galore to woo voters ahead of elections, impoverished Patlikhanpur village in the Sunderbans is no exception. Koyal remains homeless and has been literally living under the sky — in a 6ft-by-5ft ramshackle tent with his ailing wife. He lost his house in Amphan but received no immediate financial relief, except tarpaulin and a packet of flat rice (chira). For the last 10 months, the elderly couple and the family of his only son have been surviving on rice and atta provided by the government. With monsoon barely two months away, the septuagenarian and his neighbours are living in fear of a fresh onslaught that would scar their lives again. Koyal and at least 42 other families live near a thatched earthen dam along the embankment of the Dasa river, a tributary of the Ichamati. Every year, the dam gets swept away by tidal waves stirred up by seasonal cyclonic storms. “Calamities of varying proportions visit us every year.… This year won’t be any different. This time I will probably lose my only shelter,” Koyal says, adding that he has no money for repairs because he has no work. Many agricultural fields in the area have been converted into fisheries and Koyal is too frail to work there. During the last 50 years Koyal and his neighbours like Ranjit Mondal, 65, Biswajit Mondal, 68, and Suren Koyal, 63, have seen villagers appealing to the powers that be for the construction of a pucca dam or a reinforced cement concrete (RCC) dam along the river bank, but to no avail. After the severe cyclonic storm Aila hit Bengal in May 2009, the Left Front government had announced that all earthen dams in the Sunderbans would be converted into RCC ones. The project did not proceed beyond a few dams in Sandeshkhali. “Voting has become meaningless for us. It is clear now that there will be no change in our lives. A pucca dam could have brought some change, but that never happened. Every year we lose our house and small savings and try to rebuild our lives from scratch. But, last year’s Amphan has robbed us of our mental strength too,” says Ranjit Mondal. “Over 100 families once lived in this village, but they gradually left to settle elsewhere. We could not for lack of money. Our financial situation has only deteriorated since last year. Now we can’t even imagine leaving this village as we don’t have any income,” he adds. Most families in the area have not got work in the past 10 months under the MGNREGA, the central government’s flagship 100-day rural job scheme. “A scheme supervisor had asked me to hand over my card to him and offered me Rs 2,000, but I refused. We have not got work since then. The panchayat had engaged us to repair the dam just after Amphan but we are yet to get our wages,” says Joyanti Mondal Koyal, a young homemaker in Patlikhanpur. Supervisors are usually workers of the ruling party. “For the past few months most of us have been trying to catch fish in bheris abandoned due to high salinity. We manage to catch some crabs and prawn, which fetch us Rs 50 a day at most,” Joyanti says. Patlikhanpur is not an aberration. Many villages at Minakhan, Haroa, Sandeshkhali and Basirhat in North 24-Parganas and Gosaba, Patharpratima, Sagar, Kakdwip and Canning in South 24-Parganas have been struggling since Amphan. The cyclone, followed by heavy rainfall and strong tidal waves, had caused rivers to breach earthen dams, leading to infiltration of saline water. This water damaged crops, horticulture produce and fisheries at several places. Trinamul leaders like Sunil Singh, a panchayat member at Patlikhanpur, does not think the failure to construct a pucca dam will be an issue in the elections. “The BJP has been trying to make it a poll plank, misleading the people. But people will vote for Didi (Mamata Banerjee) without any doubt,” Sunil says. Gostho Singh, a former Trinamul leader and panchayat member, does not agree. “People like Sunil Singh can hardly ever realise the pain and sufferings of people. He is not bothered about how people are living under the open sky in constant fear of further doom. He and his party men have deprived the Amphan victims of relief materials, compensation, shelter under housing schemes and even jobs under the MGNREGA. These people don’t think twice before demanding Rs 20,000 from the poor to get them houses under government schemes. I have left the party in disgust,” Gostho says. In areas like Hingalganj, Minakha and Haroa, where acres of agricultural land have been converted into bheris over the past few years, many farm labourers have been left jobless. Ranjit Mondal, the Hingalganj resident, says: “Earlier I used to work as a farm labourer. But frequent inundation has increased the salinity of the soil and compelled landowners to turn to fish farming. There are many like me who are too old and weak to work in bheris. Now most of us work in brick kilns, where work is available for barely five months a year. A pucca dam could at least help us to survive.” Hingalganj’s sitting MLA and Trinamul candidate Debesh Mondal says: “The absence of a pucca dam is a genuine problem, but not an election issue. I am hopeful the new Trinamul government will solve this problem”. His BJP rival Nimai Das counters: “Trinamul will get no more time. Once Kal Baisakhi hits the region, whatever is left of the earthen dams will be destroyed once again, inconveniencing thousands of families.” None knows the situation better than CPM leader Kanti Ganguly. The former minister had led villagers to repair earthen dams in the aftermath of Amphan. Speaking to The Telegraph on the delay in building concrete dams, Ganguly accused the Mamata Banerjee government of showing little interest in taking forward the initiative of the Left Front government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021:  Do not hijack my religion and democracy from me, says Jaya ||Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan, in Calcutta to campaign for Trinamul Congress candidates, on Monday backed Mamata Banerjee’s fight to preserve the democratic rights of the people of Bengal and said she didn’t want her religion and democracy to be “hijacked”. “I want to say, do not hijack my religion from me. Do not. Never. Do not hijack my democracy and my democratic right from me. And when I say, me, I represent all the people. And that is why I’m here because Mamata Banerjee is fighting, struggling, a single lady to preserve democratic rights of every individual of Bengal,” Bachchan said at a news meet at Trinamul headquarters. Bachchan also said Bengal would develop more if Mamata continued to be the state’s chief minister. To the people who criticise Mamata, Bachchan said: “Lojja! Lojja! (shame, shame).” “…Love and respect for Mamataji, for a single woman who is fighting against all atrocities. Head broken, leg broken, but they have not been able to break her heart and brain and her determination to move ahead and make Bengal one of the best in the world,” Bachchan added. The actress and Padma Shri awardee, popular for her work in both Bengali and Hindi films, introduced herself first as Jaya Bachchan and then said her maiden name was Bhaduri. She mentioned that she is the daughter of Tarun Kumar Bhaduri, an eminent journalist and writer. “We are probashi (expatriate) Bangali, but Bangali,” she said. The intention behind this introduction was to woo the Bengali sentiment, the biggest weapon Trinamul leaders are engaging in this 2021 polls, sources said. During her six-minute odd news meet, Bachchan not for once mentioned the BJP by name, but kept hinting at the saffron camp’s flaws. Pointing at women journalists present, she said, “(Bengal is the) safest state in the country for women. One doesn’t need to say much about it. You all will understand yourselves what I’m saying.” Trinamul sources said that Bachchan was referring to the continuous atrocities women face in Uttar Pradesh, the state that she represents in the Rajya Sabha. “Jayadi campaigning for us serves two purposes. First, Bengalis still connect with her. Second, she is a woman and represents UP, which is the epitome of the collective failure of the administration (of the BJP government),” a Trinamul source said. Bachchan also thanked her party chief Akhilesh Yadav for supporting Mamata and giving her, Bachchan, the opportunity to campaign for Trinamul. Later, she campaigned for Aroop Biswas, Trinamul’s candidate for the Tollygunge Assembly seat. Her campaigns will continue on Tuesday and Wednesday as well. She is also being pitted as Trinamul’s reply to BJP’s star campaigner, actor Mithun Chakraborty, who earlier was a Trinamul MP to the Rajya Sabha, but switched sides and joined the BJP last month. His campaign rallies have been drawing large crowds. “No one can be an answer to someone,” countered the BJP’s state chief Dilip Ghosh. “Yes, she (Bachchan) was popular and liked by people in Bengal once upon a time. But that is not important now. What has she done for Bengal in recent times? Mithunda on the other hand has done a lot of work (for Bengal).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Nadda no-show at two of three public events||BJP’s national chief J.P. Nadda cancelled two of the three public events he was supposed to attend in Bengal on Monday, party sources off the record citing paltry turnout. Nadda attended a road show in Tollygunge, Calcutta, but cancelled two other scheduled public meetings in Serampore and Chinsurah. Both these places are in Hooghly and go to polls in the fourth phase on April 10. While BJP officially cited emergencies for the cancellations, sources in the party said that both events had to be cancelled because Nadda refused to physically address a thin crowd. “We had made arrangements for 6,000 to 7,000 people at the Serampore stadium. Not more than 500 people turned up. Chinsurah’s ground (the venue) is huge. Some 400-500 people turned up and Naddaji cancelled the meeting and left for Delhi,” a state BJP office-bearer said. Nadda, who reached Calcutta on Sunday evening, was supposed to address the public meeting at Serampore first. According to information provided by the BJP’s media cell, the meeting was scheduled at 11.30 am. Around noon, BJP leadership present at the meeting were told that Nadda would not arrive personally but speak virtually instead. He addressed the few people at the venue on phone for around 20 minutes. The saffron leadership appeared unsure of the exact reason behind Nadda deciding not to come. While some leaders said Nadda stayed back in Calcutta for urgent organisational work, others like state BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu cited a glitch in Nadda’s helicopter. “People were likely to come in due course. But, once it was announced that Naddaji won’t come, whoever was on their way decided to go back,” Basu, who was at the meeting himself, said. “There was an issue with his helicopter, he couldn’t fly,” he added. A Serampore district BJP organisational committee leader said many people thought the event would begin at 1pm. Nadda went to Tollygunge to attend a road show in support of BJP candidates Babul Supriyo and Payel Sarkar. This rally was moderately crowded. At the end of the rally, Nadda told journalists that the BJP was coming to power in Bengal and Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee would lose from Nandigram. Last on Nadda’s schedule was the Chinsurah public meeting, but he gave it a miss and flew back to Delhi. The BJP officially stated he “has to leave for New Delhi for an urgent meeting.” State BJP leaders saw ominous signs in Monday’s events. “Both these seats and adjoining ones go to polls on April 10. If five days before that the party’s national chief is forced to cancel an event because of low turnout, it isn’t a good sign,” a Hooghly BJP leader said. Trinamul leader Bratya Basu was sarcastic. “There was huge trickle of two people at BJP rallies and they had to cancel the meetings,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Earthquake of 5.4 magnitude rocks Siliguri||An earthquake of 5.4 magnitude rocked Siliguri and the surrounding areas on Monday evening. Source in the India Meteorological Department said the quake’s epicentre was on the Sikkim-Nepal border, which is 38km east-southeast of Gangtok. The epicentre was 10km below the earth’s surface. The tremor which occurred at 8.49pm was felt in Sikkim and some parts of Bengal, including Calcutta, Bhutan and Northeast. No damage has been reported||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021:  Mamata attacks BJP’s silence on its leaders ||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday invoked the Saradha and Narada issues to attack the BJP and alleged that saffron camp leaders involved in those cash scandals were being spared. Mamata made the charge at a rally in Hooghly’s Chinsurah while referring to allegations that Trinamul was a “Saradha, Narada party”. Trinamul sources said Mamata wanted to underscore the message that BJP leaders, too, were involved in the scams. Mamata made BJP MPs Babul Supriyo and Locket Chatterjee the butt of her attack. The BJP has fielded Chatterjee as the party’s candidate from Chinsurah and Supriyo from Tollygunge. “They (BJP) labelled us as a party of Saradha, Narada. But their leaders are like a baby in the lap of Narada and Saradha. Babul Supriyo once said Saradha was the first rose of Rose Valley (deposit mobilisation company). Locket (Chatterjee) is the locket around Rose Valley’s neck. I know everything but no step is taken against those (BJP) leaders,” said Mamata. Mamata went on to say that leaders like Locket would become MPs and MLAs and “eat everything” but no action would be taken against them. Responding to Mamata, Chatterjee said: “This is election time and hence all such allegations have been levelled against me. The intention is to affect my and my party’s support (base). But this will not help Trinamul.” Several Trinamul turncoats, including Suvendu Adhikari and Mukul Roy, who switched over to the BJP, figured in the controversial Narada tapes, whose veracity however has not been independently verified by The Telegraph. “The BJP attacks our party over extortion and misappropriation (of funds), but never talks against leaders who have joined their party. The Narada video was deleted from BJP’s social media pages after Suvendu (who was purportedly seen in the sting video) joined the party,” said a Trinamul leader. A day ahead of phase 3 polls in 31 seats, many with a sizeable minority presence, Mamata at Hooghly’s Chanditala attacked Indian Secular Front (ISF) chief Abbas Siddiqui, without naming him, calling a “gaddar (traitor)” for creating a division among Muslims. “I know all family members of Furfura Sharif...They are all good. But, a gaddar has come out of the family...You should teach him a lesson. You have to control the cobra before it causes damage,” she said, accusing him of working for the BJP. Trinamul fears that the  ISF, which has aligned with the Left and the Congress of the Sanjukta Morcha on minority voters, may harm its chances in many seats in twin 24-Parganas and Hooghly. “Some people accuse me of appeasing Muslims...But I never did so…I have no religious prejudice. All communities are safe here only because of me,” Mamata added in an attempt to wean away Muslims who may have been influenced by Siddiqui’s oratory. Speaking at a poll rally in Hooghly on Monday, Siddiqui accused Mamata of “misusing” government funds to appease Muslims and Hindus. Mamata on Monday renewed her appeal to people not to vote on religious lines. At back-to-back public meetings in Hooghly and South 24-Parganas she urged people to defeat the BJP’s bid to create rifts on social and religious lines. “Hindu, Muslim vote bhagabhagi cholbey na (Division of Hindu, Muslim votes will not work),” she said at a rally in Bhangar on Monday. ISF’s Haroa candidate Kutubuddin Fatehi was allegedly assaulted by Trinamul supporters in Sashan on Monday. Fatehi was allegedly greeted with black flags and shoes, heckled and assaulted until a police team rescued him. Angry ISF supporters later blocked the Rajarhat connector near Sashan police station, demanding the arrest of culprits. Trinamul supporters planned to kill him, Fatehi alleged later. ⚫Total constituencies: 31 ⚫Districts: 3 — Howrah, Hooghly and South 24-Parganas ⚫Number of booths: 10,871 ⚫Central force: 618 companies ⚫Key contests: Diamond Harbour, Raidighi, Arambagh, Joynagar and Satgachia||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker found hanging, TMC blamed in Dalkhola||A 25-year-old BJP worker from a village under Dalkhola police station of North Dinajpur district was found dead and hanging at a deserted place near his home on Monday morning. His family members and local BJP leaders accused some Trinamul supporters of killing him and then hanging the body, charges that Trinamul leaders have denied. Police have started a probe. Sources said Satyajit Singha, the deceased, went missing on Sunday night from his home in Sitaidighi village. His body, hanging from a tree some 200 metres from home, was spotted on Monday morning by some residents. Satyajit’s mother Jayanti Rani Singha said she last spoke to him on phone briefly around 9pm on Sunday when he said he was being detained. She said their entire family supported the BJP and her son was an active party worker. “A few days back, some local Trinamul supporters had threatened him and had asked him not to participate in BJP's political activities. On Sunday afternoon, my son went to the local market on an errand and did not return home. I tried him on his phone after a couple of hours but found it switched off. Around 9pm, I could contact him. He could only tell me that some people had detained him, and then, I suspect, his phone was snatched. He did not return home at night, and today (Monday), we found him dead. I suspect some Trinamul supporters have killed and hanged him to make it look like suicide,” the mother added. Satyajit, she said, used to run a grocery shop. As the news of his death spread, BJP leaders and supporters who went to the spot pointed out injuries on the youth’s head, limbs and torso. “Trinamul has resorted to this tactic across the state. They are killing our men and hanging them,” said Biswajit Lahiri, the North Dinajpur district BJP president. Trinamul denied the charges. “We suspect suicide. It has become a trend of BJP to accuse us falsely. The police should probe and find out the truth,” said Sandip Biswas, district spokesperson of Trinamul. A police team spoke with Satyajit’s kin and neighbours. “We are waiting for the post-mortem report to know the exact cause of death,” said a  Dalkhola police officer. Last year, the BJP had raised a similar allegation after Debendranath Roy, their MLA from Hemtabad in the same district, was found dead and hanging near his house. The party has fielded his wife Chandima Roy from the seat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Left and Cong slam joblessness, polarisation||Senior Left and Congress leaders — poll allies under the Sanjukta Morcha banner — accused the Mamata Banerjee government of failing to create jobs for Bengal’s youths and the saffron camp of playing the polarisation card for electoral gains. On Monday, state Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Choudhury and CPM state secretary Surjyakanta Mishra, along with leaders and candidates of both parties, attended a public meeting in Baghajatin Park of Siliguri. This was the first major public event organised by the Sanjukta Morcha or the Left-Congress-ISF alliance in north Bengal. However, no one from the ISF was present. Mishra, addressing the gathering of 5,000-odd people, said Trinamul was all set to lose the elections. “So far, two phases of elections have been held. There are clear indications that they cannot thwart the BJP…” said Mishra. Asok Bhattacharya, the CPM MLA of Siliguri who is contesting from the seat again, said they are striving to retain the three seats of Siliguri sub-division. In 2016, Bhattacharya won from Siliguri and the Congress from the other two seats (Matigara-Naxalbari and Phansidewa). “We are also putting every effort to win the Dabgram-Fulbari seat this time,” said Bhattacharya. Dabgram-Fulbari comes under Jalpaiguri district but comprises 14 wards of Siliguri Municipal Corporation. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, the two-time Trinamul MLA from the seat, is looking at a hat-trick. The CPM has pitted Dilip Singh against Deb. Earlier in the day, Choudhury attended a road show in Jalpaiguri and spoke at a meeting in Ghughudanga on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town. “The Trinamul government here has completely failed to create job opportunities for youths of the state. That is why unemployed youths are forced to migrate to other states in search of jobs,” said Choudhury. “The BJP comes up with lengthy promises but does not deliver. During BJP’s regime, attacks on poor and backward classes have increased across the country. If we are voted to power, youths, farmers and other sections of the society would be helped,” the Congress leader added. Bhaichung’s message Popular former footballer Bhaichung Bhutia has posted a video message for Siliguri residents on Monday, urging people to vote for CPM candidate Asok Bhattacharya. “He is a sincere politician and was instrumental in carrying out comprehensive development in Siliguri and in north Bengal as a whole. People should vote for a right leader like Asok Bhattacharya,” Bhaichung said in his message. Back in the 2016 Assembly polls, Bhaichung had been fielded in the seat as a Trinamul candidate against Bhattacharya. Bhaichung, however, got defeated by 14,072 votes. Later, Bhaichung, who hails from Sikkim, quit Trinamul and formed a political party in Sikkim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Distance and terrain take ballots to voters early in Kalimpong||Candidates in the Kalimpong Assembly segment have just started election campaign after having been allotted their symbols two days ago but the voting started on Monday. The Kalimpong district election office sent polling personnel to the homes of absentee voters of senior citizens and people with disabilities to exercise their franchise 12 days before the voting on April 17. “We started early as the terrain is difficult in our constituency. At many places, officials have to walk considerable distance to reach the voter’s house,” said Vimala Ranganathan, the district magistrate and district election officer of Kalimpong constituency. The authorities had identified absentee voters of 5,500-odd people — citizens aged above 80 and those with disabilities — through the voters’ list. One has to meet the benchmark disability criterion of 40 per cent to avail oneself of the facility which was introduced in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Our officials then went to their houses with form 12-d to know whether they wanted to cast votes through postal ballots at their doorstep or visit the polling station on the voting day,” said Vimala. Around 2,400 absentee voters wanted to exercise their franchise sitting at home. The visiting polling team comprises two election personnel, a videographer, one micro-observer and paramilitary troopers and state police personnel numbering two each. A video released by the district administration shows Krishna Maya Rai, an octogenarian, who cast her vote on Monday. The video says she cast her vote after 63 years. “Booth Level Officers (BLO) are intimating the voters and the family of the scheduled visits by the polling personnel in advance as they cannot read text messages,” said Vimala. The authorities are planning to complete the process within 10 days. “At some places like Today-Tangta in Gorubathan, it might take more than two hours to visit just one house,” the official added. Only four to five voters can be covered in a day in certain areas. “We have put in a lot of meticulous planning for this exercise,” Vimala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Three arrested in Manipur for rhino poaching ||The special task force (STF) of Manipur arrested three persons suspected to be members of a gang linked to the killing of a one-horned rhino at the Jaldapara National Park of Alipurduar district. Two of the arrests were made on Sunday night and one was made on Monday, all in Manipur. The rhino’s carcass, with its horn missing, was found in the park on Sunday morning. Senior forest officials, who immediately ordered an inquiry, said the animal had been killed at least two days back. Vets who performed the animal’s autopsy confirmed it was shot from point-blank range. V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of the state, confirmed the arrests made by the STF in Manipur. “We suspected a poachers’ gang from the Northeast was involved and it is good that arrests have been made. Alipurduar district police have submitted a prayer before the court in Manipur so that the arrested can be brought here on transit remand. We hope to recover the horn,” said Yadav. In 2017 and 2018, six rhinos were killed by poachers in Jaldapara. Investigation by the forest department along with the police had revealed the involvement of poachers based in the Northeast. On Sunday, when this rhino carcass was spotted, foresters and the police immediately passed on this information to their counterparts in the Northeast, which swung into action. “We have also come to know that the poachers had stayed in some private cottages in nearby Chilapata. We will speak with cottage owners and residents to ensure that in future they alert us in case they find any suspicious guest checking into these accommodations,” said a forest official. The Bengal forest department, sources said, also intends to constitute a special task force. “This force will be engaged for better protection of forests and wildlife across the state,” said a source. Acting on a tip-off, the police arrested six suspected members of a gang that planned a robbery, with weapons, from near Manikchak in Malda district on Monday morning. Police recovered a firearm, three rounds of live cartridges and a gas-cutter, a drilling machine, among others, from them. A team of Kaliachak police station also arrested one Mobarak Sheikh on Sunday night, with 262 gm of brown sugar and Rs 3.30 lakh in cash. At least 20 Trinamul supporters got injured as the pick-up van they were in flipped on one side while on way to Balurghat on Monday. Sources said around 25 supporters of the party from Bolla and Bahicha villages of South Dinajpur, were heading towards Balurghat to join in a rally that was planned ahead of submission of nominations by party’s candidates. On the way, the driver lost control while trying to negotiate with a motorcycle. The vehicle turned side near Pagliganj-Pollapara area under Patiram police station. Residents rushed them to the superspecialty hospital in Balurghat. Some of them are still under treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-125
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Modi to discuss Covid surge with CMs of all states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a video conference with chief ministers and chief secretaries of all states at 6.30pm on April 8 to discuss Covid-19 situation in the country. Sources at Nabanna said Mamata Banerjee might not be able to attend the video-conference because of her pre-scheduled election rallies, but the chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, would take part in the session. Senior government officials in Bengal anticipated that some restrictions might be announced for the states to stop rapid spread of Covid-19 after daily positive cases in the country crossed 1 lakh mark for the first time on Sunday. Sources said the timing of the meeting clearly suggested that some restrictions were likely to be announced to arrest the rapid spread of the virus, which is considered to be the second wave. “Elections in all other states, which had alongside Bengal, would be over by April 6 and in case any re-polling is required, it would be over by 6.30pm on Thursday. The PM is holding meeting soon after elections are over in all other states, except Bengal. This suggests some restrictions might be announced by the PM,” said a source. The sources also said the anticipation of imposing some restrictions was gaining momentum as the chief secretary had called a meeting with the districts where elections were over on April 9, a day after the PM’s video conference. “The chief secretary would hold a video conference with the DMs, SPs and CMOHs of Purulia, Jhargram, Bankura, East Midnapore and West Midnapore where elections are already over. It gives a hint that some restrictions are likely to be announced in these districts alongside rest of the country,” said an official. Bengal would have five more phases of elections, the last phase of polls would be held on April 29, after the PM’s meeting. “The restrictions might not apply for the Bengal districts where elections are yet to be held. But it is clear a district would come under the restrictions as soon as elections would be over in the district,” said another official. Sources in the health department said besides the restrictions, Modi might lay stress on following Covid -19 protocols strictly and lay stress on vaccination programme. “But it is unlikely that a complete lockdown would be announced. Measures like night curfew and restrictions on public gathering could be announced,” said a source in the health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
06-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Tmc urges BJP not to induct their leaders in the saffron camp||Ranjan Sarkar, the president of the Trinamul Congress’s Darjeeling (plains) district committee, has urged the BJP not to induct Trinamul leaders in Siliguri into the saffron camp. Such Trinamul leaders work only to fulfil their own interests and hence, they should be stopped from entering any political platform, he added. “We will always have political differences with the BJP… but I would like to request senior leaders of the BJP to shun the political culture of inducting the selfish and traitors into their party. These people, who have defected from Trinamul, worked only for their personal gains,” said Sarkar. Nantu Paul, his wife Manjushree, Dipak Seal and Jyotsna Agarwal were among the Trinamul leaders who joined the BJP in recent days. “These people have never worked for Siliguri residents but have used the party for their own interests. Such people should not be allowed access to any political platform and we believe their presence in the political arena would only hinder the development of Siliguri,” said Sarkar. Paul and his wife Manjushree are former councillors of wards 11 and 12 in the Siliguri Municipal Corporation and are believed to enjoy clout among shopowners. Siliguri’s Bidhan Market is located in the two wards. Sarkar’s strategy to reach out to the business community of these two wards and simultaneously send a message to the BJP is aimed at preventing the leaders who have deserted Trinamul from trying to drum up support for Shankar Ghosh, the BJP candidate of Siliguri, said observers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-126
