07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Shah predicts massive victory for BJP||Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a series of colourful road shows in three districts of south Bengal on Wednesday, promising rapid industrialisation if BJP is voted to power and predicted a massive victory for his party. Shah claimed the BJP will win between 63 to 68 seats out of 91 constituencies for which elections have been held in the first three phases of the eight-phase West Bengal assembly elections. Asserting that Mamata Banerjees departure is assured, he said at Mallick Fatak in Howrah, "She is such a big leader, so her departure should also be with a big margin." The home minister also promised to wipe out hooliganism and political violence if his party came to power. The first of the road shows of the day was at Singur, once the hotspot of the anti-land acquisition movement, where he moved from Dulepara till near Singur police station. He was campaigning for Rabindranath Bhattacharya, the outgoing Singur MLA and a Trinamul turncoat. The symbolism of the home minister holding a road show in Singur, three days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a rally there and alleged the "obstructionist mindset" of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee deprived West Bengal of industries and jobs, was clear--the BJP wants to corner her over the states dwindling industrial base and lack of jobs. He then joined a road show at Domjur, campaigning for another Trinamul turncoat Rajib Banerjee. The rally started at Jagadishpur Market and ended at Kona crossing. Shah then went to Howrah Central (in the picture) and campaigned for Sanjay Singh. Bally’s BJP candidate and Trinamul turncoat Baishali Dalmiya was present at this road show. In between, Shah had lunch at the residence of Shishir Sana, a van puller at Domjur. The last road show attended by Shah was at Behala East in Calcutta Speaking to reporters during the show, Shah said Singur, which has been shunned by industry since the 2006 agitation, will be developed by the next BJP government in the state. "We will develop the area by setting up industries and a Rs 500 crore intervention fund has been announced for potatoes, for which the area is known, in our Sankalp Patra (manifesto)," he said. Shah said, after winning the elections, the BJP government will ensure that small, medium and large industries are set up in Singur, situated beside the national highway connecting Calcutta and New Delhi. "We will pursue politics of development, dialogue and cooperation, instead of confrontation," he said. "Bharatiya Janata Party estimates that it will surely win 63 to 68 seats in the first three phases of elections and gain a huge lead over the TMC, Left and the Congress," he said. He said he welcomed TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee invocation of Hindu Gods and Goddesses, and recitation of Chandi Path (hymns to Goddess Durga) at public meetings, but quipped it was "too late for her". Banerjee, often accused by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders of minority appeasement, has been regularly chanting hymns and asserting her Hindu identity to keep the majority community in good humour. The road show meandered through the roads of Singur town for nearly an hour from Dulepara More to Singur police station, as colourful posters, BJP flags and green and saffron balloons dotted the route. Chants of Jai Shri Ram and slogans demanding industrialisation and jobs pervaded the air as the procession crawled through streets. Referring to the Singur movement of 2006-08 that forced Tata Motors to move out its proposed small car Nanos mother production unit from the area, Modi had told an election meeting that the TMC used the place for political purpose and then left the people to fend for themselves. Singur, a small town in Hooghly district, has an old connection between Banerjee and Modi. The scene of an aggressive movement led by Banerjee against forcible land acquisition by the then Left Front government for the Nano project, Singur, along with Nandigram, had catapulted the street fighter TMC leader to power in West Bengal in 2011. The sustained, and often violent, protests by the local farming community led by Banerjee forced the Tatas to move out of Singur. A cryptic Suswagatam SMS from Modi, then the Gujarat chief minister, to Ratan Tata, the group chairman, is said to have clinched the deal in Gujarats favour and led to the relocation of the project to Sanand near Ahmedabad. Many considered it as West Bengals loss and Gujarats gain. Shah also held rallies at Domjur, Howrah Madhya and Behala East constituencies, all of which will go to polls in the fourth phase on April 10, with party candidates in tow. Addressing the crowd at Mallick Fatak in central Howrah, Shah said that a BJP government in the state will make its border security strong enough to ensure that no one can cross over into it illegally. "Under Modijis leadership, we have to reform the education system, strengthen infrastructure, provide work to the unemployed and promote industry," he said. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||EC issues notice to Mamata over 'appeal' to Muslims during rally||The Election Commission issued a notice to Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday for allegedly making an appeal to voters along communal lines during campaigning in Hooghly. She has been asked to respond to the notice within the next 48 hours. The notice said the poll panel had received a complaint from a BJP delegation alleging that on April 3, Mamata appealed to the Muslim voters not to let their votes be split among different political parties during the election rally at Tarakeshwar in Hooghly. The EC said it found her speech violating the provisions of the Representation of the People Act and the model code. The poll panel referred to the following speech of Mamata, as quoted by NDTV. “... I am requesting my minority brothers and sisters with folded hands... don't divide the minority votes after listening to the devil... who had taken money from the BJP... He passes many communal statements and initiates clashes between Hindus and Muslims... comrades of the CPI(M) and BJP are roaming around with money given by BJP to divide the minority votes”. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday mocked the TMC supremo, saying her appeal indicated that the minority community had started drifting away from the Bengal chief minister. “Didi is publicly asking Muslims to support her and urging them not to divide their votes….. Such remarks indicate that even Muslims who voted her to power have lost confidence in her and have moved away. This indicates that she is losing the elections,” Modi told a poll rally at Rashmela Ground in Cooch Behar. Modi’s claim assumes significance in the backdrop of Bengal’s demography with over 28 per cent Muslim voters who have been overtly behind the Trinamul Congress since the change of guard in Bengal. In a separate incident on Monday, the EC had Mamata’s claims of the presence of outsiders in booth 7 of the Boyal Maktab Primary School in Nandigram and intimidation of voters by central force jawans during the poll process on April 1. The poll panel termed the allegations “factually incorrect, without any empirical evidence whatsoever and devoid of substance”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Rajib Banerjee alleges he was sidelined by TMC for resisting cut-money culture||Former minister Rajib Banerjee, considered to be one of BJP's prized scalps in its quest to assume power in Bengal, alleged that he was relegated in the TMC for opposing "cut money culture" and had to face "step-motherly" treatment throughout his second term, which ultimately prompted him to sever ties with the ruling party. Banerjee also mocked the Trinamul Congress government for promoting the state's numero uno position in implementation of the MGNREGA, contending that the distinction is testimony of the lack of jobs for the youth of Bengal. The former forest minister, once a key figure in the Trinamul Congress, said he had considered retiring from active politics, but took up the challenge to contest in the Assembly elections with the hope that the BJP will usher in a new era of development in the state. Banerjee, 51, who switched over to the saffron camp in January, is vying for a third term from the Domjur constituency, where he has won twice as a TMC candidate since 2011. Referring to his "bitter experiences" in the Backward Classes Welfare Department, Banerjee said he had once received a complaint of irregularity in distribution of cycles among students under the 'Sabuj Sathi' project, and flagged it to the chief minister's office. "The result of pointing this out was I was removed from the department, as I tried to put an end to the cut money culture," the former Backward Classes Welfare Department Minister told PTI in an interview on the sidelines of hectic campaigning. Accusing the TMC dispensation of not clearing files for development projects for his constituency, Banerjee claimed that he was shunted out of every ministry that he headed whenever he tried to come in the way of vested interests of a section of senior officials and party members. "I had worked hard to get the nod for drinking water projects in Domjur, but then, a Rs 33-crore proposal for free water connection to households was not approved. The local TMC administration is now demanding money from people to go ahead with it. I wanted to execute the project without charging a penny," he said. Attacking the TMC government over its "failure" to create job opportunities, Banerjee sought to punch a hole in the ruling party's poll plank of securing the top spot for implementation of the 100-day rural job scheme, declaring it as "a reflection of Bengal, a failed state". "There are over 5.5 lakh vacancies in state government departments, and no efforts were made to recruit people for the posts. Instead, the TMC dispensation hired a few thousand contractual workers. "People do not have jobs, and that is why they sought work under the MGNREGA scheme. Youths are leaving the state," Banerjee, who holds an MBA degree, said. Asked about allegations that he enjoyed all the power and perks of his position before ditching the TMC prior to the elections, the former Irrigation Minister said people of the constituency are well aware of his development work in the area. "Let the TMC leaders say whatever they want. People will decide on April 10 (the day of polling in Domjur)... I know they will not disappoint me, said Banerjee, who is believed to have considerable influence in several seats of Howrah district. The TMC turncoat, however, maintained that he had immense respect for TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and had to desert the party with a heavy heart as he was cornered. "Unfortunately, I was not allowed to work independently in the second term and sidelined in the party. I had to face personal attacks for airing grievances against a section of top leaders. "I was also meted out a step-motherly treatment ever since winning from the constituency with more than one lakh votes for a second term in 2016," he claimed. Banerjee also took a swipe at TMC's 'khela hobe' (game will happen) poll slogan, insisting that such a discourse by the ruling party shows it has become politically bankrupt. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||CRPF harassing voters in Bengal at Shah's behest, alleges Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamul Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that the CRPF personnel are harassing voters in the state at the behest of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Addressing a rally here in Cooch Behar district, she accused personnel of the central force of molesting women and beating people during the ongoing assembly elections. "They are obstructing electors to cast their votes. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has instructed them to do so," Banerjee alleged. She claimed at least 10 people have been killed in the state during the ongoing polls. "The Election Commission is running the administration. Please see that nobody is killed during the polling process. I request you to monitor CRPF personnel who are on duty now in the state. They should not be allowed to harass women. There are cases of girls being molested by the central force employees," she said. Five candidates, including two women, were assaulted, while clashes between rival political groups erupted during the third phase of polling in the state on Tuesday. Television grabs showed TMC nominee in Arambagh Sujata Mondal being chased in an open field by people wielding sticks and iron rods and then hitting her on the head with sticks. Her security officer was also injured. Other candidates who were allegedly attacked or heckled during the day were Papiya Adhikary and Swapan Dasgupta of the BJP and Dr Nirmal Maji and Najmul Karim of the TMC.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Trinamul banks on women voters ||A group of eight women came out of the Khordda-Kanpur Primary School, a polling booth in Hooghly’s Goghat constituency, around 2.30pm on Tuesday after casting their votes and had a brief conversation with a man standing around 150 meters away from the booth. Syed Ashik Hossain, 30, a local Trinamul leader, seemed happy following the conversation and bid them a bye with a smiling face and the women left for their homes. “Have all women voters already turned up?” Hossain then asked Trinamul colleague Bappadittya Roy. Bappadittya, who was manning the party’s camp office, pored over a list in front of him to count while murmuring that the length of the women’s queue outside the booth was longer than the men’s since morning. “I saw 25-odd women in the queue still waiting... After that, 100-odd left. I think the trend is okay,” Hossain said after Bappadittya handed him over a list that had a status report on women voting at the booth. The duo then told this correspondent how they had adopted a strategy to ensure that all women voters in the booth cast their votes before 3pm. With their mission almost accomplished before the deadline, they seemed relieved as they took a tea break. Archana Dhara, one of the eight women who were seen talking to Hossain, said she scurried to reach the booth as she had plans to be there by 12.30pm, but domestic chores got her delayed. “I don't know about politics... I know there are a lot of problems with local leaders of Trinamul. But I can’t stop supporting Didi,” said Dhara, in her mid-twenties, while adding her family had been beneficiaries of Kanyashree and Rupashree projects. According to her, while Rupashree helped her father organise her marriage with the Rs 25,000 grant, her sister’s plan of studying beyond Class XII was aided by Kanyashree, which gave her Rs 1,000 annually and Rs 25,000 after she turned 18. The booth where Dhara cast her votes has 1,255 voters, including 615 women.When the voting ended, 1107 votes were cast, out of which 540 were women, which means 48.7 per cent of the total votes were cast by women. “This percentage is relatively high,” said a poll official. The queue of women was longer than male voters at many booths in districts like Hooghly, Howrah and South 24-Parganas, where 31 constituencies went to the polls on Tuesday. At 9.30am, a booth in Suboypur of Arambagh had around 45 women while there were nine men in the queue. Although the gender-wise break-up of voters was not available, Trinamul leaders claimed women had came out to vote in droves and the percentage was as high as over 48 per cent, which gave them a reason to be happy. Halima Molla, who had to queue up for around 40 minutes under the scorching sun at her booth at Lalpur Primary School in Raidighi, said she was there to vote for Mamata. “As a woman, I think every woman would like to have a daughter like Mamata... She is so helpful, but also courageous,” said Halima.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Muslims moving away from Didi, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that Mamata Banerjee’s appeal to Muslims not to divide their votes indicated that the minority community had started drifting away from the Bengal chief minister. “Didi is publicly asking Muslims to support her and urging them not to divide their votes….. Such remarks indicate that even Muslims who voted her to power have lost confidence in her and have moved away. This indicates that she is losing the elections,” Modi told a poll rally at Rashmela Ground in Cooch Behar. Modi’s claim assumes significance in the backdrop of Bengal’s demography with over 28 per cent Muslim voters who have been overtly behind the Trinamul Congress since the change of guard in Bengal. Till now, Modi’s attack on Mamata revolved around her alleged appeasement of Muslims. On Monday, he came up with a different narrative and went on to further the BJP’s polarisation agenda. “If we had appealed to all Hindus (of Bengal) to join hands and vote for the BJP, we would have been served with notices by the Election Commission. Even the Prime Minister, the president of our party and candidate (of the Assembly constituency concerned) would have received the notices. We don’t know whether Didi has received the notice,” Modi said. A political observer said the jibe was part of Modi’s strategy to baffle the Trinamul campaign strategists and confuse the Muslim community. “In north Bengal, the BJP is working on a strategy to divide Muslim votes in districts like Malda and North Dinajpur with a game plan to deny Trinamul the edge it enjoys among the Muslims,” said an observer. A number of Rajbanshi Muslims, who are supporters of one of the factions of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association, were seen at the PM’s meeting. “Around 35 lakh Rajbanshi Muslims live in north Bengal. One of the factions of the GCPA headed by Ananta Roy ‘Maharaj’ is with the BJP,” said a BJP leader in Jalpaiguri. The Rajbanshi Muslims, commonly known as “nasya sheikhs”, are also under Trinamul’s radar. Just ahead of the elections, the state government has announced the constitution of a development board for the community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
07-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker’s mother dies after assault||Madhavi Adak, the mother of BJP worker Piru Adak, died early on Tuesday after goons allegedly belonging to the Trinamul Congress had beat her up at Goghat late on Monday night. The BJP has alleged that Madhavi was assaulted when she had come out to save Piru from the hands of the goons. Piru, who had joined the BJP after quitting Trinamul following the 2018 panchayat polls, was sitting with fellow party workers near his residence in Khushiganj. A little after 10pm on Monday, a gang of about 50 goons arrived on 25 motorbikes. Local residents said the goons were armed with sticks, iron rods and pistols. “The goons were Trinamul supporters and they attacked Piru and other BJP workers who were sitting together after putting up BJP flags and banners. The goons started to chase away our boys. While others fled, Piru couldn’t,” said an eyewitness. Goghat voted on Tuesday. Hearing the commotion, Madhavi arrived on the scene and tried to save her son. While the goons couldn’t get hold of Piru, they attacked his mother instead. The BJP alleged that Madhavi was beaten with blunt objects like iron rods and the butt of a pistol. Piru said while they had requested the police to help his mother, they refused. Goghat’s BJP candidate Biswanath Karak said the party had lodged a police complaint. BJP workers staged a demonstration alleging police inaction. Trinamul, however, denied any connection with the incident. “This might just be a case of normal death. We believe they are trying to politicise the issue on poll day,” said Majumdar, rejecting charges of his involvement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Modi’s indirect nod for Mamata schemes ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said benefits to common people would continue ever after the Mamata Banerjee government ceased to exist in Bengal after May 2. The promise was willy-nilly an endorsement that the social welfare schemes introduced by the Trinamul government in the past 10 years had a positive impact on the lives of people. “Didi has been saying if she does not come to power, all social benefits that people receive in Bengal will stop. Do you believe this? It is a lie and a futile attempt to hoodwink people,” Modi said while addressing a public meeting at the Rashmela Ground in Cooch Behar town. “None of these schemes will be discontinued. People will get monthly allowances and other benefits related to health, education and social security…. Only the amount of assistance will increase. But yes, cut money, extortion and corruption will not be there anymore,” the Prime Minister added. With the BJP desperate to secure power in Bengal, the party has time and again harped on the array of social security schemes which it intends to launch for the residents of the state. The BJP had also mentioned those schemes in its “Sankalpa Patra” or the manifesto that was released in Calcutta by Union home minister Amit Shah. Whether it is through their speeches or their manifesto, leaders of the saffron brigade have so far tried to prove that they would give Bengal a better deal that the Mamata regime had denied the citizenry. Also, time and again, they have accused the Mamata Banerjee government of corruption in the implementation of these schemes. Political observers pointed out the Prime Minister’s promise that the schemes would continue meant that the social security schemes introduced by the Trinamul government would continue even if the BJP was voted to power. “This proves the PM and his party cannot undermine those schemes and their effects on a major section of the state’s population. He has virtually admitted that people are getting the benefits of these schemes and hence articulated that the scale of financial benefits would increase if the BJP comes to power,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Cash coupon blows up on BJP ||Either chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already transformed Bengal into “Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal)” or campaigner Narendra Modi’s magic wand has done so in the past few weeks. Otherwise, how can villagers at Raidighi in South 24-Parganas “donate” Rs 1,000 to the BJP against a coupon that mentions the amount and carries a picture of the Prime Minister? The BJP claims the coupon is actually a receipt for donations to organise a meeting in Joynagar, also in South 24-Parganas. But the Trinamul Congress and the CPM are accusing the BJP of “buying” support by distributing coupons of Rs 1,000 each among voters. Raidighi voted on Tuesday in the third phase of polling in Bengal. Supporters of both Trinamul and the CPM said the local BJP leadership had promised them such a payment for attending Prime Minister Modi’s April 1 rally in Joynagar and for voting in favour of his party. The villagers said the coupons were given to them as part of an offer of an “assured gift” for attending the meeting and also for voting in favour of the BJP. BJP leader and the party’s Raidhighi candidate, Shantanu Bapuli — a Trinamul turncoat — denied the allegation and gave multiple explanations. The gist: the coupon is a receipt for donations towards a rally organised for the Prime Minister, not an IOU that can be cashed in exchange for rally attendance and a vote; it was meant for traders and the salaried but the party is now trying to find out how it ended up with poor villagers…. Late at night, Bapuli called this correspondent and said the coupons were also used to make payments to transporters ferrying people to the BJP’s rallies. “If a vehicle is hired for Rs 2,000, the transporter is given two coupons of Rs 1,000 each. After the rally, they come to us to collect the cash by handing over the coupons.” Which confirms that the coupon can be cashed — a shift from Bapuli’s earlier explanation and a corroboration of one element of the version by the villagers who said they had been asked to attend the rally, vote for the BJP and collect the cash by producing the coupon. The coupons drew wider attention during a visit to the area by veteran CPM leader and candidate Kanti Ganguly. The party’s supporters showed him the coupons, allegedly circulated by BJP workers in the area. Trinamul supporters too claimed to have received similar coupons from the BJP. Printed by the BJP’s Mathurapur organising district committee, the coupons clearly mention the sum of Rs 1,000 but not the word “donation”. While donations for political events are not uncommon, individual contributions of Rs 1,000 are unheard of, not just in rural India but even in urban centres. On the campaign trail in the state, Modi has been promising to turn Bengal into Sonar Bangla. Bapuli, the BJP leader in Raidhighi, said: “The coupons were exclusively meant for donations to organise the Joynagar meeting…. It appears that the CPM and Trinamul have joined hands in fear of defeat and are acting desperately to malign our party. The BJP has no need to buy votes in Bengal.” Asked whether villagers can afford to donate Rs 1,000 in a state whose government’s performance has been roundly criticised by the BJP leadership, Bapuli said the coupons were meant for traders and the salaried. But even for the highly emotive issue of Ram temple construction in Ayodhya, the donations had been classified into denominations of Rs 10, Rs 100 and Rs 1,000 — not a blanket Rs 1,000 as the BJP had purportedly done for the Joynagar event. Told the coupons had been found with several farmers, Bapuli said: “We need to find out how the poor villagers got hold of the coupons. The coupons were intended to collect donations from traders and salaried sympathisers of the party.” CPM leader Ganguly, a minister in the erstwhile Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee cabinet, said: “This immensely unfair practice of the BJP is widely known. But the people here have rejected their offer of money.” Hazrat Laskar, a CPM supporter from the area, said: “A BJP leader distributed these coupons in the last week of March. He told many villagers like me to attend Modi’s meeting. Some people found the offer attractive enough to attend the meeting. However, there are many like me who received the coupons but eventually did not attend.” Laskar added: “The BJP leader also requested us to vote for the party, and said that the assured gift of Rs 1,000 in cash would be paid only after voting was over. I decided not to compromise my political ethics.” Trinamul supporter Mostakim Khan echoed Laskar, his political opponent, but accused the CPM of having helped the BJP. “There is nothing unusual any more in the BJP distributing cash to woo voters, more so since that party has no support base in this district,” said Khan, referring to South 24-Parganas. “On countless occasions, Mamata Banerjee has spoken about this in public and alerted us. The BJP leaders in the area distributed the coupons even among our supporters, asking them to attend the meeting and to vote for them. But we are certain that most of them did not attend the meeting and hopefully have not voted for the party, either,” he added. Khan could not resist blaming the CPM. “I think the local CPM and ISF supporters helped the BJP to circulate the coupons since the BJP leaders hardly have any access to the area. So without their support, the BJP could not have distributed these coupons.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Taunts fail to eject Didi’s ‘sisters’ from booths ||Champa Manna, 40, a homemaker of Daporchak village in the Purshura Assembly constituency, stepped into the polling booth and presented her documents with the presiding officer to prove her credentials as the polling agent of the Trinamul Congress. Manna stayed inside the booth for six hours after her husband Pintu, a Trinamul worker, had allegedly been disallowed from entering the premises as the polling agent. She did not let the booth remain un-represented by Trinamul till another woman Chhaya Mali, a local gram panchayat member, came as her substitute. “After BJP workers did not allow my husband, I went there as a polling agent and did not bow down before the threats,” said Champa. Priyanka Das, 24, was deputed as a Trinamul polling agent at one of the booths at Parul Basic High School in Arambagh for the first time. She was allegedly harassed by a group of BJP workers outside the booth but did not leave till the voting got over. “I faced taunts every time I stepped out to breathe some fresh air. The BJP workers taunted me as I became the polling agent of my party despite being a woman. But they failed to oust me from the booth,” said Priyanka. Priyanka and Champa are among over 30 women who became the polling agents of Trinamul for the first time in their life. Apart from the women, Trinamul leaders said they had tried their best to re-deploy polling agents at most of the booths from where the BJP had tried to oust their men. A polling agent at a booth is vital for a party as the person looks after the entire process with the right to object if any malpractice is reported. The absence of a polling agent gives an advantage to rivals. Trinamul had failed to depute agents at booths in the second phase of the elections, including in Nandigram where chief minister Mamata Banerjee took on her former protégé Suvendu Adhikari who was fielded by the BJP. Trinamul insiders said the party had faced such a crisis with the polling agents for the first time since they had come to the power in 2011. After the second phase of the voting, senior Trinamul leaders, along with the I-PAC team led by poll consultant Prashant Kishor, held several meetings to depute polling agents courageous enough to sit at problematic booths. The decision was to depute women as polling agents. Eight constituencies in Hooghly went to the polls on Tuesday and the Trinamul insiders said the party faced a problem with election agents at 100-odd booths when the voting started at 7am. “We did not have any booth without a polling agent this time. We redeployed polling agents on around 100 polling premises despite threats from the BJP’s hooligans. According to the advice of chief minister, our workers assigned women as polling agents in at least 20 booths,” said Dilip Yadav, Trinamul’s Hooghly president and the party candidate in the Pursurah Assembly seat. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had flayed Trinamul leaders in the districts on the issue of polling agents and directed them to depute women. “I am not ready to listen to excuses like BJP’s threats or BJP’s attacks for not (someone from Trinamul) being present at the booth on the day of polling. I request those who are not brave, please don’t go to the booth. I am asking you (leaders) to depute women as polling agents at a booth. Assign my Kanyashree sisters, my students as polling agents,” Mamata said at a rally in Hooghly’s Khanakul on Sunday. “In case the brave hearts are not available, find a woman who can argue and who has the strength and place them as polling agents. Depute the women at booths and I will see who comes to threaten (them),” Mamata said. The Trinamul insiders said despite several efforts, the party could not post polling agents in at least 30 booths in the district. There are many polling stations, mostly in minority areas, where the BJP also failed to deploy polling agents. Gopal Roy, a Trinamul youth leader in Pursurah, said Champa Manna was deputed for the first time as an agent and fought till the poll was over, along with another woman polling agent. “The BJP tried to drive out our agents from booths but party workers deputed women and persons with strong mindset at the booths,” said Roy. Champa said she was new but she learnt the job of a polling agent from her husband. “I was new but I had some idea as my husband has been associated with the party for long. I went to the booth and tried my best.” Sources said the BJP had driven away two polling agents, Panmani Hembram and Rasulal Hembram, from two booths in Goghat. But they were redeployed by Trinamul MLA and candidate Manas Majumdar within half an hour. “I went there as soon as I heard our agents were driven out. I redeployed them at the booth,” said Majumdar. Sources said all candidates had conducted a meeting on Monday with their polling agents and asked them not to leave the booths and report if they faced any problem anywhere. “We had prepared a list of polling agents with their numbers. We kept another set ready for most of the booths. There was a dedicated team to see whether polling agents are driven out of any booth,” said a Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: TMC candidates attacked in the third phase of elections||Six candidates, including four from the ruling Trinamul Congress, were roughed up by rival party activists as Bengal voted in the third phase of the Assembly elections on Tuesday, prompting chief minister Mamata Banerjee to accuse the Election Commission of inertia. Although violence during elections is not uncommon, rarely have so many poll candidates been attacked simultaneously, raising the spectre of more unrest in the remaining five phases of the elections that have witnessed unprecedented pent-up tensions. Most of the attacks took place when the candidates arrived to protest alleged instances of electoral malpractice. Speaking in the afternoon at a campaign rally in Alipurduar, Mamata said she had received over 100 reports of assault and violence on her party’s candidates and workers from across Bengal. She accused the Election Commission, yet again, of inertia despite formal complaints. “They inflicted a serious injury on our SC (Scheduled Caste) candidate Sujata (Mondal Khan)… while she was visiting a booth. They also thrashed a candidate in Khanakul…. In Canning East, security forces prevented our candidate Saokat (Molla) from entering a booth,” the chief minister said. “There have been numerous such instances today of attacks that did not spare the candidates. We have lodged repeated complaints with the Election Commission but to no avail,” Mamata said. Trinamul’s Arambagh candidate, Sujata, estranged wife of the BJP state youth wing chief and Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan, was chased out of the Arandi South Primary School polling station in the constituency by a stick-wielding mob. She and her personal security officer were allegedly hit on the head with sticks. Around 11am, Sujata had arrived at the school to examine complaints of booth-capturing by the BJP. As soon as she tried to enter, she faced resistance from local BJP supporters. She allegedly twisted the arm of a BJP supporter during an argument. The woman suffered a fracture, the BJP alleged. Enraged BJP supporters attacked Sujata, who later denied having attacked anybody and alleged she had been assaulted without provocation. A witness said: “The aggression with which she (Sujata) started abusing and assaulting the local people, it enraged them. They chased her with sticks…. She tried to flee in her car but local people blocked the road. She had to run for her life with her security personnel through a field.” The witness added: “They fell a couple of times. The security personnel too tried to stop the people from advancing by brandishing their service firearms. But the mob of over 200 did not care. The candidate and at least one security person got hit on the head with bamboo sticks…. They kept running for about 1.5 km.” Sujata, who had switched to Trinamul from the BJP ahead of the polls, later alleged an attempt on her life, accusing her former party of planning it. “They (the BJP) think that by resorting to violence they will secure victory in seats such as Arambagh. They are badly mistaken. Candidates like me have been fielded. We do not fear even death,” she said. Arambagh sub-divisional police officer Abhishek Mondal said five people had been arrested. The problems did not end there for Sujata. Around 4.30pm, while she was touring the Dihi Bagnan area, a mob allegedly hurled stones and bricks at her car, demanding she leave. The windshield was smashed. BJP Arambagh chief Biman Ghosh, also the party’s Pursurah candidate, accused Sujata of terrorising innocent villagers, assaulting a woman and throwing out cooked food from a house, thus triggering a “spontaneous outburst”. “People intensely dislike her here, anyway. She is an outsider and is extremely aggressive…. Whatever happened, she brought it on herself,” Ghosh said. Trinamul’s Khanakul (Hooghly) candidate Najibul Karim ran into protests when he arrived at Gaurangachowk to probe allegations that his party’s election agents had been driven out by the BJP. After reinstating the polling agents and encouraging Trinamul voters to return to the queues, Karim was about to leave when a group of alleged BJP workers armed with sticks thrashed him and his personal security officer. Both suffered multiple injuries. “As the candidate himself was beaten up and taken away for hospitalisation, the Trinamul polling agents once again ran away in fear…. Soon, many Trinamul-supporting voters went home without casting their votes,” a local resident said. Mondal, the sub-divisional police officer, said three arrests had been made. In neighbouring Howrah’s Uluberia North constituency, Trinamul candidate Nirmal Majhi, a minister of state, had arrived at a booth in Muktir Chowk following allegations of BJP-backed malpractice when he faced demonstrations by the Opposition party’s activists who refused to let him enter. Police sources said that when Majhi refused to relent, the BJP group allegedly started hurling bricks at him. His security personnel immediately gave him a helmet, but a policeman in his security detail got hit in the head. He needed several stitches. This newspaper could not contact Majhi as his mobile phone was switched off. In the neighbouring constituency of Uluberia South, BJP candidate Papiya Adhikari had been touring the constituency when she found out that a party worker had been attacked and admitted to Uluberia State General Hospital. Adhikari said that when she tried to visit him around 12.30pm, local Trinamul leader Akbar Sheikh and his supporters blocked her way before assaulting her physically and verbally. The local Trinamul leadership said the BJP had created “some tension” and people had reacted “spontaneously”. Some distance away at Falta, South 24-Parganas, BJP candidate Bidhan Parui faced demonstrations by Trinamul activists at the Bellsinha High School polling station around 11.30am. They allegedly slapped him and threw bricks at him. “That was not the only place. I was similarly heckled or assaulted in other booths too. I told the police but nothing happened. I have complained to the Election Commission,” Parui said. In Canning East, Trinamul candidate Saokat Molla accused central forces personnel and ISF supporters of heckling and assaulting him. He demonstrated for an hour from 11am on Bulergarh Road. “I was simply trying to draw the administration’s attention to the stocking of bombs by the ISF in the area…. The central forces, their jawans, roughed me up instead of acting on my complaint…. ISF supporters slapped me. I demonstrated till the poll panel sent a team and took formal note of my complaint,” Saokat said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Supreme Court 7-day breather for coal-theft accused||The Supreme Court on Tuesday extended the shield against arrest for Anup Majhi a.k.a. Lala, the alleged mastermind in the multi-crore coal pilferage case in Bengal, by seven days till April 13. Majhi will have to cooperate with the CBI, which is probing into the case with the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The apex court, however, issued this order on a day Bengal completed the third phase of polling and started gearing up for the fourth. The extension of Majhi’s shield against his arrest came as a damper of sorts for the CBI which has been gearing up for some time to appeal before the apex court for removing the ban on his arrest. The central investigating agency has been questioning Majhi for several days in a row now. On Monday, a section of senior officers were of the opinion that the man behind the multi-crore case was not divulging any details and hence his custodial interrogation was necessary. The Supreme Court turned down the plea on Tuesday while extending its shield on Majhi’s arrest. “We will again appeal for Anup Majhi’s custody after the completion of the seven-day period,” said a senior CBI officer in Calcutta. Majhi’s breather came within 24-hours of the ED attaching his immovable assets worth Rs 165.86 crore on Monday. The assets included land parcels, factory premises, plant and machinery and other properties of two companies — the Ispat Damodar Private Limited and Sonic Thermal Private Limited. Senior ED officers claimed Majhi created several shell companies to park huge sums allegedly generated from illegal coal mining. The idea was to prove that this amount was no way related to the proceeds of crime, they said. Several senior Trinamul leaders alleged the probe against Majhi by central agencies when polls are underway in Bengal is the part of a grand design by the BJP-led Centre. “Our leaders are being summoned in the Saradha (deposit-mobilising scam) case now. The number of seizures and arrests in different cases have suddenly gone up. All this is a part of a grand design aimed at maligning Trinamul before the next phase of polls,” said a senior Trinamul leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP worker’s body in Birbhum pond triggers clash||The body of a BJP worker was found in a pond at Fakirbera village in Birbhum’s Dubrajpur on Tuesday morning, the incident triggerring violence against the police and a daylong roadblock by around 200 BJP workers. Sub-inspector Dipak Roy was injured in the clash between the police and BJP supporters. The body of Pratihar Dom, 38, floating in a pond, was seen by passers-by around 8am, following which police were called up. Sources said Dom’s body had visible strangulation marks and blunt injury impressions on the back of his head. “The police responded quickly, but villagers got angry when cops tried to take away the body without due diligence and people saw in it an attempt to hush up  an incident that clearly looked like murder,” said a resident. He added BJP supporters felt the police were acting as “Trinamul agents” at a politically sensitive time amid state elections. Eyewitnesses said the police and ambulance sped away with Dom’s body but were stopped by angry protesters less than 4km away. The mob of BJP supporters then proceeded to smash the ambulance. “Dom was murdered for being an active BJP worker in the area. To make matters worse, the police were trying their best to deprive us of justice and were using force against us when all we are asking for is justice,” said a protester on Tuesday afternoon. Police teams from Dubrajpur rushed to the site where the ambulance had been attacked and fired tear gas shells to disperse the mob. “This angered us further,” said a protester, explaining the circumstances that led to the attack on police sub-inspector Dipak Roy, who was injured in the clash between BJP supporters and cops. BJP supporters then blocked a nearby road with Dom’s body and refused to lift the blockade despite police intervention. “We won’t budge till the perpetrators of the murder are brought to justice,” a protester said in the afternoon. BJP district president Dhruba Saha joined the agitation around 5pm and concurred the police were “siding” with Trinamul. “They are trying to turn this situation around by accusing us of being violent,” he said. Police sources said two separate cases had started on Tuesday, one in connection with the alleged murder and one in connection with the sub inspector’s assault. One person was reportedly arrested later in the day in connection with the former. The roadblock finally lifted around 7pm. District president of the Trinamul, Anubrata Mondal, said he was “unsure” of the circumstances behind the alleged murder. “Police are investigating, it is their job. But Trinamul has no links to this. Unfortunately, the BJP are proving their penchant for playing politics whenever there is a dead body,” he added. SP Meeraj Khalid in the evening said they were probing both cases and one person had been arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Voters face threats outside booths ||The third phase of the Bengal elections was held on Tuesday with 31 Assembly constituencies in three districts going to the polls. The polling was marked by sporadic incidents of violence and The Telegraph throws light on a few of those  Where: Hyalan in Bagnan Assembly constituency in Howrah When: 10pm on Monday What: Jogibar Bag, Trinamul’s president for Bagnan’s booth 233, was allegedly attacked with sharp objects by BJP goons. Officialspeak: “Two persons have already been arrested. A report has been sought from the district administration,” an EC official said.  Where: Booth  123, Bishnupur seat in South 24-Parganas When: Tuesday morning What: A video shows a Trinamul worker stopping a woman from going to cast her vote. The woman went ahead and polled her vote in spite of the hindrance. Officialspeak: “A report has been sought from the district administration and the man seen in the video has been arrested,” an EC official said.  Where: Parul Ramkrishna Sarada High School, Arambagh Assembly in Hooghly When: Around 5pm on Tuesday What: The vehicle of Arambagh’s BJP candidate Madhusudhan Bag’s polling agent was vandalised. A BJP worker travelling with the polling agent was also injured. The BJP supporter alleged Trinamul goons tried to attack him with a sword which cut his palm. Officialspeak: “We’ve received a complaint. We are looking into the matter,” an EC official said.  Where: Parulia gram panchayat under Haridevpur block of Diamond Harbour Assembly seat in South 24- Parganas When: 11am on Tuesday. What: Around 100 residents of Parulia in Diamond Harbour were allegedly threatened at gunpoint by suspected Trinamul supporters when they went to polling station 185 to cast their votes returning to the area after a gap of about four years. The villagers alleged that they could not cast their votes in 2018 and 2019 (panchayat and Lok Sabha polls). This time also, they didn’t. Officialspeak: An EC official said: “A team of EC led by SDO Diamond Harbour and central force later escorted the villagers to the polling station in the evening when they were able to cast their votes.”  Where: Purba Rupnagar under Kultali Assembly seat in South 24-Parganas When: 11.30am on Tuesday What: Clash between Trinamul and BJP workers. While the saffron camp alleged that they were beaten up without any reason, Trinamul supporters said that these men were outsiders and were trying to influence voters. The BJP activists accepted that they weren’t local residents and have come there to distribute surgical masks. One Trinamul and four BJP supporters were injured. Officialspeak: “We had received a complaint and two men each from either political parties were detained,” a police official said.  Where: Booths 59 and 60 in Mandaran area under Goghat Assembly in Hooghly. When: Around 10.30am on Tuesday What: Local Trinamul workers and voters alleged that the CRPF was trying to intimidate and influence women voters to cast to vote for BJP. Officialspeak: “A complaint has been received and the matter is being looked into,” an EC official said.  Where: Booth No. 181 of Jangipara Assembly in Hooghly. When: 8.30am What: Trinamul workers alleged that a group of ISF supporters attacked one of the former’s polling agent, beat him up and threatened him to not perform his duty. Official speak: “We have received a complaint and looking into it,” an EC official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Phase 3 voting more violent, says EC||Deaths, attacks on candidates and complaints of electoral malpractices on Tuesday marked the third phase of the Bengal polls in which 31 Assembly segments spread across three districts voted. In the third phase too, polling percentage remained on the higher side. A total of 77.68 per cent polling was recorded in the 31 seats spread across Hooghly, Howrah and South 24-Parganas till 5pm. In Hooghly, the polling percentage was 79.36 per cent, while Howrah recorded 77.93 per cent. The polling percentage in South 24-Parganas was relatively low as it recorded 76.68 per cent. “Polling would be held till 6.30pm. So, the final polling percentage would definitely go up and in all likelihood, it would cross 80 per cent mark in all three districts,” said a source in the evening. The day began with the news of the death of the mother of a BJP worker in Hooghly’s Goghat, prompting the saffron ecosystem to accuse Trinamul of killing the elderly woman. Then, came the news of another death in Goghat. A former Trinamul booth president, Sunil Roy, 72, died while he was on his way to cast his vote at Hatpukur. A Trinamul booth president in Howrah’s Bagnan was stabbed allegedly by miscreants backed by the BJP soon after the voting had started. He was rushed to Uluberia Sub Divisional Hospital where he was battling for his life. “The scale of violence was higher in this phase... More than 150 complaints were lodged with the Election Commission throughout the day,” said a source in the poll panel. Like in the last two phases, chief minister Mamata Banerjee accused the BJP of “blatant misuse” of the central forces, besides questioning the neutrality of the poll panel. The most talked about incident of the day was repeated attacks on Trinamul’s Sujata Khan, a candidate of Hooghly’s Arambagh, who had a major showdown with BJP workers when she was visiting booths in her Assembly segment. She was allegedly attacked again later in the day. The BJP candidate from Uluberia (South) in Howrah, Papia Adhikari, Trinamul candidate from Khanakul Assembly segment in Hooghly, Bidhan Parui, the BJP candidate from Falta in South 24-Parganas and Moidul Islam, an ISF candidate from Magrahat (West) in South 24-Parganas also faced assaults. “I can’t remember an election in which so many candidates had to face assaults,” said a senior police officer not connected with the poll process. Complaints of electoral malpractices also came up. In some areas like Bagnan and Uluberia in Howrah, the BJP alleged Trinamul was intimidating voters and they were being prevented from reaching the booths. In some areas like Magrahat (West), Trinamul alleged the BJP was hurling crude bombs to prevent voters from reaching the booths. Trinamul leaders also alleged central forces were trying to influence voters in favour of the BJP. EC sources said in all these cases, the quick response teams had acted swiftly and helped the voters cast their votes. Officials in the EC said each and every complaint was attended to and no complaint regarding jawans interfering in the poll process was established.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Campaign in north picks up with rallies||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee played the regional card in Cooch Behar and Alipurduar districts, which together have 14 Assembly seats, on Tuesday. Elections will be held in both the districts on April 10. Mamata, in three rallies in Kalchini (Alipurduar) and Mathabhanga and Mekhliganj (Cooch Behar), tried to prove the saffron brigade makes “hollow promises” and is using central government machinery during polls. In Mathabhanga, a seat with a concentration of Rajbanshis, Mamata wielded large printouts of an RTI reply to prove the Narendra Modi government did not plan to form a Narayani regiment (after the royal troops of erstwhile Cooch Behar royalty) in the central armed police forces. Her move came shortly after Union home minister Amit Shah in Cooch Behar on April 2 asserted they decided to raise a such a regiment. Last year, Udayranjan Roy Prodhani, an assistant professor of Dhubri Law College in Assam and a resident of Gauripur, had written to the Centre asking whether it had any plans to raise such a regiment. “The central government, in its reply, said it does not have any such plans. It proves the BJP has made an empty promise to people of Cooch Behar unlike us...,” said Mamata. She made Bangshibadan Burman, a leader of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association (GCPA) who is her ally — the other lobby of the association is with the BJP — and Girindra Nath Burman, the Trinamul candidate of Mathabhanga seat, to stand with the printouts on stage. Her party leaders also got an “apolitical” youth on stage, who read out the query and reply. Mamata also brought up the Centre’s controversial citizenship matrix. “The BJP wants to implement NRC here…. we will never let them do it. All of us have seen how people have suffered in Assam. All of those who reside here are Indian residents,” she said. An observer said many families in Cooch Behar and Alipurduar had family and friends in Assam who have not made it to the NRC. Mamata accused the Narendra Modi government of misusing its power. “They are asking the central forces to persuade people to vote BJP..... such tactics will not work in Bengal,” she said. Back in 2016 Assembly elections, Trinamul had managed win in 12 of 14 seats. However, in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP won both Alipurduar and Cooch Behar parliamentary seats and managed to secure a lead in 12 Assembly segments. Later in the afternoon, Mamata joined in a road show in Cooch Behar. After returning from Mekhliganj, she moved through a stretch of the town, covering around 1.5km in her wheelchair. Hundreds of party workers and some prominent leaders joined her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-123
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: Anit Thapa to hold rally at Mirik||Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Anit Thapa has decided to hold a rally in Mirik on Sunday in what is being construed as an attempt to take the fight to Trinamul Darjeeling hill president L.B. Rai’s home turf. The district committee of Trinamul in Kalimpong and Darjeeling (hills) have decided to support Thapa’s rival faction in the Morcha led by Bimal Gurung in the Bengal Assembly polls. “We will organise a rally under the theme ‘Change for Mirik’ on April 11. I will be present and request all residents to come forward to bring about a change for a better Mirik,” said Thapa. Rai is the chairperson of the Trinamul-controlled Mirik municipality. Trinamul has allocated the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong to hill “friends”. Both the factions of the Morcha, headed by Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa duo and Bimal Gurung, are allies of Trinamul but are contesting against each other. Thapa has been holding meetings across the hills but his decision to specifically announce a rally at Mirik and the manner in which the party’s social media team is spreading the message is a clear indication that he wants to take the fight to Rai’s stronghold. Mirik falls under the Kurseong Assembly constituency. Thapa also hails from Kurseong and a loss in his home constituency would be a major loss of face for him. Trinamul hill leaders’ decision to support Gurung has surprised Thapa who has been stating that irrespective of the grassroots decision, his faction’s relation with the Trinamul high command is still strong. “Thapa, however, seems aware that despite his good relation with the Trianmul high command, it will matter little if his faction’s candidate does not win the election. The fight in Kurseong has just intensified,” said an observer. Many believe that is why Thapa has coined a new slogan for the Mirik rally. Till date, Thapa’s party had been fighting the elections on the slogan “hamro ghar,afnai bhar” (build you house on your own strength) to focus on the need to strengthen regional parties. The Trinamul leadership has cited Binay Tamang’s refusal to campaign with Trinamul in the hills, the need to sustain Mamata Banerjee’s party and Gurung’s “honesty and sincerity” to campaign for Trinamul candidates in the plains, along with directives from the I-PAC team, as the reasons for supporting the Gurung faction of the Morcha. However, some old timers in hill Trinamul have rebelled against the decision to support Gurung. On Tuesday, a section of leaders in the youth wing of Trinamul in Kurseong also announced support for Thapa and not Gurung. Senior state leaders of Trinamul haven’t, however, issued any statement on this issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid surge in north Bengal Assempbly poll season||Officials of the health department have expressed concern over the steady rise in Covid-19 cases across north Bengal in recent weeks. As voting for Assembly elections in the region will start from April 10, health officials are appealing to all political parties to maintain strict Covid protocol in political events and pointing out that their requests are going unheard. “Most political leaders are least bothered about wearing masks while sharing the dais. Also, most people attending the public meetings are equally irresponsible. They are ignoring safety guidelines of the state health department to help prevent infection,” Susanta Roy, the state-appointed officer on special duty (OSD) for Covid-19 in north Bengal, told newspersons in Jalpaiguri on Tuesday. Sources in the state health department said detailed reports of the number of Covid-19 cases, which have been reported from March 23 to April 4, have been collected from all the districts of north Bengal that spanned. The highest number of cases, 175, has been reported from Malda, followed by 174 from Darjeeling. Also, 101 cases have been reported in North Dinajpur district. “The number of cases is comparatively lower in other districts but it is evident that cases are on the rise,” said an official. OSD Roy appeared perturbed. “After the Covid cases declined, we had released the private health establishments that we had taken over for Covid patients. As of now, 706 beds are available for Covid patients at government hospitals of north Bengal. The data we have received has put us on alert as public meetings, rallies and other activities will continue throughout this month. If Covid cases go up, it will be tough to provide hospital accommodation to patients,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Three aftershocks follow Monday’s earthquake||Residents of north Bengal, neighbouring Sikkim and Bhutan experienced at least three mild earthquakes or aftershocks throughout Tuesday after an earthquake measuring 5.4 on the Richter scale struck the Sikkim-Bhutan border at 8.49pm on Monday. On Tuesday, the mild tremors, bearing magnitudes of 4.1, 3.7 and 3.9 in the Richter Scale, were felt in north Bengal, Sikkim and Bhutan on Tuesday morning. According to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS), these aftershocks came in less than 12 hours after Monday’s quake that had driven people out into the streets. The milder ones, sources said, occurred on Tuesday at 7.07am, 62km east of Siliguri, at 10.44am on Jalpaiguri town outskirts, and 2.31pm in Bhutan. Although no reports of any damage or losses have been found yet, people in all these places came out of their homes in panic, said sources. Administrative sources said Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar had called up chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is currently touring north Bengal for her political campaigns, to inquire after her well-being after the quakes near Siliguri and Jalpaiguri took place. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in Cooch Behar to attend a public meeting, also took a stock of the situation, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
07-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly Polls 2021: New entities in fray in Malda district||The political scenario in Malda, a district with over 50 per cent minority population, is taking an interesting turn this Assembly elections with new political forces and dissidents filing nominations, much to the concern of established political parties. Altogether, there are 12 Assembly constituencies the district among which votes of the minority community decides the results in around seven. On Tuesday, the BJP was the first to suffer a jolt as its dissident leaders, backed by the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, submitted their nominations in Manikchak, Habibpur, Englishbazar, Chanchal and Harischandrapur seats. “The BJP is deviating from its policies and backing former Trinamul leaders. That’s why we are contesting against official BJP candidates as Jana Sangh-backed Independents,” said Aditya Prakash Dasgupta, contesting from Englishbazar. Others include Anil Mandal, a dissident from Manikchak against BJP’s Gour Chandra Mandal, a very recent Trinamul turncoat. “This is a sheer attempt to mislead people with indirect help of Trinamul. But we are not worried as these dissidents will return empty-handed,” said Malda BJP president Gobinda Chandra Mandal. Sanjit Mishra, district president of Jana Sangh, however, denied the charges of Trinamul help. “We are fighting for our principles,” he said. The Congress, fighting the polls under the Sanjukta Morcha umbrella, also suffered a blow as Mohammad Ali Kazimullah filed his nomination as a candidate of the Indian Secular Front (ISF) for the Mothabari seat. The ISF is an ally under the Sanjukta Morcha. The Congress had fielded Dulal Sheikh in the seat. “We had asked for couple of seats from Malda from Congress. The party turned down our proposal and thus we have decided to contest in some seats,” said the ISF candidate. ISF leaders in Malda said they would also contest from Sujapur, a minority dominated stronghold of the Congress. Later in the day, the AIMIM, headed by Asaduddin Owaisi, fielded a candidate in Malatipur, another Assembly constituency of Malda. Candidate Motibur Rahaman said they would contest against all the other political parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-124
