08-04-2021||West Bengal||Anti-romeo squads will be formed in Bengal when BJP comes to power, says Yogi||Senior BJP leader Yogi Adityanath Thursday said that anti-Romeo squads will be formed in Bengal if the party is voted to power in the state. Bengal is not a safe place for women under the present TMC government, Adityanath, also Uttar Pradesh chief minister, said addressing three poll rallies in Hooghly and Howrah. He said if BJP is voted to power it will put stress on women and education. "Why is Bengal not a safe place for women? ... Education and transport will be made free for girls in Bengal. Anti-Romeo squads will be formed in Bengal to deal with those who loiter around girls schools," he said. Anti-Romeo squads were launched in Uttar Pradesh to ensure safety of women soon after Adityanath assumed power in 2017. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her party, the TMC have often referred to the Hathras gangrape case to mock Adityanath government's policing for women and the law and order situation in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. The top BJP leader criticised the Trinamool Congress government in Bengal and derided it for failing to bring in any positive change in the ten years that it has been in power. "Where is the paribartan (change) that Mamata Banerjee had promised ten years ago,” he asked. “When Trinamool Congress came to power in the state a decade ago it had promised to serve 'maa-maati-manush' (mother, motherland and people), which became its slogan. What happened to that slogan? I have come to ask Mamata Banerjee about it. Why is Bengal not a safe place for women? This soil had produced so many social reformers. What happened to the youth of the state who have become frustrated," he asked. Adityanath claimed that Mamata has no compassion for the youth, farmers and development. "But she has compassion for the TMC goons" . Referring to the Citizenship Amendment Act, he said it had been passed by Parliament and TMC had fanned violence against it in Bengal. In UP the government had recovered money from those who indulged in violence and damaged public property, he said. "Here in Bengal, TMC is all for appeasement for the sake of vote bank. Mamata Banerjee supports cow slaughter. In UP cow slaughter is not allowed. If anybody is found to be involved in it, the person goes to jail", Adityanath said. "TMC is not allowing central schemes to be implemented in Bengal. Violence, anarchy and corruption have ruined the state", he added. Expressing confidence that the BJP will come to power in Bengal, the saffron party leader said after the election results are declared on May 2 The TMC goons will be sent to jail. There will be an end to hooliganism and rule of law will prevail".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Take money from BJP when they offer but vote for TMC, Abhishek tells voters||Alleging that the BJP was distributing cash to purchase votes, TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday asked people to exercise their franchise in favour of his party, after having taken the money being offered by the saffron camp. Insisting that people should bargain for more, he urged voters to ask for Rs 5,000 if offered Rs 500. "Take money from lotus (BJP symbol) and vote for the twin flowers (TMC symbol). If they can cheat you, why won't you do the same," Abhishek asked at a public meeting at Kumargram in Alipurduar district Speaking at another rally at Cooch Behar's Tufanganj, he said that people have to decide whether they want leaders from outside or their "daughter Mamata Banerjee". Taking a jibe at the BJP's "acche din" promise, the TMC MP said that the saffron party has failed to live up to the expectations of people. He pointed out that the price of essential items, petrol and cooking gas have skyrocketed under the BJP rule at the Centre, causing hardships to many people. Slamming the Union government over its handling of the Covid-19 situation, he said the Mamata Banerjee dispensation had to make massive arrangements to bring home people from other states, and provide for their sustenance, with "little or no help" from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata advises voters to be on guard against central forces||Apprehending that a section of central paramilitary forces may visit villages to intimidate people, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asked voters to be on guard. Addressing a public meeting at Balagarh in Hooghly district, Mamata alleged central forces are working on instructions of the "Union Home Ministry run by Amit Shah." "I have respect for the central paramilitary forces but they are working on instructions from Delhi. They are committing atrocities on villagers before polling day, some of them are even harassing women. They are asking people to vote for BJP. We will not allow this to continue," the TMC chief said. Mamata called upon the state police force "to keep vigil and not to bow their heads before Delhi. "Your job is to ensure free and fair polls, please be stern with trouble makers and keep your integrity intact." Asking villagers to lodge FIRs at local police station in case of any excess committed by central forces, the chief minister said, "If the police station refuses to accept the FIRs, inform us". Blaming BJP for "spreading lies about promulgation of section 144 in an entire constituency," the TMC supremo said, "They (BJP) spread lies to create panic. In reality, section 144 is in force within 200 metres of a booth. But they are doing this to prevent our voters from going to polling stations." Mamata asked polling agents to be vocal and to protest any "misdeed by BJP and security forces". Asking voters not to turn Bengal into "another Gujarat" by voting for the saffron party, she said, "If you wish to protect the oldest Durga puja in Guptipara, if you wish to protect our festivals like Durga Puja, please ensure the defeat of BJP." Mamata, who iterated the TMC government's commitment to protect the heritage Rathyatra in Mahesh, the celebrations at Bandel Church, the unique Santhal festivals in Jangalmahal, chanted 'Chandi Mantra' while wrapping up her speech. Mamata said the candidate for the reserved Balagarh seat Manoranjan Byapari is chairman of state-run Dalit Sahitya Academy. She exuded confidence that Byapari would always stand by the marginalised in the constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta Police deny permission to Mithun Chakraborty’s roadshow||The BJP was denied permission to hold a roadshow of Bollywood superstar Mithun Chakraborty, who had recently joined the saffron camp, in Behala area of the city on Thursday, following which a group of party activists held a demonstration in front of a police station. The agitation was led by actor-turned-politician Srabanti Chatterjee, who is contesting from the Behala Paschim Assembly constituency on a BJP ticket, party sources said. "The Kolkata Police did not allow our leader Mithun Chakraborty to campaign for me in the constituency without citing any reason. "The Trinamool Congress cannot avert its imminent loss by such an undemocratic act of preventing us from campaigning. Is the state government scared of losing power?," the popular Bengali actor said. The saffron party activists shouted slogans against the ruling TMC in front of the Parnasree Police Station. BJP sources said the party sought permission to hold a door-to-door campaign by the Bollywood superstar in the Behala area after the city police had cancelled its roadshow plea on Wednesday night. "The door-to-door campaign by him was also not granted at the last minute," they claimed. The Calcutta Police declined to make any comment on the issue. The BJP candidate later took out a roadshow in the constituency where the National Award-winning actor was not present. The actor-turned-BJP candidate is pitted against TMC heavyweight and Bengal minister Partha Chatterjee who is seeking re-election from the Behala Paschim constituency. "We have nothing to do with any programme of Mithun Chakraborty. We know that the TMC has support from the people of Behala. The BJP candidate is doing drama," a leader of the ruling party said. Chakraborty, however, led a roadshow in Tollygunge constituency for Union minister and BJP's candidate Babul Supriyo.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Farm leaders request north Bengal voters to not elect BJP to power||Leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the  movement against the new farm laws, have requested people of north Bengal not to vote for the BJP in the Assembly polls as the party’s policies are against peasants, Adivasis and minorities. A delegation of Yogendra Yadav, a founder member of Jai Kisan Andolan, and activist Medha Patkar reached Siliguri on Wednesday. They headed to Kaliaganj in North Dinajpur district where a “krishak mahapanchayat” was organised to tell farmers and others why they should not support the BJP. “We have been visiting north Bengal for years. Considering the rich diversity of population in these areas, we believe the principles on which the BJP work will never be in favour of common people, especially farmers, minorities and Adivasis. If they want to save their culture and heritage, they should stay away from the BJP. I appeal to them not to cast votes in favour of the BJP in the coming elections,” said Yadav. His appeal comes just before the commencement of Assembly elections in north Bengal. The region has 54 seats where polling will start on April 10. A few days ago, another delegation of the Morcha had visited the region to send a similar message to the voters. Over 3,000 people, including Trinamul leaders and supporters, were present at the “mahapanchayat” in Kaliaganj. At the meeting, Yadav and the other speakers criticised the Narendra Modi government over the farm laws and urged the voters to thwart the BJP from winning seats in north Bengal. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP had won seven of the eight seats in north Bengal. “The Prime Minister finds time to call up Sourav Ganguly to know his well-being but he does not have time to pay respects to 350 farmers who lost their lives during the movement…. They simply want to divide people and so, people should not vote for them,” said Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC removes PM’s doubt, sends notice to Mamata ||On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had wondered aloud in Cooch Behar whether Mamata Banerjee had received a notice from the Election Commission for appealing to Muslims not to divide their votes. A day later on Wednesday, the Election Commission sent a showcause to the chief minister on the charge of violating norms by asking voters not to divide minority votes. The notice was issued on a complaint filed by the BJP on Monday when Mamata had delivered the speech. Such alacrity from the commission was missing when Trinamul turncoat and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari had called Mamata “begum” and fomented fears of a “mini-Pakistan” in Nandigram on March 29. The EC has also been silent on remarks by Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on March 23 on Mamata’s clothing after her left leg was injured. The transcript of the speech by Mamata in Tarakeshwar on April 3 that the EC cited quotes the Trinamul Congress chief as saying: “I am requesting my minority brothers and sisters with folded hands — don’t divide the minority votes after listening to the devil (shaitaan) person who had taken money from the BJP. He passes many communal statements and initiates clashes between Hindus and Muslims…. The comrades of the CPM and the BJP are roaming around with money given by the BJP to divide the minority votes.” The BJP had said in its complaint that Mamata could have been referring to the ISF’s Abbas Siddiqui or the AIMIM’s Asaduddin Owaisi. The next day, Modi had said in Cooch Behar: “If we had appealed to all Hindus (of Bengal) to join hands and vote for the BJP, we would have been served with notices by the Election Commission. Even the Prime Minister, the President of our party and the candidate (of the Assembly constituency concerned) would have received notices. We don’t know whether Didi has received a notice.” EC secretary Rakesh Kumar said Mamata’s remarks had been found to be in violation of Sections 123(3) and 3(A) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and Clauses 2, 3 and 4 of Part I of the Model Code of Conduct, which prohibit unverified allegations, appeal to caste or communal feelings for votes and intimidation of voters. Mamata has been given 48 hours to reply. Earlier this week, the EC had barred DMK parliamentarian A. Raja from campaigning for two days for distasteful comments against Tamil Nadu chief minister E.K. Palaniswami. Assam BJP minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had faced a similar ban for unverified allegations and intimidation of an Opposition leader. Sarma’s punishment was reduced by a day after he apologised. On Wednesday, Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra tweeted: “Mamatadi issued notice by @ECISVEEP on @BJP’s complaint What about TMC complaints of 1. Video evidence of BJP candidate distributing cash 2. Cash coupons distributed to attend BJP mtng & vote. Gentlemen — at least keep up the farce of impartiality!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||'Lovely dada' has a habit of going wrong: Mamata counters Shah||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday sought to shred the tactic of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah to talk up the chances of the BJP and demoralise the Trinamul Congress by relentlessly claiming to have spotted signs of defeat in her. Modi has been splitting hairs on Mamata’s speeches instead of focusing on telling voters in Bengal how a BJP government would be different — considering many turncoats are among its candidates — and what such an administration would do differently. Shah has been playing the psephologist, reeling off estimated seats his party would get after each phase of polling is over. On Wednesday, Shah forecast “63 to 68 seats” for the BJP in the 91 of Bengal’s 294 Assembly seats that have gone to the polls so far. In the evening, addressing a rally in Jadavpur, Mamata brought up the Union home minister’s claim. She said the “lovely dada” had a habit of going wrong with his poll predictions and asserted that this time would be no different. “That duopoly (Shah and Modi), that syndicate that tries to control the whole nation… the second one, the lovely dada (Shah) said here today that they would win 68 of the 91 seats…. Why so few? Why not 91, why not more than 91?” asked Mamata. She then read out from her phone a list of “misses” by the Union home minister. ⦾ Bihar, 2015. “He had said they were getting a majority alone. They got 53 (out of 243) seats….”⦾ Delhi, 2015. “He had claimed they were getting the majority, and got three (out of 70) seats. ⦾ Delhi, 2020. “He had claimed a massive majority, and got eight out of 70.” Amid loud cheers from the audience of thousands, Mamata continued. ⦾ Rajasthan, 2018. “He had said his party would get the majority. It got 73 (out of 199) seats….⦾ Madhya Pradesh, 2018. He had said his party would get two-thirds majority. It did not cross the halfway mark (out of 231 seats)….⦾ Chhattisgarh, 2018. “He had said they would get 65 (out of 81) seats. They got 15….⦾ Jharkhand, 2019. “He had claimed full majority. His party won 25 out of the 81 seats…. ⦾ Maharashtra, 2019. “He claimed two-thirds (of the 288 seats). They got barely a third.” In the Lok Sabha polls, Shah’s forecast of 22 seats in Bengal for the BJP had more or less come true. Sources in her party said Mamata’s elaborate effort to discredit Shah’s prediction was not only in order to keep it from damaging her party’s chances in the crucial five phases that remain but also to contest the saffron ecosystem’s attempts to peddle the perception that the battle for Bengal was already over with the BJP having won it. “What Didi did from that dais today was vital for the morale of the rank and file, besides the supporters, going forward. There is still everything left to play for. There is a very clear path to victory for us. We cannot let shoulders droop right now,” said a Trinamul source. Mamata said she was in favour of civility and decency. “So I am not going to make similarly absurd claims in response (to Shah)…. I am going to give a far more pragmatic assessment,” said the Trinamul chief. “They (the BJP) might get 25 to 30 of those (91 seats)… the rest (61) going our way. Those phases were in places where they had made gains in the Lok Sabha polls, won parliamentary seats there,” she added, “But we haven’t been sitting idle. Some of those gains we have already reversed.” In her address, the chief minister kept warning against the mistake of trusting the BJP, asserting that the Modi-Shah regime was worse than that of many a historical tyrant. “Forget Donald Trump… more dangerous than (Adolf) Hitler. More dangerous than (Nicolae) Ceausescu…. Grave danger, 440 volts of fatal shock,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Helping hand: Women voters of Bengal to influence mandate||“Amar ma-bonera bolun, khela hobe toh (Tell me my mothers and sisters, is the game on?)” Mamata Banerjee has been concluding almost all her campaign speeches with this question. The response invariably has been overwhelming, with the women in the audience responding enthusiastically: “Hyan Didi (yes, Didi).” Trinamul poll strategists think that if the majority of women in Bengal respond to Mamata the way those attending her rallies have been, a third term as chief minister is certain. The pulse of the people can be gauged from election rallies. However, there is a flip side. Such events are usually attended by people favourably disposed towards a political party and so the mood of the rally may not be the general mood of the electorate. Although Trinamul’s hypothesis, based on women’s reaction at Mamata’s rallies, may be inexact, the premise that women could be the deciding factor in the Bengal polls is logical. Of Bengal’s 7,32,94,980 voters, 3,59,27,084, or 49 per cent, are women. So, if women decisively favour a party, there is little doubt that it would have an edge over its rivals. After the first three phases of the eight-leg elections, there is a general feeling in the Trinamul camp that a large section of women voters have sided with the party. In Nandigram, where the polls took place in a polarised environment, there were reports that scores of women voted for Mamata even as the male members of the family voted for the BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari. A political observer said Trinamul had multiple reasons to believe that women were with the party. “First, the Trinamul-led government has launched several schemes for women and girls since 2012. Now it is time for the party to reap the dividends. Second, women tend to have an emotional attachment with Mamata, with the party successfully projecting her as the only woman chief minister in the country, whom BJP heavyweights are trying to bully,” the observer said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s tone while referring to Mamata on campaign trail has been widely construed as being insulting and verging on harassment. The foundation of the Trinamul government’s women-centric schemes was laid in 2012 when the Kanyashree programme was launched. Initially, all girl students aged between 13 and 18 years were being given Rs 500 annually to continue their studies. On attaining the age of 18, girls received a one-time grant of Rs 25,000. “The amount has now been increased to Rs 1,000 annually. An annual grant of Rs 500 nine years ago had helped many girls in rural areas to continue their studies, defying pressure of early marriage. In the past nine years at least 15 lakh girls have benefited from the scheme and many of them have become voters now. Naturally, they will be sympathetic towards the chief minister,” said a recently retired bureaucrat. According to ballpark calculations, around 34 lakh girls have received or continue to receive Kanyashree benefits. At least 15 lakh of them have got the one-time grant of Rs 25,000, which helped them get admission in colleges. Not only Kanyashree, free bicycles for students of Classes IX to XII have also been of immense help. “In rural areas, parents often hesitate to give bicycles to girls. The scheme helped the girls to continue their studies, riding cycles to schools and colleges. At least 20 lakh girls have benefited from the scheme and the majority of them have become voters now,” an official said. Another “masterstroke”, the official said, was the move to issue Swasthya Sathi cards in the name of the senior-most woman member of the family. The health insurance scheme provides free treatment up to Rs 5 lakh per family. “This card gave a sense of recognition to women, especially rural women,” said another official. Trinamul’s manifesto has promised to give Rs 500 to the matriarch of every family and Rs 1,000 to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe women every month. “See, nobody thought about us this way. The amount (Rs 500 or Rs 1,000) is not that big at a time when the prices of essential commodities have gone up sharply. But it can help us fulfil our simple needs without asking for money from our husbands or sons,” said Ratna Saha, a 58-year-old homemaker in Birbhum’s Mallarpur. The fact that Mamata has endeared herself to women voters became clear when the BJP also promised a slew of benefits for women in its manifesto. It has pledged free access to public transport to all women, free education for girls up to post-graduation level and 33 per cent reservation in government jobs for women. Sections of women, particularly the educated and job aspirants, have found these promises encouraging. “If this happens, it would be very good for women. We speak of equality, but we don’t practise it. As girls face several barriers since they start going to school, reservation in jobs is what women need. I must say the proposal of job reservation for girls is a positive mindset,” said Sikha Das, an economics graduate in Behala. Political observers said the BJP’s promises had drawn the attention of women in urban and semi-urban areas, but many think the proof lies in delivery. The BJP, an observer said, has not appeared to be a woman-friendly party. Besides, the condition of women in several BJP-ruled states and the rising crimes against women have failed to evoke much confidence among the electorate in Bengal. “In contrast, Mamata’s schemes have benefited crores of women in the rural areas. It is said that success in Assembly polls mainly depend on what parties do in the rural areas. It appears that Trinamul has endeared itself to women in rural areas and that might help Mamata,” the observer said. A Left academic, however, disagreed with the narrative that women were aligning with Mamata. “The BJP has managed to polarise the voters along religious lines.… When such polarisation takes place, it is difficult for women, especially those in rural areas, to defy the male members’ diktat on whom to vote. Trinamul may be satisfied with the narrative that beneficiaries of women-centric schemes are voting for them, but the reality may be different,” the academic said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Yogi scores own goal on campaign trail ||Standing atop the mountains of Kurseong, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday asked why a university should not be set up in the Darjeeling hills, unaware that his question would rebound on his party’s government at the Centre which had done precious little to meet this demand. Addressing a public meeting at Monteviot Ground in Kurseong on Wednesday, Adityanath said: “Why shouldn’t a university be set up here? Had there been a good government here, a government with an intent for development …(the institution would have been set up).” The Uttar Pradesh chief minister then boasted that two AIIMS and 30 government medical colleges were being set up in his state. Adityanath, however, seems unaware that the Mamata Banerjee government had almost completed building infrastructure to set up a campus of Presidency College in the Kurseong Assembly constituency and that the state had also started the process for a Darjeeling Hills University with the governor having already selected a vice-chancellor. The DHU is set to come up at Jogighat in Mungpoo which also falls within the Kurseong Assembly constituency. The demand for the central university has not yet been met though it is listed in the memorandum of agreement of the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration as one of the projects to be taken up in the hills. In 2015, a year after the BJP government had come to power at the Centre, the GTA submitted a detailed project report on the central university to the Union HRD ministry. The report was prepared by Noida-based EdCIL (India) Limited, a government of India enterprise. Faculty members of Sikkim University had also helped in preparing the report. Instead of a full-fledged central university, the Centre instead proposed a campus of the Sikkim University in Darjeeling, a demand rejected by the GTA. The other issues pertaining to the hills raised by Adityanath were promoting health tourism in the region, the loss of lives of (statehood) andolankaris, low wages in Bengal and land rights for tea garden workers and infrastructure developments. Adityanath also reiterated that there had not been a single communal riot in his state in the past four years, a claim contested by many. Adityanath, however, said his party was committed to solving the issues of the region, perhaps hinting at the BJP’s 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto promise to find a “permanent political solution” for the hills. In the hills where most political rallies end with “Jai Gorkha” and “Jai Gorkhaland” slogans, what reverberated at the Kurseong meeting of the UP chief minister were “Jai Shree Ram” chants. Adityanath also attended two other public meetings, one in Kranti of Jalpaiguri district and another in Kaliaganj of North Dinajpur district. “The Centre wants to construct a parallel bridge near Sevoke (to connect Siliguri with the Dooars) but the state government is not keen on the project. The resources in forests have been looted and nothing has been done to develop these areas,” he said at Kranti. On Wednesday, Union minister Smriti Irani also reached north Bengal to campaign for BJP candidates. She held two meetings in Jalpaiguri and Darjeeling districts. At Garalbari, on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri, Smriti said: “In Bengal, people have to pay cuts to Trinamul workers to avail themselves of benefits of any government scheme. The central government has provided funds for drinking water schemes but even now, people of Jalpaiguri drink impure water.” Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly elections 2021: No job security||Name: Pritikana JanaOccupation: StudentAge: 30Education: A law graduate, pursuing masters in law.Annual income: Not applicableSize of family: Parents, elder brother and sister-in-law.Seat: Khejuri, East Midnapore Is there any one issue that has decided how you will vote? Poor education system, lack of medical facilities and reluctance of political parties to think about the environment are the major issues that decided who I voted for this time. Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016 and why either way? No, I did not vote for the same party as the government could not provide job security. Three things that Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you. The only benefit I received from the Mamata Banerjee government was her new initiative Swasthya Sathi. I can’t recall any other scheme that has benefited me. Three things she has done that hurt you. One, she did not allow industries in Singur and Nandigram. Two, no major jobs were created during her tenure. Three, the state of electricity in our locality and bad roads continue to hurt us. Do you believe she works for the poor or do you see her as part of the elite? I don’t think she has worked for the poor. What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? It is a political campaign to call her a Pishi. I don’t endorse it. However, I want an end to dynasty politics. Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefited you? He did a lot for the Indian Army by supplying modern arms and equipment. I know this as one of my friends is in the army. However, I have not benefited from his schemes. Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you. One, implementation of the NRC in Assam. Two, privatisation of public sectors institutions. Three, hike in prices of fuel, LPG cylinders and other essential commodities. Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? I don’t think he did anything for the poor or his cronies. Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? It is worse, certainly. What do you think about the Left’s chances and about its alliance? They won’t possibly form the government but I think a lot of people will vote for them. Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? Yes, they live in harmony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Why the BJP is avoiding Raja Rammohan Roy's homes||The orthodox Hindus of Bengal in the early 19th century and the Hindutva hardliners of Nagpur now are united in their distaste for one of the state’s most glorious icons — Raja Rammohan Roy. The Father of the Bengal Renaissance, who was instrumental in the enlightenment of south Asia and had taken a firm stand against religio-social evils such as the Sati, polygamy, child marriage and the caste system, had rhymes of ridicule composed against him by the orthodox lobby led by the likes of Raja Radhakanta Deb of Sovabazar. One of them read: “Byatar bari Khanakul/ Byata shorbonasher mool/ Om Tatsat boley byata baniyeche ischool (That gink from Khanakul/ He’s the root of this ruin /Citing the Bhagavad Gita, he has set up schools).” Cut to the 21st century, Roy is now at the receiving end of social media vitriol. Former Bollywood starlet and Hindutva hardliner Payal Rohatgi has this to say about Roy: “No he was a chamcha to Britishers who used him to defame the Sati tradition. Sati tradition was not compulsory but was introduced to prevent the prostitution of Hindu wives at the hands of Mughal invaders. It was the woman’s choice. #FeministsofIndia Sati was not regressive….” In the political race to usurp the culture and traditions of Bengal, when BJP leaders have hopped from the hearth of one icon to another, Roy’s birthplace in Radhanagar and his ancestral home in Raghunathpur — both under Khanakul I block of Hooghly — have been ignored by the saffron camp. The Pursurah Assembly constituency, under which Khanakul falls, went to polls on Tuesday. Roy (1772-1833) was a founder of the Brahmo Sabha — the precursor to the Brahmo Samaj — a socio-religious reform movement in south Asia. The polymath’s influence was notable in diverse fields, such as politics, administration, education and religion. Since December last year, top BJP leaders began visiting ancestral homes and workplaces of several Bengal icons in a desperate bid to shed the “outsider” label. But Radhanagar and Raghunathpur did not make the cut. The Trinamul Congress has tried turning this into yet another plank to corner the BJP over its alleged lack of understanding of and respect for Bengal and its complex ethos. BJP chief J.P. Nadda had attended a roadshow in Pursurah on March 31, less than 18km from Radhanagar, and Union home minister Amit Shah had come to Arambagh for a roadshow, around 22km from Roy’s ancestral home. “The senior BJP leaders visited these places several times since January but they never stopped by the birthplace or ancestral home of Raja Rammohan Roy…. They have been avoiding his legacy as he had fought superstition to eradicate social evils. The saffron camp wants to restore the nation to the dark ages before the Bengal Renaissance,” said Trinamul’s Hooghly chief Dilip Yadav, also the party’s Pursurah candidate against the BJP’s Biman Ghosh. Yadav pointed out how chief minister Mamata Banerjee almost never forgets to mention Roy or hail his contribution, especially towards the empowerment of women. The BJP claimed that there was a plan to get Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath to visit the two sites in Khanakul on Sunday, but it was cancelled over security concerns. “Our senior leaders will certainly visit the place soon,” said Asit Kundu, a BJP state committee member. Asked why Nadda or Shah didn’t visit despite being in the vicinity, Kundu said: “The place had been assigned to Yogiji.” Historians said Roy was never expected to be a priority of the Sangh parivar as he had been directly opposed to its Hindi-Hindu-Hindustan school of thought. “They cannot really stomach Rabindranath Tagore or Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose either, but given the two icons’ omnipresence in the Bengal ethos, the saffron ecosystem hails them for factors other than their glorious secular, inclusive, pluralistic, even socialist vision, and go out of their way to painstakingly underscore their Hindu identities,” said a Calcutta-based political scientist, unwilling to be named as he works for a central institution. “They used to ignore Rammohan Roy and Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar for similar reasons till the summer of 2019. Then the (May 14, 2019) vandalism of the Vidyasagar bust took place on the sidelines of an Amit Shah rally during the Lok Sabha polls. They realised what an emotive issue Vidyasagar still was, and the BJP has been tripping over itself in paying homage to him,” he added. Two centuries after Roy, Hooghly remains a pluralistic district, with the Islamic shrine Furfura Sharif — the tomb of Hazrat Abu Bakr Siddique — and Tarakeshwar — a temple to Lord Shiva — coexisting 30km from each other. Trinamul lost some ground to the BJP in the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 when it trailed in eight of the 18 Assembly segments. Trinamul has grown in Hooghly since the anti-land acquisition movement in Singur in 2008. “But we had trailed even in the Singur Assembly segment in 2019…. We are working hard to win from Singur this time as it is an emotive issue for our leader and the party,” a Trinamul source said. Hooghly, which borders Howrah, Bankura, East Burdwan and West Midnapore, usually sees an impact of the political crests and troughs in neighbouring districts. “Bankura and West Midnapore, for instance, have become strong bases of the BJP…. Hooghly is becoming one rapidly,” said a district BJP leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: TMC minister attacked, blame on BJP||Trinamul Congress candidate and state minority community minister Giasuddin Molla was injured when he was attacked by an armed group of suspected BJP supporters on Wednesday evening The attack on the Magrahat West candidate occurred in the Usti area of Diamond Harbour. Election to the Magrahat West seat was held on Tuesday. Trinamul sources said the minister had suffered injuries to the head and had been admitted to a private hospital at Rajarhat. The sources said his condition was stable. The attack on Giasuddin comes a day after six candidates, belonging to both Trinamul and the BJP, were assaulted during the third phase of the polls on Tuesday. Police and the Trinamul sources said armed men had waylaid Giasuddin near Rajarhat More on Diamond Harbour road around 6.30pm. The attackers vandalised his car and beat up him and some of his party colleagues when he was going to attend an election meeting. Trinamul supporters protesting against the attack raised blockade on NH117 at various locations  in South 24-Parganas district. The agitators also set afire a bus at Shirakol crossing and ransacked several vehicles. Trinamul supporters blocked railway tracks at various locations under the Sealdah south section disrupting train services during rush hours. In retaliation, BJP workers were attacked by alleged Trinamul activists at a number of places like Magrahat and Usti. Additional police forces were sent to control the situation. Para-military personnel have been engaged for area domination and to clear roads and restore normalcy. “It was a planned attack by the BJP....The goons had planned to kill Giasuddin but his security personnel and local residents managed to free him from the clutches of the goons,” a Trinamul leader in Magrahat said. However, the family members of the minister did not rule out the possibility of the Indian Secular Front’s involvement in the attack. The Mathurapur BJP organising district leadership has rejected Trinamul’s charges. “The attack must be the outcome Trinamul’s infighting. We are being maligned without any proof,” a BJP leader said. Three polling agents of the Trinamul Congress were allegedly beaten by BJP workers in Hooghly’s Khanakul late on Tuesday night. Sources said three polling agents were attacked at their homes after they had returned from booths in the Krishnanagar area of Khanakul. The trio were admitted to a hospital in Arambagh with head injuries. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: EC removes 3 DMs  before voting||The Election Commission of India on Wednesday removed the district magistrates of East Burdwan, West Burdwan and South Dinajpur which would go to the polls in the next few phases. “Such removal of officials, who are leading election preparations in districts, just ahead of the voting hurt the morale of the administration. Everybody in the administration is trying hard to ensure free and fair polls,” said a senior official. According to the order sent to the Bengal chief secretary on Wednesday, the poll panel appointed C. Murugan, a 2007-batch IAS officer, as the district magistrate of South Dinajpur, replacing Nikhil Nirmal. Similarly, 2009-batch IAS officer Shilpa Gaurisaria would take charge as the district magistrate of East Burdwan to replace Enaur Rahman. The new West Burdwan DM is a 2007-batch IAS officer Anurag Srivastava who replaced Purnendu Maji. South Dinajpur would go to the polls in the seventh phase on April 26. East Burdwan would go to the polls in two phases — fifth and sixth — on April 17 and 22. Voting will be held in West Burdwan in the seventh phase on April 26. “The new DMs would not get much time to get acquainted with the ongoing poll preparations. Inexperience of the newly appointed officers could hurt the poll preparedness at the last moment,” said an official. The ECI on Wednesday also removed seven assistant returning officers in Calcutta. The move came after the poll panel had changed eight returning officers in the city on Tuesday. Sources in the ECI said the three DMs had been removed after specific complaints had been lodged against them. “In case of returning officers and assistant returning officers, the ECI was forced to remove them as they had been posted in the respective positions for more than three years. Had the state removed them according to the guidelines, the ECI would not have to intervene,” said a source. Earlier, the Election Commission had ordered removal of Virendra as the director general of police of poll-bound Bengal with immediate effect and appointed P. Nirajnayan in his place. The panel had removed many other district magistartes also after the polls had been announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Trinamul sets up cash coupon test for EC||The Trinamul Congress on Wednesday lodged a complaint with the Election Commission of India and issued a statement lambasting the BJP over its  distribution of coupons that allegedly promise cash in exchange of attendance at Narendra Modi’s political rally and voting for his party. Mamata Banerjee’s party, which has been accusing the BJP of such malpractice in Bengal since the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, placed the blame squarely on the saffron camp for introducing the concept to the state where it used to be “unprecedented and unheard of”. “In various parts of South 24-Parganas, including Raidighi of Mathurapur, coupons have been distributed by BJP candidates and the organisation to voters asking them to attend the public meetings of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and vote for the BJP. Once they do it, they will be paid, on the basis of these coupons, Rs 1,000 per head,” said Trinamul Rajya Sabha member Sukhendu Sekhar Roy at a news conference at the Trinamul Congress’s headquarters in Calcutta. The Telegraph carried a report on Wednesday on how such coupons had been distributed at Raidighi. The newspaper clipping was attached to Trinamul’s complaint with the commission. “These coupons contain a photo of Prime Minister Modi, the name of the BJP, that of the Mathurapur organisational district of the party and the public meeting that was held on April 1,” said Roy. “Such coupons are being distributed in various parts of South 24-Parganas and other districts of Bengal. We have already brought it to the notice of the Election Commission of India and we want immediate action to be initiated against this attempt on the BJP’s part to introduce cash for votes in Bengal, which used to be unprecedented and unheard of,” he added. Sources in Trinamul, however, said it did not expect much by way of timely or necessary action by the commission. “From what we have already gathered, the commission is not keen on pursuing this. We don’t expect anything better from this current commission anyway…. We will instead go big with this, to the people,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Roy said the commission, with all its “lofty claims” on its intent to ensure free, fair and peaceful polls in Bengal, ought to step up now. “The buck here stops with the ECI. It is the ECI’s responsibility to stop this, to ensure free, fair and peaceful polls…. Eight-phase polling, countless central forces, teams and teams of observers, fleets of helicopters and drones…. Why should it not investigate and act in this regard?” he asked. The CPM, which lodged a complaint on the same matter with the commission, also sounded unhappy with the Nirvachan Sadan’s approach. Seniors at Alimuddin Street said Shamik Lahiri had lodged the complaint on behalf of the CPM on Tuesday. “Although the ECI had said it would probe the matter, nothing of that sort has happened,” said a CPM state secretariat member. Trinamul said it had been receiving tip-offs from various quarters on the BJP spending cash for not only “buying” votes but also ensuring decent turnouts at Modi’s rallies. “After this came to light from the newspaper report, we began the process of locating these coupons, and there have been thousands and thousands of them found already,” said Roy. Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar has denied the charges. “Their allegations are baseless and they are free to go to the commission for redress,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-121
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Dilip Ghosh’s convoy attacked||The convoy of BJP state president Dilip Ghosh was attacked when he went to Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district to campaign for the party’s candidate on Wednesday evening. Ghosh, who suffered injuries to the left hand, has accused Trinamul of organising the attack. He said the attackers had lobbed crude bombs at the convoy and ransacked his car and a number of other vehicles of BJP leaders and workers with iron rods, bricks and stones. Ghosh went to Gossainhat in Sitalkuchi, the Assembly seat where Barendra Chandra Burman of the BJP is contesting against Partha Pratim Roy, the Cooch Behar district Trinamul chief. Gossainhat is around 60km from Cooch Behar, the district headquarters. “The public meeting was about to end when 100 to 150 Trinamul supporters carrying party flags started lobbying bombs at the venue. As we left the place, they hurled bombs at my vehicle and ransacked it. Many other vehicles were also ransacked…. I had faced attacks earlier also but today’s was the most horrible assault on me. It seems we have to campaign with life in danger,” said Ghosh. “If such a situation persists, we doubt how the elections will be…” he added. BJP leaders accompanying Ghosh said the situation had turned to such an extent that he had to wear a helmet while sitting in his car to avoid injuries. Supporters of the BJP and Trinamul clashed at a number of locations in and around Sitalkuchi following the attack on Ghosh. BJP leaders launched a demonstration at the chief electoral officer’s office in Calcutta to protest the attack on Ghosh. On Thursday — the last day of campaign in Cooch Behar, BJP supporters will demonstrate in all police station areas. Trinamul leaders denied the charges. Roy, the district Trinamul president, said BJP supporters had attacked their people when they had gone to attend a public meeting of Mamata Banerjee that was held in Sitalkuchi earlier on Tuesday. “While they were heading for the meeting, some vehicles were ransacked by BJP supporters. Again, while returning home, an attack was organised which they resisted. Dilip Ghosh could not draw people to his meeting and is now trying to create a false hype in the final hours of the campaign,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Gherao central cops, Mamata 'advises' women||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday “advised” the women voters, particularly those living in rural belts, to “gherao” central armed police force (CAPF) personnel if they created any problem during the poll process. The Trinamul supremo, who closed her final leg of campaign in Cooch Behar, came up with the “advice” while speaking at a public meeting in Baneswar under the Cooch Behar North Assembly seat. The north Bengal district would go to the polls on April 10, “If the CRPF tries to create any trouble, I urge the women in rural areas to gherao them... . Some of you should confine them while others will go to vote… You should repeat it to prevent them from intimidating voters,” Mamata said. Since the beginning of the eight-phase polls in Bengal, the chief minister and Trinamul leaders have time and again slammed the central forces and accused Union home minister Amit Shah of using the CAPF to influence the voters in favour of the BJP.. “At villages….don’t feel intimidated. If they try to create any trouble, talk to them… talking to them, at times, means confinement. You should take steps as per the situation. Also, the BJP is spreading lies that prohibitory orders have been enforced across the district. It is incorrect. Such orders are in force only till 200 metres of a booth. This propaganda is being made to discourage people from coming out in groups to cast their votes,” said Mamata. After advising people on how to deal with the central forces, she urged the CRPF and the police to act impartially during the fourth phase of election and tossed questions at the Election Commission while mentioning that 10 people had died during the past few days. “There are complaints that even girls have been molested….if any such thing happens or a candidate is attacked, you have to act,” she told the audience. In course of her speech, Mamata also sounded agitated with a section of the state police and referred to the assault on Trinamul candidate Sujata Mondal who was attacked in Arambagh of Hooghly on Tuesday during the third phase polls. “During the elections, even the (state) police become BJP (supporters). I have seen it in a number of places… it is not the fault of policemen who are in lower ranks…. Some senior people indulge in such bias…. There are reports that these days, many of them have got into an understanding (with the BJP)… I have seen what happened in Arambagh yesterday and also the role of the officer-in-charge of the local police station… We are keeping a note of everything…” said Mamata. Political observers pointed out that so far, it was the CAPF that had been facing the verbal arsenal from Mamata and her party. “But now, she is equally critical of a section of the state police and has even instructed her party workers not to believe the police and guard the EVM during the after the elections. This is significant,” said an observer. Mamata’s remarks have also made the saffron brigade react. On Wednesday, a BJP delegation led by party leader Sisir Bajoria went to meet the CEO and lodged a complaint against Mamata Banerjee’s comments on the CRPF. The delegation has requested the CEO to “censor” the chief minister. “Can a chief minister say this? She gave step by step instructions on how to stop the central forces. We have told the election commission that they’ve given a strong reply to Mamata Banerjee’s letter to them, but our caretaker chief minister doesn’t probably care about all that. Thus, she needs to be “silenced,” “censored,” Bajoria said. The delegation also complained about the attack on party’s Uluberia South candidate Papia Adhikari on Tuesday during the polls, said sources. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar in Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Hill rivals display bonhomie||Political leaders in the Darjeeling hills are teaching one lesson or two on conduct to their counterparts in the plains. While five candidates, including two women, were assaulted, during clashes between rival political groups during the third phase of the Assembly polls in the plains of Bengal on Tuesday, the scene was a contrast in the hills on Wednesday. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the Darjeeling candidate of the Binay Tamang camp of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, was seen hugging GNLF leader Ajoy Edwards whose party is supporting the BJP. The two leaders met while campaigning in Darjeeling town on Wednesday morning. Around the same time, Narbu G Lama, the candidate of the Bimal Gurung camp of the Morcha, greeted Tshering Dahal, who is fielded by the Tamang faction, when they crossed each other in Kurseong. While Dahal’s party colleague Anu Chhetri hugged Lama, Dahal offered a khada to the rival candidate. Both the factions of the Morcha are allies of the Trinamul Congress but are bitter rivals in the hills. “After all we are one, we are Gorkhas,” Tshering was heard saying. All the leaders were accompanied by their supporters and they, too, set an example by their conduct while facing each other. Political rivalry in the hills has been intense and violent in the past. Murders of political rivals, attack on houses and even social boycott were once regular in the hills. For almost four decades, the hills have been a one-party dominated region with leaders and supporters of rival organisations mostly being at the receiving end. Many believe mutual respect for political leaders has been on the rise in the hills for the past few years. “Maybe it is because not a single political party is a dominant force in the hills now. However, one has to admit the political atmosphere has become better in the hills,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
08-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: CM raises bogey of detention||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee dwelt on the issue of National Register of Citizens and the possibility of people landing up in detention camps in her campaign outings in north Bengal as she tried to woo Rajbanshis and other communities in the region. Members of those communities are immigrants from Bangladesh that shares borders with north Bengal and Assam. On April 10, elections would be held in 14 Assembly seats in Cooch Behar and Alipurduar. Mamata addressed two public meetings in Baneswar and Sitalkuchi for party candidates Binoy Krishna Burman and Partha Pratim Roy. “If you do not vote for us, you will face NPR and NRC and will be thrown into a detention camp like it has happened with over 14 lakh people in Assam. If BJP comes to power, this is the consequence that you have to face. Some other states have done it but we will never implement it in Bengal. For us, all those who live in Bengal are Indian citizens.” Such remarks of Mamata, party insiders said, are a part of the party's strategy to use the citizenship matrix to draw support from people living in these two districts, who can easily relate themselves with the NRC exercise of Assam. “Many of these people are still disappointed as their family members and relatives could not enrol themselves in the NRC. An underlying apprehension that they would be sent to detention camps is always there among them. We are thus underscoring the issue to prove that they too, might face similar consequences,” said a Trinamul leader of Alipurduar. At the meeting, Mamata also addressed the Matuas and other Bengali Hindus who have come from Bangladesh and live in these districts. “The BJP leaders say they will provide land rights to refugees. We have already regularised all the refugee colonies… also, it is our government that is addressing the longstanding issue of enclaves,” she added. Political observers pointed that as the BJP has not taken any immediate initiative to implement the CAA, these people are equally perturbed. “We have seen how the Matua community had mounted pressure on the BJP so that the CAA is implemented immediately…. as the uncertainty still lingers among them, Mamata Banerjee is trying to win their support by asserting that all residents of the state are Indian citizens. Not to forget the minority vote bank of the state that comprises around 28 per cent of the population who are equally worried over the NRC issue,” said an observer. In both the meetings, Mamata also played the development card and went on elaborating on the series of infrastructural developments and other initiatives which include constitution of language academies and development board for Rajbanshis, a separate development board for Rajbanshi Muslims (nasya sheikhs) among others. In 2016, Trinamul had won 12 seats of these two districts. However, in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP could win both Alipurduar and Cooch Behar Parliament seats and had managed to secure leads in 12 Assembly segments, barring two segments of Cooch Behar. Mamata also insisted that her party should win in more than 200 seats. “We need 200 seats or else, the BJP will use money power and would buy some betrayers. They are devils in disguise. We need your support,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-122
