09-04-2021||West Bengal||Election Commission removes Mamata Banerjee's security officer ||The Election Commission of India (EC) on Friday removed an SP rank officer posted in the security of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, an official said. The step against Asoke Chakraborty, an officer on special duty (OSD) in an ex-cadre post in the rank of superintendent of police, is believed to have been taken because of "security lapses" which led to Banerjee's foot injury in Nandigram last month, he said. "He is removed from the post with immediate effect," the official in the state CEO's office said. Banerjee suffered the injury after a fall while campaigning in her constituency Nandigram on March 10. Since then, she is seeking votes for her party sitting on a wheelchair. The poll panel earlier suspended Banerjee's Director Security Vivek Sahay following the incident. The EC, in an order, also attached Ajeet Singh Yadav, SP of Counter Insurgency Force, to the Howrah Police Commissionerate, "in view of the sensitivity of the assembly election in Howrah district in phase 4" on Saturday. The officer, who is directed to report to the Commissioner of Police of Howrah immediately, "will be released after completion of the duty," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: Darjeeling is searching for the 'better' enemy ||Since February 7, Sumendra Tamang and his friends have been campaigning in the Darjeeling hills, the terai and dooars areas, talking to workers in the and cinchona gardens, landless labourers and farm-hands, explaining to them why they must not vote for the BJP. They are singing songs and enacting plays at street corners in front of harried tea workers taking a break during lunch hour and laterin the evenings, outside bustees in the plains and hills. “We are trying to find out who the better enemy is,” says Tamang, a 30-year-old economics graduate from Jadavpur University who now describes himself as an "anti-Fascist activist". Tamang’s organisation, "Laali Guras (Red Rhododendrons)", is a part of the Shramjeevi Adhikaar Abhiyaan (Workers Rights Movement) which has been at the forefront of the campaign against the BJP. “Fascism itself means little to the people. So, we tell them about the laws and the impact it will have on their lives. Fascism comes in many forms,” says the 30-year-old. Out of the 14 seats in Cooch Behar, Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri that go to the polls in the fourth phase on Saturday, along with 30 others in south Bengal, the BJP had led in 12 of the Assembly segments in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. This territory in North Bengal had marked itself saffron in 2019 cashing in on resentment brewing among the myriad communities that have made their homes there since 1835 when the Bannackburn and the Lingia tea estates were formed in Darjeeling. A survey carried out by the Bengal government’s labour department in 2013 stated 1.86 lakh families were residing in the tea estates of Darjeeling, terai and dooars. “We in the Hills are aware of what is going on in the rest of the country. The new farm laws, the labour laws, NRC all of these impact us directly… Two days back, the Kurseong BJP nominee said NRC will not impact Gorkhas. But, in Assam the Gorkhas have been delisted,” says Tamang. Like in the rest of Bengal, the CPM’s 34-year-old uninterrupted reign is still fresh in the minds of the people in the Hills, Dooars and Terai. They have also seen the decade-long Mamata Banerjee government, which came riding on an anti-CPM wave with a bagful of promises. They are also seeing the Narendra Modi government at work in the Centre, which now promises "Asol poriborton” and “Sonar Bangla” _ something that means little to a daily wage earner who goes home to his wife and children with a meagre Rs 176 in hand. One of the songs Tamang's group sing goes like this. “Gaon gaon bata utha, bustee bustee bata utha, yu des ko muhaar phernalai utha” (Rise from the villages, rise from the houses, rise to change the face of this country).” Tamang speaks about three of the most important legislations introduced by the Narendra Modi government and how it could impact their lives. “In the Trinamul-BJP binary, opposing one does not mean supporting the other. We are talking about the policies. The farm laws, the four labour codes, the NRC,” he says. Two days ago, Kurseong BJP nominee B.P. Bajgai had declared that if even one report could be produced to prove that one lakh Gurkhas had been excluded from the NRC in Assam, he would not contest the polls. He was trying to counter the fear of the "doubtful voter" tag in Assam. In Assam, around 23,000 Gorkhas have been marked "D" or doubtful voters. In case the head of a family is marked a "doubtful voter", all family members are excluded from the National Register of Citizens (NRC). This fear has percolated among the Gorkhas, Muslims and also a section of the Hindus about their status as citizens if the BJP comes to power in Bengal. “Most of the people don’t have birth certificates. The parja-patta (land documents) they don’t have. Seventy per cent of the people here will turn into refugees overnight if the NRC is implemented,” says Tamang. The BJP in its campaign in Bengal has stressed on implementation of the NRC, while chief minister Mamata Banerjee has remained steadfast in her opposition. In October 2020, a petition was sent to the chief minister demanding the minimum wage, pending since 2014, be fixed. Like the competitive communalism the BJP and Trinamul have been engaged in, there is also a competition for promises. In February, the Modi government announced a Rs 1000crore package for the tea industry in North Bengal and Assam in the Union budget. The following day, Mamata announced concrete houses for all tea garden workers in three years. There is no clarity whether this scheme would benefit the 50,000-odd workers in the 14 closed tea gardens and their families. Last July amidst the nationwide loockdown, almost a lakh small tea gardens in North Dinajpur, Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar provided a hike of Rs 9 to  workers, raising their daily wage to Rs 159. Voters in these parts will keep the nine rupees in mind when they go to the polling booths on Saturday. In Assam, around 23,000 Gorkhas have been marked as D (Doubtful) voters. In case the head of a family is marked "doubtful voter" the names of his family members are excluded from the National Register of Citizens (NRC). The fear has percolated amongst the Gorkhas, Muslims and also a section of the Hindus about their status as citizens if the BJP comes to power in Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Will keep talking about CPRF meddling till it stops working for BJP, says Mamata||Reacting sharply to the notice served on her by the Election Commission of India for her comments over central forces intimidating voters, Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Friday hit out at the poll panel, saying that she would continue speaking about CRPF interference till it stops working for the BJP. Iterating that the ECI was working at the behest of the BJP, Banerjee said, the prime minister campaigns on polling days, yet there is no ruling that he has violated the Model Code of Conduct (MCC). Speaking at a rally at Jamalpur in Purba Bardhaman, the TMC chief said, "I will continue speaking about interference by CPRF till it stops working for the BJP. Will salute the force, once it does. I do not care anything about your (ECI's) showcause letters." The chief minister also accused the ECI of "not listening to the TMC but following whatever the BJP is saying". Banerjee said, she is also campaigning on election days because the prime minister does so. "Why are you (PM) having 'Pariksha pe charcha' in Bengal where assembly elections are being held? Is it not a violation of MCC?" she asked. The ECI on Thursday issued a notice to the Bengal chief minister on Thursday night for her "completely false, provocative and intemperate statements" against central armed police forces deputed on election duty in the state, saying her remarks are demoralising the personnel. The notice issued on Thursday night said Banerjee prima facie violated various sections of the Indian Penal Code with her remarks against the central forces. Banerjee has been asked to reply by Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s anger on central forces exposes her fear of losing polls, claims Shah||Coming down hard on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Home Minister Amit Shah said on Friday her fulminations against central forces betrayed frustration over "impending defeat" in the Assembly elections. He exuded confidence that the BJP will win anywhere between 63 and 68 seats where polling has been held in the first three phases. Polling is over in 91 of the state's 294- Assembly constituencies in the three phases. "I have never seen a chief minister or the president of a political party use the kind of words Mamata Banerjee is using against central forces. Is she trying to create anarchy? Does she want disturbance? "I want her to have some common sense. She should know that central forces do not function under the home ministry during elections. They are under the control of the Election Commission," he told a press conference. Shah was responding to the TMC supremo's claim of CAPF personnel harassing and intimidating electors, and asking them to vote for the BJP at the behest of Shah and the home ministry. He said Mamata’s appeal for minority unity to prevent division of their votes shows minority voters were drifting away from the TMC. People of Bengal are peeved about Mamata Banerjee's failure to check infiltration, her protest against the CAA and appeasement politics, Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
09-04-2021||West Bengal||EC notice to Mamata over remark on central forces||The Election Commission (EC) has issued a notice to West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee for her alleged statements against central armed police forces deputed on election duty in the state. The notice issued on Thursday night said Banerjee prima facie violated various sections of the Indian Penal Code with her remarks against the central forces. The chief minister has been asked to respond to the notice by 11 am on Saturday. The EC said prima facie, the completely false, provocative and intemperate statements by Banerjee attempted to berate and vilify central paramilitary forces during the electoral process. Mamata on Thursday apprehended that a section of central paramilitary forces may visit villages to intimidate people and asked voters to be on guard. While addressing a public meeting at Balagarh in Hooghly district, Mamata had alleged central forces were working on instructions of the "Union Home Ministry run by Amit Shah." "I have respect for the central paramilitary forces but they are working on instructions from Delhi. They are committing atrocities on villagers before polling day, some of them are even harassing women. They are asking people to vote for BJP. We will not allow this to continue," the TMC chief said. The TMC supremo also called upon the state police force 'to keep vigil and not to bow their heads before Delhi.' "Your job is to ensure free and fair polls, please be stern with trouble makers and keep your integrity intact," she had said. Asking villagers to lodge FIRs at local police station in case of any excess committed by central forces, the chief minister had said, "If the police station refuses to accept the FIRs, inform us".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Abhishek Banerjee pits ‘words’ against ‘work done’||Trinamul MP and party’s youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee on Thursday underscored the “hollow promises” of BJP leaders and compared them with the “commitments met” by the Mamata Banerjee government during the past 10 years. Abhishek was in Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts to attend public meetings as the campaign ended in these districts where elections would be held on April 10. “You want free bhason (empty speeches) from outsiders or free ration provided by Banglar nijer meye (Bengal’s own girl)? These people, who were never seen during the Covid 19 crisis, have now become daily commuters and are turning up here in Bengal every day. But people will never stand in their support as they are known for making hollow promises,” the youth Trinamul leader said at a public meeting in Kumargram Assembly seat of Alipurduar. In north Bengal, where the saffron camp had managed to win seven of eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019, leaders of Mamata Banerjee’s party are trying to drive home the point that even though the region elected BJP MPs, the central government and the MPs failed to deliver these past two years. Abhishek also underlined the revision of tea wages and other initiatives taken by the state government during the past 10 years and questioned what the BJP has done for the tea sector. In Alipurduar district, results of four out of five seats depend on support of the tea population. In north Bengal overall, votes of tea workers and their families decide the results of 15-odd Assembly seats. “When Mamata Banerjee came to power, the daily tea wage was Rs 67. It is Rs 202 now. Additionally, the state government has facilitated the reopening of a number of closed tea gardens, while the central government that had committed to take over some of the closed gardens has not done anything about it so far. It is clear who meets the commitments and who makes promises but never meets them,” said the Trinamul MP and Mamata Banerjee’s nephew. Abhishek assured the crowd that if his party was voted to power, wages of tea workers would be revised in due course. The BJP too, is trying to woo the tea population, announcing that if it came to power in Bengal, daily tea wage would be hiked to Rs 350. Later in the day, in Tufanganj area of Cooch Behar district, Abhishek dubbed the BJP leaders “migratory birds”. “People should choose whether they want the parijayi pakkhi (migratory birds) or Lokkhi (goddess Lakshmi). It is the time to make a decision. If they come to power, they would take five years to do a job that can be done in seven days,” said Abhishek. Along with Abhishek, Trinamul brought in actors-turned-politicians Soham Chakraborty and Sayantika Banerjee. They held road shows to support party candidates, Alipurduar’s Sourav Chakraborty, and Falakata, Subhas Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Owaisi flags TMC-BJP ‘tacit understanding’ ||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Thursday accused Trinamul and the BJP of a “tacit understanding”, and said his party never compromised on its anti-BJP stand, at public meetings in North Dinajpur and Malda. Both these north Bengal districts have sizeable Muslim populations. In recent months, the AIMIM — which won five Assembly seats last year in Bihar’s Seemanchal area near Bengal — is focussing on Bengal areas near Bihar. “It seems Owaisi plans to repeat his Bihar gains on this side of the border,” said a political observer. So far, the AIMIM has decided to field candidates in Itahar (North Dinajpur) and Malatipur (Malda), along with a couple of other seats in Murshidabad, another district with a high minority concentration. “You voted Trinamul to defeat the BJP in 2019. But your bid ended in vain as some Trinamul workers voted for BJP. Leaders of these parties have a tacit understanding. Now that I am vocal, Mamata Banerjee is accusing me of taking money from the BJP to contest in Bengal. Trinamul can’t thwart the BJP. The best option is AIMIM. We have never compromised on our anti-BJP stand,” Owaisi said in Malatipur. Earlier in Itahar, he came up with figures to cite how the community, around 28 per cent of Bengal’s populace, suffered in Bengal. “Around 20 per cent of Muslim children are still out of schools and colleges. Also, 80 per cent of Muslims who live here earn a maximum of Rs 5,000 a month and among them 38 per cent earn Rs 2,500. Only 3 per cent make around Rs 15,000 a month. It is a clear indication of what the Congress, Left and Trinamul have done for them (Muslims) in Bengal,” he said. Trinamul leaders sounded unperturbed. “People are well aware of his tricks and intentions…. he does not have any influence or support base in Bengal. Those who went to his meetings did so merely out of curiosity. Whatever he has said is far from the truth,” said Mausam Noor, the Malda district Trinamul chief. Murder in market A farmer was hacked to death by his brother-in-law at Jajoil area under Habibpur police station of Malda on Thursday morning. Police have arrested the accused from the spot. Sources said Bifal Mandal,38, was hacked in public by his brother-in-law Ukil Mandal when the former at a weekly market in the locality. “The deceased had a scuffle with his wife on Wednesday night and she left for her brother Ukil’s house. In the morning, as Bifal went to market, Ukil, a barber, attacked him with a sharp weapon,” said a police officer. People caught Ukil and rished Bifal to a local hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. Police were told and they arrested Ukil.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Fresh attacks on TMC and BJP workers||A group of BJP workers, who were taking part in a procession in support of their Labhpur nominee, allegedly pelted stones at a Trinamul party office “without provocation” and damaged around six motorcycles kept outside the office in Sainthia on Thursday morning. BJP denied this allegation and instead said Trinamul workers had attacked them. Sources said senior Trinamul leaders in Sainthia — some areas of which fall under the Labhpur Assembly seat — had called up a meeting at the party office at Sangra village on Thursday morning. Simultaneously, BJP supporters took out a procession for their Labhpur nominee Biswajit Mondal. Trinamul leaders alleged that a group of BJP workers broke away from the procession and attacked the party office by pelting stones and ransacked around six motorbikes that were parked outside. “Without any provocation, the BJP workers attacked our party office and ransacked motorbikes. Four of our workers were injured in the attack and several motorbikes damaged. As the BJP is fearing defeat, their party workers are resorting to violence,” said Abhijit Sinha, a Trinamul vice-president of Birbhum district and the party’s Labhpur nominee. The BJP district leadership, however, alleged that Trinamul was the first to attack the BJP procession when it was passing by the Trinamul office. “Trinamul was the first to attack on us and they also harassed our women workers. Our supporters spontaneously reacted to the Trinamul attack. We have also lodged a police complaint,” said Dhruba Saha, BJP’s Birbhum district president. Birbhum superintendent of police Meeraj Khalid said that the police had started a case and have arrested four persons in this connection. BJP nominee thrashed BJP’s Haroa candidate Rajendra Saha was allegedly assaulted by suspected Trinamul supporters at the Lebutala area of Haroa in North 24-Parganas district on Thursday evening. Saha was allegedly punched and thrashed by a group of Trinamul supporters when he was speaking to party workers after an election meeting. At least six party workers were injured in the attack and five vehicles of Saha’s campaign team were vandalised. The injured BJP workers have been admitted to Haroa Rural Hospital. As news of the attack spread, angry BJP supporters demonstrated against alleged police inaction. Refuting the allegations of thrashing the BJP candidate, Trinamul leader Hafiz Ahmed said: “It was actually a clash between the BJP’s old and new factions. Trinamul supporters had no role in this incident.” BJP candidate Saha, however, said Trinamul attacked him and his aides out of insecurity. “It was a planned attack by the ruling party in the state because it is afraid of losing support in the area.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Molest slur on central armed police force jawan||The West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights has written to the Bengal chief election officer, seeking immediate steps against a central armed police force jawan accused of molesting a minor girl in Hooghly district on April 5 night, a day before he served on election duty in potential violation of the law. Sources said a 15-year-old girl had allegedly been dragged into a school and molested by the jawan who was posted there for election duty. The sources said the chairperson of the WBCPCR, Ananya Chakraborti, had visited the home of the girl on Wednesday after being informed of the incident. Police did not arrest the accused jawan and allowed him to leave despite the commission’s directive to the law enforcers not to do so. In its letter to the Election Commission, the child rights panel accused the police of not starting the case under the Pocso (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act. The letter claimed it was a threat to other women that the jawan was allowed to leave for duty. “If the victim is a minor, it is mandatory to start a case under Pocso Act and the accused should be arrested immediately. I personally met the victim who told me that she had ghastly been molested by the jawan who even offered money to her. We are surprised that police can treat such a serious case so lightly,” said Chakraborti who added  another letter had been sent to the police seeking the reason for not starting the case. Amandeep, the superintendent of police of Hooghly rural district, however claimed the allegation was that the CAPF jawan had tried to molest the girl and the probe was going on according to norms. “The process of identification is over and the girl’s statement has been recorded. Today (Thursday), she was sent to court to record her statement in front of a judicial magistrate.” Asked why the jawan had not been arrested, the SP said: “The complaint was that the jawan tried to molest the girl.” Chakraborti, however, said: “It is horrible if the SP speaks like that. I met the girl who told me how a gruesome assault was carried out on her. She was complaining of illness too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission flying squad attacked, BJP blamed||A magistrate-level officer in charge of an Election Commission flying squad was assaulted allegedly by a group of BJP supporters at Hanskhali in Nadia on Wednesday night. Suman Mallick, an inspector of cooperative societies, was assaulted around 7.30pm when he was leading the flying squad in removing party flags from public space at Gournagar. Sources said Mallick had also been deputed to investigate complaints lodged with the C-vigil mobile app. “His accompanying team fled immediately upon seeing the BJP goons turn violent,” said an eyewitness. Hanskhali block development officer Amitabha Bhattacharya was reportedly informed about the attack immediately and rushed to the site. Hanskhali police said they had initiated a case against 20 unidentified persons on Thursday afternoon on the basis of a complaint lodged by the BDO. The BDO said a police team accompanying the flying squad had fled when the mob was beating up Mallick. According to local sources and the police, about 20 BJP supporters vandalised the flying squad’s vehicle as well. A member of the team who fled the attack said: “We were executing instructions of the commission regarding a complaint of illegally affixed flags at public places. Accordingly, we were removing the illegally planted flags from various public places in Mayurhat panchayat when BJP supporters tried to prevent us.” “Soumitra Debnath, a video photographer accompanying the squad, was also beaten up severely. He was admitted to a hospital,” the squad member added. Krishnaganj BJP candidate and incumbent MLA Ashis Kumar Biswas rejected the involvement of his party in the incident. “The local BDO has been playing a proactive role in implicating BJP supporters according to the instruction of Trinamul leaders so that they can get clear ground on the day of the election.” On Thursday evening, the BJP lodged a complaint with EC, accusing the Hanskhali BDO of “prejudicial” and “biased” behaviour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Uproar over BJP candidate Bajgain’s NRC remark||BJP candidate from Kurseong B.P. Bajgain’s statement that the process of updating the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam has not affected 1 lakh Gorkhas there has triggered condemnation from the community of the neighbouring state. Bajgain, at a public meeting at Monteviot in Kurseong on Wednesday, said: “In Assam, the NRC has been implemented, has any Gorkha said that this has caused (them) suffering? They (the Opposition) are saying one lakh Gorkhas have been affected. If (the Opposition) can place even one report about 1 lakh Gorkhas, I will not contest the election.” Nanda Kirati Dewan of Assam, the president of the apolitical Bharatiya Gorkha Yuwa Parisangh, was among the first to condemn the statement late on Wednesday. The issue became a talking point on Thursday, but Bajgain said he stood by what he said. “I have said if anyone can provide me a list of 1 lakh Gorkhas (in Assam) who have been affected by the NRC, I won’t contest polls. The figure of the affected Gorkhas is much less,” he said. Non-BJP politicians were trying to “demonise the NRC”, Bajgain claimed, adding NRC-enlisted Gorkhas would never be doubted on their citizenship in future. Dewan, over the phone from Guwahati, said Bajgain’s statement was misleading and demanded an apology. “He clearly said not a single Gorkha was affected,” Dewan said, referring to the first part of Bajgain’s statement where he had asked if any Gorkha complained. “This is a misleading and an irresponsible statement. The process of documentation is difficult.” Dewan said 23,000 Gorkhas had been earmarked Doubtful (D) voters. “If the head of a family is classified as a D-voter, his family members don’t find their names in the NRC. That’s why Gorkha outfits in Assam are coming to the conclusion that 1 lakh Gorkhas have been affected by the process,” said Dewan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Back TMC or get off government land, minister tells monk||State tourism minister Gautam Deb, considered north Bengal’s tallest Trinamul leader, on Thursday seemed to lose his cool while campaigning in his Dabgram-Fulbari constituency. Deb, in Thakurnagar area on Siliguri outskirts in Jalpaiguri district, was heard telling a monk that if he supported Trinamul, he would be allowed to stay on, but support to the saffron camp would amount to his eviction. Deb said this in front of a small ashram run by a monk, Sudhakrishna Das Goswami, on government land near Eastern Bypass that skirts Siliguri. He later defended his statement by alleging that RSS activities went on inside the ashram. “You are residing on government land…if you support us, we will extend all help to you… but if you back the BJP, you have to face eviction. I am Gautam Deb and what I say I do,” Deb was heard telling Goswami. Goswami, who appeared baffled, mumbled that he was a “simple monk and not into political activities”. The minister, however, went on: “Sitting on a government land, such political practices might be carried out in Modi’s state (Gujarat)… but it won’t be allowed in Bengal.” Contacted later, the monk said he has been staying at the ashram for past five-six years. “I am not into political activities. The ashram’s doors are open for all. At times, people who assemble here do start political discussions but I have no connection with them. I have no inkling why he (the state tourism minister) passed such remarks at me,” he said. Sikha Chatterjee, the BJP candidate, was quick to react. She alleged that over the years, some local Trinamul leaders helped many people to settle on government land in exchange of money. “Ironically, a Trinamul leader is threatening (one of) them to face eviction. We have a good number of supporters in the locality. We believe the minister’s reaction is a sudden outburst of his frustration,” she said. With the BJP drumming up the issue, Deb tried to clarify his comments. “We have information that the premises in which that person (Goswami) lives, is being used by the RSS for training. Also, secret meetings of the BJP are being held in the location. That is why I made it clear that such political activities can’t be carried out by encroaching on a government plot. I do not think there has been any violation of the model code of conduct,” he said. In Dabgram-Fulbari seat spread over 14 wards of Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four adjoining panchayats of Jalpaiguri, the contest between Trinamul and BJP is heating up. In 2011, Deb won with a margin of 11,236 votes. In 2016, he won with an even bigger margin of 23,811 votes. But in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP got a lead of 86,117 votes. This election promises to reveal which trend — of 2016 or 2019 — proves enduring.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Yogi promises 'anti-Romeo squads' if party voted to power||The BJP takes pride in not naming a candidate for chief minister in Bengal but Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath is already behaving like Bengal’s chief minister-designate, spoiling to impose elements of his cultural nationalism on the state. Adityanath, who has been flagging his pet themes such as the so-called “love jihad”, “illegal” cow slaughter and cattle smuggling on the campaign trail in Bengal, went a step further on Thursday to promise anti-Romeo squads in the eastern state if the BJP was voted to power. The Uttar Pradesh chief minister bragged that “posters of rioters” were put up in his state and their properties confiscated, referring to the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) in late 2019 and early 2020. If such repressive measures are enforced in Bengal, the consequences can be devastating for a state known for dissent and protest. “There will be anti-Romeo squads for goons who roam about in front of the schools of sisters and daughters,” Adityanath told an election rally in the Champdani Assembly constituency in Hooghly. The Bengal BJP manifesto does not mention anything about the discredited squad being replicated in the state. A brainchild of Adityanath, the Anti-Romeo Squad was a wing of the Uttar Pradesh police that was tasked with protecting women but ended up facing allegations of hounding, harassing and extorting money from couples and lovers spending time in parks. Within two months of its formation in March 2017, the squad had booked more than 200 consenting pairs who were found walking or sitting together. In Lucknow, the squad was accused of harassing a father and his daughter at the gate of a mall. Tejvir Singh, a sub-inspector who headed one such squad in Rampur, was allegedly caught by some children trying to outrage the modesty of a six-year-old child. The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Romeo Squad was active for about eight months and then became defunct. In October 2018, Prashant Chaudhary and Sandeep Kumar Rana, two constables who were part of the defunct squad, were arrested for shooting at and killing Vivek Tiwari, an executive of Apple company, at 2am. Tiwari was shot while giving a lift to a female colleague in his SUV before returning home from a late-night party, held to mark the launch of a mobile phone. A group of women activists had released a joint statement in April 2017 condemning the activities of the squad. “In many cases, these ‘anti-Romeo squads’ have become an even greater source of harassment and fear for women and men, which has even been acknowledged by the director-general of police, Uttar Pradesh…,” the statement read. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, 59,853 cases of crime against women were reported in Uttar Pradesh in 2019, the highest among all the states. Adityanath’s promise drew outrage and derision in Bengal. Bratya Basu, minister and Trinamul Congress spokesperson, minced no words: “He is more of a fool, one you would find in a Shakespearean play. Such squads are just not possible in a civil society. They remind one of the Nazi troops.” Kaninika Ghosh (Bose), CPM women’s wing leader, wanted to remind Adityanath of the “ill fate” of women in Uttar Pradesh. “This man should just be the RSS poster boy and take care of his state first. His state ranks first on the list of crimes against women. One can’t just say anything one wants to in Bengal,” Kaninika said. She added that in future, there would be “anti-RSS squads” in Bengal. Adityanath took a jibe at Mamata Banerjee over the anti-CAA protests in the state. He said Trinamul workers supported the anti-CAA protests since Mamata considered the protesters her vote bank. “In UP, posters of the rioters were put up and their property confiscated,” the chief minister boasted, referring to a controversial crackdown that ran into allegations of torture during the height of the protests against the citizenship regime. In his first public meeting in poll-bound Bengal in early March, Adityanath had said that cow slaughter and “love jihad” had increased in Bengal because of the Trinamul Congress’s indulgence in appeasement politics. “Incidents of love jihad are taking place in the state through fraud and deceit. There is a law against love jihad in Uttar Pradesh. But in West Bengal, where the state government is indulging in the politics of appeasement, it’s neither curbing cattle smuggling nor the dangerous incidents of love jihad,” Adityanath had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: 16 held for attack on Dilip Ghosh in Cooch Behar||Sixteen persons were arrested for attacking Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district on Wednesday evening. District police and administration have sent separate reports to the Election Commission and senior state police officers on the attack on Ghosh’s convoy. He had suffered minor injuries in the attack. On Wednesday, suspected Trinamul supporters attacked BJP members who were attending a public meeting. Ghosh, who was present, alleged the Trinamul activists had lobbed bombs and ransacked a number of cars. Again, while he was moving out of Sitalkuchi, stones and bricks were thrown at his vehicle and some other cars. The incident had prompted the BJP to organise protests in different parts of Bengal, including Calcutta. “In total, 15 vehicles were ransacked. We have heard 16 persons were arrested and hope the police and the Election Commission will take steps for law and order during and after the polls,” district BJP secretary Sanjoy Chakraborty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-119
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Brickbats hit tail of Mithun Chakraborty road show||A car trailing a road show of the BJP’s star campaigner, actor Mithun Chakraborty, was allegedly attacked with brickbats in Howrah’s Domjur on Thursday. The saffron party claimed that Trinamul goons were behind the attack. Chakraborty, who joined the BJP last month, on Thursday was at Bankra in Domjur to campaign for Trinamul turncoat Rajib Banerjee, who before he joined the BJP was the state forest minister. The BJP leadership claimed that a vehicle carrying some BJP supporters who were following the rally near its tail was attacked with brickbats. “There was a lot of excitement in Bankra. People wanted a glimpse of Mithunda and shower blessings upon Rajibda. Suddenly, some goons started pelting brickbats at a vehicle in the rally,” a BJP leader, present at the spot, said. “We suspect Trinamul.” The vehicle, a van, was damaged in the sudden attack but no one was injured, the BJP leader added. A local Trinamul leader denied the charge. “Ever since Rajib Banerjee left Trinamul for the BJP, people are angry and this attack was an outburst of that. Our party had nothing to do with it,” he said. Immediately after the incident, police and combat forces reached the spot and the security of the area was tightened. The rally went unhindered since the vehicle carrying Chakraborty and Banerjee was much ahead of the van that faced the brickbats. Chakraborty, who was with the Left and Trinamul earlier in his political career, has been campaigning for many candidates of his new party across the state and attracting huge crowds with one-liners from his film hits. Srabanti rally Another rally that Chakraborty was supposed to attend but did not on Thursday — in Calcutta — had been denied permission by the police. This rally was supposed to be in support of the BJP candidate of Behala West, actress Srabanti Chatterjee. BJP sources claimed that they had made an online application for the permission of the road show on Wednesday afternoon, but the police denied permission in the evening. On Thursday morning, actress Chatterjee’s followers gathered in front of the Parnashree police station in protest. Chatterjee, who also spoke to the police, claimed she was told that permission was denied because another political party had planned an event at the same time. But Chatterjee took out her rally without permission and claimed her rivals were scared. Thursday was the last day of campaign for both Domjur and Behala West seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC issues notice to Suvendu for an alleged communal jibe||The Election Commission on Thursday served a showcause on BJP’s Nandigram candidate Suvendu Adhikari for an alleged communal jibe in his election speech last month when he had said a vote to his rival would lead to a “mini Pakistan”. The commission had sent a showcause to Adhikari’s rival and chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday for asking minorities not to divide their votes. Both Mamata and Adhikari have been accused of violating Clauses 2 and 3 of Part I of the Model Code of Conduct that prohibit unverified allegations against candidates and communal appeal for votes. The EC is yet to respond to a query from The Telegraph on why Adhikari was not additionally accused of flouting Clause 4 of Part I of the MCC that covers intimidation as well as Sections 123(3) and 3(A) of Representation of the People Act, 1951, which deal with communal appeal for votes and incitement of hatred between communities. In the showcause to Mamata, she was accused of flouting these sections, too. MCC violations are punished by the EC with curbs on campaigning. Violations of the act can result in an FIR. Adhikari was asked to reply to the showcause within 24 hours. The EC issued the notice on a complaint lodged by CPIML (Liberation) politburo member Kavita Krishnan on March 31. The excerpt from Adhikari’s speech in Nandigram on March 29 cited by the EC in its notice to him says: “On the one hand, Begum is competing against us… You are not giving votes to Begum. If you vote for Begum there will be mini Pakistan. (Barely audible)… A Daud Ibrahim has come up in your locality.” He added: “With which flower did Ramachandra worship Maa Durga? All of you should, therefore, vote for lotus.” In her complaint, Kavita had referred to speeches of Adhikari on March 7 and 29. Krishnan quoted him say on March 7: “You are the ‘phuphu’ (the word for paternal aunt used by Muslims) of infiltrators and the ‘khala’ (the word for maternal aunt used primarily by Muslims) of the Rohingya.” Kavita told The Telegraph on Thursday: “The EC has not taken cognisance of the March 7 speech that is extremely communal.” Adhikari was showcaused after the EC had been accused of duplicity. While Mamata was served the notice for her speech in Tarakeshwar on April 3, Adhikari’s address that invited the EC’s showcause had been given on March 29. Besides, the CPIML (Liberation) leader had lodged the complaint with the EC against Adhikari on March 31. The commission served the showcause on Mamata on a complaint lodged by the BJP on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Long live revolution, not development ||The promise of an “adarsh gram (model village)” continues to elude Sebdullajote in Naxalbari. Located around 25km from Siliguri, this nondescript hamlet nestled in the Terai in Darjeeling district is the cradle of the peasants’ uprising in 1967 that culminated in the Naxalbari Movement. Back in 2014, S.S. Ahluwalia, the then BJP MP of Darjeeling, had come to Sebdullajote, the home of firebrand Naxalite leader Kanu Sanyal, and promised to develop it and some adjoining hamlets under the Hatighisha panchayat into model villages under the Pradhan Mantri Adarsh Gram Yojana (PMAGY), a scheme announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the ramparts of the Red Fort. Under the scheme, each MP has to choose and develop a “model village” every year in his or her constituency. However, even after seven years, the areas under the Hatighisha panchayat are far from being model villages, still struggling for basic amenities such as good roads, drinking water and healthcare facilities. “It seems to be yet another hollow promise of yet another BJP leader. Ahluwalia had shown interest in developing the area, keeping in mind its rich political history and in remembrance of Kanubabu who worked for the people till his last breath. I had sent a number of proposals to Ahluwalia for the development of the village but nothing was done,” said Jyasthamohan Roy, the former CPM pradhan of Hatighisha. Even today, the 50,000-odd residents of Hatighisha have to depend on the Manjha, a local stream, for drinking water. Roy said that under the PMAGY, there had been elaborate plans to develop rural areas, introducing facilities such as banking infrastructure and Wifi. According to him, only two roads have been rebuilt in the area near Asian Highway II. “There is a sharp contrast here. On one hand, we have a four-lane international highway nearby. On the other, villages in the neighbourhood don’t even have basic facilities,” Roy said. Sebdullajote, where Sanyal’s hut still stands 11 years after his death, and the neighbouring villages have only one sub-health centre, where doctors visit once a month. Dipu Haldar, a close associate of Sanyal, said: “In most cases, villagers have to travel 10km to reach the block hospital in Naxalbari even for basic treatment. What disappoints us is that Kanuda’s struggle for socio-economic development of the poor people seems to have come to naught because of the politicians who make tall claims about working for the people. It is unimaginable that people who live barely 25km from the largest town of north Bengal have to depend on a stream for drinking water.” A few months ago, the public health engineering department had installed two wayside taps after Haldar and some other locals had submitted a memorandum, but both are lying out of order. The Asian Highway also touches Bengaijote, another village where the peasants’ uprising had erupted in 1967 after police had opened fired and killed nine women and two children. The locality has a “martyrs’ column” in the name of the victims, along with the busts of Lenin, Stalin, Mao Tse Tung, Lin Piao and Charu Mazumdar, the foremost leader of the Naxalbari movement. In 1967, peasants, particularly sharecroppers, had rebelled against jotedars (owners of vast stretches of agricultural land) and private moneylenders in Naxalbari. The uprising began after a sharecropper who tried to till a piece of land after he had been evicted by the landlord was beaten up. Hundreds of peasants rose in protest, and led by Left leaders such as Charu Mazumdar, Kanu Sanyal and Jangal Santhal, began seizing land from the landlords. Food grains and arms were also looted. The state government mobilised the police. The rebellious peasants resisted, which led to the death of a sub-inspector during an ambush. In retaliation, the police opened fire in Bengaijote village, killing nine women and two children on May 25, 1967. As the situation continued to remain tense, the state deployed paramilitary forces, which led to the arrests of some leaders while others went underground. The movement continued to spread in different corners of the country as leaders like Mazumdar and Sanyal walked out of the CPM and floated the CPIML. In the seventies, the movement intensified, particularly among students in Bengal, before it was brutally suppressed. The movement also suffered a setback following Mazumdar’s death in 1972. “For political leaders and researchers, Naxalbari is a unique place because of its political history. The block needs to be developed and places like the hut of Kanu Sanyal where he breathed his last in 2010 and the site of the shooting in Bengaijote should be conserved. Unfortunately, no such initiative has been taken so far,” said Ajit Kumar Ray, a retired professor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
09-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata Banerjee sticks to plea to avoid vote division||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday came out all guns blazing against the Election Commission, albeit without naming the panel, wondering whether the EC had the shame to issue a showcause to her while it was sitting silent on numerous complaints on Nandigram Muslims being labelled as Pakistanis by BJP leaders. On Wednesday, the commission had sent a showcause to the chief minister on the charge of violating norms by asking Muslims not to divide their votes. The notice was issued on a complaint filed by the BJP on Monday when Mamata had delivered the speech. The chief minister said at a rally in Howrah’s Domjur on Thursday that it didn’t matter how many notices she got from the commission as she spoke in favour of unity. “Listen to me, clearly…. They could issue 10 showcause notices to me, it doesn’t matter. My answer would remain unchanged,” said Mamata to thunderous applause from an audience of thousands. “I am telling everybody, there will be no division. Everybody stand united as one and cast your votes. Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, everybody. Nobody vote for them (the BJP),” she added. Mamata was given 48 hours to reply to the EC’s showcause. With her combative approach in the publicly issued response to the notice, the chief minister made it clear that she was unwilling to take even the commission’s rap across the knuckles lying down. “The commission has been shamelessly biased towards the BJP. It needs to be called out and publicly shamed repeatedly for that,” said a senior Trinamul Congress leader. The leader pointed out that the showcause was served on Mamata a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had wondered aloud in Cooch Behar whether she had received a notice from the commission for her appeal to Muslims not to divide their votes. “Every BJP leader of note, right up to Modi and Amit Shah, have been repugnantly communal on numerous occasions, in all their election campaigns in recent years, including this time. They keep getting away with little or no action, even by way of these infantile notices from the commission,” added the Trinamul leader. On Thursday, the Trinamul chief apparently lambasted the commission, which she has repeatedly been accused of working to favour the BJP, demanding answers on the absence of measures against the likes of Modi. “There is no point in complaining against me. How many have there been against Narendra Modi? He, who does Hindu-Muslim (polarisation) every single day. How many complaints are against him?” the chief minister asked. “How many complaints against those who called our citizens — in Nandigram — Pakistanis because they are Muslims? Have they no shame? They should hang themselves in shame,” she added. She was referring to Trinamul turncoat and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari who had called Mamata “begum” and fomented fears of a “mini-Pakistan” in Nandigram on March 29. EC secretary Rakesh Kumar said Mamata’s remarks had been found to be in violation of Sections 123(3) and 3(A) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and Clauses 2, 3 and 4 of Part I of the Model Code of Conduct, which prohibit unverified allegations, appeal to caste or communal feelings for votes and intimidation of voters. “They dare complain against me on this… chhai korbey (they will be able to do nothing),” said Mamata on Thursday. She went on to reassert the pluralistic and inclusive worldview at the core of her politics and policy-making. “I am with Hindus. I am with Muslims. I am with Sikhs. I am with Christians. I am with Scheduled Castes. I am with Scheduled Tribes,” said the chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
09-04-2021||West Bengal||How a hungry river and biting govt apathy have upended lives on the banks of the Ganga||In 1927, Oscar Hammerstein II had penned Ol’ Man River. Set to tune by Jerome Kern and sung by Paul Robeson, the song became a milestone. Later, it inspired Bhupen Hazarika to write a song on another mighty river. “Bistirno du parer, ashonkho manusher hahakar shuneo, nishobde nirobe O Ganga tumi, Ganga boicho keno (On your sprawling banks you hear the cries of countless people, still O Ganga, why do you flow),” Hazarika wrote. The song, which spoke about the pains, thoughts, lives and aspirations of people dwelling on the banks of the Ganga, still resonate in Malda and Murshidabad — located on the left and right banks of the river. As Bengal votes, these residents spoke about their despair, resentment and hopes. “Ganga gilchhe amader, bochorer por bochor (The Ganga is gobbling us up, year after year). We light lamps, we pray in temples and mosques, but nothing changes. Whether it is the house of a Hindu or a Muslim, she devours it all),” says Bishu Mondal, a resident of Manikchak in Malda, the block through which the Ganga enters Bengal from Jharkhand. Over the years in Malda, the river has changed the geography of three blocks. Similar is the situation on the other bank, where seven blocks starting from Samserganj in the west have been affected by continuous erosion. “It is not only a question of land. The lives of thousands of people have been doomed. Affluent families who owned houses, mango plantations and agricultural fields have become penniless overnight. Many of them, like me, now live in small huts built on government land and work as daily labourers,” says Golam Hossain, a resident of Panchanandapur that is under the Mothabari Assembly seat in Malda. Asina Khatun, an 18-year-old resident of Manikchak, has had to give up studies because the Ganga has swallowed her school. “No new school was built. I had to quit studies. We need to travel 5km to collect ration. Is this development? There hasn’t been an inch of progress in our area and people who had indulged in corruption are now switching parties. We don’t protest as we have to live and survive here,” she says. The affected residents point out that even Swadhin Sarkar, the BJP MLA of Baishnabnagar, the Malda block through which the Ganga enters Bangladesh, is a victim of erosion. “The river destroyed his house a few years ago,” says Minati Mondal, a Baishnabnagar resident. In Malda, the Ganga moves along a stretch of 180km from west to east, covering four blocks. In Murshidabad, it flows along a distance of 105km through seven blocks. The residents who bear the brunt of the river’s fury allege that there is complete silence in the power corridors of Delhi. The Narendra Modi government that has taken up the National Mission for Clean Ganga, often referred to as the “Namami Gange” campaign, seems to have forgotten about those who live on the banks of the river, the residents complain. “We are no better than refugees…. Every year, hundreds of people on both banks lose their land and homes. Yet, no initiative is being taken by the central government. The Prime Minister speaks about keeping the Ganga clean, takes boat rides in Varanasi but seems to be oblivious of the distress that we face here in the downstream of the river,” says Amzad Ali, a resident of Samserganj, one of the affected districts of Murshidabad. In Samserganj, two villages have been completely eroded by the river, forcing hundreds of residents to shift to other places. They say no comprehensive plan has been drawn up to arrest the erosion. “Occasionally, the Farakka Barrage Authority carries out some anti-erosion work, and so does the state irrigation department. There is no concrete plan,” says Bishu Choudhury, a Baishnabnagar resident. Residents say the political parties have not shown much interest in improving their lot. The Congress, which still considers Malda and Murshidabad its bastions, is busy retaining its support base. Trinamul is diligently trying to prove that it has carried out an array of development projects while the BJP is polarising voters, the residents say. “It is shocking to see that there is no specific plan for the rehabilitation of the erosion victims. A handful of people who get lucky receive land or a house under some government scheme. The rest of us have to fend for ourselves. Landlosers are offered employment or financial assistance for projects but we don’t have any such option. We have supported various parties but our situation has not changed,” says Sanjay Majhi, a resident of Jalangi, another block in Murshidabad. The locals say that although the BJP has elaborated how it intends to develop Gangasagar, revive the Adi Ganga in Calcutta and improve riverfronts in Howrah, it has been silent on developing the banks of the river. The BJP leadership on both banks of the Ganga admit that no major work has been done but try to pass the buck on to the state government. “It is true that a lot needs to be done. Over the years, the Centre has devised multiple plans but the benefits did not reach the people because of the state government,” says Manik Sarkar, a BJP district general secretary of the Murshidabad (north) committee. Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, a BJP Kisan Morcha leader who is contesting elections from Malda, claims that a couple of months ago, central water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat had taken stock of the situation in Baishnabnagar and held meetings with Farakka Barrage Project (FBP) authorities. “But Trinamul should tell the public why erosion haunts the lives of the people at Mothabari, Manikchak and Ratua where the FBP has nothing to do and anti-erosion measures are to be taken by the state irrigation department,” she says. Even amid the despair, hope lingers among the residents, thousands of whom are dependant on the river. From fishermen to farmers, people make a living because of the Ganga, which has blessed them with fish, vegetables and crops in abundance. “The fertile silt deposits of the river largely help the farmers,” says Hariswami Das, a schoolteacher in Baishnabnagar. According to river experts, improvement in infrastructure like construction of safe riverine ports for steamers, fishery projects and regular cruise services along the Ganga can improve the situation. “Along with specific plans to check erosion, development of such infrastructure can boost economic activities and help those who have lost land,” says Tuhin Subhra Mondal, a river expert. The Ganga, considered sacred by Hindus, is an epitome of amity in Bengal. Unlike most states upstream, the majority of the people who depend on the river in Malda and Murshidabad are Muslims. This is because in both districts, the minorities form over half of the population and the majority of them live in blocks through which the Ganga passes. “The Ganga is our life source, our mother, our source of livelihood,” says Mohammad Liaquat, a Jalangi resident. For generations, Ali’s family has been dependant on the Ganga, whether it is for a pot of water to cook rice or for fishing or other daily chores. This message of inclusiveness needs to be emphasised, social researchers believe, at a time the BJP has been trying to use the Ganga as a religious agenda to reap political dividends. “This is something amazing here in Bengal and is in consonance with the rich legacy of amity that the state has upheld for decades. People here share their distress and aspirations together, cutting across religious lines,” says Soumen Nag, a social researcher in Siliguri. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar in Malda and Alamgir Hossain in Murshidabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
09-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal government revives steps to check Covid-19||The Bengal government has decided to put in place all activities that were followed during the peak of Covid-19 pandemic in October last year with novel coronavirus cases making an alarming rise in the state again over the past few weeks. “We are apprehending that we will reach a situation similar to what we faced during the peak of pandemic in October last year. We have activated all our resources so that we can reach the level of preparedness within the next two days,” said a senior health department official. Sources in the health department said the state government wanted to increase the number of tests and beds, open more safe houses and generate awareness among the masses to follow Covid-19 protocols, including wearing masks in public places. The government would also follow the norms of 50 per cent attendance of employees in government offices once again, which was diluted in the past few months. Officials in the health department said they were preparing for a tough time as the number of active cases had increased rapidly in the past few weeks. Till mid-March, the number of active cases was over 2,200. But the figure had reached 16,109 on Wednesday. “This is alarming. We are heading towards a disaster for two reasons. First, no Covid-19 protocol is being followed in election rallies. Second, common people are not following Covid-19 protocols while going out of homes. If no action is taken right at the moment, we may face more than 10,000 daily cases at the end of April," said an official. Till now, the state government has not yet considered imposing any restrictions like night curfew which some states have already adopted to prevent spread of the virus. “The problem of Bengal is that elections are on and there is no political boss to take a call on the issue. That’s why the officials are putting all possible arrangements ready to tackle more cases in the coming days,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-120
