10-04-2021||West Bengal||Central forces intimidating voters, Mamata tells EC||Defending her remarks, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is learnt to have told the Election Commission on Saturday that she has the highest regard for central armed police forces, but there have been serious allegations of CAPF intimidating voters and influencing the electorate to cast their vote for a particular political party. Responding to a notice issued by the poll panel on Thursday seeking explanation over her "prima facie completely false, provocative and intemperate statements" against the central armed police forces deputed on election duty in the state, the Trinamool Congress chief denied the contents of the EC communication. Mamata also urged the poll watchdog to rescind its notice, contending she has not violated the model code or the various sections of the Indian Penal Code. She claimed that a girl was allegedly molested by an unidentified CRPF personnel in the early hours of April 6 at Ramnagar, under Tarakeshwar police station and the matter was reported to the police which lodged an FIR. The TMC had complained to the state chief electoral officer. But till date, no tangible action has been taken nor an advisory or instruction issued by Election Commission to the central forces in this regard, she claimed. "I have the highest regard for the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) and commend and laud their contributions to the safety and security of the country," she said in her reply. But during the first three phases of polls in Bengal, there have been serious allegations of CAPF resorting to intimidation of voters by exerting force, influencing the electorate to cast their votes for a particular political party, Mamata is learnt to have alleged her reply. Her party has also lodged several complaints but only a few were redressed, she claimed. To drive home her point that she did not instigate people to carry out violent acts against the central forces, Mamata also reproduced certain portions of her speech in her reply to the EC. "I tell you ladies, a group of you go and restrain (gherao) them while another group will go to cast their votes. One group will restrain them and another group will go to cast their votes. "Don't waste your vote if you engage yourself only in restraining them, they will be happy that you did not cast your vote. This is their plan. It is the plan of the BJP. "And your plan will be that you will not be scared if they try to intimidate you coming to your village on the one hand, on the other you just talk to them. Talking to them will tantamount to restraining them. You don't have to gherao them literally," according to the portion of her speech cited in her reply. She said in her speech, she had only called upon the voters, specifically women voters, "to protest democratically by gherao if and when somebody (including CAPF) created any obstruction in their right to vote". She said "gherao" is one of the democratic ways of registering public protest and there is no reason why gherao should be considered illegal. Mamata said the term "gherao" has been a part of the political lexicon of Bengal since late 1960. She said it has been used to connote peaceful "satyagraha" against authorities and she referred to "gherao" in her speech by way of verbal engagement and not a literal gherao. The TMC chief again targeted the Centre and the CAPF on Saturday, after four people were killed in firing by CISF personnel allegedly after coming under attack from locals who "attempted to snatch their rifles" in West Bengal's Cooch Behar district. Mamata said her government will initiate a CID probe into the incident and questioned the central forces' version of firing in self-defence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee demands Shah’s resignation over Cooch Behar violence||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday sought Union Home Minister Amit Shah's resignation over the killing of four people in firing by central forces at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar. Mamata, speaking at a public meeting at Baduria in North 24 Parganas, said she would be leaving for Cooch Behar after attending rallies, and would visit the spot where CISF personnel opened fire during polling in the fourth phase. "Shah should resign owing responsibility for the incident which is dastardly, cold-blooded and unprecedented," the Trinamool Congress supremo said. Four people were killed as central forces opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", police said. The chief minister said her party would bring out protest rallies throughout the state on Sunday, and asked TMC activists to wear black badges and demonstrate peacefully from 2 pm to 4 pm. Mamata said she had long apprehended that central forces would act in such a manner. "As BJP knows it has lost the people's mandate, they are conspiring to kill them." She alleged this was part of a conspiracy hatched by Shah. "However, I would ask everyone to remain calm and cast their vote peacefully. Avenge the deaths by defeating them," Mamata asserted. Later, at a press conference in Calcutta, TMC leaders termed the Cooch Behar incident as "pre-planned murder", and also called for the resignation of Shah. TMC Lok Sabha MP Sougata Roy said the party condemns the unprovoked firing by central forces on innocent people. "We demand the resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah. We want the Election Commission to come out with video footage of the firing to make people aware of the truth," Roy said. "PM Narendra Modi and Shah cannot accept their imminent defeat in the ongoing elections in Bengal. This (firing incident) has happened at the behest of Amit Shah," senior TMC leader Subrata Mukherjee claimed. Mukherjee said this was a "pre-planned murder committed to create panic among the common people" so that they become reluctant to cast votes in subsequent phases. Chief Minister Mamata Mamata will visit the houses of the deceased, he said. "TMC will always stand beside these hapless families," Mukherjee said. Earlier, Mamata said the death toll in the Assembly elections has so far been higher than the panchayat polls held three years ago. "Some 17-18 people have been killed since the elections began. At least 12 of them belonged to our party," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: 5 persons, including 18-year-old, killed during voting||Five persons, including an 18-years old who went to vote for the first time, were killed during the fourth phase of polling in Bengal at Sitalkuchi, a tiny village in Cooch Behar district, around 137 km from Siliguri, on Thursday. The Election Commission stopped voting at polling station number 126 in Sitalkuchi where four persons died in firing by Central forces. Till 5pm, the total voter turnout in the state was reported at 76.16 per cent. The highest turnout of 79.73 per cent was registered in Cooch Behar district, followed by 76.2 per cent polling in Hoogly. In South 24 Parganas it was 75.49 per cent, while in Howrah it was 75.03 per cent and in Alipurduar 73.65 per cent, officials said. Eighteen-year-old Anand Burman who was outside booth 85 in Pathantuli area was caught in a clash between Trinamul and BJP workers. The death of the teenager sparked violence in the area around the booth and in several villages. Later, around 9.35 am, a Quick Response Team was attacked by a group of 50-60 men, who also damaged police vehicles, near booth number 126 at Sitalkuchi. Election Commission sources said the QRT fired five to six rounds in the air in self-defence. After an hour, another group of around 150 assembled at booth 186 and allegedly manhandled the polling staff. They also assaulted the on-duty Home Guards and Asha workers after entering the booth ignoring the appeals of the CISF officers. A little later a CISF personnel fired two rounds in the air. Two separate units of a Quick Response Team and the local police too arrived at the booth. The CISF personnel opened fire when some people from the mob allegedly tried to snatch their rifles. This led to the four deaths. “As per preliminary reports, four persons were killed as CISF personnel opened fire after coming under attack in a village. A scuffle took place and locals gheraoed them and attempted to snatch their rifles, following which the central forces opened fire. Further details are awaited," a senior police officer said. The ruling Trinamul claimed three others were grievously injured. The violence on Saturday added to the acrimonious atmosphere in which polls are being conducted in Bengal, in fact, shredding the Election Commission’s reasoning to stagger voting in eight phases. Within hours of the deaths, Sitalkuchi became the talking-point of the campaign elsewhere in the state, with both Narendra Modi and Mamata Banerjee accusing each other’s party of having instigated the violence. Mamata laid the blame for Saturday’s firing and deaths on the doors of the Union home minister Amit Shah. “The police from Delhi (central forces) have killed five of my brothers. They opened fire on a queue outside a polling booth,” Mamata said in Bongaon. “The panchayat polls were held under my administration without so much bloodshed. Already 20 people are dead. Amit Shah you resign, you resign, you resign. You have failed as a home minister,” she thundered. She also accused the central forces of assaulting women in the rural areas and forcing the villagers to vote for the BJP. Mamata, who also campaigned in South Bengal’s border district of Bijpur, was scheduled to leave for Siliguri later in the day. Before that she was to visit Sitalkuchi. Modi was in Siliguri, where polls will be held on April 17, and blamed Mamata and the Trinamul Congress for Saturday’s violence. “What happened in Cooch Behar is extremely sad. Seeing the support that the people have for the BJP, Didi and her goons have lost their minds. I will make it clear to Didi and her goons, their writ will no longer run in Bengal,” Modi said. “I urge the Election Commission to take strictest action against the perpetrators in Cooch Behar. Didi, this violence, attempts to instigate the villagers against the central forces will not save you.” Both Modi and Mamata claimed to have received the mandate to rule Bengal for the next five years, and the violence, they added, was the last resort of their rivals to scare away voters. Mamata claimed she would not let the deaths go unavenged, although it wasn’t clear what she meant. “Ami dekhe nebo (I will see). I am not a weak player. We have won in the three phases and we will win today,” she said. “BJP has lost completely. They know they won’t win.” Complaint to EC In an email to the Election Commission, Rajya Sabha MP Derek O’Brien said, “In booth 126, AC-Sitalkuchi 5 people have been shot dead by the CRPF after BJP captured the booth. According to our sources, all 5 were Trinamul party workers belonging to a certain faith… This is a grave violation of the law and the MCC on manifold accounts.” There were reports of violence in other parts of the 44 Assembly seats that went to polls on Saturday. Trinamul is scheduled to hold demonstrations on Sunday across the state demanding Shah’s resignation. State minister Subrata Mukherjee said the incident proved the desperation of the Union Home minister. “Innocent people are being killed so that the voters in the remaining phases do not turn out in large numbers. Shah is the man behind this conspiracy. He is desperate,” Mukherjee said. Chilli powder attack In the Ganguly Bagan area in Jadavpur constituency, the booth agent of CPI(M) candidate Sujan Chakraborty was reportedly attacked by a "fake voter", who threw chilli powder at her, the officials said. A central police contingent was rushed to the spot following the incident. In Bangor in South 24 Parganas, clashes were reported between ISF and TMC workers after the former alleged the ruling party was not allowing their polling agents to enter the booth. In Chanditala in Hooghly, CPI(M) activists scuffled with TMC supporters outside a booth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal assembly polls 2021: Political storm erupts after 5 killed during voting ||Five people were killed, including four in the firing by CISF personnel, during the fourth phase of polling on Saturday for 44 assembly seats of West Bengal, triggering a political firestorm. An estimated 52.89 per cent of 1.15 crore voters exercised their franchise till 1 p.m. Four people were killed as central forces opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", in West Bengal's Cooch Behar district, police said. The Election Commission ordered stopping the voting exercise at polling station number 126 in Sitalkuchi where the incident happened when polling was underway. "According to preliminary reports, four persons were killed as CISF personnel opened fire after coming under attack in a village. "A scuffle took place, and locals gheraoed them and attempted to snatch their rifles, following which the central forces opened fire. Further details are awaited," a police official said. The EC has sought a detailed report on the incident. According to official sources, the preliminary report submitted by EC's special police observer Vivek Dubey said a huge mob of around 350-400 people had gheraoed the central forces, following which they fired in "self-defence". The incident led to violence in the area where bombs were hurled, prompting central forces to baton-charge to bring the situation under control. In another incident, an 18-year-old voter, Ananda Barman, was gunned down outside booth number 85 in Pathantuli, also in Sitalkuchi, after clashes broke out between activists of the ruling TMC and the BJP. Condoling the deaths in Cooch Behar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday requested the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible for the incident and blamed the ruling TMC for perpetrating violence during the polls. He also accused Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of instigating people against the central forces. "What happened in Cooch Behar is unfortunate and sad. I extend my condolences to the bereaved families and urge the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible. "Mamata Didi and her TMC goons have become jittery because of ground swell of support for BJP," Modi told an election rally in North Bengal's Siliguri. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee demanded the resignation of Home Minister Amit Shah and a reply from him on firing by the central forces which led to the death of people "standing in the queue to vote". Asserting that she had apprehended such an incident all along, Banerjee said, "After killing so many people, they (Election Commission) are saying the firing was in self- defence. They should feel ashamed." "This is a lie....the CRPF opened fire on people standing in the line for voting, killing 4 in Sitalkuchi. I had been apprehending the forces would act in such a manner for long. As the BJP knows it has lost the people's mandate, they are conspiring to kill people," she said at a rally in North 24 Parganas. The chief minister said she will visit the scene of the incident. In the Ganguly Bagan area in Jadavpur constituency, the booth agent of CPI(M) candidate Sujan Chakraborty was reportedly attacked by a "fake voter", who threw chilli powder at her, the officials said. A central police contingent was rushed to the spot following the incident. In Bangor in South 24 Parganas, clashes were reported between ISF and TMC workers after the former alleged the ruling party was not allowing their polling agents to enter the booth. In Chanditala in Hooghly, CPI(M) activists scuffled with TMC supporters outside a booth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Didi, your tactics won't work, says Modi as 4 shot dead by central forces||Condoling the death of four people in firing by central forces in Cooch Behar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi Saturday requested the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible for the incident and blamed the ruling TMC for perpetrating violence during the polls. He also accused Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of instigating people against the central forces. "What happened in Cooch Behar is unfortunate and sad. I extend my condolences to the bereaved families and urge the Election Commission to take stern action against those responsible for the incident. "Mamata Didi and her TMC goons have become jittery because of ground swell of support for BJP," Modi told an election rally at Siliguri in North Bengal. Four persons were killed when CISF personnel opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles" in Cooch Behar district. The incident took place in the Sitalkuchi area when voting was underway, a senior district police officer said. "Didi, this violence, the tactic of instigating people to attack the security forces, the tactic of obstructing the polling process will not protect you. You have to go out of power. Didi is asking people to attack and gherao security forces who are here to protect the rights of the people of the state," he said. Attacking Mamata over the culture of violence and "tolabaji" (extortion), Modi said people of Bengal had made up their mind to defeat the TMC. "Didi, you don't preside over the destiny of the people of Bengal, they are not your 'jagir' (fiefdom)," he said. North Bengal, he said, was critical to national security which has been undermined due to appeasement politics of Mamata. Reaching out to the numerically strong Dalit Rajbongshi and Matua communities, Modi said the TMC insults them, and claimed a party leader was shown in a video likening the scheduled caste people to beggars.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly polls 2021: TMC has conceded election, claims BJP leader after circulating audio clip of Prashant Kishor||The BJP shared an audio clip on Saturday to claim that  West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor had conceded defeat in the ongoing Assembly elections after acknowledging that there was a “Modi cult” in the entire country which would play a key role in the saffron party’s favour during voting in Bengal. At least four separate audio clips were shared by BJP IT Cell chief Amit Malviya on his twitter handle prompting Kishor to say that the BJP was using to selective portions of his conversation with a group of journalists to come to conclusions. "I have said this before & repeating again - BJP will not CROSS 100 in WB. Period," Kishor tweeted. Kishor appears to say in the clips that Narendra Modi is as popular as Mamata in Bengal. Other factors including polarisation, anger against the TMC government and Dalit votes will work in favour of the saffron party. “In a public chat on Club House, Mamata Banerjee’s election strategist concedes that even in TMC’s internal surveys, BJP is winning. The vote is for Modi, polarisation is a reality, the SCs (27% of WB’s population), Matuas are all voting for the BJP! BJP has cadre on ground,” one of Malviya’s tweets, which went viral, read. In one of the clips, Kishor is heard saying, “If there is a vote, then it is in the name of Modi, in the name of being Hindu. polarisation, Modi, SC (Scheduled Castes), Hindi-speaking -- these are the factors. “Modi is popular here (Bengal). Hindi-speaking people have more than one crore votes. Dalits are 27 per cent and they stand with the BJP fully. Also, polarisation is there,” he went on to say. In another clip, Kishor appears to concede that there is anger against the Mamata Banerjee government, but no such issue exists when it comes to Modi. He also said that the two leaders are equally popular. “We have done a survey on leaders and Modi and Mamata are equally popular, which is a very big thing,” he says. Posting another clip, Malviya wrote, “Another candid admission by Mamata Banerjee’s election strategist - all that the Left, Congress and TMC ecosystem have done in the last 20 years is Muslim appeasement. Implication? It has resulted in resentment on ground. The speakers had not realised that the chat was public!” Here, Kishor was heard saying that the previous governments, as well as TMC, have been appeasing minorities for the last 20 years. “In Bengal, the key to winning polls is whoever the Muslims vote for, will bag the elections...there is some element in which the BJP gets favour, and that element is coming from the blatant misuse of minority politics. We cannot deny that.” Kishor also said that the Matua community will largely vote for the BJP, but “not as unitedly as they did in the Lok Sabha”. He conceded that there will be 75 BJP to 25 other parties in case of this group of refugees from Bangladesh. “TMC’s election was just thrown away,” Malviya wrote, sharing the final clip, where Kishor was told that the chat room was open for all, and someone was recording the talk to post it on social media. “On a day Bengal is voting for 4th phase on as many as 44 seats, TMC cadre and leaders woke up to find out that Mamata Banerjee’s election strategist has conceded the election,” he said in another tweet. Reacting to the whole fiasco, Kishore took to Twitter later and wrote, “I am glad BJP is taking my chat more seriously than words of their own leaders! They should show courage & share the full chat instead of getting excited with selective use of parts of it.I have said this before & repeating again - BJP will not CROSS 100 in WB. Period.” In another tweet, Kishore said that the saffron party will “struggle” to cross double-digit in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata asks people to remain calm as storm brews over voter deaths||Appealing to people to remain calm, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday alleged armed central police shot dead people standing in a queue to vote in Sitalkuchi. The chief minister speaking at a public meeting here, asked Union Home Minister Amit Shah to explain why five lives were lost in central forces' firing in Sitalkuchi in Coochbehar district during the fourth phase of polling. Claiming she had long apprehended such a situation after watching the "high handedness" of central forces for long, Banerjee said "after killing so many people they (Election Commission) are saying the firing was in self defence. They should feel ashamed.This is a lie." "The CRPF opened fire on people standing in a queue to vote, killing 4 in Sitalkuchi. I have been apprehending that the forces' would act in such a manner for a long time. As BJP knows it has lost the people's mandate, they are conspiring to kill people," Banerjee charged. She alleged this was part of a conspiracy hatched by the Union home minister. "However, I would ask everyone to remain calm and cast their vote peacefully. Avenge the deaths by defeating them," she said. Banerjee said that the death toll in this election was far higher than that in the Panchayat elections held three years ago. "If you count the total number of killings since the elections began some 17-18 persons were killed. At least 12 people belonged to our party alone." Banerjee said the EC owed the people an explanation on today's incident. "We are not in charge of the administration. The EC is in charge of administration," she pointed out. "They have removed the senior IPS Surajit Kar Purakaystha. They have removed my OSD Ashok Chakraborty, who is a lower ranked retired officer from RPF. Yet the EC bringing in retired officers to oversee polls here," she said. TMC seeks explanation from EC The ruling Trinamool Congress in Bengal on Saturday sought explanation from the Election Commission over the death of four persons, who were shot allegedly by central forces at Mathabhanga in Cooch Behar district during the fourth phase of assembly elections. "We are sad to say with deep concern that firing by central forces has left four dead and four injured at Mathabhanga. We also want to say that the central forces are committing crimes and crossing all limits. The EC should come out with an explanation," TMC Rajya Sabha MP Dola Sen said. Sen said when Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had pointed to the excesses of the central forces, she was twice issued a showcause notice. "Now, the people of the state want to showcause the EC about how this unfortunate event unfolded," she said. The TMC leader said the BJP is playing mind games and resorting to pressure tactics. "Mamata Banerjee has already won the Nandigram seat by a huge margin. BJP is merely selling a dream to its party workers," Sen said. She also shared clippings of purported videos, one of which showed central forces vandalising TMC camps at night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Five, including a first time voter shot dead in Cooch Behar as voting gets underway||Four persons were killed as CISF personnel allegedly opened fire after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", in West Bengal's Cooch Behar district on Saturday, hours after an 18-year-old voter was allegedly gunned down by miscreants outside booth number 85 in Pathantuli area of the same district. The incident involving the CISF took place in Sitalkuchi area when voting was underway, a senior police officer said. "As per preliminary reports, four persons were killed as CISF personnel opened fire after coming under attack in a village. "A scuffle took place and locals gheraoed them and attempted to snatch their rifles, following which the central forces opened fire," he said. Condemning the incident, the Election Commission on Saturday ordered adjournment of polls at polling station number 126 in the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency of Bengal amid reports of violence. A spokesperson of the poll panel said the decision was based on an interim report filed by special observers. Detailed reports have been sought from them and the state Chief Electoral Officer by 5 pm. Meanwhile, A first-time voter was allegedly shot dead on Saturday in Cooch Behar district of West Bengal, where 33.98 per cent voter turnout was recorded till 11 am in the fourth phase of assembly elections amid sporadic incidents of violence, officials said. Ananda Barman was allegedly gunned down by miscreants outside booth number 85 in Pathantuli area after clashes broke out between activists of the ruling TMC and the BJP. The culprits, who are yet to be identified, managed to flee, the officials said. The incident led to violence in the area as bombs were hurled, prompting central forces to baton-charge to bring the situation under control, police said. Both the TMC and BJP claimed that Barman belonged to their party, but his family members said he was an activist of the saffron party. "We have received information about a person being shot outside a polling booth in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar. We have sought a report from the micro observer," an Election Commission official said. The Trinamool Congress has moved the EC, complaining against the BJP of not allowing its agents to enter several booths at Coochbehar's Natabari, Sitalkuchi, Tufanganj, Mathabhanga and Dinhata. The BJP has denied the allegations. In Ganguly Bagan area in Jadavpur constituency, the booth agent of CPI(M) candidate Sujan Chakraborty was reportedly attacked by a "fake voter", who threw chilli powder at her while trying to escape, the officials said. A central police contingent was rushed to the spot following the incident. Meanwhile, BJP candidate Indranil Khan accused the central forces of not taking action against bogus voters in Kasba constituency in Calcutta. Over 1.15 crore voters are eligible to exercise their franchise to decide the fate of 373 candidates, including Union minister Babul Supriyo and state ministers Partha Chatterjee and Arup Biswas. Voting will continue till 6.30 pm. Tight security arrangements have been made to ensure peaceful voting with 789 companies of central armed police forces (CAPF) being deployed to guard 15,940 polling stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Assembly elections 2021: Floating voters, fluid loyalties and change as new constant ||A diplomat friend once cited the experience from an earlier era in Bengal to underline just how fragile the concept of national identity can be. “Imagine,” he said, “a person born in Dhaka in, say, 1930. He was Indian till the age of 17. A Pakistani for the next 25 years.  And then became a Bangladeshi. He belonged to three nations in less than four decades…” That era, of course, is long over. But as one travels through parts of Bengal in the midst of yet another landmark election, the most striking aspect is not the much talked of rise of the BJP but a fragility of another kind -- of how utterly fluid political loyalties have become in a state once known for its firm ideological fidelities. The other is a sense of déjà vu.  The cry of “poriborton”, which rent the air in these parts exactly 10 years ago and catapulted Mamata Banerjee to power, is back in circulation with a gusto.  As we crisscross a dozen odd constituencies going to the polls on April 10, the recurring refrain is that there is a “hawa” for the BJP this time because people want “change.” Sitting in a chai shop near the Sankrail industrial area in Howrah district, Subhendu Mondol is confident that the BJP will win the seat this time because people are unhappy with the corruption of lower level TMC cadres.  “Didi prothom paanch bochor bhalo kaaj korechilen. Kintu taar pore Didir chela chamundara eto cut money khe phele che ki hojom korte parche na. (Didi did a lot of good work in the first five years. But in the second term, her minions siphoned off so much cut money that they are suffering from indigestion).” If some cite the “cut money” culture as the reason for their disenchantment with the ruling regime, the youth who throng chai shops, hope that a change of guard in the state might lead to more industry, more jobs. But the much more dominant strain is a generalized desire for “poriborton” for its own sake.  Asked to explain the reasons for the “BJP hawa”, the most frequently heard response is: “Poriborton dorkar. Lokera bole aamra chautrish bochor Baam ke dekhechi, dosh bochor Didi ke dekhlam , e baar ekti natun party ke try kori. (We need change. People say we experienced Left rule for 34 years, TMC rule for 10. Let us try a new party).” At a shop in Teghoria, which falls in Sonarpur North constituency, Bhaskar Mondol goes one step further: “Ganatantra te borabor poriborton kora uchit. Tahalei netara kaaj kore. (Change is essential in democracy. Only then are politicians kept on their toes).” Ironically, even while talking of “poriborton”, the same people express a cynicism about politicians that was rarely heard in Bengal before. It is not just that a host of TMC turncoats are now fighting on a BJP ticket. The cadres have switched sides too. Gaurango Ghosh, a jute mill worker in Ghusuri in Howrah, who is rooting for “change” says in the same breath: “After 2011, all the neighbourhood boys who used to be with CPM joined the TMC. And now all the TMC boys have joined the BJP. Danda ekta, jhanda onek. (There is one flagpole but the flags keep changing).” It is not just the leaders and cadres who have changed flags. Voters have too. In a village under the Uluberia East seat, Malati Barik says her father-in-law was “kottor CPM” and the entire family voted Left for years. But when the TMC took over, they shifted their loyalties. And now they are on the verge of another change. “Jokhon jemon dheu uthbe, tokhon tamon bhaaste hobe (When a wave comes, we have to float with it).” One well documented reason for the plunge in the Left’s vote share in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections to just 6.34% (which coincided with the BJP’s huge jump to 40.64%) is the large-scale violence against Left supporters in rural Bengal – a phenomenon which began after TMC assumed power but escalated during the panchayat polls of 2018. But “TMC terror” is not the only reason for the shift. A more subtle factor at work today is the emergence of the “floating voter” -- a phenomenon new to Bengal and key to the rise of the BJP. With the BJP pulling out all the stops to add Bengal to its long list of electoral conquests, and secular forces fervently hoping that Mamata Banerjee will stave off the challenge, the entire nation’s attention is riveted on this particular election in the state. The real watershed election, though, was in 2011 when Mamata Banerjee ended the 34-year-run of the Left Front. Much has been written about Bengal’s “cultural exceptionalism”.  But on the ground, what made the state different was a stable political grid. The Left had a loyal support base among the peasantry and moffusil intelligentsia; there was a large anti-Left section too who won a fair share of votes even if it was not converted into a winning a great number of seats. The “floating voter” – unallied to any party structure or ideology – was few and far between. In 2011, when Mamata Banerjee defeated the Left behemoth following peasant agitations against land acquisition in Singur and Nandigram, that grid was smashed completely. Over the last decade, the mass base of the Left -- which is distinct from cadre strength – scattered. The depoliticized floating voter came into being. And like in other parts of India, the main aim of the floating voter is to go with the “winning side,” whichever party that may be. The BJP’s attempt at communal polarization is certainly one factor behind its expansion in Bengal and this is evident from the fact that everyone who talks of “poriborton” today belongs to the majority community. But a more important factor has been its ability to take advantage of the anti-incumbency sentiments that has grown against the TMC. And the most important factor attracting a large swathe of floating voters is that it has created the impression of being a winning party. An eight-phase election spread over a month has been carefully crafted in a way that the BJP starts in its strongholds, and with each passing phase, spreads the word that it is on a winning spree. The CPM-led secular front may take part of the anti-incumbency vote in seats where it has fielded strong candidates – such as Jadavpur where the CPM’s sitting MLA Sujan Chakraborty remains popular. But as a “new party” on the Bengal scene, the BJP could be a far bigger beneficiary of the “poriborton” sentiment being voiced across the state. What is striking though is that while “poriborton” is on many a voter’s lips, no one adds Narendra Modi’s prefix of “ashol (real)” to it. And though his posters are everywhere, hardly anyone takes the name of Modi, focusing instead on the need for change. Both hard core supporters of the BJP as well as its fervent opponents regard the 2021 assembly elections as momentous, with far reaching consequences for both the state and the country. The voters on the ground seem curiously matter of fact in comparison. With the experience of ending the once invincible Left ten years ago, they are almost cocky in their conviction that change will be the new constant. Unmoved by fears of what “change” may actually mean, a frequent response is: “Bhalo na hole, aabar bodle debo. (If it is not good, we will get rid of them too).” Naïve as the sentiment maybe, it does have a reassuring ring to it…||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Four injured in Trinamul, BJP clash at Sitalkuchi ||At least four persons suffered injuries in a clash between Trinamul and BJP supporters at Sitalkuchi on Friday, a day before Cooch Behar votes. The injured are under treatment at different hospitals. Girindra Nath Burman, the Trinamul candidate of Mathabhanga who was attacked by a group of suspected BJP supporters on Thursday night, is said to be stable now. In Cooch Behar, a number of violent incidents have been reported across the district as the elections drew near. On Wednesday evening, the convoy of BJP state president Dilip Ghosh was attacked in Sitalkuchi. On Friday, Trinamul supporters demonstrated in different locations of the district, protesting the attack on their candidate. “The BJP had organised the attack. We want the police to arrest all the attackers,” said Partha Pratim Roy, the district Trinamul president. After the attack on Ghosh, the police had sprung into action and arrested 16 persons. Two persons have been arrested in connection with the attack on Burman, police sources said. Officials of the district administration, who were busy making arrangements to send polling and security persons to 3,229 booths of the district, said 774 polling stations had been identified as critical, among which 208 had been marked vulnerable. “Altogether, 188 companies of CAPF would be deployed, both in booths and in quick response teams. The state police will also be posted in specific areas,” said an official. In neighbouring Alipurduar district, polling would be held in 1,726 booths, among which 300 have been marked as sensitive. In total, 98 companies of CAPF would be deployed in the district, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP to tighten cash flow for candidates||The BJP central leadership has decided to tighten the cash flow to its Bengal candidates in the remaining phases, multiple sources in the party told The Telegraph although its chief spokesperson in the state denied such a move. As with everything else in elections, there was no unanimity on the reasons cited. A section of the party said the cash flow was being squeezed following an internal assessment that the performance in the third phase had not been satisfactory. But others felt that it could be merely to ensure financial prudence. Asked whether the fist was being tightened, Samik Bhattacharya, the chief spokesperson of the state BJP, said: “This information isn’t true.” Multiple BJP sources said the party had sent a group of auditors from Delhi to Calcutta last month to keep tabs on the use of the campaign funds. This was followed by the decision to tighten the purse strings after Tuesday’s vote, they said, referring to the third phase of polling. The fourth phase covering 44 seats is being held on Saturday. “Our central leaders  had told us that funds wouldn't be a problem in the effort to wrest Bengal from Trinamul, but the condition was that we had to deliver,” a state BJP source said. “The feedback now is that the performance in the third phase did not go along expected lines despite the heavy spending.” The source said the party's internal assessment belied Union home minister Amit Shah's public claims of a BJP sweep of the 91 Bengal seats that have voted in the first three phases. The Election Commission monitors candidates' poll expenses. With Assembly candidates facing a ceiling of Rs 30.8 lakh on campaign spending, nominees of the bigger parties usually hire an auditor to track their election expenditure. “But I can't recollect any party's central office sending auditors to keep tabs on how its candidates are spending the money provided by the headquarters," a BJP source said. Another source said an allegation by a section in the party that funds provided by the headquarters "are not spent judiciously" by several candidates might have prompted the move to send the auditors. None in the party would officially comment on how much money the BJP was providing each candidate with. Sources in the party's Hastings office said the amount differed on the basis of the nature of the constituency and the stature of the candidate. "The senior candidates are getting more than the newcomers. A candidate who is more popular than his peers and has a better chance of winning may receive more money," a BJP nominee said. According to the Election Commission's rules, a candidate has to open a new account and carry out all poll spending through this account. BJP sources, however, said a portion of the money is often given to the candidate in cash for "easy access". "If the candidate is new, the money is sometimes disbursed through the district president," a source added. While most national parties have their central unit send a part of the poll funds to the candidates, in the case of the BJP this Bengal election the proportion of the centrally disbursed money has been very high, the sources conceded. Bengal has seen some extravagant campaigning this election, mainly by the BJP. Almost every day, the BJP's national leaders have been flying to the state in chartered flights and checking in at five-star hotels. The party has booked a sizeable portion of a five-star hotel in Calcutta where these leaders stay and hold daily news conferences. The poll panel does not impose a ceiling on these expenses, which are not counted as part of the candidates' spending. An official from the BJP's Asansol organisational district corroborated that the funds flow had slowed. He said the party candidates from his district, whose fates will be decided in the seventh phase on April 26, had so far received "only Rs 10 lakh". "They are asking me to speak to the leaders but nothing I do will work unless the national leaders give the nod," the official said. Sources said Shah had asked the Bengal BJP leaders to cut unnecessary expenditure on his helicopter rides too. Multiple sources said Shah had been furious with some state BJP leaders who were responsible for scheduling his April 7 itinerary. Shah was in Bengal to participate in road shows in Singur, Domjur, Howrah Central and Behala East. Although these places are not too far from one another, the party had arranged for Shah to travel in a helicopter throughout. "Amitji was furious. He didn't find any justification for travelling such small distances in a helicopter. He summoned the person in charge of the arrangements and gave him an earful," a party source said. "Amitji told the person responsible to respect the party's funds. When this person said he had arranged for the helicopter to ensure Amitji's comfort, he got angrier."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC may ban public meetings, rallies if Covid protocols flouted||The Election Commission on Friday said it wouldn’t hesitate to ban public meetings and rallies if Covid-19 protocols were flouted. In a letter to all heads of national and state parties on Friday, the Election Commission reiterated norms of using masks, sanitizers and thermal scanning, and following social distancing — violations of which are punishable under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860, — during campaigns. Delhi High Court had on Thursday issued a notice to the EC on the plea of a former DGP to enforce pandemic safety norms in the campaigns. In Bengal, five more phases of polls remain to be held. Three phases of elections are already over in the state. Commission secretary N. Bhutia added in the latter: “It is advisable that political/leaders candidates who have incumbent duty to control spread of Covid, demonstrate by their personal example and nudge all supporters in the beginning of rally, meetings, campaign itself to wear masks, use sanitizers and put in place crowd control measures as per social distancing norms…. It is clarified that the Commission, in cases of breach, will not hesitate in banning public meetings, rallies etc. of the defaulting candidates. star campaigners political leaders without any further reference.” Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, his predecessor Oomen Chandy and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MP in Tamil Nadu Kanimozhi tested positive for the novel coronavirus this week. The one-phase polling in Tamil Nadu and Kerala had been held on April 6.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Election Commission changes cops ahead of vote day||The Election Commission of India late on Friday transferred Bhangar police station inspector-in-charge Shyam Prasad Saha and appointed Tirthendu Ganguly in his place, hours before Bhangar goes to polls on Saturday. Ganguly was posted in the Special Task Force, Bengal. “All Opposition parties, including the ISF, were alleging that the IC (Saha) was playing a partisan role to help the Trinamul candidate. As the EC wants free and fair polls, the IC was shunted,” said an EC source. The EC also appointed Ajeet Singh Yadav, the SP of Counter Insurgency Force (CIF), as special police observer for Howrah, which also goes to polls on Saturday. Yadav will be responsible for deploying forces and maintaining law and order in the district with nine Assembly seats, including Domjur and Central Howrah. Security officer The EC on Friday removed Asoke Chakraborty, an officer on special duty (OSD) in the directorate of security that arranges security for VIPs, including the chief minister, from the post. No reason was cited, but sources said it could be linked to Mamata Banerjee’s injury in Nandigram on March 10. The EC had earlier removed and suspended the director of security, Vivek Sahay, and East Midnapore police chief Pravin Prakash in that connection. The poll panel had also asked the chief secretary and the DGP to identify officers below director of security rank responsible for the incident. Both asked for time. More recently, the CID was asked to inquire into the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amit Shah iterates BJP promises for north||Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday iterated the promises made by the BJP for north Bengal which has 54 Assembly seats. “North Bengal has been neglected by Communists as well as the Mamata Banerjee government. None of the governments in Bengal has taken any initiative for Rajbanshis, Gorkhas and other communities who live in the region. We have come up with a series of plans for north Bengal, which include formation of a separate development board for the region,” Shah told the media in Calcutta. A number of promises pertaining to north Bengal were mentioned in the “Sankalpa Patra” or the BJP’s election manifesto which had been published by the Union home minister earlier. On Friday, Shah spoke about the proposal to form a Narayani battalion (in the name of the royal troops of the erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar) in the central armed police forces and a CAPF training centre in Cooch Behar. He reiterated that if voted to power, the BJP would install a statue of Panchanan Burma, a Rajbanshi reformer. “We will also confer ST (Scheduled Tribe) status on 11 Gorkha communities and work for the improvement of the tea industry. A tea park and an IT hub would be set up in Siliguri,” said Shah. Such emphasis by the Union home minister on the BJP’s plans for north Bengal shows the saffron camp is keen to retain its support base in the region. “It is evident that Amit Shah, who is the key strategist of the BJP for the Bengal polls, would leave no stone unturned to grab power in Bengal. A few hours ahead of the fourth phase of the elections, he tried to stoke the sentiments of different communities as well as people associated with prominent economic sectors like tea,” said an observer. Rajbanshis mainly live in the Cooch Behar district which will go to the polls on Saturday. There are 14 Assembly seats in Alipurduar and Cooch Behar, two north Bengal districts where elections will be held on Saturday. In 2016, Trinamul had won 12 seats but in the 2019 general election, the BJP managed to secure lead in 12 Assembly segments. Told about Shah’s comments, Alipurduar district Trinamul Congress president Mridul Goswami said: “People of the region are well aware that the BJP is famous for making lengthy promises which they never deliver on….. Mamata Banerjee, on the other hand, meets her commitments. The BJP leadership might give a try but this time, people will stand with us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC showcauses Mamata for jawan gherao call||The Election Commission on Thursday again showcaused Mamata Banerjee primarily for asking women to gherao central force personnel if they created trouble during voting. But the Bengal chief minister remained unfazed and said she would continue to make such statements against paramilitary jawans as long as they allegedly acted at the behest of the BJP. The EC had sent another showcause to Mamata on Wednesday for her call to minorities not to divide their votes, which the commission deemed communal. The latest notice cites statements of Mamata on March 28 and April 7. In its notice, the commission quoted Mamata as saying on a private English news channel on March 28: “Who gave so much power to them that the central police are threatening women without allowing them to cast their votes? I saw the same thing in 2019, I saw the same thing in 2016.” According to the commission, Mamata said in Cooch Behar on April 7: “They will bring goons from Assam to create panic…. And if CAPF creates disturbances, I tell you ladies, a group of you go and restrain (gherao) them while another group will go to cast their votes.” CAPF is the abbreviation of central armed police forces, which the commission has deployed in unprecedented numbers for the Bengal Assembly polls. Mamata added: “It is the plan of the BJP. And your plan will be that you will not be scared if they try to intimidate you coming to your village on the one hand, on the other you just talk to them. Talking to them will be tantamount to restrain them. You don’t have to gherao them literally.” The commission has found her statement in violation of Sections 186 (obstruction of public servant), 189 (threat of injury to public servant) and 505 (public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code, cumulatively punishable by a jail term of more than five years. The chief minister has time to reply until 11am on Saturday, failing which the commission could file an FIR against her. Commission secretary Rakesh Kumar said in the notice: “… it is more than obvious that Ms. Mamata Banerjee, Chairperson of AITC has been consistent in berating and demoralizing the Central Para Military Forces… Far more discouraging is the fact that Ms. Banerjee has been trying to make an emotional pitch for the women voters to go to the extent of inciting them to attack the personnel of CPFs.” The notice said the Trinamul Congress had told chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on February 21 that the Border Security Force was coercing voters at frontier villages to vote for a particular party, but had only given anecdotal evidence. The Trinamul Congress chief refused to bow down despite the second showcause. Addressing a public rally at Jamalpur in East Burdwan on Friday, Mamata said: “I will continue to comment on the CRPF ….. as long as they keep working for the BJP. I will salute them if they don’t work for the BJP.” “Remember, we respect the jawans of our country and salute them. But I am not ready to salute Amit Shah. They (jawans) are working under the instructions of Amit Shah. I will not salute Shah even if that is necessary for survival. Those who were involved in the riots of Gujarat became the leaders of Delhi,” she added. Mamata once again demanded answers from the commission for its purported inaction on the likes of Union home minister Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi despite their alleged violation of the model code of conduct on a number of occasions. “The Prime Minister is doing that Pariksha Pe Charcha… you may do it but why is it (being televised) in Bengal. Is the model code (of conduct) not violated when he addresses such programmes during the elections?” she asked. “Amit Shah is saying whatever he wants, but the code is not violated then (according to the commission). The code is violated only if Mamata Banerjee addresses the masses. I was with the people, I am with them, and will continue to be with them. That will be my answer to all your showcauses,” added the chief minister. She said this was not the first time that the commission had showcaused her and had even prevented her (in 2019) from campaigning a day earlier than scheduled. “I know it is a way to torture us… it is an injustice on Trinamul. But you (the commission) can’t do anything, as the people are with us. You (the commission) have changed everything (by way of rules) to fulfil the wishes of the BJP, daily…,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Attacked in Nandigram before vote day, TMC worker Rabindranath Manna dies||Trinamul worker Rabindranath Manna, 46, who had gone into a coma after allegedly being thrashed by BJP goons in East Midnapore’s Balarampur on the night of March 27, died at SSKM Hospital in Calcutta on Friday evening. Balarampur falls under Nandigram Assembly seat, from where chief minister Mamata Banerjee contested against aide-turned-BJP rival Suvendu Adhikari. “Manna, who was admitted at (the SSKM) trauma centre, passed away today. Who killed him? BJP killed him. The person who killed him was not arrested. It seems to me that polling is going on by implementing Article 356 (President’s rule),” said Mamata in the evening. Manna’s death triggered an outpouring of anger from Trinamul supporters in Nandigram and its adjoining areas on Friday afternoon, when the body was taken back to his village by state water resources development minister Saumen Mahapatra. Trinamul workers agitated in front of Nandigram police station for over two hours demanding the immediate arrest of the culprits. “We are surprised that though chief minister Mamata Banerjee visited our home and assured us of help, no action has been taken on arresting the perpetrators of this crime yet,” said Raju, Manna’s son. Asked, Trinamul’s Nandigram election agent Sheikh Sufian alleged a conspiracy. “The Election Commission is working for the BJP thus no arrests have been made. We will be taking out a protest rally in the afternoon tomorrow (Saturday) regarding this injustice,” he said. The Telegraph reported on April 1 how the chief minister had made a detour to Balarampur village, 10km from her final election rally in Nandigram the evening before, heeding the desperate pleas of Raju who had reached out to her from the post-rally crowd. Mamata had alleged to reporters that BJP goons and “outsiders” had overrun several parts of the district including Balarampur, where Manna had been severely attacked a few evenings before that. Manna’s family admitted that the chief minister’s personnel had taken care of all medical expenses. BJP district vice-president Pralay Pal, however, said the party had nothing to do with Manna’s death. “This is a result of Trinamul infighting, they are trying to pin the blame on us,” he said. Body found In a similar development in nearby Bhagabanpur, the body of a BJP worker was recovered with several injuries on Thursday. It was identified as that of migrant worker Shambhu Barui, 22, from Garbari village. The body was found two days after he went missing. Sources said Barui had come home to vote. BJP workers on Friday filed a complaint and protested in front of Bhagabanpur police station demanding justice and alleging Trinamul’s hand in the death. Trinamul sources denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: BJP brings UP goons to rig polls, says Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday accused the BJP of bringing in arms from Bihar and goons from Uttar Pradesh to spread violence during the polls and Union home minister Amit Shah of employing violent means to manipulate the election. “BJP has brought guns and killed our people. He (Shah) is thinking everything will be done with guns. They have brought guns and goons. They brought guns from Bihar and goons from Uttar Pradesh,” Mamata said at a campaign rally in East Burdwan’s Jamalpur. Mamata said BJP’s goal was to restrain people from casting votes to win the Bengal polls by spreading violence. “We want a peaceful election. But it is the BJP that is indulging in hooliganism…beating up candidates, common people as people don’t go to cast their votes amid panic. They are here for a few days but I will be here for 365 days. Don’t be panicked,” she said. Mamata said Shah was spreading violence to manipulate elections in Bengal. She also blamed Shah for the attack on Trinamul leaders. “One of our candidates in Mathabhanga was beaten up yesterday (Thursday). It is a work by Amit Shah. It was a plan to attack our candidates to spread tension and resort to violence in the midst of polls in Bengal. He knows that BJP will be defeated in this election and therefore he is doing such things,” said Mamata at Memari in East Burdwan. Trinamul candidate for Mathabhanga seat Girindra Nath Barman was attacked on Thursday night while he was returning from campaign. His car was ransacked and Barman was admitted to a hospital with head injuries. Mamata also referred to the attack on party’s Arambagh nominee Sujata Mondal Khan, who was injured in an alleged attack by BJP goons on April 6. “If you (Shah) are sure about your victory then why are you attacking our candidates?” asked Mamata. Mamata continued: “My Mathabhanga candidate who belongs to a Scheduled Caste community was injured yesterday and he is now admitted to a hospital. They have beaten Sujata…along with her security personnel. They also beat up our candidate in Goghat.” She added that a party worker in Hooghly’s Khanakul was also killed on Thursday night. On Friday, Rabin Manna, a Trinamul worker from Nandigram who was allegedly beaten up by BJP goons died at a Calcutta hospital. Mamata accused BJP for murdering Manna and said that the situation in Bengal is like the election is going on by imposing section 356 of CrPc. Mamata asked the voters not to follow the direction of people in uniform as they were “BJP goons in uniform”. “If anyone in police uniform asks you not to vote for me, please don’t listen to them. If you listen then the BJP will send you to detention camp by implementing NPR (National Population Register) which they did in Assam. In the list of 14 lakh people there are people from Hindu, Muslim and other communities,” said Mamata. Mamata said the central forces were not working under Election Commission but under the instruction of Amit Shah. “The central forces are working under instruction from the office of Amit Shah. I have never seen such a home minister. (He is) more dangerous than a tiger,” Mamata said from her rally in Memari.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amit Shah knocks at doors on Didi’s home turf||When Mamata Banerjee was unleashing an attack on Amit Shah in East Burdwan on Friday, the Union home minister was moving from door-to-door in the chief minister’s home turf Bhowanipore, appealing to people to vote for the BJP. Mamata is the sitting MLA from Bhowanipore but this time has contested from Nandigram in a prestige battle with her protégé-turned-BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari. Shah visited a Bhawanipore slum in ward 72 of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Friday, indicating how important it was for the BJP’s central leadership to wrest power in Bengal. “This wasn’t just a road show or a public meeting. The Union home minister calling on every house in a slum and speaking to the residents is very significant because Bhawanipore is Mamata’s home turf,” a state BJP leader said. “Our leaders believe if we win Nandigram and Bhowanipore, half the job is done,” he added. Mamata has fielded a senior party colleague and minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who is the sitting MLA from the adjacent Rashbehari seat, from Bhowanipore. BJP leaders said Shah’s strategy for Bengal included a battle of perception and Friday’s campaign in Bhawanipore was part of the ploy. “The image of Shah moving around in Mamata Banerjee’s home constituency will be televised across TV channels and covered by the media. The perception about BJP’s desperation to win Bengal will gain momentum and televised images of Shah leading from the front will sway voters, who are still undecided, towards us,” said a senior BJP leader. In December, Nadda attended a similar door-to-door campaign in a Bhowanipore slum. However, slum residents were reportedly unhappy with the visit as they couldn’t talk to Nadda personally. However, Shah’s Friday’s event was a success according to the BJP. Local residents like Krishna Makal and Purnima Sardar were happy to see Shah up close. “We are BJP workers. Our vote is for Modiji,” Makal said as Sardar nodded. A day before Shah’s campaign, on Thursday, violent clashes took place between BJP and Trinamul workers in the area. BJP’s Bhowanipore candidate, Trinamul turncoat and actor Rudranil Ghosh alleged Trinamul goons had threatened to murder party worker Animesh Das. Later, when Ghosh and other party workers had rushed to Das’ defence, they were attacked with stones. “Several BJP workers suffered serious injuries. I have injuries in my left arm and legs. Trinamul goons attacked local women with swords and pistols,” Ghosh said. When BJP workers went to lodge a police complaint at the Chetla police station, Trinamul workers allegedly attacked them again. Later police forces reached the spot and brought the situation under control. On Friday, Ghosh accompanied Shah in his campaign. Before the home minister walked into 13 Bakulbagan Road slum, under ward 72, he met some injured workers and assured them that after May 2 — the day of results — Trinamul atrocities would end, implying BJP victory. He distributed leaflets among slum residents. Shah had lunch at the home of Samarendra Prosad Biswas, 89, who has twice been BJP Bengal’s state secretary. At a news meet earlier in the day, Shah referred to poll violence in several parts of the state. “Incidents of poll violence in these elections are far less than what used to happen earlier. I will still condemn such incidents and urge the Election Commission to deal with these firmly,” Shah said. Shah resorted to polarising voters and referred to Mamata’s appeal to Muslim voters not let their votes get divided. Shah said the chief minister should remember that other communities were also hearing her appeal. “The rest should decide for themselves. The Muslims should decide too. But others must understand that she is not even asking them to vote for her,” Shah said in an attempt to polarise the Hindu electorate. He added that if elected the BJP would annul the anti-CAA resolution passed in the Bengal Assembly. Taking the perception war a notch higher, Shah asked Mamata to start introspecting about the reasons behind her “defeat”. Bhowanipore campaign apart, Shah led two road shows in Jagaddal and Madhyamgram in North 24-Parganas on Friday. BJP national party president J.P. Nadda took part in an event in Burdwan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Elections 2021: Can’t buy Congress faces, says Adhir Ranjan Choudhury||State Congress president and MP Adhir Ranjan Choudhury on Friday spoke on the integrity of Congress candidates in fray in the ongoing Assembly elections, a move that hints at underlying fears of horse-trading and defection after poll results among some political forces. Choudhury, who was in North Dinajpur — one of the erstwhile strongholds of the Congress — to campaign for his party’s candidates, said they had fielded candidates who could not be “purchased”. “We have taken care in selecting the candidates, and those who are in the poll fray will not sell themselves to other parties,” said the Congress leader at a public meeting in Islampur. After the 2011 and 2016 elections, the party that has been bled the most by Trinamul is the Congress. Over years, party leaders saw how elected representatives, right from the MPs to panchayat members, defected to Trinamul. “This time, there is an apprehension of a similar defection, particularly if none of the parties manage to secure the magic figure. Also, on a number of occasions earlier, Congress supporters had expressed disgruntlement after the person they had voted for joined another party. There is also a chance that such defections may discourage a section of supporters to vote some other candidate out of disappointment. That is why it seems the PCC president wanted to pass a missive to supporters,” said an observer. Earlier on Friday, Choudhury, while talking to the media at the Murshidabad district Congress office in Behrampore, replied to whether the Congress would support Trinamul. “The (Left-Congress-ISF) alliance will come to power. There is no question of supporting Trinamul or anybody else… but if Mamata Banerjee, who is a former Congress leader, admits to her faults, her party can support us from outside,” he said. At the public meetings, the PCC president also scoffed at Trinamul and said the party might join hands with its “old ally,” the BJP. “We have information that some Trinamul leaders are in contact with the Congress high-command. But we feel that the moment Trinamul smells danger, it will surrender to BJP,” he said. Additional reporting by Alamgir Hossain in Behrampore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-117
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Missing Gorkha issue changes hill poll plot||Across the hills of Darjeeling, this poll season — the first where Gorkhaland is missing as a poll issue and regionalism has taken a back seat — comes with marked confusion and far-reaching implications. This marks a sharp contrast to past “routine” Bengal Assembly elections here. The hills elect only three of the 294 legislators in Bengal Assembly. One of the tallest political figures in the hills, Subash Ghisingh had once remarked that the job of hill MLAs was just to chew paan in Calcutta. Since 1986, when Gorkhaland agitation started, regional politics, with little influence from mainstream politics, has largely charted the political direction of the hills. However, this 2021 Bengal election is challenging regionalism and Gorkha identity politics. The fight is not just for three MLA seats but about the fate of the regional parties and Darjeeling-centric issues. But in this all-important election, the permutation and combination before a hill voter are mind-boggling. Ghisingh’s party, the GNLF, now headed by his son Mann, had wanted the BJP to support their party in at least two of the three seats. Similar aspirations were aired by BJP ally, the CPRM. However, the BJP announced their candidates for the three seats and asked GNLF leader Neeraj Zimba to contest on a BJP symbol from Darjeeling. The other camp in the hills, led by Trinamul, has left the three hill seats for its “friends” — the two factions of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha headed by Bimal Gurung and the Binay Tamang-Anit Thapa duo. Both the factions have decided to contest against each other. To further complicate the situation, hill Trinamul leaders have decided to back Gurung instead of the Tamang-Thapa camp, which till recently was nominated by the Trinamul-ruled state government to head the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration.  The state Trinamul leadership is mum on the support issue. The electoral complexities do not end here. The oldest party in the hills, the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League (ABGL), is now divided into three factions. One of the factions has decided to support BJP and the two other factions have fielded candidates against each other. The present political matrix in the hills has reached such a situation that Harka Bahadur Chhetri’s Jana Andolan Party (JAP) has decided not to contest this election. “We do not want to divide the votes further. We ideally would have wanted both the factions of Morcha to put up a united fight,” said Chhetri, aware of the futility of his wish. Issues The issues raised by political parties are also vague. The BJP and GNLF are talking about finding a “permanent political solution” for the region, whose definition is still unknown to the general public. The Gurung camp has started talking about a “state within a state”, a provision incorporated for Assam, while Tamang wants an All India Gorkha Assembly, a provision non-existent in the Constitution. The separate statehood demand of Gorkhaland, which would find mention even in hill civic elections, is missing in action in the Assembly elections for the first time in decades. GNLF president Mann Ghisingh said that the decision to support BJP was an attempt to rise beyond party-based politics. “We have risen above the party in taking this decision (to support BJP). It is for our future generations.” Everyone knows that the real fight among the hill parties is to stamp their dominance in hill politics. “But in this process the lurking question is whether regionalism has gone for a toss,” said a hill voter. In the past, hill parties did have tacit understanding with mainstream parties but “now the regional parties are fully dependent on them,” a voter said, refusing to be named for fear of being identified. Earlier, the dominant hill party would sail through Assembly elections but this time all parties are slogging for their existence. The two Morcha factions and the GNLF have been forced to walk on crutches provided by mainstream parties, a situation “unthinkable” earlier. Gurung, who came out in the open after being on the run for three-and-half-years, is desperate to prove he still commands the support of the hill people. A loss in this election would mean an irreparable damage to his party. Tamang-Thapa have lost past two elections despite being in charge of the hills after their nomination at the GTA. “A third straight loss would be a disaster now that two of their rivals are with Trinamul and BJP,” said an observer. The GNLF has also been out of power for 14 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: Gautam Deb's remarks take BJP to poll officer door||District Trinamul leaders on Friday tried to control the “damage” caused by certain purported remarks of state tourism minister Gautam Deb made on Thursday as the saffron camp walked into the office of the chief electoral officer (CEO) in Calcutta to complain against the minister, accusing him of intimidating people during his campaign. Deb, contesting from Dabgram-Fulbari, a seat that covers certain areas of Siliguri Municipal Corporation and four adjoining panchayats of Jalpaiguri district, lost his cool in Thakurnagar in the northeast end of Siliguri. Approaching a government plot where a temporary structure of an ashram has come up, he approached the monk who runs the facility and told him that he would face eviction if he does not support Trinamul and backs the BJP instead. A delegation of the state BJP went to the CEO’s office and filed a written complaint against Deb. “The minister is openly intimidating people and asking them to vote for him, or else get ready for dire consequences. The election commission must act on it,” said a state BJP leader. Jalpaiguri district administration served a notice to Deb for his Thursday’s remarks and he replied to it, said sources. Deb’s remarks on Thursday had drawn flak from various quarters. Sikha Chatterjee, the BJP candidate from the seat, was among the first to react. “It is the Trinamul leaders who helped people settle on government land against money and now they are threatening to evict them,” she had said. On Friday, Trinamul leaders campaigning for Deb, tried to put the pressure on Chatterjee. “She (Chatterjee) was a Trinamul member of Rajganj panchayat samiti and was also party’s president in Dabgram. If such anomalies had occurred, she can’t evade responsibility. She and her party are now trying to reap political dividend out of a non-issue,” said Debasish Pramanik, the Trinamul president of Dabgram-Fulbari unit and a member of Jalpaiguri Zilla Parishad. The minister, however, dodged the issue and instead, accused the BJP of tearing down Trinamul party flags, festoons and banners in some places of his constituency. “This is something on which the election commission and the police should act and take steps against those doing such unethical activities. Siliguri has never seen such discourtesy in politics,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Glare on land rights in hills after cinchona order||An order from the Directorate of Cinchona and Other Medicinal Plants asking “staffs and officers” to vacate quarters and other articles upon their retirement threatens to revive the issue of displacement of people from their “own” land in the hills. The order, sources said, was issued on March 23, 2021. Such kind of orders are routine at any workplace, but not in the largest public sector undertaking in the Darjeeling hills. The directorate’s order says in the past, retiring dues of staff and officers under the directorate are “being forwarded for clearance to Account General, West Bengal and concerned Treasuries, without following Government norms such as vacating the staff quarter, handing over of files and any articles, items provided by the department…..” The order further says henceforth, “without the approval non (sic) of the terminal benefits of both officer or the staff should be finalised at any cost”. A senior official of the directorate confirmed the order to The Telegraph and agreed that the “ramifications” could be serious. The plantation — spread over 26,000 hectares — was first set up in 1862 at Mungpoo, about 35km from Darjeeling, followed by Munsong (1900), Rongo (1938) and Latpanchar in 1943. Around 70 per cent of the nearly 8.75 lakh hill people live in tea gardens and cinchona plantations. Tea gardens’ land is leased out by the state government to individuals or companies and the lease has to be renewed every 30 years. The state is the owner of the tea gardens’ land. However, the workers and their families who have been residing in tea plantations for generations since the 1850s do not have land rights. Like in tea gardens, the workers of cinchona plantations have no land rights. Old timers in the plantation said workers had been brought in from other places in the hills and elsewhere. The British provided “model” houses to labourers and housing quarters to “staffs” (read clerical employees) and officers. When a labourer retires, his job is passed on to the next of the kin, which is called “badli” in local parlance and hence, retains the house. Jobs of “staffs and officers” are not transferable. “There are examples of many families who have worked in the plantation for generations. Some of these labour families have members who are now “staffs”. Will this mean that after having spent generations in the plantation, these “staffs” have to leave after retirement?” an employee asked. A cinchona plantation official said a list of “staffs and officers” quarters was drawn up according to the directive from higher officials. “Our understanding is that some cases regarding housing quarters in the state have come under legal scanner. None of the cases is related to cinchona plantation but the government is looking at all housing quarters-related issues across the state,” the official said. “Ultimately, one has to follow court’s directives.” The housing issue in the cinchona plantation is further complicated by the fact that many have built their own houses on the directorate’s land. While some employees have constructed “private residences”, others — many of whom are not workers but trace their family history to the plantation — have come up with commercial spaces. “An effort was being made to draw up a list of such commercial spaces but it was never completed,” said an official at the directorate. “If ‘staffs’ are to leave the quarters on retirement, how can a different stand be taken on private houses and commercial spaces?” wondered a former employee of the plantation. Officials at the directorate don’t have an answer. “Hopefully, the government will come up with the answer,” the official said. “The order is not for labourers or private houses or commercial spaces. It is specific to staff quarters,” the official underlined. The directorate employs more than 5,000 people, of whom nearly 300 are “staffs”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Tireless icon | Panchanan Barma||Panchanan Barma, the most revered reformer of the Rajbanshi community, had almost a century ago taken up the task of socio-economic development of the community that dwells in north Bengal and in the contiguous areas of Assam. Known for his initiatives on women’s empowerment, he inculcated a new philosophy of life among the community by establishing the Kshatriya Samiti, an association that was instrumental in consolidating the Rajbanshis of the region. Born as Panchanan Sarkar in Khalisamari village, which is in the Mathabhanga sub-division of Cooch Behar district, in 1866, he became a graduate from Bangabasi College in Calcutta in 1893. In 1900, he graduated in law from Ripon College, now Surendranath College. Barma then started practising law at Rangpur court. It was an event here that changed his life. An upper caste lawyer refused to wear a “toga” (lawyers’ gown) used by Barma. Social discrimination and economic exploitation of the Rajbanshis moved Barma to form the Kshatriya Samiti in 1910 to organise the community and promote education among them. He established the rural agricultural bank that offered benefits to farmers and their families. Barma adopted the concept of micro-finance to empower farmers. The reformer, who came to be known as Roy Saheb Thakur Panchanan Barma, also developed a regiment of Rajbanshi youths, including both men and women. To implement his vision, he trained men and women in various parts of north Bengal and adjoining areas of Assam. When World War I broke out in Europe in 1914, he sent a battalion of young Rajbanshi men to the battlefield. Barma also worked for the improvement of the education standards of Rajbanshis and set up schools and hostels to encourage poor and backward students to continue their studies. In the 19th century, Raja Rammohan Roy and Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar had stressed the need to empower women through education and social reforms. Barma took up the task of encouraging women to pursue education and constituted the Nari Raksha Samiti in 1923 to make them self-reliant. He got elected to the Bengal Legislative Council thrice and was one of the proponents of the amendment to the Tenancy Act. It was because of him that important laws like the Bengal Money Lenders’ Act and the Bengal Agricultural Debtors’ Act were passed to provide adequate protection to farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: How identity politics  is influencing voting  patterns||Sridam Burman had just finished his lunch at a roadside eatery on NH27 and was waiting to board the bus that he and 60 other day labourers had hired from Dalkhola to return to their village in Sitalkuchi, Cooch Behar. “We all work in a brick kiln in Dalkhola. We are returning home to vote,” said Sridam, a stocky, middle-aged man from the Rajbanshi community. Around 2.3 lakh people in Sitalkuchi, set along the Bangladesh border, will vote on Saturday when 44 constituencies — 14 of them in north Bengal — go to the polls in the fourth of Bengal’s eight electoral phases. North Bengal, home to 54 constituencies that will vote from the fourth to the eighth phase, is witnessing a high-pitched battle with Trinamul desperate to regain ground lost to the BJP over the past couple of years. Sridam wouldn’t reveal his choice. “Let me return to the village and speak to others in my family and community. I will then decide who to vote for,” he said. The Scheduled Caste Rajbanshis —  known as bhumiputras (sons of the soil) and spread across Cooch Behar, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar, Darjeeling and North and South Dinajpur — make up about a fourth of north Bengal’s 2.5 crore people. The community holds the key to at least 25 of the region’s 54 constituencies and is being wooed by all the major parties, especially Trinamul and the BJP. The campaigners have been focusing on the Rajbanshi identity. This election has also witnessed all-out attempts by the political parties to reach out to the two other major groups in the region, the Gorkhas and the tribal communities. The 15 lakh-odd Gorkhas are significant to a dozen-odd constituencies in the hills and the plains while the tribals, making up around 11 per cent of the population, can influence the outcomes in 16 to 18 seats. All these three statistically significant communities have brought identity politics to the heart of this election in north Bengal. “Identity politics always had a role in north Bengal. It was important even during Left rule but the Left had ruthlessly suppressed it. Mamata Banerjee was the first to use identity politics here to expand her support base after coming to power, but no electoral contest before this witnessed such overt assertions of identities,” said political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty. A brief conversation with Sridam made it clear how deeply identity politics had made an impact in the region, where development has eluded most people. “We want an exercise like the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Bengal so that all those who came from Bangladesh can be driven out. We are the original sons of the soil but we have remained deprived,” said Sridam, an illiterate labourer who earns about Rs 300 a day at a brick kiln 300km from his home. Sridam had not plucked the demand out of thin air. In the run-up to the 2019 general election, scores of BJP leaders from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to state BJP president Dilip Ghosh had repeatedly spoken about an NRC-like exercise to identify illegal Bangladeshi immigrants. It had raised the hopes of those like Sridam who blame the immigrants for their plight. The NRC narrative — and its corollary, the Citizenship Amendment Act — has been missing from the BJP’s campaign this summer. Sources in the BJP suggest that Mamata’s stiff resistance to the new citizenship matrix has forced their party to put the issue on the backburner. The BJP had bagged seven of north Bengal’s eight seats in the 2019 general election, securing leads from 37 of the 54 Assembly segments, riding on the support from the Rajbanshis, Gorkhas and tribal communities. A Trinamul source said Bengal’s ruling party was confident of a better showing in north Bengal this time, claiming the region’s voters had appreciated its stand on the citizenship issue. The Rajbanshis, however, can’t seem to forget the promise made in 2019. “We had voted for the BJP thinking they would drive out the illegal immigrants. It’s high time they delivered on the promise,” said Chandra Kumar Burman, Sridam’s co-passenger. In the hills, the demand for a permanent political solution to the Gorkha identity could play a crucial role in the polls. There is also a longstanding demand for Scheduled Tribe status for the 11 hill communities. Mamata has stressed multiple times that the state government has made the necessary recommendation but the Centre has not acted on it. “BJP leaders, including the MPs we elected two years ago, keep repeating the assurance. Even Union home minister Amit Shah recently referred to the demand in a speech in Cooch Behar, and the BJP mentioned it in its manifesto,” a veteran observer of hill politics said. “But the reality is that it still remains just an assurance; there has been no initiative on this.” Mamata, trying to recover after the 2019 setback, has won over some of the prominent leaders of the Rajbanshi, Gorkha and tribal communities from the saffron camp. “She has Rajesh Lakra, a prominent tribal leader, to woo the community in Terai and Dooars. She has Bangshibadan Burman and Atul Roy to court the Rajbanshis, and Bimal Gurung to try and win the Gorkhas’ support in the hills,” a Trinamul source said. Another key issue in north Bengal is about the region receiving due importance in state politics. North Bengal’s eight districts together account for just 54 seats when South and North 24-Parganas together have 64 seats. Old-timers in the state administration recall the days when north Bengal’s “relevance” to Bengal politics was limited to then chief minister Jyoti Basu’s annual vacations at Holong at the Jaldapara Wildlife Sanctuary in Jalpaiguri district (now the Jaldapara National Park in Alipurduar district). Such was the region’s disconnect with the state capital during Left rule that even CPM leaders in Siliguri would poke fun at argumentative comrades, calling them “Calcutta-type” leaders. Mamata’s promise of a better deal for north Bengal had won her 17 seats in the 2011 Assembly polls. Her repeated visits to the region as chief minister and her focus on identity politics — in the form of development boards for the various communities — helped raise her tally to 24 in the 2016 elections. But the BJP’s stellar show in the 2019 general election changed the region’s political profile. “Once we could prove that it was our region, our national leaders began according more importance to north Bengal. That’s how the region began receiving attention from Delhi,” a senior state BJP leader said. That north Bengal's profile had changed became clear when Shah repeatedly accused the Mamata government of neglecting the region at a news conference. He rolled out a list of initiatives the BJP had in mind for the region, most of them mentioned in the poll manifesto. Among these were the fulfilment of two demands by the Gorkhas (political solution and ST status), a separate development board for north Bengal, an increase in daily tea wages to Rs 350, an AIIMS in the region, a statue to Panchanan Barma — the revered Rajbanshi statesman — a cultural museum in Cooch Behar and the development of tourism circuits. With these promises, the BJP hopes to attract support from the various ethnic communities as well as from people associated with tea and tourism, industries that employ around 10 lakh people in the region. A BJP source said north Bengal’s political importance had grown also with the realisation among the party leadership that its “Mission Bengal” hinged critically on its ability to convince the rest of the state that a part of Bengal had already “accepted” the party. “To prove that we can rule Bengal, we started mentioning how north Bengal had accepted the BJP in the 2018 panchayat polls (when the party won several gram panchayats and panchayat samitis apart from zilla parishad seats) and the 2019 Lok Sabha polls,” the source said. With the BJP upping the ante, Mamata too has intensified her focus on the region. In the past two years, she has come up with a slew of measures, including schemes like “Cha Sundari” (a free housing scheme for tea workers) and the decisions to recognise Rajbanshi-medium schools, facilitate revision of the daily tea wage to Rs 202 and install a statue of Panchanan Barma at the university named after him in Cooch Behar and declare a holiday on his birth anniversary. “Mamata Banerjee has also taken up the task of improving the tourism sector and is encouraging the opening of homestays, giving rural families in the hills and foothills a new avenue to earn money,” a Siliguri hotelier said. “Her decision to develop destinations like ‘Bhorer Alo’ (25km from Siliguri on the Teesta’s right bank) and Lamahatta (in the Darjeeling hills) has increased tourist inflow to the region.” Over the past three weeks, Modi has held two rallies in the region while senior ministers like Shah, Rajnath Singh, Smriti Irani and Prahlad Singh Patel have paid multiple visits. Mamata has addressed seven rallies in north Bengal so far. The high-profile visits have raised the political heat in north Bengal and led to Bagdogra airport logging the highest number of private jet and chopper landings in its history. Most political observers, however, believe that the BJP still holds the edge it had acquired in the Lok Sabha polls, and that Trinamul faces a stiff challenge in recovering lost ground. “We have been doing well in the region for over three years. This time we’ll do even better and win more than 45 of the 54 seats,” Ghosh, the state BJP president, said. The Trinamul leadership is expressing equal confidence. State tourism minister Gautam Deb, the most prominent Trinamul leader from north Bengal, claims that those who had voted BJP in 2019 had now realised that they had got nothing in the past two years. “The promises made by BJP leaders and Union ministers have proved hollow. During the Covid outbreak and lockdown, none of these (seven) MPs were found in the field,” Deb said. “Mamata Banerjee, on the other hand, continued carrying out infrastructural development, announced and implemented new social schemes, formed development boards for the different communities in the region, and worked to improve the tea and tourism sectors. People have understood the difference between empty promises and delivery, and will stand by us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
10-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Urban bastion that has voted Trinamul and resisted BJP||The Trinamul Congress is looking at 11 diverse seats in Calcutta and South 24-Parganas that vote on Saturday to boost its chances in the Assembly elections, the party’s citadel having staved off the BJP even during its 2019 high noon. The assortment of urban seats includes areas such as Bhangar and Budge Budge in South 24-Parganas and Jadavpur and Tollygunge in the core of Calcutta. The 11 Assembly seats are part of three Lok Sabha constituencies — Jadavpur, Calcutta South and Diamond Harbour — that have, for years, been Trinamul bastions. Many key leaders of the party, including chief minister Mamata Banerjee, live in this area. “It is a really diverse, cosmopolitan set, with one thing in common — support for us and opposition to the BJP and its polarisation tactics. That is unlikely to change,” said Trinamul vice-president Saugata Roy, referring to the Sonarpur South, Sonarpur North, Bhangar, Jadavpur, Tollygunge, Kasba, Behala East, Behala West, Maheshtala, Budge Budge and Metiabruz Assembly seats. Trinamul had in 2016 won 10 of the 11 seats, with the Left, aided by the Congress, having bagged Jadavpur. The challenge for the ruling party this time is to ensure it is able to hold sway over this cluster of strength. Even in 2019, when a saffron surge had swept the country and the BJP had pocketed an unprecedented 18 seats in Bengal, the party had not been able to penetrate this Trinamul bastion. “Unless something goes horribly wrong, like a massive pro-BJP wave that we do not foresee, the BJP will be a distant third in all 11 constituencies, with the Sanyukta Morcha candidates coming second,” said a senior Trinamul Rajya Sabha member, preferring anonymity. “The BJP is dead scared of the drubbing it is likely to receive in all 31 seats in South 24-Paraganas. Voting here has been split into an unprecedented three phases, which allows ample time to heavyweights such as Narendra Modi and Amit Shah to campaign extensively,” he added. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Trinamul had enjoyed handsome leads in all 11 Assembly segments, wresting the advantage back from the Left in Jadavpur. A Bengal BJP source said on the condition of anonymity that his party expected no miracles from these 11 seats. “Six of them have a substantial minority population…. In four-five others, there is a concentration of the urban elite, the intellectuals and the liberals who will still vote for anybody but us,” he said. “Despite that, maybe we can scrape through with Babul Supriyo in Tollygunge (pitted against incumbent Aroop Biswas). Indranil Khan might put up a good fight in Kasba (against incumbent Javed Khan). The two actors (Srabanti Chatterjee in Behala West and Payal Sarkar in Behala East) are a gamble,” added the state unit functionary. He conceded that the BJP did not have high hopes from South 24-Parganas as a whole, either. “In the absence of a wave, which nobody can accurately predict, we will not be able to considerably dent Trinamul in South 24-Parganas. North 24-Parganas, where we secured leads in 11 (out of 33 Assembly segments) in 2019 and made considerable gains since, will be a much better story for us,” the BJP leader said. The third key player in the contest, perhaps more important than the BJP in these 11 seats, is the Left-Congress-ISF Sanyukta Morcha, which has set its sights on “at least three” constituencies. “We are certainly winning Jadavpur and Bhangar. We are quite confident about Kasba as well. Don’t rule us out in Budge Budge and Metiabruz,” said a CPM state secretariat member. “That’s a pragmatic view. The official view would be we are winning all 11,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-118
