11-04-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar Killings: Ready to resign if people of Bengal ask, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday, while addressing a public meeting in Basirhat said that he is ready to resign from the Home Minister’s post, but only if the people of West Bengal ask him to do so. The senior BJP leader, however, used the opportunity to assert that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will have to quit on May 2 as the Trinamool Congress will lose the ongoing assembly elections. The TMC chief has demanded Shah’s resignation over the killing of four people in firing by CISF personnel during the fourth phase of voting in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district on Saturday. “Didi has been asking for my resignation. If the people of West Bengal demand that I put down my papers, I am ready to do so with my head bowed. But Mamata will have to quit the CM’s post on May 2,” Shah said, while addressing a rally in Basirhat in North 24 Parganas district. Votes polled during the eight-phase elections to 294 assembly seats in West Bengal will be counted on May 2. Training his guns on Banerjee, Shah alleged that she is opposing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act to appease illegal immigrants, who he claimed take benefits of welfare schemes but indulge in riots. “What is Didi’s problem if Matuas get citizenship? Her problem is that illegal immigrants will be displeased. Such people don’t have the right to rule the state any longer. Illegal immigrants take benefits of welfare schemes like free ration but indulge in riots,” he said. Shah said that the BJP will completely stop illegal immigration from Bangladesh and withdraw a resolution passed in the assembly against CAA after forming the government in the state. He promised to introduce a ‘Chief Minister’s Refugee Welfare Fund’ to give annual assistance of Rs 10,000 to the beneficiaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||I have footage of BJP leaders supporting CISF men after firing, alleges Mamata||Urging people not to vote for "trigger-happy BJP", Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday claimed that the tragedy in Cooch Behar was the "result of a conspiracy" hatched by the saffron party to intimidate voters. Amid polling for the fourth phase of elections on Saturday, four persons died in Sitalkuchi area of Cooch Behar when CISF personnel opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", the police had said. The TMC supremo, who addressed three rallies in Jalpaiguri district during the day, also stated that BJP leaders, who have come out in support of the central forces, should sit back and reflect if they would have had the same stance if someone in their families met with a similar fate. "I have video footage that shows some BJP leaders are speaking in favour of the central forces after the firing incident. You (BJP leaders) don't feel sad if sons die in other families. What if it had happened to someone in your family," Mamata said in Rajganj. Hitting out at the accused CISF personnel, she said, "If you think someone is causing nuisance, speak to him, you also have lathis. How can you suddenly point your gun at the torso and neck of voters?" Describing the incident as "murder of democracy", Mamata pointed out that the EC has stopped her and other politicians from visiting Sitalkuchi for 72 hours at the "behest of the BJP". "You can stop me from visiting Sitalkuchi or for that matter any other place, but I will find a way out to be on the side of the distressed people." She asserted that "for every bullet, reply will be given in votes". "Come out in larger numbers to cast your vote, exercise your democratic rights to defeat the trigger-happy BJP. The Cooch Behar incident was a result of a conspiracy hatched by the saffron camp," the chief minister said during her address in Nagrakota. Accusing the BJP of failing to deliver on its promise to re-open tea gardens that had to shut shop due to paucity of funds, Mamata said the saffron party has always deceived common people. "In sharp contrast, the TMC dispensation has undertaken many development projects in Jalpaiguri to boost its agriculture and tourism sectors. It has built a stadium in the district, and ensured that the social welfare schemes launched by the government benefits everyone in the region," she inisited. Mamata, who wore a black scarf to condemn the Cooch Behar incident, paid floral tribute to those killed in the firing at a makeshift memorial built next to the stage in Nagrakota. At Chalsa, she promised ration and Rs 500 for every household and Rs 1,000 monthly allowance for the backward caste families. She further said that the TMC, if re-elected to power, will launch a state-sponsored credit card scheme for students willing to pursue higher education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata’s advice to gherao central forces provoked Sitalkuchi voters, alleges Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday launched a scathing attack against Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, alleging that her advice to gherao central forces had instigated people to attack CISF in Cooch Behar's Sitalkuchi that led to four deaths in firing by security personnel. He also accused the TMC supremo of doing appeasement politics even in case of deaths. "Mamata Banerjee had advised people to gherao central forces. Is that not responsible for the deaths in Sitalkuchi? Her advice had instigated the people to attack the CISF," Shah told reporters after a roadshow at Santipur in Nadia district. Apart from the four deaths in what the CISF described as a "self-defence action", a BJP worker was also shot dead by unidentified persons in the same Sitalkuchi assembly constituency during the fourth phase of voting on Saturday. Shah alleged that Mamata did appeasement politics by paying tributes to the people killed in the CISF firing but did not condole the death of the BJP worker, identified as Anand Barman, as he was from the Rajbongshi community who are not her vote bank. "Attempts are being made to politicise the Sitalkuchi killings. Mamata Banerjee had paid tributes to four persons who were killed in the CISF firing but did not condole the death of Anand Barman as he is a Rajbongshi and is not fit for her vote bank. It is very unfortunate to see appeasement politics even in case of deaths," he said. Noting that polling in the first three phases was by and large peaceful, Shah appealed to all the political parties to abide by the Election Commission rules in the next four phases. Mamata, while addressing a rally at Baneswar in Cooch Behar district on April 7, had alleged that CRPF personnel were harassing and killing people at Shah's behest. She had advised people to "form groups to gherao central forces and keep them busy by talking to them", while others will quickly go to polling stations and cast their votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||There was genocide at Sitalkuchi, says Mamata after talking to victims' families||The Election Commission of India’s diktat not to allow any political leader in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi, where five young men were killed during Saturday’s voting, could not stop Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee from reaching out to the family members of the deceased. “I will see that justice is delivered,” Mamata is understood to have told them during a video conference with the grieving families in the Cooch Behar village from her hotel in Siliguri. According to Trinamul sources, the families of the victims told the chief minister that those killed were waiting in the queue outside the booth to cast their vote when they fell to the bullets. Some of them were day-labourers who had come to the village to cast their votes. The TMC chief also spoke to the brother of one of the deceased during the video call, held in the midst of addresing the media. She promised all help to the bereaved family. The man, on his part, was heard saying that the jawans had opened fire on the voters. "He (one of the four killed in firing) was standing in a queue when the jawans opened fire. His wife is pregnant. They also have a three-year-old child. Our parents are shocked and devastated," the man told the CM. Mamata asked a local TMC leader, who made arrangements for the video chat from Sitalkuchi, to send her a copy of the FIR filed in connection with the incident. Four villagers of Sitalkuchi --- Nur Alam Mian (20), Maniruzzaman Mian (28), Samiul Haq (21) and Hamidul Mian (31) --- fell to bullets of the central forces. All have been identified as Trinamul supporters. The fifth person who died was Anand Burman (18), killed during clashes between Trinamul and BJP supporters on Saturday. The police have said that the four persons died on Saturday when CISF personnel opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles". "I will be addressing election meetings today (Sunday), but with a heavy heart. The episode keeps haunting me," the CM said, adding that party workers will stage protests against the incident across the state. Describing the incident of firing in Cooch Behar as a "genocide", Mamata said the Election Commission of India (ECI) had restricted entry of politicians in the district for 72 hours as it seeks to "suppress facts". She told the media the the central forces "sprayed bullets aiming at the torso of the victims" at Sitalkuchi while the fourth phase of polling was underway. "There was genocide at Sitalkuchi. I would like to visit Sitalkuchi by April 14. The EC is trying to suppress facts by restricting entry in Cooch Behar. We have an incompetent home minister and an incompetent central government," Mamata said. She said the CISF "doesn't know" how to handle situations. "Since the first phase of elections, I had been saying that a section of the central forces are committing atrocities on people. I had flagged the issue in Nandigram, but none paid attention to my words," she stated. Mamata, who was campaigning in South Bengal left for Siliguri on Saturday evening, announcing her intent to visit the grief-stricken families. Some hours later, the ECI issued orders barring politicians from the trouble spot. Mamata’s decision to visit Sitalkuchi was a throwback to her days in the Opposition when she would rush to meet families of victims of  natural disasters, police excesses at the behest of her political rivals. This time, too, she did not allow the EC order could not come in the way of  reaching out to the families of those killed on Saturday. “The EC should rename MCC (Model Code of Conduct) as Modi Code of Conduct! The BJP can use all its might but NOTHING in this world can stop me from being with my people & sharing their pain. They can restrict me from visiting my brothers & sisters in Cooch Behar for 3 days but I WILL be there on the 4th day,” Mamata tweeted Sunday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Migrant breadwinners among firing victims||Jorpatki had been a joyous place in the morning, its families eager to vote and happy to see their outstation breadwinners back to cast their ballot, when the sound of firing shattered the peace. By afternoon, stunned neighbours had joined bereaved families in mourning the death of four of the village’s sons, felled by CISF firing at Booth 5/126 at the Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra. Most of the dead — two migrant workers, a first-time voter and a mason — were their families’ main breadwinners. Nur Alam Mian, 20, one of the victims, had returned from Bihar with his parents only a couple of days ago to vote. “All three worked in a brick kiln in Bihar. Nur has a sister who lives in the village with her uncle. Everything was fine till a little after 10am, when we suddenly heard gunshots,” said Safiuddin Mian, Jorpatki resident and a voter registered with Booth 5/126. “We found that four youths from our village were dead. We had never imagined such an election.” Laila Biwi, wife of Maniruzzaman Mian, 28, kept fainting off and on after travelling 15km to the sub-divisional hospital in Mathabhanga where the bodies had been brought. Whenever she regained consciousness, the mother of a one-and-a-half-month-old daughter wept bitterly. “They had got married a year and a half ago. Maniruzzaman works in Sikkim under a labour contractor and had come home to vote,” said Majibul Haque, an uncle of the victim. “We have no idea how it happened. He has elderly parents at home and was his family’s principal earner.” Absar Ali, a man in his late 50s, gave a blank stare on being asked about his 21-year-old son Samiul Haque, who had died of his bullet wounds. Samiul, whom villagers described as a friendly young man and first-time voter, had recently opened an Internet café at Jorpatki. “He would help the villagers get their documents corrected and draft applications for them. He was always ready to help anyone. I don’t know what to do,” Ali said. The firing also killed Hamidul Mian, a 31-year-old mason and father of a three-year-old daughter. “We don’t know how to tell his wife and daughter,” said Mofia Bibi, Hamidul’s mother-in-law. Residents said around 950 voters were enrolled with Booth 5/126, of whom about 750 were from the minority community. “We had never thought our youths would lose their lives on polling day,” said Ershad Hossain, a resident of the Kazir More area in Jorpatki. “Even in the morning there was a festive mood here. But by afternoon, a pall had descended.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Answer bullet with vote, says Mamata Banerjee||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday contested the claim that the central forces had fired in self-defence and asked why Prime Minister Narendra Modi didn’t visit the families of the voters felled by CISF bullets in Cooch Behar despite being in north Bengal. “This happens in the morning, and the Prime Minister, standing in Siliguri, claims they (the central forces) did it in self-defence? Is that done? Defence from what? What happened to whom, who got injured?” Mamata asked at a media conference in Siliguri in the evening. Mamata had cut short her electoral programmes and rushed to Siliguri to be with the bereaved families in Sitalkuchi on Sunday, but the Election Commission late in the night banned political visits to Cooch Behar for 72 hours. “He (Modi) was in Siliguri, with three helicopters in tow. Such a huge incident took place. Did he go there even once? The Prime Minister gets every advantage. He should have sacrificed meetings to go to the families first, to the bodies first. But he didn’t,” Mamata added. Earlier in the day, Modi had told a rally at Kawakhali on the outskirts of Siliguri, less than 200km from Sitalkuchi, that he was saddened by the Cooch Behar firing. But he had appeared to blame Mamata by referring to some of her recent speeches in which she had urged people to “gherao” the central forces. Although Modi did not use the word “self-defence”, the Election Commission and the state police establishment did, the official line being the forces had to fire to protect themselves, their weapons and the EVMs from a mob. Mamata questioned the claim. “An attempt is being made to create an impression that the central forces were attacked.… But why isn’t there any footage?” the chief minister asked. At the focus of the chief minister’s attack were Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. Mamata demanded that Shah resign. “Planning like this, then murdering people, then giving clean chits, who is giving clean chits to whom?” Mamata asked. Sources close to her said she would try to be somewhere closer to Cooch Behar on Sunday to challenge the Election Commission’s decision. She is believed to have told her aides that this was another instance of the poll panel’s partisan behaviour. In her half-hour interaction with the media, Mamata poured her heart out against the commission and the central forces and accused the BJP-led central government, and Shah in particular, of using them to further the BJP’s electoral prospects in Bengal. “Four civilians died because of firing by the central forces, who report to the Union home ministry.… The home minister should resign,” Mamata said. She said the BJP had realised it would lose the Assembly elections and was trying to win by using brute force. She claimed the situation in the state resembled an informal President’s rule. “Everything about the conduct of this election is unprecedented. It’s almost as though they are formally working here on the basis of an informally ordered Article 356…. I condemn the attitude of the Centre and whoever is supporting it,” Mamata said. She urged the chief ministers of all non-BJP states and all non-BJP politicians from across the country to note how the BJP was ensuring the conduct of the elections in an undemocratic manner. Sources close to Mamata said she was beginning to view the Cooch Behar firing as an inflection point, similar to the vandalism of Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar’s bust in Calcutta in 2019 during a rally by Shah ahead of the final phase of the Lok Sabha polls. As many as 159 of the state’s 294 Assembly seats have yet to vote. Mamata repeatedly said that she “firmly” believed that the untoward incidents occurring in the state since the administration came under the control of the Election Commission had been “planned”. She criticised the poll panel for the numerous “unilateral” transfers of IAS and IPS officers in Bengal it had effected since assuming charge of the administration. “Anything the BJP requests today is carried out tomorrow,” she said. “Even in Cooch Behar, you know very well.... He’s a BJP-appointed SP…. I’m ashamed of the statement he has issued,” Mamata said, referring to district police chief Debashis Dhar who had defended the central forces’ action. Mamata also condemned the commission for appointing retired officials such as Vivek Dube, whom she has accused of a pro-BJP bias, as special observer for Bengal. She accused Modi and Shah of disrespecting their posts by regularly insulting and threatening her during their campaign. “I think they (know that they) will lose the election, that’s why this vendetta…. Trying to scare the people. For every bullet, answer with votes…. We are winning this. I doubt if the BJP will cross even 70 (seats),” she said. Mamata said she had figured out the Centre’s plan while she was in the field during the second phase of polling when her constituency, Nandigram, voted. “Every phase, from 48 hours before that, they are terrorising the area, the central forces. Even women are not being spared. I saw this very closely, from the ground…. Their conduct in Nandigram opened my eyes. Before that, even I had not realised they were that dangerous,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Central forces gun down four in Cooch Behar||Four young men were killed in CISF firing at a Cooch Behar booth on Saturday, bloodying the fourth phase of the Bengal polls and raising uncomfortable questions for the Election Commission that has deployed 77,000 central force personnel and 35,000 state police to ensure peaceful voting. The four dead men from Jorpatki in Sitalkuchi constituency — Nur Alam Mian (20), Maniruzzaman Mian (28), Samiul Haque (21) and Hamidul Mian (31) — belonged to poor families and were described as Trinamul supporters by neighbours. The administration, which is functioning under the Election Commission now, said the personnel of the CISF, a central armed police force that reports to the Union home ministry, were forced to fire after being attacked by a mob. But villagers alleged unprovoked caning and firing by the forces. The CISF is mainly used for airport security and guarding industrial installations. Whether such an armed force, usually not familiar with crowd control and management, should be deployed for polling that draws a large number of civilians is a question that the Election Commission needs to answer. Language is also a barrier, and often directives from the central forces on the ground come across as rude commands. In the evening, the Election Commission prohibited political leaders from entering Cooch Behar district for the next 72 hours. The silence period for the fifth phase of polling on April 17 has been extended from 48 hours to 72 hours, which means campaigning for these seats will end on April 14. Safiuddin Mian, a Jorpatki resident and farmer, said that polling was going on peacefully at Booth 5/126 at the Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra when the central forces suddenly turned violent. “Around 10am, a group of 20 to 25 central force personnel who had not been posted at the booth arrived and began beating up people, many of whom had gathered to vote. They did not spare even a 15-year-old boy, Mrinal Haque, who had come to watch the voting process from a distance,” Safiuddin said. “When the boy got injured, people started protesting. The forces carried out another baton-charge and then suddenly started firing. I was waiting in the queue to vote, but I ran for my life after hearing the gunshots.” Several Trinamul leaders corroborated Safiuddin’s account, among them Rabindranath Ghosh, north Bengal development minister and former Cooch Behar district unit president. A villager who asked not to be identified said: “This booth had 950 voters, of whom more than 750 are Muslim. It’s clear that the central forces targeted this booth to prevent us voting for Trinamul.” The authorities claimed the incident was a fallout of rumour mongering that had prompted a mob attack on the central forces, who had to fire to save themselves and government property such as the electronic voting machines (EVMs). This was stated in a note prepared by the poll panel-appointed special police observer, Vivek Dube, which was sent to Nirvachan Sadan and released to the media in the evening. Annappa E, deputy inspector-general of police, Jalpaiguri range, had provided a similar account earlier in the day. “A local boy, Mrinal Haque, fell sick in the morning. Sector officers attended to the boy and even offered to take him to hospital. But soon a rumour spread that the forces had beaten the boy up,” he said. “Villagers then arrived with sticks and cooking utensils and attacked the booth, the presiding officer and a woman polling official. The EVM was damaged too.” Dube’s note said a few personnel were injured after the mob attacked the forces. “They (the forces) immediately sought for reinforcement and the QRT (Quick Reaction Team of the central forces) standing near the booth rushed to the spot for their help. The QRT vehicle was also attacked by the unruly mob and it was damaged,” Dube wrote. “On being attacked, CISF personnel fired in open air to disperse the crowd. However, it did not deter the mob. Faced with no other alternative, to save their lives and government property like EVM and other polling materials, the CISF personnel opened fire.” It wasn’t clear whether those who fired were posted at the booth or were from the QRT. District police chief Debasish Dhar told The Telegraph that “300 to 350 villagers including women” had gathered around the booth. District police sources said the villagers had tried to snatch away rifles from Shyamal Pal, a home guard, and constable Babulal Roy of the state police. Efforts to obtain the phone numbers of Pal and Roy and seek their version of events bore no results. Officials evaded the question whether the forces could have used batons and tear gas instead of bullets. “We are investigating how the events unfolded,” Annappa said. The villagers dismissed the police version. “Some of us filmed the events on our cellphones, but the forces snatched the phones and deleted what we had recorded,” a villager said, asking not to be named. The pall of grief that had descended on Jorpatki in the morning was replaced by a sense of fear in the evening as more security forces were sent to the Muslim-majority village. A villager said the residents were afraid that they might be arrested for attacking the forces. He said many youths had already fled the village. Most of the dead were their families’ main breadwinners. Nur and Maniruzzaman were migrant workers who had come home to vote, and Samiul was a first-time voter. Maniruzzaman leaves behind a month-and-a-half-old daughter and Hamidul a three-year-old daughter. “It’s sad that four young men from our village lost their lives like this. And now there is fear,” a villager said. The poll panel has announced re-polling at the booth but not set a date yet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Low voter turnout, glare on violence||The fourth phase of Assembly polls in Bengal was marked by widespread violence with five persons losing their lives in two separate incidents in north Bengal, while scuffles with candidates and complaints of electoral malpractices were reported from elsewhere on Saturday. The most violent phase of the polls also witnessed a lower voting percentage compared to the previous three phases. A total of 44 Assembly segments spread across five districts went to the polls on Saturday. The day started with the death of Ananda Barman, an 18-year-old first-time voter. Barman died on the spot soon after casting his vote in the morning at a booth (5/285) in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi after some unknown goons had opened fire. Four persons — Noor Alam Mian, 20, Manirujjaman Mian, 25, Samiul Haque, 21, and Hamidul Mian, 31, — were killed when central forces opened fire near booth number 5/126 in Sitalkuchi’s Amtali. The Trinamul Congress sent a memorandum demanding proper action against the central force jawans claiming the Sitalkuchi firing to be a classical instance of excess by them during the polls. Amal Das, who is claimed to be a BJP supporter, was found hanging in Patlakhawa in Cooch Behar. Although the BJP claimed he had first been murdered and then hanged by Trinamul-backed goons, district authorities said the matter was being probed and no direct link was established between the death and the elections. Besides, BJP’s Kasba candidate Indranil Khan was injured when a group of people heckled him in front of a booth. The BJP candidate from Chinsurah, Locket Chatterjee, was also heckled by a group of people allegedly backed by the Trinamul. During the scuffle, the car of the candidate was damaged. Locket alleged that some people deployed to distribute hand sanitisers and gloves to the voters were influencing voters inside the booth to vote for the Trinamul Congress. The car of another BJP candidate, Payel Sarkar, from Behala (East) was also ransacked at Haridevpur when she visited a booth. A car in the convoy of BJP’s Bally candidate, Baishali Dalmia, was ransacked near a booth in Liluah in Howrah. There were complaints of electoral malpractices. A voter in the Jadavpur Assembly segment had to cast tender vote after he found that his had been cast in the morning. At Kasba, the BJP and the CPM alleged that their election agents were driven out of some booths by Trinamul-backed goons. The Indian Secular Front also alleged that its polling agents were prevented from entering the booths in some areas of Bhangar in South 24-Parganas. In Howrah’s Domjur, BJP candidate Rajib Banerjee alleged that one of his polling agents had been driven out of the booth. CPM’s Jadavpur candidate Sujan Chakraborty accused Trinamul of trying to disrupt the voting by threatening and throwing out polling agents of the CPM and other parties. “At a booth in Jadavpur, Trinamul workers threw chilli powder in the eyes of our polling agent. They tried to provoke us but we kept our cool and ensured that polling agents stayed put till the end. We had complained about the incident to the Election Commission but they did nothing,” Chakraborty said. The car of another CPM candidate, Mohd Salim, was attacked by alleged Trinamul goons at Chanditala in Hooghly. Salim was on his way to visit a polling station in his constituency when a group of Trinamul supporters rushed towards his car and slammed on its body, said a CPM leader in Hooghly. The leader added that Salim had escaped unhurt. Amid the violent incidents throughout the day, the polling percentage seemed to have taken a hit in the fourth phase of the polls. Till 5pm, 75.9 per cent polling was recorded, which was relatively lower compared to the previous phases. In the first three phases of the polls, on an average, 80 per cent polling was recorded till 5pm. “Although elections would continue till 6.30pm, it does not appear polling percentage would not touch 85 per cent mark, which was a common feature in the first three phases. Violent incidents could have left a mark on the voter turnout today (Saturday),” said a source. Another official said as a number of Assembly segments where elections were held on Saturday are located in urban areas, the polling percentage was expected to go down. “It had been seen in the past that polling percentage remains low in the urban areas. The violent incidents might have played a role, but the urban area factor should also be kept in mind while we say the voting percentage is lower in the current s phase,” added the official. Sources in the Election Commission said more than 150 complaints were lodged by political parties during the day and all of those attended and required steps were initiated within 30 minutes in majority of the cases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Voting fuels closed Dunlop plant’s hopes||Sarbik Ghosh, 60, a retired employee of the closed Dunlop factory, and a leader of the Citu (the CPM’s labour arm), spent over 12 hours inside a booth as a polling agent without a reliever on Saturday. Nirmal Singh, 61, another retired employee and a Trinamul Congress trade union leader, had no time to leave the chair of a camp office of his party. Such faces of veterans were seen representing their parties with a singular dream, that of a new industry on the land of the ghost of the Dunlop tyre factory at Sahaganj, closed permanently in 2016, preceding liquidation. The old school buildings, damaged quarters and small roads amid long shrubbery turned colourful for now, as all political parties have decorated the area with campaign material. Sources said the election on the factory premises turned colourful this year after Dunlop apparently was priorities by both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee, in their back-to-back rallies in Sahaganj, with promises of re-industrialisation of the state. Modi had visited the Dunlop ground on February 22, while Mamata was at the same venue two days later. In the rare show of such urgency, retired and sacked employees found inspiration for optimism. “Modi and Mamata both visited this time, but we have no difference. Here we don’t fight against each other over politics, but we are united with our demands for our dues and a new factory here, where newer generations will get jobs,” said Rameswar Singh, who was sitting with at least a dozen Dunlop employees in a Trinamul camp. They said around the year, very few outsiders step on the premises. Leaders said there were around 2,000 voters spread across three polling stations, all located on the 229-acre premises that have been around since 1936. Most of the vast area has turned forest-like, with dense bushes and big trees, besides debris of old buildings. Ghosh, the Citu veteran, said he took the responsibility of the polling station as an agent after none else was found available. “With the ravages of time, the once glittering Dunlop factory is all but deserted. No youth volunteered to be a polling agent here and so I put my hand up. Yes, without any reliever for over 12 hours. I found some of the joy of the good old days in it,” said Ghosh. “I had no reliever and so both Trinamul and the BJP offered me food they brought for their own agents. Dunlop used to carry this tradition and it is alive today…. I don’t know whether the Prime Minister or the chief minister will do something for us, but we have to live and fight for our demand” said Ghosh. Sharma Dubey , 64, another retired employee, said there were three political camps among the employees, but the demands would be the same, before whoever wins. “I have dues of Rs 8.5 lakh. I am sitting in Trinamul’s camp, but my friends and former colleagues are with other parties. Whichever the winning camp is, will fight for our dues, for everyone,” he said. Ankur Keshri, a youth, was an exception, seen guarding the lone BJP camp. “My father used to run a shop inside the factory. We used to run our home from the earnings of the shop. I am here with the BJP, hoping for better days for all of us.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Complaint and compliment mix on day bullets took lives in state||Sujata Mallik had been appointed by the Election Commission to help voters with the polling process but her work was hampered as central forces allegedly threw her out of the polling premises at Chandernagore in Hooghly on Saturday. Mallik was manning a voters’ assistance booth at the Bindubasini Gana Vidyalaya  in Chandernagore when central forces deployed at the polling station asked her to leave, she said. The Telegraph came across Mallik, in her early thirties, sitting under the blazing sun on the staircase of a private house with a bundle of electoral rolls and a pen. Asked why she was there instead of at the polling station, Mallik said: “I was posted at Bindubasini Gana Vidyalaya, where polling for Chandernagore Assembly constituency is taking place, to help voters. I was initially allowed to sit inside the polling station but suddenly a central force person came and asked me to leave the premises.” Mallik is not a representative of a political party and was deployed by the poll panel to help voters if they did not find their names on the electoral list or did not wish to go to camps of political parties. Asked if she protested against the high-handedness of central forces, Mallik said: “I did not protest but sat in front of the polling station where there was shade. The owner of the house objected. The central forces did not support me but asked me to shift to another place. So I came here and sat on a staircase. A resident gave me water and you can see me sitting under the blazing sun.” A commission official clarified the role of people like Mallik in the poll process. This official said the deployment of voters’ assistants was mandatory at every booth. Though they are not allowed inside booths, they should be present on the premises alongside personnel deployed to maintain Covid-19 protocols, the official said. The official agreed it was wrong of the central force jawan to force out Mallik from the booth premises. “She had an identity proof around her neck and her designation was clearly written. It was unnecessary proactiveness on the part of the central forces,” the official said. Debarati Sarkar, the sub-divisional official of Chandernagore, acknowledged Mallik and many like her had been posted by the administration and said she was unaware about the incident involving Mallik. “Yes, they are allowed inside polling stations but not booths. But it should not have happened to her,” said Sarkar. On a day of firing by the CISF in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi, the conduct of the  central forces was increasingly coming under the scanner. Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee has been raising questions about the high-handedness of central forces and alleged that jawans were working under orders of Union home minister Amit Shah. In other instances of alleged high-handedness by the  central forces, jawans lathi-charged Trinamul supporters at Panchla’s booth no. 185 and at Bandel’s Mahatma Gandhi Hindi Vidyalaya. While several such incidents were reported from the 44 Assembly constituencies that went to polls on Saturday, the central forces were also praised  by some voters for their help. At Shree Krishna Hindi MCFP School in Howrah North Assembly seat, a man in his late sixties praised the jawans for their help. “I was standing at the end of the queue. I’m an orthopaedic patient and can’t stand for long. The good gentleman from the force came up to me and asked if I would like to move forward. He took me ahead of others,” the voter, who had come alone, said. The Telegraph asked a group of people chatting near a booth in Howrah Central if they faced any harassment at the hands of the central forces. They answered in the negative. “We just cast our vote and came out. The central forces were very cooperative and  helped us maintain social distancing,” said Ramen Nath, a member of the group. The forces were also mostly complimented by the voters  of Jadavpur, Tollygunge and Kasba constituencies. Sources said that the Sitalkuchi incident had been communicated to all the jawans posted on poll duty and the “proactiveness” of the morning gradually went missing as the day passed. “We have been alerted by our seniors to be careful about how to handle voters. We have been asked to manage the voters and not to allow gathering within 100 metres of polling stations,” said a central force personnel in Chinsurah. “Our task is to ensure a free and fair poll,” a central force jawan was heard saying to a colleague in Howrah’s Domjur shortly after the firing incident in Sitalkuchi. However, stray resentment continued. Some voters complained of “language gap”. A couple of jawans were seen taking the help of local police to communicate with the voters. “I was asking the central force personnel in Bengali to direct me to my booth. He couldn’t understand me and made me wait while he called a local cop and asked me to speak to him, which he should’ve done earlier,” a lady in Jadavpur said. At most booths, voters were not allowed inside polling stations with their phones, which a section of voters thought was tantamount to harassment. “As soon as I stood in the queue, a central force personnel came and asked me to switch off the phone. I could not understand the reason but had to switch off my phone,” said a voter who voted at Singur Mahamaya High School in Hooghly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Bullet in booth fells first-time voter||An 18-year-old first-time voter died of bullet wounds in a booth of Sitalkuchi Assembly seat during a BJP-Trinamul clash on Saturday morning. Sources said Ananda Burman, the first-time voter from Pathantuli village, had walked up to his booth (5/285) in Golenaohati. “It was peaceful at the booth then but suddenly Trinamul and BJP supporters attacked each other with guns and bombs. Ananda somehow came in between the rival groups and was hit by a bullet in his back. Rushed to a local block health centre, he later died,” said a district administration source. Sanjay Chakraborty, a district BJP leader, claimed Ananda was their supporter. “Jagadish Burman, his father, is a carpenter and an old supporter of our party. For the past few days, Trinamul supporters had been intimidating them,” said Chakraborty. Partha Pratim Roy, Trinamul’s Sitalkuchi candidate, denied the charges of intimidation. Police have detained two persons in the incident. In another incident, Amal Das, 35, a BJP worker in Palakhawa area under Cooch Behar North Assembly seat, was found dead and hanging in a bamboo plantation on Saturday morning. Amal was missing since Friday night. The BJP alleged Amal was killed and hanged, and demanded a thorough probe into the incident. Police said they started a probe. “We are waiting for his post-mortem report,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: EC prohibits entry of political leader in Cooch Behar for next 72 hours||The Election Commission on Saturday evening passed an order prohibiting the entry of any political leader in Cooch Behar district of Bengal for the next 72 hours, following the violence in the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency. It also extended the “silence period” for the fifth phase of polling on April 17 from 48 to 72 hours, which will end the campaigning for the remaining seats in Cooch Behar on April 14. An interim report by general observer Sharad Laxman Ahire and police observer Madireddy Pratap from the spot at 12.36pm said the CISF personnel had killed four persons and injured an equal number when a mob attacked the polling station at Amtali Madhyamik Shiksha Kendra. Special observers Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube had sent their report to the EC at 5.12pm without the reports of the district administration and police. The order from EC secretary Rakesh Kumar says: “The joint report of the two special observers has been received at 5.12pm wherein they interalia stated that recourse to open fire by the CISF personnel became absolutely necessary in order to save the lives of the voters lined up at the polling booth, those of other polling personnel and their own lives as the mob had attempted snatching their weapons... “Whereas, it has also been stated by the special observers that report of the district magistrate, Cooch Behar, and superintendent of police, Cooch Behar, had not been received by them so far, that is, till 5.12pm although the electronic media from 3pm onwards started showing statement of Shri Debashish Dhar, SP Cooch Behar, wherein it was stated that firing was done by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) purely in self-defence, etc…” The order added: “… it has been brought to the notice of the Commission that the last rites of the four deceased persons had still not been completed and that some political leaders may visit this area with the ostensible purpose of condoling with the families of bereaved which, however, has the portent to cause a law and order problem of major proportions in this place as well as the adjoining places.” The directions given by the EC are: “1. In Cooch Behar district comprising of 9 ACs (Assembly constituencies 1 to 9) where voting shall be over by today, no political leader from any national, state or other party should be allowed to enter the geographical boundaries of the district for the next 72 hours. This comes into force with immediate effect; 2. Chief secretary, West Bengal, and director-general of police, West Bengal, as also district magistrate and superintendent of police of Cooch Behar are hereby tasked for taking all steps necessary including visiting themselves, deputising senior officers, reinforcement of central/state forces, etc, to ensure the strict compliance of the directions of the Commission in letter as well as in spirit; 3. Special general observer Shri Ajay Nayak and special police observer Shri Vivek Dube, as well as chief electoral officer, West Bengal, shall keep the Commission informed on a real time basis about the developments in Cooch Behar for the next 72 hours in the context of aforementioned directions of the Commission; 4. The Election Commission of India further directs that the silence period for phase 5 (that is for polls scheduled on April 17, 2021) shall be extended to 72 hours and no campaigning shall be permitted during 72 hours before the close of the poll in order to ensure the conduct of free, fair and peaceful elections. The respective district election officers and superintendents of police/commissioners of police shall be personally responsible for its compliance...”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: PM calls Deb threat ‘hooliganism’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday termed as hooliganism Bengal minister Gautam Deb’s alleged threat to a monk that he would be evicted if he didn’t vote for the Trinamul Congress and said the incident was the fallout of Mamata Banerjee’s 10-year rule. Addressing an election rally at Kawakhali here, Modi said he had seen a video clip that showed “one of the close associates of Didi” threatening people. “The minister was telling somebody that if he did not vote for Trinamul, he would be evicted. Do you think this can be done in a democracy? Even as the Prime Minister of this country, I can’t afford to speak to any of our citizens in such a way because democracy and law are here. This is complete hooliganism and is the fallout of Didi’s 10-year-long regime,” the Prime Minister said. Political observers said it was interesting that the Prime Minister referred to a local issue. “The saffron camp seems to be picking up any issue that can be used against Trinamul in the election campaign,” said an observer. Deb is considered the tallest leader of Mamata Banerjee’s party in north Bengal and is contesting from Dabgram-Fulbari Assembly seat. On Thursday, he was found telling a monk of his constituency to support Trinamul or else, face eviction. Sudhakrishna Das Goswami, the monk, raised an ashram on a government plot and according to the tourism minister, the RSS and the BJP use the property for training and meetings. The district administration of Jalpaiguri (where the seat is located) showcaused Deb on Friday. Deb said on Saturday that he had replied to the showcause and Modi’s comments only betrayed the BJP’s desperation. “I have never indulged in hooliganism and have always abided by law. The Prime Minister should have collected some details about me before making such remarks. People of north Bengal and the state as a whole will never buy what he has said about me,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Chidambaram puts EC in dock for firing||The Congress on Saturday blamed the Election Commission for the death of four persons in firing by paramilitary personnel during the fourth phase of polls in Bengal. “I cannot recall in recent years any case of police firing on voting day during elections resulting in four deaths. It is a case of a failure of leadership and management of the deployment of security personnel. Who should bear responsibility? The Election Commission should be held responsible because it has made largescale transfers and postings of senior police officers in Bengal,” said senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram in a series of tweets. Chidambaram also tweeted: “The polarisation of society that is taking place in Bengal, thanks to the BJP, is the gravest tragedy that has befallen that state. I cannot believe that the land of Ramakrishna, Vivekananda, Raja Ram Mohun Roy, Ishwar Chander Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Subhas Chandra Bose Satyajit Ray and Dr B C Roy can fall prey to the virus of communalism. Anyone who claims the legacy of these great leaders — as I proudly do — should shun and fight communalism.” Referring to the firing, Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate also wondered when the Election Commission would wake up. Yashwant Sinha, who joined the Trinamul Congress, a few weeks ago, said: “My condolences to the family of those killed in police firing in Bengal today. Our worst fears about the conduct of central forces under instruction from home minister have come true.” He also said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s language was getting more and more aggressive and ugly as the BJP’s losses were mounting in phase after phase of Bengal polls. “Will he be able to look at Mamata Banerjee in her eyes after she becomes the chief minister again, which is as certain as the sun rising from the east?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: PM blames CM for Cooch Behar firing deaths||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said here on Saturday that he was saddened by four deaths because of firing by the central forces, but sticking to his campaign theme this poll season, blamed Mamata Banerjee for the loss of lives in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi and criticised her brand of “appeasement politics”. “What happened in Cooch Behar was really sad....My condolences are to their families,” said Modi at rally in Kawakhali in Siliguri, around 180km from where the incident took place during the fourth of the eight-phase Bengal elections. But even before his message condoling the Cooch Behar deaths could trickle down to the large crowd — police estimated around 50,000 and the BJP over a lakh — that had gathered at the venue, the Prime Minister launched a scathing attack on the Bengal chief minister. “The huge public support in favour of BJP has rattled Didi. Realising that she is losing her chair, she has stooped to a new low,” said Modi, trying to link Mamata’s recent tirade against the central forces with Saturday’s tragic incident. The contents of Modi’s address made it clear that he was ready with a narrative to turn the tables on Mamata, and also use the incident, in which four Muslim youths lost their lives, to further the party’s polarisation agenda in Bengal. “Didi’s goons can’t do chappa vote the way they did in the (2018) panchayat polls...Didi, this violence and the instigation by you to stall the poll process will not save you,” said Modi. “She is giving training to her chappa vote gang in rallies on how to gherao the central forces, how to beat them up, how to carry out attacks on booths...Do you know of any chief minister doing such things?” he asked. By posing this question, Modi tried to argue that the central forces could have opened fire after people, instigated by Mamata, attacked them. Modi rose to address the gathering in Siliguri around two-and-a-half hours after the incident. The Cooch Behar incident during the poll process, multiple BJP leaders said, became a cause of concern for the saffron ecosystem as this is the first time in recent memory that people have lost their lives from firing by the central forces that report to the Union ministry of home affairs. Later, a note that special police observer Vivek Dube sent to the Nirvachan Sadan (the Election Commission office) also argued that the central forces opened fire only after they were attacked by a mob that didn’t disperse even when the forces had fired in the air. “I urge the Election Commission to take stern action against those behind this incident,” Modi said in the rally. But that plea to the poll panel was also followed by his claims that the BJP was set to sweep the polls in Bengal and that would bring an end to Mamata’s “appeasement politics”. “Didi, you will go, and along with your departure, appeasement politics will also come to an end in Bengal. This appeasement politics has done such damage to the region,” said Modi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||The peto diet||Four phases of elections are already done in West Bengal, and the past few weeks have been punctuated with reports of crude bombs — confiscations, explosions. Even before the election dates were declared, a peto, or crude bomb, had been lobbed at minister Jakir Hossain while he waiting at the Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district; he lost a finger to it. One of his companions, who bore the brunt of the bomb, lost an arm and a leg. A peto is death and destruction wrapped in yards of jute rope. The tying of it is an art and is something of a cottage industry in Bengal. Explosives are wrapped in paper and then the splinters — bits of metal, shards of glass — are added. The whole thing is cocooned in layers of paper and finished off with lashes of sutli dori. “The pressure you apply as you wind the rope around it has to be exactly right — too little and the bomb will not explode on impact, too much and it will burst right in your hands,” says a man who is knowledgeable about such things and who, of course, refuses to be identified. Peto makers are usually men. Apparently, while making petos, a person has to tie a sari around the waist and dip the free end of it in a bucket of water. If a bomb happens to slide out of the hand — it will either be caught in the sari or slide down it into the bucket of water and get defused. If a peto hits the ground, it explodes. In rural areas, where petos are more common, they are kept in protective layers of tuush — the discards after rice grain is winnowed — in paper cartons or wooden boxes or even tins, says a man who is long past his days of carrying petos when he went out on “operations”. In urban areas, they are stored amidst crumpled paper. When embarking on an “operation”, each person carries a single peto because if, god forbid, two petos brush against each other they will explode. In the period immediately after Independence, there was no such thing as a peto. What was available in 1948-49 were firecrackers called bhuipatka. Made of mom chaal (aluminium powder), gandhak (sulphur) and potash (potassium chloride), those contraptions had to be hurled to the ground to make them explode. Bhui means ground and patka means cracker. The petos of today are possibly based on this prototype. Violence has been a part of politics in Bengal from pre-Independence times. Post-Independence, in the 50s and 60s too, there was gostidwandho or tiff, shall we say, between groups of different-minded people. When words turned to blows, their weapon of choice was the fist, followed by the lathi and, sometimes, the soda bottle. Such was the destruction it caused that, sometime in the mid-60s, the soda bottle disappeared from shop shelves of Bengal. They are yet to make a comeback. In 1967, Bengal witnessed the violent peasant revolt in the village of Naxalbari in Siliguri district that gave the Naxalite movement its name. With charismatic leaders like Charu Majumdar and dreams of a better world, it attracted idealistic young minds in hordes. The movement also believed in revolutionary warfare, and not only in rural areas. Naxals required arms and explosives, which were expensive. But while money was in short supply, brilliance was not. Young Naxals came up with formulae to create bombs from inexpensive and easily available materials. The various formulae were fine-tuned and you had the most effective weapon of destruction — the peto. The octogenarian who tells this story has perhaps a simplistic view of things but he is adamant that truth lies at the core of his tale. Not everyone involved in the Naxalite movement was there for the ideology, he continues, some were there for the power. And it was these “antisocial” elements, he says, that carried forward the knowhow to make cheap bombs and spread it among their ilk. The initial petos used scrap iron — nails and sharp little bits of metal — as splinters because they were easily available. The bombs had to be hurled within three feet of the target for maximum effect. They rarely killed outright but always incapacitated the victim and often claimed a body part. But there were occasions when the peto failed to explode. Like everything else, the peto too has evolved in the last five decades. Its knowhow has spread from political musclemen to petty antisocials and also dacoits. Eventually, some petos were made without splinters. Called dhnuyo peto, these spread more smoke and fear in their wake. The latest entrant in the house of peto is called ajanta palish. It is supposed to have made its debut during these Assembly elections and apparently has the firepower to flatten people within a 30-metre radius. And that will not be its only avatar, warns the peto maker. Stay tuned, the tumult across Bengal may have just begun.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Elections 2021: BJP frowns at Englishbazar||Leaders of the saffron camp playing the polarisation card in Malda, a district with 12 Assembly seats and minority population of over 50 per cent, hinted on Saturday that they wanted the name Englishbazar — the district headquarters — changed because it smacks of a colonial legacy. The new name of the district headquarters, BJP leaders said, should keep in mind the rich heritage and history of the Gauda or Gour kingdom founded by Shashanka, one of the prominent Bengali kings. District BJP president Gobinda Mondal said that some 20 years back, as then deputy chief of Englishbazar Municipality, he had raised this name-change demand. In Malda, the civic body, the police station at the district headquarters and the sub-division, all bear the name Englishbazar. “We believe that the name bears the memory of colonial days. Those days were brutal and weavers had to pay dearly under tyrant British traders. There is no glory in carrying the name ahead. Gour or Gauda is our very own and has had a long history. It was also the capital of undivided Bengal. Hence, Englishbazar should be renamed keeping the connection with Gour in mind,” said Mondal, adding that if BJP was voted to power, they would take up the issue with the state government. The saffron camp has always shown an inclination to rename towns and railway stations after icons they are favourably inclined towards, which is believed to be a strategy of polarisation. The two most prominent examples of name change are Mughalsarai station, now renamed Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction, and Allahabad now called Prayagraj. Researchers, asked how the area came to know as Englishbazar, said British traders had found the place suitable for trading indigo and silk. “Since the 17th century, Malda was known for its production of high-quality silk. Gradually, British traders started exploring the district and found Englishbazar suitable as the centre of their business. Neel Kuthi, a structure for indigo trade, was also set up. The British traders preferred Englishbazar as it was well connected through riverways. As it gradually became their trading hub, it initially got the name Angrezabad and later became Englishbazar,” said Radhagobinda Ghosh, a researcher. Satya Ranjan Choudhury, a retired college teacher and history enthusiast, said Malda was one of the most preferred trade centres for the East India Company. “While Rs 1.69 lakh was invested for Calcutta and Rs 1.68 lakh for Shantipur in early 18th century, the investment of the company for Malda was nearly double, at Rs 3.52 lakh,” he said. It was in 1813 when Englishbazar became the headquarters of Malda district. Sreerupa Mitra Choudhury, the BJP candidate contesting from Englishbazar Assembly seat, supported Mondal. “We plan to organise citizens’ conventions and seek peoples’ opinions on the issue. There is no need for any abrupt move as we believe those who honour the rich heritage and history of Gour will undoubtedly welcome the name change and suggest a suitable alternative,” she said. The Assembly segments of Malda district go to polls on April 26 and 29, the last two phases of Bengal elections, with Englishbazar set to vote on April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-115
11-04-2021||West Bengal||The king’s men, the king’s promises||A battalion in the name of the erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar in the central paramilitary forces, a Rs 500-crore cultural centre, a Rs 250-crore statue of social reformer Panchanan Barma. These were some of the things promised to the Rajbanshis by the Union home minister, Amit Shah. Trinamul boss and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced the creation of a Narayani Battalion in the state police recently, constituted a development board for Nashya Sheikhs or Rajbanshi Muslims with eight members, announced several crores of grants for the Rajbanshi Language Academy, the Rajbanshi Development and Cultural Board and a second campus of the Panchanan Barma University. The rollout goes on and on. The Rajbanshi identity is a many-layered thing. Ajit Adhikari, a schoolteacher in Cooch Behar, says, “The community has been divided into several groups at different points of time. Before Independence, the Rajbanshis lived in the princely state of Greater Cooch Behar. It comprised present-day Cooch Behar, parts of Rangpur (now in Bangladesh), parts of Assam, Bihar and Nepal.” When India became independent, Cooch Behar wanted to join the Indian territory, not as a part of the state of West Bengal, but as a C-category state that would be directly under the central government. Says Adhikari, “That is mentioned in the chukti patra or condition of ascension to the Indian state. But that did not happen.” The Rajbanshis are an indigenous people, Adivasis; they were also financially backward at the time of Independence. In the early 20th century, Panchanan Barma, one of the social reformers and intellectuals from within the community, led a social drive. Schoolteacher-cum-social activist Ratan Barma narrates how Panchanan Barma, his postgraduate degree in Sanskrit and an LLB notwithstanding, faced discrimination in British India. He was deliberately overlooked for the post of a sub-divisional administrative officer. Says Barma, “So he came up with his own theory that the Rajbanshis were actually ‘bratya Kshatriyas’ meaning Kshatriyas who had been intentionally kept aside by society. He asked people to adopt the sacred thread and take the position of Kshatriyas, who are believed to be right after Brahmins in the Hindu caste hierarchy.” Panchanan Barma is to the Rajbanshis what Hari Chand and Guru Chand Thakur are to the Matuas. It was his continuous efforts that led to the Rajbanshis being listed under the Scheduled Caste (SC) list in 1976. “It divided us in more ways,” says Adhikari. It seems a section of people wanted to be listed as Scheduled Tribes (ST). So today, when community leaders Ananta Ray Maharaja and Bangshibadan Burman want themselves to be declared STs, the followers of Panchanan Barma do not like it. And a third category, those who got themselves an education and have earned a position in society, do not want to be listed as SCs or STs. Cooch Behar went to the polls yesterday — 21 seats in all. Despite promises aplenty, successive governments in Bengal did little for the Rajbanshis. Says Barma, “During the Congress era, many schools and colleges came up. It was not a government initiative though. Educated Rajbanshis donated land and so on, later the government took over these schools. But other than this, the four things that we Rajbanshis hold dear — bhasha, itihas, sanskriti, sahitya (language, history, culture and literature) — nothing noticeable happened in these fields during the Congress rule.” Dipak Ray, who is the dean, faculty of arts, commerce and law of Raiganj University in North Dinajpur, talks about the Rajbanshis during the Left rule. He says, “Rajbanshis are chiefly farmers and their livelihood comes from the land. This was something that was not taken into consideration by the Left Front government.” He continues, “They have deprived us of many things. The Barga andolon or fight for land rights that was led by the CPI(M) did not address the natives of Cooch Behar.” The Communist era was punctuated with people’s protests in the region. Says Barma, “It started with Hitasadhani Sabha, chiefly a civilians’ group that led a demand for good administration in the 1960s. It did not last long. In the 1970s, the Uttarkhanda andolan started. There was a demand for a separate state. Then in the 1990s, the Kamatapuri andolan was born. The demand for a separate state grew stronger, and this time 15 districts of Assam were also included. And in 1998-99, people like Ananta Maharaja and Bangshibadan Burman led the Greater Coochbehar Andolan. This is still going on.” According to Ray, the ultimate proof of the CPI(M)’s indifference was the distribution of harmoniums among the tribal people of north Bengal in 2010. The harmonium was distributed among Garos, Oraons, Mundas, Malpaharias, and also the Rajbanshis. Ray says, “They are not aware of the culture of the tribes of Bengal. Rabhas and Bodos play the kham sandhrung, a kind of drum. And we, Rajbanshis, play the dotara, sarinda and byana.” The Rajbanshis are also very proud of their language. Panchanan Barma was the first person to insist that Rajbanshi is a language distinct from Bengali. But most of the literature of the Rajbanshis was oral. “We have to document it and for that we need funds, we need patronage. We are trying hard to include Rajbanshi language under the Eighth Schedule of the Indian Constitution,” says Barma. Ray informs that when Mamata Banerjee came to power in 2011, she did open a university in the name of Panchanan Barma and also started two language academies — first came the Rajbanshi Bhasha Academy, next came the Kamatapuri Bhasha Academy — she has also announced the setting up of 200 Rajbanshi schools. “But,” says Barma, “Here too, there is a controversy. Kamatapuri and Rajbanshi are one and the same language. Many believe that a separate academy for Kamatapuri was not required.” If the Trinamul did all this, the common grouse is also that it pandered to the local Muslim community so much that the Rajbanshis began to feel sidelined in their own land. “Be it land issues or employment, Muslims have been getting preferential treatment,” says Barma. And then, given its location on the Bangladesh border, Rajbanshis continue to face the consequence of a continuous process of infiltration. Once again, the ground opinion is that the Trinamul government did nothing to arrest this. The BJP’s interest in the Rajbanshi community is relatively new. In 2019, addressing a rally in Cooch Behar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said, “Didi is scared and frustrated. She backs anti-nationals. You trusted her too much but she betrayed your trust.” In all likelihood, a tangential reference to the infiltration issue. It has been two years and five Lok Sabha seat wins since then, and now once again home minister Amit Shah has promised to act on the old resolve. But what is that realistic and basic demand Rajbanshis would hold one and all political parties to? Says Ratan Barma, “We want that the children of the soil should be given priority when it comes to employment. There should be 70 per cent reservation in government jobs for the original or indigenous people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-116
