12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal elections 2021: EC bars Mamata from campaigning till Tuesday, 8pm||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was banned from campaigning in Bengal for 24 hours on Monday evening over speeches that the Election Commission (EC) said had religious overtones and violated rules. Sources said the ban till 8 pm on Tuesday - outgoing Election Commissioner Sunil Arora's final order -- was for Mamata's  comments on Muslim votes and for allegedly urging voters to revolt against central security forces, reported PTI. "Commission hereby condemns such statements potent with serious law and order problems across the state (s) and sternly warns Mamata Banerjee and advises her to desist from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when Model Code of Conduct is in force," the order said, PTI reported. It said that the "commission also imposes a ban of 24 hours on Ms Mamata Banerjee from campaigning in any manner from 8.00 pm of April 12 till 8.00 pm of April 13". Mamata has tweeted that she will sit on dharna tomorrow at Gandhi Murti from 12, noon as a symbol of protest against the "unconstitutional order of the EC" that came half-way through the Bengal elections with four more rounds of voting left. Campaigning has been intense, pitting Mamata against a galaxy of BJP leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah. The Trinamool Congress blasted the Election Commission, dubbing it "Extremely Compromised" - not for the first time. Through Monday, the poll juggernaut in Bengal kept rolling under the shadow of five deaths in a tiny Cooch Behar village. The fifth phase of polling is to be held on April 17 in as many as 45 seats. A multi-phase polling allows campaigning even while polling is on in another part, and that has kept the blame-game alive on both sides. The threat of a repeat of Sitalkuchi has already been announced. Earlier on Monday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Mamata Banerjee stepped up the ante in an effort to milk the issue for votes in the remaining 159 seats. Addressing his first election campaign meeting in Burdwan’s Talit, Modi claimed the BJP had already won 100 seats in the first four phases of polling. “The BJP has scored a century in the first four phases. Didi has lost. That is why she is angry and frustrated. Didi talked about playing games. Her game is over. Didi was clean bowled in Nandigram,” Modi said. About two hours later at Nadia’s Kalyani, Modi told an assembly of BJP supporters that the Cooch Behar incident was a part of Mamata’s masterplan to rig the polls. “Didi has sensed defeat and is hatching new conspiracies. A part of her plan is not to allow scheduled caste voters to cast their votes. Instead, her party workers will cast false votes. Trinamul workers will gherao central force personnel on the streets, while inside her goons carry out the dirty work. What happened in Cooch Behar was a part of this masterplan. “In the first four-phases of polling, Trinamul’s defeat has been ensured. Two days later is Poila Boisakh (Bengali New Year), the countdown of Didi’s government will start from that day,” Modi said. During the day, Mamata also campaigned in Nadia where she continued with her attacks on Modi and Union Home minister Amit Shah. “BJP planned the whole thing (Sitalkuchi killings) with the district superintendent of police. I will probe this. I will find out the truth. Who attended the meeting, how they planned, how a woman was sent first. She was instructed to say her child had been stolen and then they opened fire, killed… BJP killed its own worker, the Rajbonshi brother (Anand Burman), who had died earlier in the day. They are shameless. I will help his family as well,” she said in Ranaghat. “I have got the names of those who fired from the CISF. I won’t spare anyone over this incident. There is no reason to think I am a fool. I have found out everything, I will dig more,” Mamata added. On Sunday night, the former BJP state president Rahul Sinha had commented that the central forces should have killed more in Sitalkuchi. “They should have killed eight. They must be served showcause notice to find out why only four were killed,” Sinha said in Habra in North 24-Parganas. Mamata latched on to Sinha’s statement to bolster her claim. “After the deaths, the BJP president (Dilip Ghosh of the Bengal unit) is saying, open fire. Someone says kill four, someone says kill 12. Aren’t they ashamed of instigating central forces? Amit Shah has made the entire plan,” she claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Shah accuses TMC of spreading lies about NRC||Seeking to allay fears created among the people of the hills by TMC's "lies", Union Home Minister Amit Shah asserted on Monday that the National Register of Citizens (NRC) will have no impact on the Gorkhas. Shah, during an address after a roadshow in Kalimpong, said as long as the Narendra Modi-led BJP government is there at the Centre, no Gorkha will be harmed. "NRC has not yet been implemented, but whenever it is done, not a single Gorkha will be asked to leave," the senior BJP leader said. "The Trinamool Congress is lying about the possible fallout of NRC on the Gorkhas in order to create fear among them," he said. Noting that Darjeeling and Kalimpong have suffered atrocities for long, Shah claimed in 1986, over 1,200 Gorkhas lost their lives, but they did not get justice. The home minister also alleged that the Mamata Banerjee-government has also been responsible for the death of many Gorkhas in recent times. "We will form an SIT and send those responsible for the wrongdoings behind bars," Shah said amid chants of 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Jai Gorkha'. Darjeeling and its adjoining areas were rocked by movements and protests, which at times turned violent, in favour of a separate Gorkhaland in 1986 and in 2017. Later, addressing a poll rally in Dhupguri assembly constituency, Shah declared that the BJP is ahead in 92 of the 135 seats that went to polls in the first four phases of the West Bengal assembly elections. He also asked people to give a grand farewell to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, ensuring that the saffron party wins over 200 seats. Mocking Banerjee for uttering his name more than that of Bengal in her speeches, Shah said had she talked more about the state, the CM could have had a chance to win the elections. Maintaining that he has a resignation letter ready in his pocket, the home minister asked the people at the rally whether they want him to quit in the wake of the death of four people in firing by the CISF during polling in the fourth phase. "If the people want, I will tender my resignation," he added. Dhupguri goes to polls in the fifth phase on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
12-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP to highlight TMC leader's 'insult' of scheduled castes||The BJP will launch major protests in West Bengal against the alleged disparaging comments of a TMC leader about scheduled castes, as the saffron party looks to step up its campaign in the remaining phases of the state assembly polls. A delegation of BJP's Dalit MPs, including party general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam, Sunita Dughal, Hansraj Hans and its SC wing head Lal Singh Arya, submitted a memorandum to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes, seeking action against TMC leader Sujata Mondal Khan. Khan had recently allegedly likened the scheduled castes in West Bengal to beggars for the community's support to the BJP in large numbers. Dubbing the TMC as "anti-Dalits", Gautam said the BJP will launch major protests against the state's ruling party. "What she (Khan) has said is deeply insulting. She said the scheduled castes are beggars by nature. The community is supporting the BJP due to our welfare policies. What she has said is reflective of the TMC's and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's mindset," Gautam told reporters. West Bengal does not even have an SC commission where Dalits can go for lodging their complaints, Gautam said, targeting Banerjee. The Modi government has worked for all sections of society without any discrimination, and that is what the BJP is receiving support for every community, he said. The party has demanded action against Khan. A party delegation had on Sunday lodged a similar complaint with the Election Commission. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also raised the issue in his poll speeches in the state. The BJP has been running a concerted campaign in its bid to end the TMC's 10-year rule in the state. Assembly polls in West Bengal are being held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata 'clean bowled' by people of Bengal, says Modi||Drawing a cricket analogy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday the people of Bengal have hit so many fours and sixes in the first four phases of the assembly polls that the BJP has already completed its century and the TMC is on course to being wiped out. Modi, who is on a whirlwind election tour of the state addressed rallies in Bardhaman and Kalyani, where he came down hard on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, accusing her of instigating people against central forces on election duty in the state. The prime Minister also launched a blistering attack on Banerjee, saying she did not care to express regret after a "leader very close to her" called Scheduled Castes "beggars". "People of Bengal hit so many fours and sixes that BJP has already completed a century (of seats) in the first 4 phases of assembly polls. They have wiped out the TMC in half the match (aadha mein poora saaf). "People of Bengal have clean bowled Didi in Nandigram and have asked her entire team to leave the field," he told an election rally in Bardhaman. Mocking TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee's "Ma, Mati, Manush" slogan, the prime minister said, "Tormenting 'Ma', looting 'Mati' (motherland) and bloodshed of 'Manush' (people) is its reality." Alleging that Banerjee incited people against central forces, he referred to the killing of four in the firing by CISF personnel in Cooch Behar on April 10. "In the last 10 years Mamata Banerjee conspired to deny the scheduled castes, the poor and the deprived sections their rights through 'chappa vote' (rigging). "What happened in Cooch Behar was the consequence of this conspiracy. Victory and defeat are part of democracy but you will not be allowed to snatch away people's right to vote," he told another rally in Kalyani in Nadia district. He said Banerjee's policies have snuffed out the lives of children of countless mothers. In both the rallies, Modi castigated Banerjee over a TMC leader and candidate's comments against the Scheduled Castes equating them with beggars. "Didi calls herself a Royal Bengal Tiger. You tell me is it possible for someone to say such things without her permission? Such comments hurt the soul of Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar. Such a seriously objectionable comment has been made but Didi hasn't condemned it or apologised for it. "You have committed the biggest mistake, the biggest sin by insulting Dalits, Didi," Modi said. Addressing a rally in Matua dominated Kalyani, Modi said Didi didn't like his visit to Orakandi in Bangladesh where the founder of the Matua sect and social reformer Harichand Thakur was born. "Didi did not like my going to Orakandi in Bangladesh, she raised questions over my visit...I have come to assure you today that all refugees will get all facilities due to them, they will get justice. For the BJP, providing justice to all refugees, Matua and Namasudra brothers, is also an emotional commitment," he said. Matuas, originally from Bangladesh, migrated to West Bengal in large numbers after Partition and later during the war for Bangladesh's freedom from Pakistan. Many of them have got Indian citizenship and many not. The TMC had objected to Modi's visit to Bangladesh in the middle of the election campaign claiming it was designed to influence voters in West Bengal. The prime minister alleged Banerjee's appeasement politics hurt Matua and Namsudra communities hard and they had to pay commission to "TMC's extortionists" even to obtain scheduled caste certificates. Accusing Benerjee of dividing people, Modi said "Jukto koro-Seva Koro" (uniting people and serving them) is his motto. "Didi knows Congress could not return to power once ousted, Left could not return once removed from power, you too will never be able to bounce back," he said. Mocking Banerjee, Modi said she had forgotten her party's motto 'Maa, Maati, Manush' and is only chanting his name at public meetings. She only created a mess in the name of governance, the prime minister said. Referring to the recent incident of lynching of a Bihar police officer in West Bengal and the death of his mother from shock which led to their funeral pyres being lit together, Modi said Mamata Banerjee's government does not respect anyone anymore, "not even mothers". "Didi, is that officer's mother not a mother for you? No mother in Bengal knew how cruel and ruthless you are," Modi said. He said Banerjee was getting angrier with each passing day because people of Bengal have decided to show her the exit door. "In democracy it's the people who begin the game and end it, people of Bengal have decreed your 'khela' (game) is up. Didi wanted to hand over the reins to 'Bhaipo' (nephew). People saw through the 'khela' and decided it should be over," Modi said, adding the countdown for her government's departure has begun. Top BJP leaders have often said Banerjee wanted to hand over the reins of the party and the TMC government to her nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek. He promised to revive the industrial belt in Kalyani and said the BJP has presented a roadmap for it in its election manifesto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi: Survivor account and report sent to EC don’t match||Mrinal Haque writhed in his hospital bed, complaining to his mother. “Khub byatha korchhe amma (It’s hurting bad, mother),” the Class VIII student told Rahila Bibi, who has been at the hospital in Mathabhanga with husband Majid Mian since their son was admitted on Saturday afternoon. The 15-year-old boy is central to the narratives swirling around the Sitalkuchi tragedy in which four voters were gunned down by central forces on Saturday. The teenager’s name has travelled beyond Jorpatki village, courtesy a report on the firing that the administration has submitted to the Election Commission. The report sent by Vivek Dube, the special police observer deputed to Bengal by the Election Commission, to Nirvachan Sadan says the boy had fallen sick near a polling booth and some women were found taking care of him. When a group of CISF personnel approached them to ask whether they wanted to send him to hospital in a vehicle parked nearby, some onlookers mistakenly thought the jawans had beaten the boy and raised an outcry, the report says. This prompted 300 to 350 villagers to gather near the booth, it adds. The situation escalated thereafter, culminating in the fatal shootings. Records at the hospital, 10km from Mrinal’s home in Jorpatki, show that the boy had arrived with severe body ache and blunt injury marks in his buttocks, back and shoulder. Asked how he had suffered the injuries, Mrinal said in a weak voice on Sunday: “I was in the local market (in Jorpatki on Saturday morning) when a central force jawan grabbed me by the neck and hit me several times with his stick. I pleaded with him but he kept beating me. After some time, he stopped and I fell to the ground.” Several villagers had told this correspondent the unprovoked thrashing of Mrinal had prompted them to protest the central forces’ high-handedness, which led to the firing that killed the four voters in Jorpatki, part of Sitalkuchi constituency in Cooch Behar district. Rahila said she was told that after Mrinal slumped to the ground, a few people gave him first aid and water. “We got the news and hurried to the spot. Soon, a police team arrived and offered to take him to hospital. Seeing his condition, we agreed and headed for the Mathabhanga sub-divisional hospital,” she said. It’s the only hospital serving the 3 lakh people of Cooch Behar's Mathabhanga sub-division, located along the India-Bangladesh border. Mrinal’s parents could not vote as they had to attend to their son. The parents said they could not have imagined that a jawan’s assault on the boy would set off such a spontaneous protest. The parents added that Mrinal had told them he had no idea why the jawan beat him. “Our house is about 70 metres from the Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra (where the CISF had fired near the 5/126 booth) and adjacent to a local mosque,” father Majid, a farmer, said. “He was nowhere near the booth; he was in the local market, which is around 350 metres from the booth. We can’t understand why the forces beat him up.” Mrinal’s condition has shown no improvement and the doctors have advised a shift to the MJN Government Medical College and Hospital in Cooch Behar town, about 40km away.
But the parents say they haven’t got the money to hire an ambulance. “We are already short of cash for his treatment --- we had brought along whatever little we had but it’s not enough,” Majid said. “I’m trying to get in touch with relatives and neighbours but they are busy with the last rites of the four youths we lost yesterday.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: There’ll be Sitalkuchi everywhere, says Dilip Ghosh||BJP Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh on Sunday threatened a repeat of the Sitalkuchi firing everywhere if “naughty boys” did not behave themselves. “Gone are the days of the politics of fear. Stand in queue and cast your vote. The central forces will be present at the booth; we are here,” Ghosh told a rally at Baranagar on the northern fringes of the city. “Aar jodi barabari korey, Sitalkuchitey dekhechhen ki hoyechhe. Jaygaye jaygaye Sitalkuchi hobey (If they cross the limits, you’ve seen what happened in Sitalkuchi. There will be a Sitalkuchi everywhere).” Ghosh said those who had died in CISF firing in Sitalkuchi were “dushtu chhele (naughty boys)”. He claimed that women have been unable to step out of their homes under Trinamul’s rule. “If you complain, Didi will say they are naughty boys. Where have so many naughty boys come from? These naughty boys were shot in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi yesterday,” he said. “Sobey shuru hoyechhe. Jara bhebechhey kendriyo bahini bondukta dekhanor jonyo niye eshechhe, tara bujhe giyechhe oi gulir gorom kemon. Sara Banglaye eta hobey (It’s just a start. Those who thought the central forces had brought their guns only for show, they have realised how searing those bullets are. This will happen across Bengal).” Several BJP leaders said in private that Ghosh had made these comments to press ahead with the agenda of polarisation in the constituencies that are yet to vote. BJP leaders realise that it’s difficult for their party to win seats where Muslims make up more than 40 per cent of the population. Their objective is to consolidate the Hindu vote in the BJP’s favour in constituencies where the minority vote share is below 40 per cent. Responding to Ghosh’s speech, Trinamul MP and spokesperson Saugata Roy said: “It’s beneath humanity to speak like this.” Roy said his party would report Ghosh’s speech to the poll panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Sitalkuchi voters were shot in chest and neck, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday alleged “genocide” in Sitalkuchi, saying the four voters killed in Saturday’s CISF firing were “sprayed with bullets in the chest and neck”. Her allegation came at an unscheduled news conference, called after her planned visit to Jorpatki village in Cooch Behar, where the deaths occurred, was thwarted by the Election Commission’s 72-hour ban from Saturday evening on politicians entering the district. Mamata, however, sprang a surprise at the Siliguri news conference, making a 10-minute video call to talk to the bereaved families in Cooch Behar. “This was genocide. It’s unprecedented. The central force just sprayed them with bullets,” Mamata had earlier told the reporters, adding that she had seen images of the bodies. “They should have fired below the waist, but the bullets were fired at the neck and the chest,” the chief minister added, a black stole wrapped around her neck as a mark of grief and protest. The dead voters — Nur Alam Mian (20), Maniruzzaman Mian (28), Samiul Haq (21) and Hamidul Mian (31) — are said to have been Trinamul supporters. While the administration, functioning under the poll panel, has said the CISF personnel fired in self-defence after being attacked by a mob, local villagers have alleged unprovoked caning and firing by the forces. Mamata questioned the deployment of the CISF, which specialises in industrial security, to maintain law and order during an election. “Are they trained to control mobs? No. I want to know why bullets were fired like this. Why no tear gas? Why no water cannon?” she said. Mamata continued to question the claim by the administration and BJP politicians that the CISF personnel had been forced to fire to protect themselves, their weapons and polling material like the electronic voting machines from a violent mob. “Show me one (security force) person who was attacked and injured.... There is no basis to this self-defence theory,” Mamata said. She accused the Centre of using the central forces and the Election Commission to create unrest in Bengal during the polls. "It's an incompetent government, incompetent Prime Minister and incompetent home minister. They first kill people and then give a clean chit to those who killed them. I demand the home minister's resignation," the chief minister said. She added: "They killed the villagers and then this order was issued to prevent me going there so that they can suppress the facts. But see, I can reach the family members there." Mamata dialled the phone number of Partha Pratim Roy, Trinamul nominee from Sitalkuchi and president of the party's Cooch Behar unit. Roy was at the morgue in Mathabhanga sub-divisional hospital where the families of the dead had come to collect the bodies after the post-mortems, whose reports have yet not been revealed. During the video call, Mamata spoke to the families of Maniruzzaman and Hamidul and promised all possible help. "You know that I wanted to come but they didn't let me. I shall come after three days, on April 14. I can't bring back those who lost their lives, but I shall do whatever I can for the families," Mamata told the grieving relatives. Under Mamata's instructions, Trinamul observed a "black day" across the state. Party sources said Trinamul would continue the protests, portraying the Cooch Behar killings as a planned assault on Bengal by outsiders. Union home minister Amit Shah, who attended multiple programmes in Nadia and North 24-Parganas, accused Mamata of using deaths to "pursue appeasement politics". "The deaths are unfortunate, but the chief minister hasn't said anything about the fifth death. Ananda Burman, a first-time voter, was killed but she didn't say a word about him. She is using deaths to pursue appeasement politics for electoral gain," Shah said. Mamata had, however, mentioned the death of 18-year-old Burman and said he was a Trinamul supporter. News reports said Burman had been shot dead outside his booth in Sitalkuchi, at a place 15km from Jorpatki, during a BJP-Trinamul clash. The two parties have blamed each other. Shah's allegation that Mamata had been silent on Burman was aimed at polarising the Hindu voters further, BJP sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: State seeks EC nod to give compensation to family of youths killed in CISF firing||The state government has asked Pawan Kadyan, the Cooch Behar district magistrate, to send a formal request to the Election Commission of India, seeking permission to give compensation to the family of the four youths killed during the central force firing in Sitalkuchi on Saturday. The DM has also been asked to seek permission to give compensation to the injured. “As the model code of conduct is in place, the government can’t announce compensation without an approval from the EC. The DM of Cooch Behar will seek permission to give Rs 5 lakh each to the family of the victims and Rs 2 lakh each to the injured,” said a senior government official. The state government is planning to get a nod from the EC to give compensation to the family members of Ananda Burman, the fifth youth killed in Cooch Behar. The 18-year-old died of a bullet injury during a BJP-Trinamul clash. Sources in the poll panel said that such permissions are usually granted on humanitarian grounds given that the issue is not used as a poll tool. “In this case too, the EC would not oppose the state government’s decision to give compensation, but there will be a precondition. It has to be ensured that no political leader will be involved in the process of giving compensation and the issue won’t be used in a political platform ahead of polls,” said a source. District authorities in Cooch Behar have said that they are yet to decide on when repolling will be held at booth  5/126 in Jorpatki village of Sitalkuchi where the firing took place. “Polling stopped immediately after the violence... The EC ordered repolling, but fresh dates are yet to be announced,” said Kadyan. After the incident, the CISF had lodged an FIR at Mathabhanga police station. The family members of the bereaved, however, did not file any complaint with the police till late Monday evening. “The chief minister had said that she would get the incident probed by the CID.... But as the family members haven’t yet formally lodged any complaint, the probe cannot be started,” said a source. In view of the tense situation at the village, the police intensified mobile patrolling in the village. The central force personnel, however, left the village last night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Mamata leads candlelight march for slain voters||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday apparently revived a 2007-era slogan, made famous during the Nandigram’s anti-land acquisition movement in East Midnapore, with a call to respond to bullets with ballots a day after the Sitalkuchi firing incident. Mamata, who attended two rallies in north Bengal followed by a candle march in Burdwan on Sunday, highlighted the purported CISF “murders” at all her events. In Burdwan on Sunday evening, she participated in a road show on her wheelchair and covered a 6km stretch with a candle in hand, to show her solidarity for the four youths who were gunned down in Sitalkuchi. At a rally in Jalpaiguri’s Raiganj on Sunday afternoon, Mamata implored the crowd to avenge the Sitalkuchi deaths, from the central forces opening fire, with votes and not violence. The parallels to 2007 were obvious on Sunday, when Mamata refused to go on the back foot and instead rallied her supporters at a time of crisis. “Bengal will make Trinamul victorious with more votes and seats than it had earlier. It is a challenge...Don’t give them (the BJP) a single vote. You have to make us victorious with more votes than in the past. This is a challenge….My mothers and sisters, you will cast your vote for your brothers who were gunned down and remember their blood-stained faces,” she said. Trinamul sources said Mamata was both furious and impassioned by Saturday’s incident, and cast aside restraint over poll-time predictions by declaring that her party would win with more than the 211 seats that it had won in 2016. “Till now, she had only confidently declared she would win, but had been ambiguous about numbers, besides urging people to ensure victories in 200-plus seats. Now, she seems a lot more incensed, more confident…. The BJP-led Centre’s central forces committed a big mistake politically,” said a source. “She was quietly confident before this. But after Sitalkuchi, she’s back to her fiery old self… seething and supremely confident. She realises that the Sitalkuchi incident would be pivotal,” he added. Many Trinamul insiders recalled her movement in Nandigram, where she agitated relentlessly after 14 persons were killed in police firing during the Left regime, recounting how that show of support underpinned her rise to power. From her rally in Jalpaiguri on Sunday, Mamata revived the Nandigram-era slogan. “Bullet-eyr bawdla ballot-ey chai (Bullets must be avenged with ballots),” she said. Trinamul leaders pointed out the slogan was made famous during the Nandigram movement. “The CISF who are trained to handle miscreants killed our brothers who were in the queue of a polling booth. It was a planned murder and Union home minister Amit Shah is responsible. It is shameful that the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) tried to support genocide,” Mamata said at a rally. Apart from focusing on Sitalkuchi, Mamata also highlighted how her government had helped to develop the tea and tourism sectors, which are considered the lifeline of north Bengal’s economy. “We gave free dwellings for the tea garden workers. Our government had increased the wage of tea garden workers from Rs 67 to Rs 202. The BJP government assured you of opening tea gardens but they did not open a single one. While BJP gave false promises to the people here, our government opened seven tea gardens,” said Mamata from her first campaign rally in the Dooars, referencing her government’s efforts to develop the tourism sector after she came to power in 2011. Trinamul sources said Mamata’s focus on the tea sector was vital as tea workers are a deciding factor in 12 out of 54 Assembly constituencies in north Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amid rage and tears, villagers bury four youths ||When she woke up on Saturday, Rahila Bibi, 23, of Jorpatki village had no inkling of what could happen in a few hours — she was simply excited about her Gangtok trip, starting Sunday, with her husband Maniruzzaman Mia, 28, and their one-and-a-half-month-old daughter. However, on Sunday, a devastated Rahila bade her final farewell to her young husband, one of the four men who fell to the CISF bullets at Jorpatki village in Sitalkuchi of Cooch Behar district on Saturday. Their daughter slept on in the lap of a relative, oblivious to the fact that she lost her father. The other three men who lost their lives are Nur Alam Mia, 20, Samiul Mia, 21, and Hamidul Mia, 31. “He had reached home from Gangtok (Maniruzzaman worked as a construction site labourer there) on Friday (a day ahead of the fourth phase of polls)…we had plans that today (Sunday), we would leave for his workplace and would spent some days there in the hills. Yesterday (Saturday), both of us went to vote and then suddenly…gunshots were fired and my life took a different turn,” said a wailing Rahila. Mamata Bibi, Maniruzzaman’s mother, was also inconsolable. Sitting in front of their house, she went on repeating why the CISF personnel did not charge at the voters with batons if there had been any problem at the booth. “They could have even shot them in the leg…. Our sons would have been injured but we would not have lost them like this,” Maniruzzaman’s mother said. “We want justice as it is evident that the bullets had been fired to kill them,” she added. On Sunday morning, Jorpatki, an otherwise quiet, nondescript hamlet in Cooch Behar that hit the headlines after the central forces posted in a local booth opened fire at the residents on Saturday — a rare incident in Bengal during the poll season — wore a bleak look. As the day rolled on, people started assembling near the houses of the four victims in ones and twos, trying to console the bereaved family members. Another group of villagers headed for the Mathabhanga sub-divisional hospital to get bodies of the four youths back to the village for their burial. Late in the morning, the bodies were brought to the village. Hundreds of people assembled and raised slogans to seek justice for the deaths of the youths. The bodies were then taken to their respective houses, where traditional rituals were held. Then, the bodies were brought to a graveyard of Hamidul’s family, where the villagers paid the four youths their last respects before the burial. Absar Ali, Samiul’s father, sat near the graveyard for a long time, lamenting the loss of his son. Samiul, who used to run an internet café in the locality, was a first-time voter. “These Bengal elections have taken away my son from me…. I will never vote again in my life. We were standing in queue… both my sons were there. Suddenly, the security men present there started firing. I lost Samiul. We don’t know what made them take such a step,” said the sexagenarian. He said he was still dazed at the events of the last 24 hours. “My life has changed,” he added. The villagers, who had assembled in large numbers for the burial of the youths, sounded angry. “Why are the Election Commission and the administration silent? Why have the CISF personnel, who indiscriminately fired at our boys, not been taken into custody? We want answers,” said Ershad Hossain, a villager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Amit Shah shifts onus on Didi, demands apology||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday tried to shift the responsibility of the Sitalkuchi incident to Mamata Banerjee, claiming that her allegedly inflammatory speech against the central forces had triggered the incident. Shah, who also tried to play the communal card on the chief minister’s alleged selective mourning for the deceased, demanded her apology for the deaths. Mamata has held Shah responsible for the incident and demanded his resignation. Shah on Sunday said the deaths were “very unfortunate” and asserted that Mamata had tarnished the “tradition and culture” of politics in Bengal. “A few days ago, Mamata didi delivered a speech in Sitalkuchi where she asked people to attack the CISF, the CAPF... I want to ask her a direct question... Wasn’t your speech responsible for the death of the four persons? Had you not delivered such a speech, the persons who died would not have dared to attack,” Shah said Nadia. “It is you who incited people that led to the firing. I hope you would apologise for the inflammatory speech,” he added. On April 8, Mamata had at a rally in Cooch Behar said that people should “gherao” the central forces personnel if they tried to foment trouble or work in favour of the BJP. The Election Commission had sought a report from the Cooch Behar district administration after the speech. The BJP also lodged a complaint with the commission, terming Mamata’s statement against the central force as “seditious” and “anti-national”. On Sunday, Shah blamed the Trinamul Congress chief for “politicising” the incident. “Some unidentified persons attacked a polling station yesterday (Saturday). They tried to snatch arms from the personnel. In self-defence, the personnel had to open fire in which four persons died. This is quite an unfortunate incident. But prior to that incident, a person was killed by miscreants in that booth. The motive was to stop polling there. The miscreants attacked the CISF there and tried to loot their arms as well,” Shah said in Nadia’s Santipur. He accused Mamata of “appeasement politics”, claiming that she wasn’t mourning the first death of a youth called Ananda Burman. “It is quite unfortunate that Mamata didi in her statement expressed condolence only for four persons. But she did not pay any homage to Ananda Burman. Even in death, she continues with her appeasement politics.” Trinamul’s chief whip in Rajya Sabha Sukhendu Sekhar Roy rubbished the allegations. “People in Bengal have heard what Mamata Banerjee had said about the loss of five lives, not four, in Sitalkuchi. She mentioned the names of all and expressed her condolence for all. She does not need to learn lessons on political culture from Amit Shah,” Roy said. He added that his party had demanded the arrest of BJP Bengal unit chief Dilip Ghosh for his saying that there would be more incidents like Sitalkuchi. He also said that till Sunday evening, 11,700 rallies had been organised by the TMC across the state, condemning the Sitalkuchi killings and demanding Shah's resignation. The Congress's Bengal unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury demanded immediate arrest of the central force personnel who opened fire in Sitalkuchi. “It is quite horrible, the way common people were shot. The Election Commission failed to maintain law and order. Now it should at least arrest the personnel who killed those people," Chowdhury said in Basirhat. Responding to Mamata’s demand for his resignation, Shah atrally in Basirhat South on Sunday said: ‘Didi, when people will ask me, I’ll resign. But you be prepared, on May 2 you’ll have to resign.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Gurung accuses Golay of routing funds for BJP||Bimal Gurung accused Sikkim chief minister P.S. Golay of routing funds for the BJP in the Darjeeling-Siliguri region to influence the ongoing elections purportedly to save his government in Sikkim that is indebted to the BJP. “BJP is about to gobble the Sikkim government and the Sikkim government in order to save his government is holding on to the dhoti of BJP and indulging in politics…how much funds have you send for Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong, Siliguri, Naxalbari, Khoribari? How many crores, have you sent?” Gurung questioned in a rally at Rangpo near the  Sikkim border on Saturday evening. This is the first time in recent memory that a Sikkim chief minister has been accused of funding elections in Bengal, a charge denied by Golay. Gurung, however, was also specific in his speech and said funds were being sent through contractors. “We have not and will never interfere in the politics of any other state. We have not done it in the past and will not do it in the future. We all know there is an election going on and we have nothing to comment on which leader says what about us,” said Golay. An observer said that Gurung’s allegation against Golay has to be seen in the backdrop of how he became the chief minister following the slender victory of his party, Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM), in the 2019 Sikkim Assembly election. SKM had won 17 seats against the Pawan Chamling-headed SDF’s 15 seats in the 32-member House. Golay, however, had not contested the elections since he was rendered ineligible after serving a year’s term in a corruption case. According to a section of the anti-corruption law, a person convicted of corruption cannot contest an election for six years from the date of his release from jail. Golay was freed after serving a year’s term on August 10, 2018 and the elections to the Sikkim Assembly were held in April 2019. Following SKM’s victory, Sikkim governor Ganga Prasad, an old BJP hand from Bihar, invited Golay to form the government. As demanded by law, since Golay was not a member of the Assembly, he had to get himself elected to the Assembly within six months of assuming office on May 27, 2019, which Golay did under extraordinary circumstances after the ECI reduced his disqualification period from six years to one-and-half years a day ahead of the last day for filing of nominations for the October 21, 2019 bypoll, and a day after the SKM had agreed to an alliance with the BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Malda Congress candidate Mottakin Alam attacked||Mottakin Alam, the Congress candidate contesting from the Manikchak Assembly seat in Malda, and district Congress president Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury were attacked and their vehicles were ransacked on Sunday while they were moving through a locality in Manikchak to campaign for the elections. District Congress leaders have blamed TMC-backed goons for the attack and filed complaints with the police and Election Commission. Sabitri Mitra, a former minister and the TMC candidate from Manikchak has refuted the allegation. Khan Choudhury, who is also the Congress MP from Malda South seat, said they were on their way to Fulbaria when the incident took place. “Alam’s car was ahead and my vehicle was following it. Suddenly, a group of people, many of whom were holding TMC flags, blocked the road. While some pelted stones on our vehicles, others tried to drag out Alam, who is the sitting MLA of Manikchak,” he said. Kalisadhan Roy, a septuagenarian and working president of Malda district Congress was also not spared, the Congress MP added. Alam, who is the sitting MLA of Manikchak, was equally critical of the ruling party. Some elected members of a local rural body where the Trinamul is in power had organised the attack, he alleged. “I was fortunate to escape with minor injuries. The attack exposes the frustrations of Trinamul leaders and their followers. We want the police and administration to take stern steps,” he said. Mitra, the TMC candidate however, distanced herself from the incident. In a video message that she circulated among the local media, Mitra claimed that she is under treatment. “Also, the head of Fulbaria panchayat has undergone a surgery and is under treatment. Those who had a tussle with the Congress leaders have no connection with our party. Congress is unnecessarily indulging in a blame game,” she said. Subhamay Bose, a spokesperson for the TMC, said: “A section of Congress workers are miffed with Alam’s nomination from Manikchak for the second time. They might have demonstrated before the Congress leaders,” he said. After the incident, Congress and CPM supporters held joint protests at a number of places in the district on Sunday afternoon. Rajarshi Mitra, the district magistrate and the district election officer, confirmed that they have received complaints from the Congress leaders. “We are looking into it,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Voting at Tibetan Settlement Office in Darjeeling passes off peacefully||There were no central forces or polling agents, but voting at the Tibetan Settlement Office in Darjeeling passed off peacefully on Sunday in sharp contrast to the violence in the ongoing Bengal polls. Tibetans in Darjeeling joined nearly 83,000-odd voters in some 26 countries to elect their Sikyong (president) of Central Tibetan Administration (CTA) and 45 Chithue (parliamentarians) to the Tibetan Parliament in Exile (TPiE) on Sunday. “Voting started from 8am and ended at 5pm in Darjeeling as in the rest of the world. There were seven polling booths under our office (in Darjeeling),” said Tenzing, secretary, Tibetan Settlement Office, Darjeeling. The election is one of the most important exercises for Tibetans-in-exile as His Holiness Dalai Lama devolved his political leadership and transferred responsibilities to Sikyong of the CTA in 2011. Its importance is not lost on the younger generation born outside Tibet. Pelmo Thondup, 37, said: “The future of our people will be in the hands of the people who get elected in this election. In a sense we (in exile) are lucky but there is no freedom for our people in Tibet.” Pelmo is the granddaughter of Gyalo Thondup, the second-eldest brother of Dalai Lama. There are an estimated six million Tibetans living in Tibetan Autonomous Region (TAR) in China. This election is held in two phases. During the first phase of polls on January 3, Tibetans across the world had to write names of people they want as president and members of parliament. Any Tibetan above 18 and with a “Green Book” — a registration with CTA — could vote. On Sunday, voters chose between the two candidates who had received the highest endorsement in the January 3, Penpa Tsering and Kelsang Dorjee Aukatsang, as the Sikyong of their choice. The elected Sikyong will then nominate seven Kalons (ministers) to his cabinet called Kashag. Also 93 candidates are in the fray for the 45 parliament seats. The parliamentarians represent three regions of Tibet, four schools of Tibetan Buddhism, a pre-Buddhist religion Bon and Tibetan communities in America- Europe and Australasia- Asia. Results are likely to be announced on May 14. Pasang Doma Bhutia, 61, a voter, cautioned the community. “We should not vote on lines of regions of Tibet or schools of religion but on an individual’s ability as we have to be united to fight for our people in Tibet,” said Pasang, whose father, a Tibetan soldier, was killed by Chinese.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: How Mamata rehabilitated former KLO militants||Two decades ago, Milton Burma used to trot along the mountainous terrains of Bhutan in chequered fatigues, carrying an AK-series rifle on his shoulders. It was a part of his regular regime to keep himself fit like hundreds of other Rajbanshi youths who had walked out of their homes and joined the armed struggle over the demand for statehood under the banner of the Kamtapur Liberation Organisation (KLO). The outfit wanted a separate Kamtapur state that would include six north Bengal districts and three contiguous districts in Assam. Today, Milton Burma — a name given to him by KLO leaders, his real name being Mihir Das — is equally fit. His morning routine has remained the same but the place and purpose have changed. Earlier, he was an armed rebel, now Mihir is a khaki-clad home guard in the Bengal police force. He is posted in Kumargram — his home block in Alipurduar that was once a hotbed of the KLO. In 2002 and 2003, when the Royal Bhutan Army launched Operation Flushout, most KLO militants had been nabbed from the training camps the outfit had set up in remote locations. Some others who could evade arrest later surrendered. The Left Front government then took the initiative to rehabilitate the former militants but the plan failed. Former rebels like Mihir and hundreds of others had to struggle for years to earn a living. “While a section of us started working on a daily-wage basis in agricultural fields, the others left to work at construction sites and stone quarries elsewhere,” said Bhupesh Das, another former militant. However, things started changing in 2019 when chief minister Mamata Banerjee took the initiative to induct them into the state police as special home guards. “It was our longstanding demand, which the chief minister met. It is because of Mamata Banerjee that we got a new lease of life. Most of us work as home guards now and earn around Rs 17,000 a month. It is like a dream come true,” Mihir said. According to sources, over 700 former militants and linkmen (untrained insurgents who used to work for the KLO) have been employed as home guards in different districts of north Bengal.
Another 500-odd former militants are awaiting appointment, the sources said. Bhupesh, who was known as Kalia among KLO cadres and was famous for his expertise in traversing different terrains with firearms and ammunition, said it gave them a sense of pride wearing the khaki. He said that even after they returned to the mainstream, their neighbours had some reservations about them. “Some of us had to even confront unpleasant comments. But after we began working as home guards, the perception of the people has changed. It has also helped us to regain our confidence and self-respect,” Bhupesh said. The rehabilitation of the former KLO militants and linkmen could help Mamata to win the support of sections of the Rajbanshis, observers said. The observers said that even three-four years back, there had been indications that some of the former militants could embrace insurgency again to protest the “apathy” of the government. “The KLO disintegrated years ago but even today, Jeevan Singha (the outfit’s self-styled chief) and some others continue to elude the police. The chief minister’s initiative to induct former militants as home guards has helped to address the grievances of these people. It has also staved off the possibility of the KLO reorganising,” a retired police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Singur rues lost time, appeals to leaders for industry||A jackal scurries across a 12-feet-wide concrete road that connects Bajemelia-Gopalpur village with the Durgapur Expressway in Hooghly’s Singur. The jackal, undisturbed by the chatter of a motley group of villagers, makes a sudden appearance and equally quickly disappears into a stretch of wild bushy growth where over a decade ago stood the almost complete automobile factory from where the Tata Group had planned to roll out its dream car Nano. Since the Tatas left Bengal in September 2008, Singur has witnessed Assembly elections in 2011 and 2016; the first ending the 34-year Left rule and catapulting Mamata Banerjee to the chief minister’s chair. The second ensured a second term for the Trinamul Congress chief, whose rise to power is linked to the land movements she led in Singur and Nandigram. As Singur voted to elect its representative to the Assembly this Saturday, villagers of Bajemelia and Gopalpur admit that cars vrooming out of the automobile plant would have been a better sight to behold than that of jackals taking shelter in the dense bush on barren land. Looking back at his resistance to the Nano plant, Lakshikanta Ghosh, 56, an unwilling farmer who took part in the anti-land acquisition movement, feels the automobile plant should have come up and wants Mamata to take the initiative if she returns to power. Asked what made him change his mind, Ghosh says: “The returns from agriculture are diminishing every year while factories have the potential to provide large-scale employment to young people like my son and daughter.” “My acre of land now yields almost nothing as its fertility got destroyed because of the construction of the Nano plant,” says Ghosh, who sells vegetables in a local market. Aware of the problems of the farmers, Mamata had after coming to power in 2011 introduced a scheme for around 3,500 unwilling farmers who were part of the Singur movement. They now receive Rs 2,000 a month along with 16kg of rice. Swapan Majhi, 53, who was a willing farmer, had given up his nine-cottah land for the Nano factory. He believes that the factory would have brought jobs and a host of business opportunities to the region. “The project did not happen. Today I have to pull a van to survive as my land has turned barren. There is talk that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will bring a factory to Singur, but I don’t trust that,” Majhi says. After 15 years of the anti-land acquisition movement and sensing the mood of the people in Singur, Mamata has also changed her stand and spoken of building industry in the region. “We will set up an industry here. Primarily on a stretch of six acres of government land, we will set up agro-industries. Large-scale industries will also be set up,” the chief minister said during a campaign rally in Singur. Even Trinamul leaders who had been part of the land movement have had a change of heart. “We were never against industry. The movement was against forcible land acquisition. If anyone can set up industry, it will be none other than Mamata Banerjee,” says Dudh Kumar Dhara, 
a face of the Singur movement and member of the Trinamul-run Singur panchayat samiti. Majhi, the farmer, feels that even though 15 years have passed, it is encouraging that political parties have understood the need for industry. “When political leaders have realised it, the first task they should embark on after forming the government is getting industry to Singur,” he says. The votaries of industry in the region, the CPM, feels the realisation of the people that Singur needs industry validates the Left Front government’s decision in 2006. “People of Singur now realise the need for industry. We will work for both agriculture and industry if voted to power,” the CPM’s young bet in Singur, Srijan Bhattacharya, says on the last day of campaign in Khasbheria villager. While Srijan is looking for support, the son of a CPM supporter, Surajit Santra, 34, till very recently felt that only the BJP could industrialise Singur. But Santra, who works as a mason, is now disillusioned with the BJP after the party decided to nominate Trinamul turncoat Rabindranath Bhattacharya from the seat. Santra asks: “I believed if anyone could bring industry here, it would be Narendra Modi. But not anymore. How can one trust the same mastermoshai (teacher) who had led the movement against the Nano plant to bring industry to Singur?” The 89-year-old Bhattacharya is pitted against Mamata’s trusted lieutenant in Singur, Becharam Manna, and the CPM’s Srijan. BJP state committee member Subir Nag, however, disagrees with Santra. “People will vote for the BJP as they want industry. Their faith in the BJP was proved in the last Lok Sabha polls. The candidate does not matter as people have trust in Modiji,” he says. The Trinamul bastion of Singur was breached in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when the BJP’s Locket Chatterjee took a lead of 10,429 votes from the Assembly segment to win the Hooghly seat. Sources in Trinamul say Locket had managed to woo voters as she had assured people that industries would be set up in the region. Both Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have spoken about setting up industry in Singur in their poll campaigns.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-113
12-04-2021||West Bengal||West Bengal Assembly Elections 2021: Focus on welfare||Name: Trishna Manger Occupation: Graphic designer at Yellow Box, a start-up Age: 25 Education: MA in mass communication Size of family: Four (father, mother and younger sister) Seat: Darjeeling Q: Is there any one issue that is deciding how you will vote? A: I shall consider several issues accrued since the last elections. Q: Will you vote for the same party you voted for in 2016? If so, why? A: I shall be voting for the party that has been consistent in governance for general welfare. Q: Three things that Mamata Banerjee has done that benefited you? A: The introduction of the Swasthya Sathi health scheme, opening of fair-price medicine shops and a general all-round boost to the tourism sector. Q: Three things Mamata has done that hurt you. A: Mishandling of the 104-day strike in the Darjeeling hills, the inability to completely stem communal violence in the state and the fact that the number of beggars in Bengal is the highest in the country. Q: Do you believe Mamata works for the poor or do you see her as a part of the elite? A: She has always been a leader of the masses and she seems concerned about the poor. Q: What do you think of the charge that she is only a Pishi? A: I have not felt that she is pushing for a dynasty in her party. Q: Three things that Narendra Modi has done at the Centre that benefited you. A: The Atmanirbhar Bharat plan and the Make in India scheme have swivelled the spotlight on local initiatives. The Swachh Bharat Mission is a much-needed idea for our nation. Boost to the MSME sector is also to be appreciated. Q: Three things that Modi has done at the Centre that hurt you? A: The introduction of the CAA, the three farm laws that were passed ignoring the peasants’ movement and the mishandling of the migrant workers’ crisis. Q: Does he work for the poor or do you think it is true that he is working for his cronies? A: Various policies related to privatisation and disinvestment do give credence to accusations that Modi is colluding with the business elite. However, one cannot ignore the slew of social schemes of the Modi goverment.... Q: Has your life got better since 2016 or worse? A: The state government has failed to provide equitable development, especially across Bengal’s diverse geographical landscape. There are apprehensions among certain sections that they are being “ignored” due to socio-political considerations. Also, the state being at loggerheads with the Centre over implementing central schemes has given the impression that benefits have eluded Bengal because of political reasons. Q: What do you think about the Left’s chances and about its alliance? A: The Left is trying to resurrect itself in pockets but I feel they have not been able to enthuse the youths, women and especially the entrepreneurial class who view its ideological notions as an impediment to industrialisation. Q: Do Hindus and Muslims live in harmony in your neighbourhood? A: In my neighbourhood, yes. My society is secular. The presence of Hindus and Muslims as a single entity during various social and cultural events has allayed fears of people becoming victims of political vendetta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-114
