13-04-2021||West Bengal||On wheelchair, Mamata sits alone on dharna near Gandhi’s statue||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee sat on a dharna on Tuesday all by herself near Gandhi’s statue on Mayo Road, her favourite protest spot during her days in the Opposition, to protest against the Election Commission of India’s (ECI) decision to ban her from campaigning for 24 hours. Wearing a black mask and scarf, Mamata arrived on a wheelchair with her painting tools a little before 12 noon. She stayed on till around 3pm, it was unclear why she left. In the little over three hours that Mamata was at the dharna site, she kept herself occupied by painting. None of the other senior Trinamul leaders who are usually there whenever she is on a dharna was around. With the EC clamping her speech, Mamata kept her thoughts to herself, though she was seen making one call after the other. Her security team too was kept at a short distance away from her, while she was on the wheelchair, with two small tables where she kept brushes and paint and paper.  Once she was done, Mamata displayed some of the paintings to the photographers present. Trinamul sources said Mamata was scheduled to resume her campaign at night at Barasat and Salt Lake. But she would have to wind up before 10pm, the deadline for campaigning to end for the fifth phase of voting to be held on April 17. On Wednesday, Mamata is scheduled to go to Mathabhanga in Cooch Behar to meet the three injured victims of Sitalkuchi’s firing. Tuesday’s dharna is an extension of the running feud between Mamata and the Election Commission of India (ECI) in the run up to the Bengal polls. The feud got aggravated after the ECI banned entry of all politicians in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi where four villagers fell to bullets of central forces on voting day April 10. The ban against Mamata to campaign came into effect from Monday 8.00pm and is to continue till Tuesday 8.00pm. The ECI took cognisance of Mamata’s April 3 speech, primarily her comment that she would not allow  minority votes be divided, something it concluded violated the model code of conduct. Like Ajay Mukherjee, the former chief minister who  had staged a dharna against the government he led during the tumultuous days of the United Front in the late ’60s, Mamata’s has often betrayed her streetfighter tendencies, particularly in her  second term when her spats with the Centre escalated. On the night of December 2, 2016, Mamata refused to leave the state administrative headquarters, Nabanna, objecting to the presence of the Army at the national highway toll booths and questioned whether it was a “coup”. She relented only after the Army officers and personnel left the toll booths. Little over two years later on a February evening, Mamata occupied the Metro channel for three days to protest the summons against then city police chief Rajeev Kumar in the Saradha scam. ECI axe on BJP leader On Tuesday, the election commission announced a 48-hour ban on BJP leader Rahul Sinha for making provocative statements, while two of his party colleagues Suvendu Adhikary and Dilip Ghosh, were slapped with warnings. After the Sitalkuchi incident, Sinha had commented that the central forces should have killed eight persons instead of four, while Ghosh threatened a repeat of Sitalkuchi in the constituencies where polling is yet to be held. Addressing an election campaign meeting in Berhampore, Ghosh, who is also the chief of BJP’s Bengal unit, demanded the resignation of Mamata and that she be barred from campaigning for the remaining duration of the polls. “Despite being the chief minister she is making provocative statements. Banning her for 24 hours is not enough. She should be disbarred from campaigning,” Ghosh said. “Be it the Supreme Court or the Election Commission, instead of following rules, she prefers to hit the streets.” The central poll panel has been under fire from Opposition parties for allegedly toeing the BJP’s line and working to its advantage. In neighbouring Assam where the poll process ended on April 6, the state chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s campaign ban was reduced from 48 hours to 24 hours after he apologised for allegedly threatening Bodoland People’s Front leader Hagrama Mohilary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Nadda takes jibe at Mamata over 'khela hobe' slogan||BJP president J P Nadda, taking at dig at TMC's 'khela hobe' (game will be played) slogan, said on Tuesday that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's plight is that of a "defeated player". Nadda, who led a roadshow at Kalna in Purba Bardhaman district, also said that the TMC supremo, who has her accusatory finger pointed at the BJP and the Election Commission, seems to have forgotten that she has done anything creditworthy for the people of the state. "Mamata's condition is like that of a defeated player in a game. She has done injustice to the people of the state for many years. The BJP, however, will usher in development, stop atrocities on women and create jobs for youth, if voted to power," the top BJP leader claimed. He also said that the TMC dispensation has failed to maintain law and order in Bengal. "Mamata Banerjee's politics of extortion, appeasement, her dictatorial nature, and the cut-money (bribery) culture institutionalised by her party has ruined the state," Nadda added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Gorkha problem will be fixed once BJP comes to power in Bengal, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday gave assurance that a political solution to the long-drawn "Gorkha problem" in the Hills will be reached once the BJP forms government in West Bengal. Shah, during a public meeting here, said that the country's Constitution is "vast" and has provisions for solving all problems. "I promise that a permanent political solution to the Gorkha problem will be reached by the double-engine government of the BJP -- one at the Centre and the other in Bengal. You will not have to resort to agitations anymore," he said. The Union minister, however, did not specify which problem he was referring to. Gorkhas had long been demanding a separate state, and several movements have been launched by the community over the years, the latest being in 2017. Contending that Gorkhas are the pride of India, Shah said that no one cause them any harm. "There is no plan to implement NRC for now. Even if the exercise is carried out, Gorkhas need not worry about it," he asserted. Shah also said that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has "put a full stop" on the development work in Darjeeling, a place that the ruling TMC leaders visit at leisure. Banerjee has visited Darjeeling numerous times in the recent past, but she did not hold any campaign for the three assembly seats in the region -- set to go polls on April 17. The top BJP leader claimed that the TMC supremo tried to ruin the cordial relationship that the BJP shared with the Gorkhas by instituting criminal cases against "some". "Didi has got many killed and instituted cases against many. The BJP, after coming to power, will give amnesty to all such people," he said, without naming anyone. GJM leader Bimal Gurung, a former ally of BJP, had gone into hiding after several criminal charges were pressed against him for allegedly leading a violent statehood agitation in 2017. He resurfaced in October last year and joined hands with the TMC. The state administration has now approached the courts of law for withdrawing some of these cases. The ruling TMC has left the three Darjeeling constituencies to its allies from the Hills -- the two GJM factions led by Gurung and Binay Tamang. Both the sparring factions have fielded candidates, who are constesting the elections from the three seats as Independents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata stages dharna in Calcutta to protest against campaigning ban||Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday sat on a dharna in the heart of the city to protest against the Election Commission's "unconstitutional" decision to ban her from campaigning for 24 hours. Banerjee, still confined to a wheelchair owing to the injuries she sustained last month, arrived at Mayo road here around 11.40 am and began her sit-in next to a Mahatma Gandhi's statue at the venue. No TMC leaders or supporters were spotted nearby. A senior TMC leader, when approached, said, "No party leaders are allowed near the site of the protest. She is sitting there alone." The Election Commission has barred Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours from Monday 8 pm for her remarks against central forces and a statement which had alleged religious overtones. Banerjee, lashing out at the poll panel, had said on Twitter that she would hold a protest against the poll panel's "unconstitutional and undemocratic" decision. The TMC boss is scheduled to address two rallies after 8 pm on Tuesday -- one at Barasat and the other at Bidhanangar. Mamata had tweeted after the poll panel ban on campaigning: “To protest against the undemocratic and unconstitutional decision of the Election Commission of India, I will sit on dharna tomorrow at Gandhi Murti… from 12 noon.” Derek O’Brien, the Trinamul Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, said: “You can ban us but you can’t beat us.” Announcing the campaign ban on Mamata, Election Commission secretary Rakesh Kumar had said: “Ms Banerjee in her reply has yet again conveniently left out key parts of her speech, perhaps due to selective amnesia….” Meanwhile, a defence official here said that the area where Banerjee is staging a protest belongs to the army, and the TMC was yet to receive permission for the programme. "Just to keep everyone informed, we have received an application from the TMC for a no-objection certificate at 9:40 am today. It is still under process," the defence spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||After Mamata, EC bars BJP leader Rahul Sinha from campaigning for 48 hours||The Election Commission on Tuesday barred BJP leader Rahul Sinha from campaigning for 48 hours and slapped a notice on its West Bengal chief Dilip Ghosh over their "provocative" remarks on the killing of four people in firing by CISF during poll violence in Sitalkuchi, saying such statements could have a serious impact on law and order. Strongly condemning Sinha's reported remarks that central forces "should have killed eight rather than four people", the EC said he made "highly provocative statements mocking human life and inciting the forces that could have serious law and order implications". The Commission said it found the remarks of the leaders violative of the model code and various provisions of the Representation of the People Act and the Indian Penal Code. The high-octane assembly election campaign in the state, where the BJP and the Trinamool Congress have unleashed a no-holds-barred attack against each other, has seen the EC clamping down on leaders of both parties for their objectionable utterances. On Monday, the poll panel barred West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours for her remarks against central forces and a statement that allegedly had religious overtones. The EC, in another order, has let off BJP candidate from Nandigram Suvendu Adhikari with a light rap for his remarks that "if people vote for Begum there will be mini Pakistan". "Now, therefore, the Commission hereby warns Shri Suvendu Adhikari and advises him to desist from using such statement while making public utterances during the period when Model Code of Conduct is in force," the order issued on Monday night said. Adhikari is pitted against Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram where polls were held earlier this month. The EC took suo motu cognisance of Rahul Sinha's remarks and said it decided to issue the order without giving any notice to him due to the urgency of the matter. After the Trinamool Congress approached the Commission against Ghosh over his reported remarks that there would be "Sitalkuchi in several places", the EC asked him to respond to its notice making his stand clear on the issue by 10 AM on Wednesday. The notice said the Commission is of the considered view that Dilip Ghosh has in violation of various clauses of the Model Code of Conduct and provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 and the Indian Penal Code "made statements that are provocative and can seriously incite the emotions". This could "lead to a breakdown of law and order thereby adversely affecting the election process", the notice said. The ban on Sinha begins at 12 noon on Tuesday and will remain in force till 12 noon of April 15, the order said. The order quoted the text of Sinha's speech in which he said, "The central forces have given them a befitting answer. If they do it again they will be dealt again in a befitting manner. "The central forces should have killed eight persons instead of four in Sitalkuchi. The central forces should be issued a show-cause notice as to why they have killed only four of them." The order said, "Commission hereby strongly condemns the above statements made by Rahul Sinha, BJP, and sternly warns him to be careful from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when Model Code of Conduct is in force," according to the order. Four men were killed at a booth in the Sitalkuchi assembly constituency in Cooch Behar during the fourth phase polling on April 10 as CISF personnel opened fire after coming under attack from locals who "attempted to snatch their rifles". The EC notice against Ghosh cited his alleged remarks in which the BJP leader said, "Where did so many naughty boys come from? Those naughty boys were shot at yesterday in Shitalkuchi. These naughty boys will not be there in Bengal. "This is just the beginning. Those who thought that the central forces' rifles were meant to be just for a show have well understood now the power of cartridges... there will be Shitalkuchi in several places. So be careful". He also reportedly said that "this will be carried on throughout Bengal. Those who will take the law in their own hands will be given a befitting answer." The eight-phase assembly polls in West Bengal are being held between March 27 and April 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Is the Prime Minister an “aggravator of the culture of eve-teasing”?||When Sushil Chandra takes over as the new Chief Election Commissioner of India on Tuesday, he will have to deal with an unparalleled question: Is the Prime Minister of India an “aggravator of the culture of eve-teasing”? A complaint levelling such an allegation has been filed with Amherst Street police station of Calcutta police, which has forwarded it to the Election Commission. The complaint in the form of a letter has pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been referring to chief minister Mamata Banerjee as “Didiiiii” or “O Didiiiii”. Modi has mentioned the words in “almost all the public meetings and /or the public places with an intent… to cause teasing and mockery to common women in society,” according to the letter submitted by members of the Bangla Citizens Forum. It is  “unfortunate to use the said word which aggravated the culture of eve teasing which is a serious penal offence as laid down under the provision of Section 294 of Indian Penal Code”, adds the letter. Section 294 deals with “obscene acts and songs” and says “whoever, to the annoyance of others does any obscene act in any public place, or sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words, in or near any public place, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine, or with both”. The forum, which describes itself as an organisation that “fights for the protection of the rights of Bengalis” regardless of their political preferences, has also mailed a copy of the complaint to the Election Commission in Delhi. A formal complaint from the Trinamul Congress is already pending with the commission. But this is the first time a complaint has been filed with the police, too. On Monday, Mamata referred to the misogynistic manner in which the Prime Minister addresses her. “The country had never seen such a Prime Minister.  A Prime Minister should speak in dignified language. He should behave properly, respect women and respect the Constitution. But the way he has been behaving and talking, the way he has been taunting and mocking me is a matter of shame,” the chief minister said at Basirhat. The phrase, delivered in a mocking tone, has been widely condemned but Modi keeps springing it on his audience to loud cheers. Allegations have been levelled that the applause is “manufactured” at the sound-system console near the dais. “His language brings shame even to youths chatting informally in a neighbourhood. Even they do not use such foul language. He is far below standards,” Mamata added. Later, speaking in Dum Dum, Mamata said Modi’s references to her indicated his lack of respect for women. “As a chief minister and a woman, the only woman chief minister in the country… I deserve respect. You should extend basic courtesies to a woman,” she said. “I would not have brought this up but it’s relevant in this context…. How can you be expected to respect women? You did not look after your own wife…. I feel compelled to say this here today. You sometimes visit your mother but only for photo-ops,” Mamata added. “The language one uses becomes their identity. What is your identity, Modiji? You, in all of your meetings, mock me…. I cannot understand what language you have imported (to Bengal)… the type that rots,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Chief Election Commissioner exits with 24-hour gag on Mamata Banerjee||Sunil Arora wrapped up his innings as Chief Election Commissioner of India by banning chief minister Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for 24 hours for her calls to minorities not to divide their votes and to women to gherao central force personnel who intimidate them. Mamata responded to the gag order by declaring she would sit in dharna near the Gandhi statue in Calcutta on Tuesday, the penultimate day of campaigning for the fifth phase of polling on Saturday when 45 seats, including Dum Dum, Bidhannagar and Rajarhat-Newtown, vote. The ban is in place from Monday 8pm to Tuesday 8pm. Wednesday will be the last day of campaigning for the fifth phase since the poll panel has widened the silence period to 72 hours from 48 hours after the Sitalkuchi killings. On Tuesday, Mamata will address two rallies after the ban ends at 8pm, the first at Barasat and the second at Biddhannagar. She will campaign in north Bengal on Wednesday. Mamata tweeted after the poll panel ban on campaigning: “To protest against the undemocratic and unconstitutional decision of the Election Commission of India, I will sit on dharna tomorrow at Gandhi Murti… from 12 noon.” Derek O’Brien, the Trinamul Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, said: “You can ban us but you can’t beat us.” Monday was the last day in office for Arora, who has had several run-ins with Mamata and her party. On Tuesday, election commissioner Sushil Chandra, who was chairman of the Central Board of Direct Taxes, is scheduled to take over as Chief Election Commissioner. Arora, a Rajasthan-cadre IAS officer who retired as Union information secretary in 2016, has faced allegations of favouring the BJP by issuing clean chits to its leaders for intemperate remarks during the Lok Sabha polls and going slow on acting against BJP campaigners for incendiary remarks during the Bengal polls. Under him, the EC has remained impervious to specific allegations of the vulnerability of electronic voting machines. Announcing the campaign ban on Mamata, Election Commission secretary Rakesh Kumar said: “Ms Banerjee in her reply has yet again conveniently left out key parts of her speech, perhaps due to selective amnesia….” Kumar added that the commission was of “the considered view that Ms Mamata Banerjee… has in violation of the provisions of the model code of conduct as well as Section 123(3) & (3A) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and Sections 186, 189 and 505 of Indian Penal Code made highly insinuating and provocative remarks laden with serious potential of breakdown of law and order and thereby adversely affecting the election process”. The commission “sternly warns Ms Mamata Banerjee and advises her to desist from using such statements while making public utterances during the period when the model code of conduct is in force”, the order added. The EC stopped short of filing an FIR against Mamata for alleged violations of the act and the penal code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi: Villagers question EC on not sending representative after tragedy||The residents of Sitalkuchi’s Jorpatki have a question for the Election Commission: why did it not send any representative to the village after the deaths of four voters in CISF firing, unlike its prompt action when a BJP politician was found dead in the same district? Most of the villagers The Telegraph spoke to said they were high school dropouts with very little idea about the outside world, but were aware that the poll panel was supposed to be a neutral body. Two yardsticks “A few days ago, a BJP leader was found dead in Dinhata town. Immediately, the Election Commission ordered an investigation and sent the special police observer to Cooch Behar to conduct an inquiry and submit a report,” said Mortuza Mian, a local youth. “On Saturday, four young men from our village lost their lives in firing and yet not a single representative of the poll panel has paid a visit,” added Mortuza, who was injured when the CISF baton-charged villagers on the polling booth premises ahead of the firing. Amit Sarkar, 50, Dinhata town block president of the BJP, was found hanging at a veterinary hospital in the town on March 24, prompting BJP allegations of murder by Trinamul goons. The poll panel quickly removed K. Kannan as Cooch Behar superintendent of police and brought in Debashish Dhar. It despatched Vivek Dube, the special police observer deputed to Bengal, to Cooch Behar. He spoke with administrative and police officials besides visiting the spot in Dinhata. He then filed a report with the Election Commission saying Sarkar had committed suicide. “In this case (Sitalkuchi firing), however, we find the Election Commission missing in action,” said district Trinamul president and Sitalkuchi candidate Partha Pratim Roy. “Four young men died in Jorpatki and another young man elsewhere in Sitalkuchi (Ananda Burman, hit by a bullet during a political clash), yet no one has been sent to conduct an inquiry. This has again raised questions over the poll panel’s neutrality.” Wrong names Another senior Trinamul leader flagged how the report on the firing by Dube — who did not visit Cooch Behar this time — had got the names of all the four slain youths wrong. The report identified the victims as Chhalmu Mia, Joved Ali, Amzad Hossain and Nameed Mia, whereas their real names are Nur Alam Mian, Maniruzzaman Mian, Samiul Haque and Hamidul Mian. Joved happens to be the name of Nur Alam’s father, while Maniruzzaman’s father is called Amzad. “All the names were wrong. In some cases, their names were mixed up with their fathers’ names. We doubt how serious the commission is about the case,” the Trinamul leader said. Missing report The Trinamul leader underlined that the authorities had so far not revealed the contents of the report by the presiding officer, who is supposed to write a detailed account of whatever happens in his booth through the polling day. Post-mortem veil “Nor have the families been provided with the post-mortem reports. We suspect it’s an attempt to suppress facts, for the photos of the victims indicate they were shot in upper parts of their torso,” the Trinamul leader said. Boy’s injuries Kavita Krishnan, politburo member of the CPIML Liberation, has underscored some of the inconsistencies in a complaint to the Election Commission. Krishnan referred to the injuries suffered by Mrinal Haque, 15, who has said he was assaulted by a central force jawan. The assault is considered the flashpoint that led to the firing. “The injuries on Mrinal’s body give the lie to the police observer’s report to the EC, that Mrinal had fallen sick, and that onlookers mistakenly assumed he had been beaten by jawans and assembled a violent mob which attacked the CISF,” Krishnan said in her complaint. “Even the CISF has not claimed that the victims came to the poll booth armed. Had they in fact been planning violence, they would have been armed — they came unarmed because they came to cast their votes. It is inconceivable that four unarmed persons would suddenly seek to snatch rifles from CISF men — knowing full well that they were vastly outnumbered by a CISF battalion armed to the teeth.” CCTV mystery Questions have been raised also at the authorities’ silence on footage from the CCTVs at the booth. While administrative officials have remained tight-lipped on the subject, the district police said the villagers had taken away the security cameras and ancillary equipment. The villagers denied the charge, saying the police had removed the CCTV cameras. “It’s a false allegation. We ran for our lives; how can anyone wrench off CCTVs at such a time?” said Abdul Aziz Kazi, a Jorpatki resident. “We don’t know whether the Election Commission will conduct any probe. So far, only a few local policemen have visited the village and spoken to some people.” CPIML Liberation’s Krishnan also said in the complaint to the Election Commission: “We want to know why the EC has accepted the CISF version without demanding evidence to back the story. Surely there must be CCTV footage, or other videographed evidence of the CISF claims.” The Telegraph had sought the Election Commission’s response to the questions raised by Krishnan and the complaints filed by others about the Sitalkuchi incident but no response had been given till 11pm on Monday. The villagers have built a concrete memorial to the dead near the booth. “We hope Mamata Banerjee will unveil it when she visits our village,” a resident said. Additional reporting by Pheroze L. Vincent in Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid curbs: meeting held with districts where polls are over ||Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay on Monday held a video-conference with district authorities where polls were over in the first four phases and asked them to step up activities to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Districts like South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly, East and West Midnapore, Bankura, Purulia and Jhargram attended the meeting. Sources said the chief secretary made it clear that authorities should ensure enough public awareness programmes to make people aware of the current pandemic situation. On Sunday, 4,398 new infections were reported in the 24-hour window in the state, the highest since October last year, making the total number of active cases shoot up to nearly 24,000 in Bengal. “Authorities should ensure that government offices are run with 50 per cent employees. Private companies should encourage work from home,” said a source quoting the chief secretary. Sources said the chief secretary asked district authorities to consider setting up micro-containment zones if needed. “The area of the micro-containment zone was not specified by the chief secretary. The DMs will decide on micro-containment zones as needed. It may be a single dwelling unit or a cluster,” said a source. The chief secretary said authorities should discourage people from going out to participate in festivals like the upcoming Bengali New Year. Authorities have been asked to restrict night movement though the state won’t declare official night curfew according to the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Hospital beds earmarked for Covid-19 patients have to be brought back in the Covid wards and oxygen supply has to ensured in all hospitals with Covid patients. Sources said districts which participated in Monday’s video conference are not in the zones where cases were rising alarmingly. But they were put on alert so that they can handle the situation. “Most positive cases are being reported from Calcutta and North 24-Parganas and curbs could not be imposed in these two areas as polls are still to be held. Large poll rallies in these two areas flout Covid-19 protocols, making the situation critical for the entire state,” said a senior health department official. Of the 4,398 positive cases in Bengal on Sunday, Calcutta reported 1,109 cases and North 24-Parganas 1,047. “The situation in the remaining districts are somehow under control so far. But the way people are travelling from these two areas to districts where elections are yet to be held for political rallies, the state could face a disaster soon if Covid-19 safety protocols are not obeyed in the rallies," said a source. The state, meanwhile, has increased the number of tests. It has reached 40,000 daily tests and it is trying to take the figure to 45,000 per day within two days. “We have to increase the tests to isolate positive persons to stop the spread of the virus. Right now the positivity rate is 10 percent and this is alarming. We have to bring the positivity rate to below 5 percent and for that the number of tests must increase,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Gorkhas safe, says Amit Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah, on his first Assembly election campaign in Darjeeling hills on Monday, said not a single Gorkha would be displaced by the National Register of Citizens (NRC) update process, at a time reports have emerged that many Gorkhas in neighbouring Assam have not found their names in the register. On core issues of Darjeeling such as the permanent political solution and the demand to confer Scheduled Tribe status to 11 hill communities, Shah was brief and only referred to the BJP manifesto. Addressing a crowd in Kalimpong after a road show, Shah said that “lies” were being spread that once the NRC is implemented, Gorkhas would be displaced. “Even if the NRC comes, not a single Gorkha will be displaced. Trinamul is spreading lies that the NRC will come. NRC has not come and even if it comes, it will not affect Gorkhas,” said Shah. Just a few days back, Gorkhas from Assam had issued messages regarding the problems faced by the community members and their exclusion from the register after Kurseong BJP MLA candidate, B.P. Bajgain, had spoken on Shah’s lines. There was much expectation from Shah to provide an insight on core issues of Darjeeling which the hill residents have raised before the saffron camp. Shah, however, was found wanting. “All your issues are there in the ‘Sankalp Patra’ (manifesto) of the BJP,” is all that he said. Even his statement on the tribal status was carefully worded. “In our ‘Sankalp Patra’, we have decided that by providing ST status to 11 Gorkha communities, BJP will secure your education and jobs,” said Shah. The BJP’s promise on ST status has been there for the past seven years and this time, the hill populace wanted to hear something concrete on this promise. Shah, meanwhile, promised a Gorkha language TV channel in Bengal for “education and entertainment”. The Union home minister, however, urged the hill people to ensure that the three hill BJP candidates reach Bengal Assembly as this would be “a solution to all your problems.” He also promised to set up a special investigation team to look into all “atrocities” against the hill people by the CPM in the 1980s and the Trinamul government in recent years. Other promises made by Shah included prominent status to Gorkha language in Bengal, a Gorkha freedom fighter museum built at a cost of Rs 100 crore and package for a tourism hub in the hills. Observers believe that the failure to address core issues could be exploited by BJP’s rivals to the hilt. However, a BJP supporter said: “Let’s not jump the gun, Amit Shah still has to address a meeting in Darjeeling on Tuesday.” Earlier on Monday, Shah spoke in two other public meetings in Jalpaiguri and North Dinajpur districts. In both, he elaborated on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), and said that it would be implemented in Bengal, while focusing on the Matua population. Shah also took a dig at Mamata over her demand for his resignation. After Saturday’s central force firing incident in Sitalkuchi, where four voters were killed, Mamata had demanded he resign. “I am ready to resign if people of Bengal say so…but you should keep your resignation ready,” said Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Poaching cuffs on Chuniajhora tea estate duo||Two suspected poachers who are residents of Chuniajhora tea estate, located on the fringes of Buxa Tiger Reserve, were arrested on Monday after firearms were seized from them during a raid conducted by the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and the state forest department. The duo Binod Oraon and Punai Oraon have been accused of killing a sambar — a deer species — in the BTR area on Saturday night. Forest sources said a group of five residents of the Chuniajhora tea estate had shot dead the sambar. “They had used improvised firearms to kill the animal. After the sambar died, they chopped its meat and shared it among themselves,” said a forest source. “We have recovered two countrymade guns from them, along with some meat and skin of the dead sambar. During the interrogation, they admitted their crime and also told names of three other gang members. Searches are on to nab them,” said a forest officer. “The duo were produced at a court in Alipurduar on Monday and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days,” he added. “We are taking the help of police to trace the other three who are involved in the crime. A probe is on,” said Budhraj Sewa, the field director of the BTR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Fire engulfs 16 shops,  Rs 5cr loss claimed in Haldibari town of Cooch Behar||Around sixteen shops and a jute godown were razed to the ground at a local market in Haldibari town of Cooch Behar in the wee hours of Monday, leading to an estimated loss of around Rs 5 crores. Sources said around 2am, private night guards spotted the blaze on Basanpatti Road while patrolling in the area. Shop owners and traders reached the spot as the news spread. Initially, two fire engines reached the spot and tried to control the flames but the fire continued to spread. Later, one water tenders each from Jalpaiguri and Mekhliganj were brought. It took over five hours for the fire engines to douse the blaze. “As there is no water pump or reservoir in the market, the firemen drew water from a pond located around 700 metres away from the site,” said a local resident. Pradip Sarkar, the divisional fire officer of Jalpaiguri, supervised the work along with Gobinda Roy, the officer-in-charge of Haldibari fire station, and the blaze was doused around 7am. The market was kept closed for the day. A delegation of traders has urged the Haldibari BDO for financial assistance and also demanded construction of permanent shops for them. “Preliminary probe suggests an electrical short circuit caused the blaze,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: Fear hangs over Jorpatki, two days after the incident||Fear hung heavy over Jorpatki on Monday, two days after the central forces had shot dead four voters at the village, part of the Sitalkuchi Assembly constituency in Cooch Behar. Several people in the Muslim-majority village of 1,400-odd told The Telegraph that they had witnessed Saturday’s firing near Booth 5/126 at the Amtali Madhyamik Siksha Kendra. Their first-person accounts, published below, contest the administration’s claim that the central forces had fired to protect themselves, their weapons and the electronic voting machines from a violent mob. One of the villagers said he had seen Samiul Haque, 21, being shot in cold blood by a jawan whose stick he had grabbed to stop him beating his brother Sahidul. Abdul Gani, local panchayat member I was standing in queue to vote along with hundreds of other villagers. Suddenly, a group of villagers — men and women — gathered on the metalled road near the booth. They seemed agitated and were shouting at the top of their voice. I got curious and stepped out to check what the commotion was about. Some of them told me they were protesting the central forces’ assault on a local boy, Mrinal Haque. As others, too, began leaving the queue and approaching the agitating crowd, the central force personnel suddenly chased and attacked us with batons. While they were beating the voters, several youths took out their cellphones and began recording the assault. I think that infuriated the forces. Some more people had by this time gathered near the booth. Suddenly, we saw the security men wielding firearms instead of batons. They began firing at the youths who were filming the happenings, and I could see at least four youths slump to the ground. As they lay on the ground, the men in uniform snatched away their cellphones. I was numbed by the sudden development, but I ran for my life. Since then, the incident has been playing on my mind. I have thought about it over and over and I’m convinced there was no reason for the forces to fire. The grievances of the villagers, who were agitated because the boy had been beaten up, could have been resolved through talks. This morning, I went to Mathabhanga police station and filed a complaint. I think we deserve justice. Minati Roy Burman, a health worker who had been posted at the booth to screen voters with a thermal gun I was posted at the booth to screen the voters and provide them with gloves. Everything was fine till 9.30am. There were around 200 voters in the queues. Suddenly, I saw another group of men and women walk towards the booth in an agitated manner. Soon, a quarrel broke out between them and the central force personnel. I could hear from a distance that the crowd wanted to enter the booth premises. I heard some of them accuse the forces of beating up a boy. There was pushing and shoving. The men in uniform resorted to a baton-charge to break up the crowd. I felt insecure and locked myself in a room at the booth. After a while, some local people came running to take shelter in the room. I then heard repeated gunshots. From the window, I could see people running helter-skelter amid intermittent gunshots. After some time, I came out of the room and ran. I live at a village about 5km from the booth. I sought help from some local people, who showed me a short cut out of the village. As I was about to leave the village, a group of women chased me and hit me on the head with sticks. A few local people came to my rescue and took me to a villager’s home, where they gave me water and nursed me. They advised me to return to the booth instead of heading back home. I somehow mustered the courage to return to the booth. I could see clotted blood on the ground on my way back to the booth. Mehebul Kazi, backup for the Trinamul agent I was sitting inside the booth as a backup for the Trinamul polling agent. Voting was going on peacefully. I could hear people shouting over something outside but had no inkling what was happening. Suddenly, the situation seemed to heat up with some people gathering outside the booth. I could hear central force personnel alerting each other. Soon, the queues disintegrated and I heard shouts. As I walked towards the booth door, I saw the security personnel carrying out a baton-charge to disperse the crowd. The commotion caused the voting to stop. As the baton-charge continued, I saw local youth Sahidul being beaten up by a CISF man. This prompted his brother Samiul (one of the four slain youths) to intervene. He somehow caught the jawan’s baton. The security man immediately let go of the baton, grabbed his gun and shot Samiul. It’s a sight I shall never forget — a cold-blooded murder happening right in front of my eyes. Soon, a few more gunshots were fired. I was shaken to see at least three bodies lie near the booth but was too shocked to leave the booth. After some time, as the polling team left, I, too, walked out and ran back home. I cannot understand what made the CISF fire at the voters. The people had some grievances; I believe they could have been resolved in some other way.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP MP, SP plotted before firing, says Mamata||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged that a conspiracy had apparently been hatched a day before the fourth phase of election in Sitalkuchi where four voters were killed in a firing by central forces during the polls on Saturday and vowed not to spare anyone involved in the incident. Speaking at a public meeting in Ranaghat on Monday, the chief minister claimed Cooch Behar BJP MP Nisith Pramanik and superintendent of police Debasish Dhar had held a meeting a day before the incident. She also claimed to have got the names of the CISF personnel who had opened fire and killed the four voters and injured four others on the day. “Boys aged 20-22 years have been killed. They conspired and killed… BJP has conspired with the SP. I’ll surely investigate this. I’ll bring (out) the real incident…They sat and conspired the entire thing and conspired to shoot…then they gave clean chit (to central forces),” Mamata said. She went on to allege that Union home minister Amit Shah was involved in the incident and Prime Minister Narendra Modi was aware of it as well. “The SP was not our appointed person. He was appointed by the BJP. All the appointments were done by the BJP. They removed the DG law and order, other senior police men, the SP, the DM and also removed my security staff,” she said, raising questions about the motive of such a decision. Showing a list of names on a paper during her meeting in Ranaghat, Mamata said: “I have collected all the details about the jawans who opened fire. I will spare none...I also came to know that the SP had held a meeting with the MP where everything was planned”. Later speaking at another election meeting in Dumdum, Mamata alleged that the election was being held in an atmosphere that resembled the “Emergency”. “The election is being held here under undeclared President’s rule. I can challenge them at every point. Factually and legally, I am right,” she said. Terming the firing in Sitalkuchi as a planned attack, she said: “It is clear that the attack was well planned ahead. I will investigate to find out the real mystery behind it. I will check who opened fire and how they held meetings...how they planted a woman to stage a drama of missing her child.” Speaking about the murder of a first-time voter, which took place in Sitalkuchi prior to the CISF firing incident, Mamata said: “BJP killed its own men who was a Rajbanshi, but accused others. They also did it in Pulwama incident and begged votes using the incident later.” At another rally, Mamata Banerjee referred to Narendra Modi’s regular comments about infiltration from Bangladesh and then juxtaposed his recent visit to the neighbouring country before accusing the Prime Minister of double standards in his dealings with Bangladesh. “He never misses a chance to talk about infiltration from Bangladesh and accuses Mamata Banerjee of encouraging it and then he visits Bangladesh during the polls in Bengal to seek votes... This is double standard,” the Bengal chief minister said while addressing a rally in Basirhat. Mamata brought the issue up while issuing a rebuttal to Modi’s claims in some recent rallies that she had done nothing for the immigrant Matua community. “You had visited Bangladesh before, but you didn’t visit (Orakandi) then... If you had so strong urge to visit that place, you could have done it after the elections. Why did you visit during the election?” she asked. She then expanded the scope of the attack on Modi and even accused him of triggering riots in Bangladesh. “You went there and then riots followed... Wherever you go, you trigger riots,” Mamata said, obliquely referring to unrest in Bangladesh during Modi’s visit in which some people lost their lives. After accusing Modi of using Bangladesh trip to campaign for the polls, she said that the poll panel should have taken action against him. “Earlier also, he did similar things as he visited the US to campaign for US president Donald Trump... His visa should have been cancelled,” she said. To buttress her argument, Mamata referred to the plight of Bangladeshi actor Ferdous Ahmed, whose visa was revoked for his presence in a Trinamul campaign during the 2019 Lok sabha poll.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Abhishek terms Sitalkuchi firing as 'pre-planned'||Trinamul MP and party youth president Abhishek Banerjee on Monday termed the Sitalkuchi firing as a “pre-planned” move to scare Bengal voters. Abhishek, speaking in two public meetings in Odlabari and Maynaguri of Jalpaiguri district, underscored remarks by two BJP leaders, Sayantan Basu and Dilip Ghosh. “...(Earlier) Sayantan Basu had said in his speech that he asked the CRPF to aim at the chest and shoot if there is any problem, and again, after the unfortunate incident which we had never heard of in our state, Dilip Ghosh remarked there will be more Sitalkuchi incidents. These remarks indicate it was a pre-planned move,” he said. To drive home his point, Abhishek even played recordings of the parts of remarks by both these BJP leaders. He also reminded BJP state president Ghosh to a three-and-a half-year-old incident in the hills. “Sitalkuchi won’t happen everywhere…From now, Darjeeling will happen everywhere,” said Abhishek, referring to October 2017, when Ghosh and some other BJP leaders had been heckled badly in Darjeeling. Abhishek also termed the BJP leaders as “jumlabaaz” (those making fake promises) and contrasted them with initiatives taken by the Mamata government for people. “You have to decide if you want people who make hollow promises and never deliver or you need ‘Banglar Nijer Meye’ (Bengal’s own girl) who has met her promises and has vowed to do more for you,” he said. “While the (LPG) gas that Modi gives costs around Rs 1,000, the rice that you cook in it comes for free from Didi. This is the difference.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Modi dubs Mamata ‘conspirator’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday alleged that chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s “master plan” to rig the polls was behind the incident in Sitalkuchi that claimed four lives on Saturday. Modi, who addressed three poll rallies — at Burdwan, Kalyani and Barasat — on Monday, also alleged Mamata and her party was against Scheduled Caste communities. “Friends, facing her own defeat, now Didi (Mamata) has a new war strategy. It is Didi’s conspiracy by which the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and OBC…nobody will be allowed to vote. It is her conspiracy that people from these groups are stopped from voting and her goons cast false votes. (It is) openly being said that Trinamul’s people will ‘gherao’ central forces and other supporters of Didi will enter (the booth) and cast false votes. Rumours are that what happened in Cooch Behar was a part of Didi’s false-vote masterplan,” Modi said in Kalyani. Though the BJP top brass , including Modi and Amit Shah, have repeatedly held Mamata responsible for Saturday’s Sitalkuchi incident, this was the first time Mamata was accused as a conspirator. The BJP’s narrative so far has been to accuse Mamata of inciting people against central forces. On Sunday, Shah referred to a statement made by Mamata on April 8 in Sitalkuchi where she asked people to “gherao” central forces if they tried to stir trouble or work for the BJP. Modi made a similar charge on Saturday. But a BJP leader said Modi’s Monday speech was a direct attack on Mamata. “What Modiji said meant Sitalkuchi’s incident was a fallout of Mamata’s conspiracy. For the rest four phases this may turn out to be our biggest weapon.” At East Burdwan, Modi held Mamata responsible for the death of a police officer from Bihar who was allegedly lynched in North Dinajpur on Friday night. Ashwini Kumar, the station officer of Kishanganj had gone to neighbouring Panthapara village in connection with a bike-theft case filed at his police station. He was allegedly lynched there. On Sunday, his mother died of shock. At the same rally, Modi for over six minutes held forth on Mamata and her party’s alleged aversion towards people from the backward classes by referring to an alleged caste taunt made by BJP MP Saumitra Khan’s wife and Trinamul’s Arambagh nominee Sujata Mondal. In a video circulated by the BJP, the veracity of which has not been checked by this paper, Mondal is heard saying that SC people were “beggars by nature” and would sell their votes to the BJP no matter what Mamata did for them. Modi attacked Mamata on the same issue in Kalyani too. “...Didi’s leaders are openly abusing the SC, ST and OBCs of Bengal...Only because they support the BJP. Didi, respected Didi, O Didi..., Bengal’s Scheduled Caste, Bengal’s Adivasis, Bengal’s OBC, Bengal’s forest dwellers…Didi you’ll scare them, threaten them, abuse them. But Didi, write it down, their affection for Modi will never decrease. Didi, O Didi, your colleagues can insult Bengal’s Scheduled Castes by calling them beggars, but for us, for the BJP, their honour is supreme,” Modi said. SC groups contribute to around 23 per cent voters in Bengal. The Rajbanshis of North Bengal comprise the biggest share. The Matuas, another SC group, dominate poll battles in the Assemblies of North 24-Parganas, Nadia and parts of Dinajpur. These seats go to polls in the fifth phase. BJP leaders said Modi’s jibe at Mamata on the SC issue was aimed to woo these voters. Modi reminded his audience in Kalyani, a large section of whom were Matuas, of his visit to Orakandi in Bangladesh, the birthplace of the spiritual leader of the Matua sect Harichand Thakur. He said Mamata was upset with him for visiting Orakandi. Hitting back at Modi on the SC issue from one of her poll rallies in Ranaghat, Mamata said she won’t take lessons  from those responsible for the Hathras incident. She accused the local Cooch Behar SP of being involved in the “conspiracy” to open fire on Saturday. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: CPIML seeks arrest and prosecution of CISF personnel ||The CPIML (Liberation) has lodged complaints with the Election Commission, seeking the arrest and prosecution of CISF personnel responsible for the firing at voters outside a polling booth in Cooch Behar district and a ban on campaign by Union home minister Amit Shah and Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh for allegedly vilifying the victims. In a complaint lodged with chief election commissioner Sunil Arora on Sunday, CPIML (Liberation)’s central committee member Abhijit Mazumder asked him to act against the CISF personnel responsible for the killings. “The CISF firing is being justified in the name of “self-defence”. But this excuse does not hold, since there is no evidence that those killed committed any violence against the CISF personnel. Any minor skirmish between supporters of various parties could and should certainly have been handled with minimum force. If the CISF cannot maintain order without using the maximum deadly force, why are they being deployed during elections at all? “We demand that the accused CISF personnel be arrested and prosecuted for the killing. We demand that the EC ease the deployment of central forces and take measures to restore voter confidence....,” said the complaint In another complaint on Monday, the party’s politburo member Kavita Krishnan alleged that remarks of Amit Shah, Dilip Ghosh and BJP leader Sayantan Basu vilified the firing victims. She demanded a ban on their campaigning. Highlighting the inconsistencies in the EC’s narrative, Krishnan added: “The injuries on Mrinal’s body give the lie to the police observer’s report to the EC, that Mrinal had fallen sick, and that onlookers mistakenly assumed he had been beaten by jawans and assembled a violent mob which attacked the CISF…” A report by Vivek Dube, the special police observer deputed to Bengal by the EC, said Mrinal Haque had fallen sick near the polling booth where the firing had taken place and some women were taking care of him. The EC is yet to respond to the letters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Sweet hub becomes latest theatre of bitter battle between TMC and BJP||Sitabhog, mihidana and lyangcha are something of a confectionery holy trinity in Burdwan town. Three lakh residents of the town in East Burdwan thrive on 500-odd sweet shops but their shelves contain a more layered history. “Burdwan has a rich history of its own royal family that is entwined with the invention of these sweets as well as the involvement of the British Raj here,” said historian Sarbajit Jash, referring to the rice-based sitabhog and mihidana and the flour-based lyangcha. “These sweets were concocted, or invented, at the home of then Raja Bijoy Chand Mahtab, who was receiving Lord Curzon in 1904 at his palace,” Jash said. Barely a week before the city goes to the polls, the sweet hub has become the latest theatre of the bitter battle between the Trinamul Congress and the BJP. While the BJP has been attacking Trinamul over a now-defunct “Mishti Hub” built by the Mamata Banerjee government, the Bengal ruling party has accused the saffron camp of knowing nothing about the state’s history and culture. “The BJP has been trying to get at Trinamul because our attempt to build a Mishti Hub here, like in New Town, did not take off upon completion. The BJP, however, knows nothing about the sweets’ true history, and that of the people here,” said Trinamul spokesperson Debu Tudu, projecting the party as the custodian of the cosmopolitanism in Burdwan town as encompassed by its sweets. BJP leaders in the area, however, demurred when asked about their supposed newness to this rich confectionery culture. “Trinamul’s Mishti Hub was a failure. We will certainly revive it once we are in power. Regarding our supposed ignorance of ways, please note we will be gifting the Prime Minister servings of both sweets when he arrives in Burdwan on Monday,” said BJP district president Abhijit Tah. In 2014, Mamata had announced the construction of the Mishti Hub adjacent to the Durgapur Expressway here, but three years on it was written off as a temporary failure for low footfall. The move came less than three years after her government had issued G.I. tags for sitabhog and mihidana in East Burdwan. “Everything takes its own time. We in Burdwan do not subscribe to the belief that the Mishti Hub was a failure. The politicians have just been busy,” said Burdwan Sitabhog and Mihidana Traders Welfare Association secretary Pramod Kumar Singh. Not far from the Mishti Hub lies one of the three branches of Ganesh Sweets, a 100-year-old local landmark. Owner Prasenjit Datta, grandson of founder Ganesh Chandra Dutt, said: “I don’t know about politics, but all I know is whoever comes to power needs to preserve this culture of sweet-making which is an important industry here.” Dutt sells over two quintals of the three sweets every day. Jash recalls records stating how the two sweets, sitabhog and mihidana, came to be. “The Raja’s confectioner wanted the sweets to be visually appealing to an Englishman, but also not too fancy. So he came up with the tasteful, if tame, mixture of sweetened rice, garnishing and colour, which are common to both sweets,” he said. The old recipe containing “Sita” grain has since been replaced with Gobindobhog rice or chickpea flour (besan).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Mamata contests Modi-Shah forecast||Mamata Banerjee on Monday dismissed “chest-thumping claims” by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah of having won 92-100 seats of the 135 that went to polls in the first four phases of Bengal polls, asserting that the BJP knew it was facing “go-haran hara (abject defeat)”. The Modi-Shah duopoly, which has mounted a perception campaign with sure-win forecasts following each phase of the Bengal polls, on Monday came up with their figures for the half-way stage. As of now, 159 seats of the 294-seat Assembly remain in fray. Prime Minister Modi on Monday resorted to cricket analogies to claim the Bengal electorate had handed the BJP a century already. “The people of Bengal have hit so many fours and sixes that the BJP has already completed a century (has won 100 seats) in the first four phases of the election. Only halfway through, the people have wiped out Trinamul Congress,” said Modi in Burdwan. If one takes his prediction seriously, then the BJP needs only 48 more seats to form the new Bengal government. Union home minister Shah was slightly more conservative. Shah said at Dhupguri that so far the BJP won 92 seats. “From the four phases, we have 92 seats…I request the people of Bengal to continue blessing us (in the rest four phases), so that the BJP can come to power here,” said Shah. Trinamul chief Mamata, who has been dismissing such claims, said at Dumdum that irrespective of the number of meetings the duopoly conducts to wrest Bengal from her, it won’t taste success. “Take it from me…Ora go-haran harbey (They will be handed abject defeat). That they too know very well by now. That is why they have been doing all that they have been doing,” said Mamata, apparently referring to the alleged excesses by the BJP, its Centre, and its various agencies that she accuses of working in the party’s favour, such as the Election Commission and the central forces. Sources in her party said Mamata’s efforts to discredit such predictions by Shah and Modi are not only in order to keep them from damaging her party’s chances in the crucial four phases that remain, with 159 seats between them, but also to throw a direct challenge at the saffron ecosystem’s attempts to peddle the perception that the battle for Bengal is decisively over already in the BJP’s favour. “What she is doing to counter such propaganda is very important for the morale of (Trinamul) rank and file and party supporters,” said a Trinamul Rajya Sabha member. According to him, all internal estimates suggest a tally of “80-plus” for Trinamul of the 135 in the first four phases, with scores of seats deemed Trinamul’s strong suit yet to go to polls. “Everyone, including Modi and Shah, knows there is still everything left to play for, and there is a very, very clear path to victory for her (Mamata). That is why they make such claims to sway floating voters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-111
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi firing: Pleas for judge probe||Two advocates filed separate petitions before Calcutta High Court on Monday, seeking a probe by a sitting judge of the court into CISF firing outside a polling booth in Cooch Behar district on Saturday and adequate compensation for the kin of the four youths killed in the incident. A bench of chief justice T.B.N. Radhakrishnan is likely to hear within a couple of days the petitions filed by advocates Ravishankar Chattopadhyay and Firdous Shamim of the high court. The petitions described the firing as a heinous crime and demanded a thorough inquiry by a sitting high court judge, who would identify the responsible persons and restrain the Election Commission from providing them with duties in the remaining four phases of Assembly polls in Bengal. The duo demanded adequate compensation for the nearest kin of the four killed in the firing. The Trinamul Congress on Monday filed a complaint with the Election Commission against four prominent BJP leaders for their comments on the Sitalkuchi firing. The ruling party said the provocative speeches by the BJP leaders were aimed at inciting violence in the next phases of the polls. Trinamul leaders led by Derek O’ Brien, Sudip Bandopadhyay and Sukhendu Sekhar Roy lodged the complaint with the chief electoral officer of Bengal. They demanded strict action against the BJP leaders, including state party president Dilip Ghosh, and a ban on their campaign in the next four phases. In the complaint, Trinamul detailed what BJP leaders like Sayantan Basu, Dilip Ghosh and Rahul Sinha had had said about the Sitalkuchi incident. “Shockingly, instead of condemning the act of violence of CAPF of murdering four innocent people, top brass of BJP has been actively condoning the murder and brazenly suggesting that more innocent lives should have been lost at the hands of the CAPF…...statements as above clearly evidences that the violence at Sitalkuchi was sponsored by the BJP and executed by the CAPF,” the complaint by Trinamul Congress reads. A representation of the Sanjukta Morcha, the Left-Congress-ISF alliance, also met the CEO and asked him to take immediate action against Ghosh for his remarks. “The way provocative speeches are being given (is worrying)...If they are spared, the impartiality of the Election Commission will be questioned. They shouldn’t be spared,” said Left Front chairman Biman Bose. Bose was accompanied by Rabin Deb of the CPM, Pradip Bhattacharya and Abdul Mannan of the Congress, and ISF leader Naushad Siddiqui. The leaders also said the Election Commission’s attempt to justify the Sitalkuchi incident was “unacceptable”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP leaders seek to make most of Sitalkuchi killings||BJP leaders on Monday appeared to compete in outdoing each other in making inflammatory remarks to support the CISF firing in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi that killed four voters. It all started on Sunday with state BJP president Dilip Ghosh claiming there would be more Sitalkuchi-like incidents if limits are crossed, and referred to “dushtu chhele (naughty boys)” having fallen to bullets. A few hours later, Ghosh’s predecessor and the BJP’s Habra candidate Rahul Sinha said the forces should have killed four more in the firing. “The central forces should have killed eight people instead of four people. The forces should be showcaused why they killed only four,” Sinha told journalists. If their comments weren’t enough, the saffron camp’s general secretary Sayantan Basu pledged to repeat “the game of Sitalkuchi” if needed. “I, Sayantan Basu, am saying this, don’t try to play many games, we will play the game of Sitalkuchi,” Basu said, referencing Trinamul’s slogan “khela hobe”. In the past, Sinha and Ghosh have reportedly run two parallel systems in the state BJP, each trying to outdo the other. Now, state BJP leaders are busy discussing which leader gave a “better comment” on Sitalkuchi. “Dilipda toh chirokal ee gorom groom kawtha bawlen (Dilipda always speaks aggressively). But what Rahulda said on Sunday sounded more hostile,” one of Sinha’s aides said. The BJP leader said though Sinha made controversial remarks, it was a little unlikely of him to wish for someone’s death. “(But) with these comments Rahulda will be in publicity for some time,” this leader added. Ghosh’s loyalists refused to give Sinha credit. “Dilipda e toh shuru korlen. (Dilipda started it all),” said one. After Saturday’s incident, Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra tweeted a video clip featuring Basu, supposedly in 2019. “…CRPF key boley debo guli jeno buk lokkhyo korey jaaye, guli jeno paa lokkhyo korey naa jaaye… (I’ll tell the CRPF that the bullet should target the chest and not feet)” Basu is heard saying. Moitra tweeted what happened at Sitalkuchi was a result of this. The comments of Sinha and Basu drew flak from rivals. Habra’s Trinamul candidate Jyotipriya Mallick said one shouldn’t wish death by a bullet for an enemy. “…BJP is a party of the uncouth…It isn’t a party, it should be banned,” he said. CPM’s Jadavpur candidate Sujan Chakraborty called Ghosh, Sinha and Basu fascists. “The self-defence theory (that central forces fired in self-defence) is being negated by the likes of Basu,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Nandigram battle’s four possibilities||The battle of Nandigram has already made its mark in electoral history. Each and every Bengali around the world is curious to learn the result. That is the reason so many hypotheses are getting discussed regarding the possible outcomes of this Assembly segment. The initial question is, why are Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikari fighting from the same constituency? They could easily have chosen two safe seats in different locations and sailed through. Mamata Banerjee may even have had the option of announcing that she was the candidate from each and every constituency of Bengal and was thus not fighting from a specific seat but leading the campaign everywhere. In political science, each such possibility has certain positive and negative arguments associated with it, but it is not hard to believe that there were options to bypass this fight from both ends. But finally, political analysts got to experience the mouth-watering event as both leaders decided to take on each other and to lead from the front. Thus, either Mamata or Suvendu is going to lose the election. Consequently, the defeated candidate will face a tough challenge in pursuing his or her political ambitions further. There are four main possibilities that should be studied. The first two are simple, where the candidate wins Nandigram and his or her party gets a majority in the state. If Mamata as well as the TMC wins, it will be a very tough time for Suvendu. However, the other way would be more disastrous for Mamata. This is because the TMC, as a political party, might face an existential problem. Let us come to the next two possibilities, where the candidate wins and the corresponding party does not obtain a majority. For Mamata, it might not be that bad as the electorate would remember her tremendous single-handed fight and leadership quality. It is now evident that quite a few TMC executives are in the process of changing their allegiance. Thus, our present chief minister would have the opportunity to blame the defectors from her party. There is also the possibility that Suvendu loses from Nandigram but the BJP wins Bengal. This situation might not be that bad for the leader from East Midnapore. He would possibly miss the chance to become the chief minister or deputy chief minister but might continue as a prominent party leader, having shown the courage to contest against Mamata. If Mamata loses and her party wins, that would cement Suvendu’s role as a prominent leader of the Opposition. Mamata would be slightly discredited for a short period, but will surely manage another seat to win a by-election within six months. Thus, the second two possibilities are better than the first two when one considers the future of the losing candidate. There is, however, one face-saving possibility for both Mamata and Suvendu. This is the utopian situation of Meenakshi Mukherjee winning Nandigram, added to the plausible event of the TMC winning Bengal with a slim majority and the BJP becoming a strong Opposition with more than 100 seats. It would be a stunning result, but it won’t be disastrous for Mamata or Suvendu. The CPM’s post-election claim has been that it was the only party that succeeded in putting an election agent in each and every booth of Nandigram. Needless to explain, that does not imply victory. However, the kind of media attention Meenakshi received should help project her as a prominent leader in future. From media reports, it is also evident that she did not receive serious resistance from TMC or BJP supporters during the campaign. Rather, she was welcomed at many places where people said that even though they would not vote for her in this election, they might lend a hand of support during her subsequent attempts. Thus, Meenakshi is the only candidate who will benefit from this election, irrespective of the result. If she gathers a substantial vote that is greater than the winning margin between the main two parties, that will also be highlighted with great detail. This is the beauty of democracy where, in some specific cases, the corollary is always positive. Subhamoy Maitra is a professor with the Indian Statistical Institute, Calcutta.
He can be reached at the email ID maitra.subhamoy@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
13-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Polls 2021: Potato farmers savour state govt’s help but say more needs to be done||A mix of steps taken by the Mamata Banerjee government has helped potato farmers in Bengal hold onto their produce till they get a fair price without falling into the trap of moneylenders or going for distress sale. With large sections of the state’s 15 lakh-odd potato farmers welcoming the initiatives of the government, such as buying stocks from peasants and issuing Kisan Credit Cards, the Trinamul Congress is hoping to reap dividends in the Assembly elections in the potato belt of Hooghly, East Burdwan, Birbhum, West Midnapore and parts of Murshidabad. At a time when Bengal’s cold storages are brimming with potatoes following a bumper crop, reports have reached the state government that 70 per cent of these stocks are owned by farmers themselves. This means that the majority of the farmers did not have to sell their produce to middlemen from the field itself. “This is significant. This shows that the farmers have felt encouraged to hold onto their produce till they get a better price over the next few months. Earlier, the farmers felt forced to go for distress sale after bumper production. Middlemen reaped the benefits by buying potatoes at a cheap rate and selling them at a higher price by hoarding stocks in cold stores,” said a senior state government official. This year, the agriculture marketing department has estimated that 115 lakh tonnes of potatoes were produced in Bengal against an average annual harvest of 90 lakh tonnes. “If the farmers did not sell their produce at a much lower price despite the surplus production, it suggests that they are now in a better position financially,” a bureaucrat said. Initially, the picture had been worrisome for the ruling establishment as the price of potatoes had gone down to Rs 4 a kilo in mid-February when farmers had begun harvesting. They had been in deep trouble as the input cost was estimated to be Rs 5 for producing a kilo of potato. Reacting with alacrity, the Trinamul government on February 23 decided to buy 10 lakh tonnes of potatoes at Rs 6 a kilo to give the farmers some relief. While Bengal has 15 lakh potato farmers, around 60 lakh people are dependant on the cultivation of the tuber. “The potato-producing districts such as Hooghly, East Burdwan and Birbhum have been Trinamul bastions since 2009. If the party faces trouble in these districts, it would find it difficult to retain power in a closely fought battle. It appears that several government schemes initiated over the past 10 years have now started yielding results,” said an agriculture department official. Officials in the department said the issuance of Kisan Credit Cards had been instrumental in giving farmers a sense of security, enabling them to hold onto their produce till they got a fair price. “Nearly 80 per cent of the potato farmers are now covered under the KCC, under which they get easy farm loans from banks. They don’t have to depend on moneylenders, who charge bloated interest rates. This is the reason why they can wait for a better price,” a source said. Another official pointed to the state government’s initiative to lay stress on paddy procurement. “We start procurement in early November when the kharif crop is harvested. As farmers sold their produce at a much better price, they could invest in potatoes without depending on moneylenders,” the official said. Sources said that as the Trinamul government had increased the paddy procurement target to 42 lakh tonnes from 15 lakh tonnes during Left Front rule, the farmers have a cushion. Farmers said they had benefited from the government’s schemes but added that the state should now help them to sell their produce from the cold storages. “I have kept 2 tonnes of potatoes in the store. I can hold onto the produce for another three months. It is expected that I will be able to sell the produce at Rs 12 to Rs 14 a kg. It would be good if the government helps us to send our produce to other states in case the price is low in Bengal. Some kind of transport subsidy will also help,” said Milan Kumar, a potato farmer from Tarakeswar in Hooghly. Another farmer, Sarathi Roy from Memari in East Burdwan, said he had decided to keep 1 tonne of potatoes in the cold storage as the price had come down to Rs 4 a kg in February-end. “Had I been forced to sell the produce at that price, I would have incurred a huge loss. Thanks to the Kisan Credit Card, I could secure a loan on easy terms, which helped me to keep my produce in the store for a few months,” Roy said. On the campaign trail, Trinamul has been highlighting the government’s efforts to provide financial stability to farmers in the rural belt of Hooghly, East Burdwan and Birbhum. “It is true that the state government has helped us in many ways. But it would have been better if more cold storages had come up in the potato belt. The government should think about it,” said Rishi Adak, a farmer in Birbhum’s Labhpur. While Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been promising to set up more cold storages in the potato-producing districts in his election rallies, Trinamul leaders say they have been working towards that end for the past few years. “If Bengal can store more potatoes, it can serve the neighbouring states such as Jharkhand, Odisha, Assam, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh in the dry season. As we don’t have a proper export policy and storage capacity, the markets are often captured by states like Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat that have better infrastructure,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-112
