14-04-2021||West Bengal||Mamata feets families of Sitalkuchi firing victims, promises justice  ||The Burmans of Cooch Behar’s Pathakuli are a divided lot and a tragedy has made the rift deeper. On Wednesday morning when Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee came calling on the kin of those killed on April 10, Jagadish, father of the slain 18-year-old first-time voter Anand, refused to meet her. Jagadish Burman’s refusal was a reminder of the acrimonious atmosphere that personal political choices can create within a family and its fallout. Instead, Anand’s maternal grandfather Kshitish Chandra Roy and uncle Ranjit later went to meet the chief minister at Mathabhanga, where she addressed an campaign meeting. “After the elections are over, the Sitalkuchi incident will be probed. We will find out those who killed Anand Burman. The perpetrators will be punished,” she said. “I came here to meet the family members of the victims. I met all the five families. Anand’s grandfather and maternal uncle are here. All of them were so young. The government will stand by them in the days to come,” she said. Anand’s father, a known BJP supporter in Pathakuli, had made it clear earlier in the day that he was not interested in meeting Mamata. “Everyone here knows who killed my son. We were being threatened from days before the polls,” said Jagadish. “We don’t want any financial help from this government.” On Saturday morning, after barely two-and-half hours of polling, Sitalkuchi turned violent with clashes between supporters of the Trinamul Congress and the BJP. Soon after, four perons --- Nur Alam Mian, Maniruzzaman Mian, Samiul Haq and Hamidul Mian--- were killed outside a polling booth at Jorpatki after the central forces opened fire. The central forces had claimed that the villagers had attacked a team and that they were forced to fire in retaliation. Following the violence, the Election Commission put in place restrictions, including extending the "silence period" from 48 hours to 72 hours, for the fifth phase of elections, and barred the entry of politicians in the district for the next 72 hours from April 10, to prevent any possible law and order flare-up. Though Mamata wanted to visit the trouble spot on Sunday, she did so on Wednesday after the EC embargo ended. She spoke with the kin of two victims on Sunday morning over a video call, though she did not call the Burmans. The BJP has been trying to create a divide using the incident, harping on the socio-religious identities of the victims, while accusing Mamata of pandering to the minorities even in a tragedy, as Burman is a Rajbangshi while the rest were Muslims. “It isn’t surprising Mamata offers no comfort to the family of Anand Burman who was killed while queueing up to vote. He was a Rajbangshi, which isn’t her votebank. Contrast with her high-decibel protest against the death of four Muslims in a poll fracas incited by her,” Swapan Dasgupta, the BJP nominee for the Tarakeswar,  had tweeted on Sunday. The local BJP leaders were quick to claim that Anand was their party worker and killed by Trinamul-backed goons.  On Wednesday too the party’s national president JP Nadda claimed Mamata was anti-Dalit. “She hasn’t yet said a word on the death of Anand Burman. This shows her anti-Dalit attitude,” Nadda said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
14-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP brought outsiders during rallies, contributed to Covid surge in Bengal, says Mamata||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that the BJP has contributed to the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in the state by bringing "outsiders in large numbers" for campaigning during the ongoing assembly elections. Addressing a poll rally in Jalpaiguri, Mamata also accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of not responding to the state's plea to vaccinate a majority of people, which could have helped contain the spread of the disease. "They (BJP leaders) have brought outsiders for campaigning and contributed to the rise in Covid cases. We had managed to get hold of the Covid situation, they made it complicated," she said at the public meeting. Speaking on the Election Commission's decision to prohibit her from campaigning for 24 hours, she said, "Is it a fault to ask Hindus, Muslims and others to vote together? What about Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is mocking me at every election meeting? Why is he not banned from campaigning," she asked. The Election Commission had barred Mamata from campaigning for 24 hours from Monday 8 pm for her remarks against the central forces and a statement that had alleged religious overtones. Accusing the prime minister and Amit Shah of peddling lies at poll rallies, the TMC supremo said, "The Centre has kept the NRC and the NPR bills alive, but the home minister had claimed at a meeting at Lebong in the hills that he had no plans to enforce the National Register of Citizens." "Don't trust them. If they come to power, you may face the same experience like the 14 lakh Bengalis in Assam (referring to the final NRC in the northeastern state). BJP is a dangerous party which is trying to divide Bengal," she claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Modi's 'Sonar Bangla' a farce, says Rahul Gandhi at first Bengal rally||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Wednesday termed BJP claims to build "Sonar Bangla" (golden Bengal) as a "mirage" and said the saffron party has nothing to offer except for hatred, violence and dividing people on the basis of language, religion, caste and creed. During his first rally in Bengal in this election season, Gandhi took a dig at Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and said his party would never align with the BJP and the RSS, unlike the TMC, which in the past had been an alliance partner of the saffron party-led NDA. "BJP wants to destroy Bengal's culture, heritage and divide it. In Assam, they are doing the same thing; in Tamil Nadu, they are trying to do the same thing with their alliance partner AIADMK. "The BJP has nothing to offer except for hatred, violence and divisive politics," he said, addressing a rakky at Goalpokhor in Uttar Dinajpur. Mocking BJP's slogan of building "Sonar Bangla", Gandhi termed it as a "mirage and said they "sell the same dream in every state". "In every state, they say similar things like Sonar Bangla. But, they only offer dividing people on the basis of religion, caste and language," the Congress leader said. Criticising "cut money" culture in Bengal, Gandhi said "You gave opportunity to TMC. But, they failed. People of the state have to venture out in search of jobs. This is the only state where you have to pay cut money to get jobs. Ridiculing TMC poll slogan "Khela Hobe" (Game will happen), he said serving people and playing games in this regard are not the same. "We have never aligned with the BJP and the RSS. Our fight is not just political but ideological too. For Mamata Ji, it is just a political fight. "The BJP knows very well Congress will never surrender before them, so they called for Congress Mukt Bharat. They never said TMC mukt Bharat, as they have been their former allies," he said. Gandhi urged people to vote in favour of the Congress- ISF-Left alliance in Bengal to usher in a new era of development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
14-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP will not get even 70 seats in Bengal, asserts Mamata||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said the BJP will not be able to win even 70 seats in the ongoing state assembly elections which many expect to be a cliff-hanger. Speaking at a rally at Dabgram-Fulbari in Jalpaiguri district, the Trinamool Congress supremo ridiculed Prime Minister Narendra Modis recent claim that BJP had already won a 100 seats in the four phases of the election to the 294-seat assembly. "Prime Minister Modi has said the saffron party has already won 100 seats out of 135 seats where elections have been held. I can say that after the elections are over, BJP will not even get 70 out of total of 294 seats", she said. The Trinamool Congress leader charged that the BJP was spreading falsehood by telling different things at different places on the same issue. Banerjee said home minister Amit Shah had said in Lebong in Darjeeling that there will be no NRC. However she pointed out that 14 lakh people have been identified and sent to detention camps based on a process to find illegal migrants under the National Register of Citizens. 14 lakh people have been asked to go to the detention camps", she pointed out. Banerjee said if TMC is voted to power once again, it would not allow the controversial National Register of Citizens(NRC) to be implemented in West Bengal. All of you are citizens. My only request to people is that they cast their votes, she said. The Trinamool Congress leader claimed that BJP is bringing in people from other states where the pandemic was raging and this was helping spread Coronavirus. "These people will spread COVID in the state and then go awaylast year when COVID was in spate, none of the BJP leaders cared to the come to the state", she said. Banerjee also criticised the saffron party for its 'anti-people and anti-poor stance allowing prices of fuel including cooking gas to skyrocket.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: BJP stunt to implicate Sitalkuchi falls flat||Monkey business on Sunday; weasel video on Monday. The saffron ecosystem’s desperation to defend Saturday’s killings in Sitalkuchi has led its members to tweet a picture and a video clip of purported mob violence in the constituency, which were quickly exposed as fraudulent and hurriedly deleted in the face of a social media backlash. The photo was from Jharkhand and the video a two-year-old one from Manipur, Trinamul has said and independent fact-checkers confirmed. On Sunday, several BJP leaders and party supporters had shared a photo of a CISF officer with severe face injuries and claimed his wounds were the handiwork of voters in Jorpatki. This was an attempt to buttress the official claim that CISF jawans had fired — and killed four voters — after being attacked by a violent mob in Jorpatki, part of Sitalkuchi constituency in Cooch Behar district. The photo was taken down after Trinamul held a news conference on Monday and said a check had revealed that the officer in the picture was the victim of a langur attack in Baghmara, Jharkhand, on April 9. The fact-checking website AltNews corroborated Trinamul’s allegation. The injured officer has been identified as assistant sub-inspector S.P. Sharma. Trinamul turncoats in the BJP such as Suvendu Adhikari, Rajib Banerjee, Saumitra Khan and Arjun Singh had all shared the picture, claiming Trinamul “goons” in Sitalkuchi had injured the officer. So had the BJP youth wing’s national vice-president, Santosh Ranjan Rai. None of the posts mentioned the death of the four civilians, or the allegation that the CISF had shot at least some of the victims above the waist. On Monday, a Facebook page titled “BJP Kamarhati”, which generally campaigns for the BJP’s Kamarhati candidate Raju Banerjee, shared a video of a mob attack on a polling booth, claiming this had led to the Sitalkuchi firing. Trinamul again issued a statement saying the video showed an incident at a booth in the Imphal East constituency of Manipur during the 2019 general election. Polling had been disrupted at the booth after some voters turned violent over alleged misconduct by an election official. AltNews and the India Today fact-checking team corroborated the Trinamul charge. The video was quickly pulled down. The BJP tried brazening it out. “Which images are being shared is not important; what is important is that the ECI (Election Commission of India) has said the jawans were attacked. It’s a question of their security,” state BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said. Rajib Banerjee said: “I had no idea that this had happened. I asked my social media handler to take it down immediately when it was brought to my notice. I suspect someone had hacked my account with some ill intention and did this. I asked Suvendu to take the post down from his wall too.” Calls to the mobile numbers of Suvendu, Saumitra Khan and Arjun Singh either went unanswered, or evoked the reply from aides that the leaders were busy campaigning. “This is illustrative of the kind of Goebbelsian lies that the saffron camp’s propaganda machinery likes to work with. There are countless such examples from recent months in Bengal alone,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Trinamul national spokesperson and chief whip in the Rajya Sabha. “Every fact check exposes them but they keep coming back with more lies or twisted half-truths on social and mainstream media.” Trinamul seniors said that though BJP leaders have been threatening Sitalkuchi-like incidents across Bengal, they are increasingly unsure of how the incident would influence the vote in the remaining 159 of the state’s 294 seats. “Therefore, they have been trying to substantiate the claims of the Election Commission and the central forces that the jawans had fired in self-defence,” a Trinamul vice-president said. While the authorities claim the personnel had fired to protect themselves, their weapons and the electronic voting machines from a violent mob, villagers say the forces fired without justification on a mob protesting a jawan’s unprovoked thrashing of a boy at a nearby market. Questions have been raised over the absence of cell phone and CTV footage of the incident, with the villagers saying the forces had removed the security cameras and snatched mobiles from the dead and the living. The police have accused the villagers of stealing the CCTVs. On Tuesday, the BJP blamed Mamata and the senior IPS officer in charge of her security for the absence of cell phone images. “Police raided homes at night and forced residents to delete the footage they had recorded,” state BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said. The police, however, are functioning under the Election Commission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-108
14-04-2021||West Bengal||BJP's sinister endeavour to conquer Bengal: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday came out all guns blazing, barely 15 minutes after the 24-hour campaign ban imposed by the Election Commission of India had ended at 8pm, and tore into the BJP over its alleged misuse of resources, including central agencies, to stop her. After a three-and-a-half-hour dharna — during which she mostly painted — by the Gandhi statue on Mayo Road in protest against the commission’s decision, the Bengal chief minister wondered aloud at her Barasat and Bidhannagar rallies in the evening why the BJP was trying “only to stop her and nothing else”. Mamata steered clear of directly attacking the poll panel, possibly because she is the biggest campaigner for her party and any more restrictions could affect Trinamul adversely in the 159 seats that are yet to go to the polls. Some of the key points Mamata raised after the ban ended on Tuesday evening: Context: The campaign ban. Mamata: They are trying to spoil my campaign. The BJP and its leaders remain unaffected, they campaign freely…. Anyway, the responsibility for judging right and wrong in this I leave to the people. There is no point trying to stop me. Hit me and I hit back so much harder. I’m not one to run away and retire to my room. There are those who talk about opening fire, about killing four more, eight more, killing people everywhere. But in their cases, total silence. Plastered mouths. Mamata Banerjee, however, has done a grave wrong by urging people to vote united, against votes getting polarised. I still say so, I will always say so. Hindus, Muslims, Sikhs, Christians, SCs, STs, Matuas, women, students, youths…. I want everyone’s vote, for the Trinamul Congress… to save Bengal, to keep Bengal from losing everything it holds dear. Context: Why are you scared of me, BJP? Mamata: I cannot for the life of me understand why such elaborate efforts are on from Delhi and around the country only to stop me, nothing else…. Only to conquer Bengal, an oshubho procheshta (sinister endeavour)…. Well, I can tell you clearly yet again, I will not let Bengal become Gujarat. You (the BJP) have endless money, people, resources, besides every agency that is at the Centre’s disposal. Despite that, why are you so scared of me? Only one reason…. You have everything; do you know why you will lose despite that? Because I’m a street fighter; I have fought my battles on the ground. I do not command armies from upstairs. Context: Union home minister Amit Shah’s claim before the Gorkhas that the National Register of Citizens (NRC) was not being considered. Mamata: They went to Siliguri and started saying the NRC was never talked about, and Mamataji is supposedly lying…. Have I been lying? Had they or had they not talked about the NRC (in the Bengal context)? Did they or did they not clear the decks for it (the contentious citizenship tripod)? Do the legal provisions still exist or not? Are 14 lakh people still earmarked for detention camps in Assam or not? Then who is lying? Context: The attempts by Shah and others to polarise voters over two separate Sitalkuchi incidents, clubbing them together and accusing Mamata of the politics of appeasement. Mamata: These two brothers of the lethal BJP syndicate, Modi and Shah, they are going to Jalpaiguri and saying Mamata Banerjee is not talking about the Rajbanshi (victim, Ananda Burman). Who said so? Mamata is not the BJP. She spoke about all five (victims from the two incidents on Saturday in Sitalkuchi). She doesn’t thrive on death or the politics of death. You go to the Rajbanshis and tell them something to try and turn them against me. Polarising all the time. Five people died. Four died from the central forces opening fire and another died in a voters’ queue — but not from firing by the central forces (but) from antisocials opening fire. Well, I think the BJP killed its own person… now the BJP has to prove it hasn't. The day before, our Mathabhanga candidate Girindranath Burman, such an educated man, he was thrashed. He suffered serious injuries to the head. That is why Rajbanshis were displeased with you (the BJP). That is why you took the life of a Rajbanshi boy. Then here you are, making lofty claims. I’m going to Sitalkuchi tomorrow (Wednesday). I would love to meet the BJP family too. But if they do not come, what can I do? I want to help everybody. I might have issues with you (the BJP), but not with your supporters, not the masses. I view everyone equally. Context: Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying different things at different places in the state in a bid to woo various sections of the electorate. Mamata: The two of them, going to different places and saying different things.... He (Shah) only lies, all the time…. He (Modi) is not only the biggest liar I have seen, but also a gobet (nincompoop). This is not an abuse; in Bengali a gobet means a person with less wisdom.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Delhi campuses tell what Calcutta peers stand to lose||Senior student activists in Delhi’s universities often cite Bengal’s example to juniors when faced with police action or violent clashes with rivals, highlighting their eastern peers’ long tradition of standing up to authority and injustice even in the face of odds. Some of them now believe that the roles may be reversed if the BJP wrests power in Bengal. JNU and Jamia Millia Islamia may offer an insight on what lies ahead if a government and its unofficial henchmen decide to launch onslaughts on centres of higher education. These two universities in Delhi have been in the spotlight in connection with protests against government policies on Kashmir and citizenship, and against administrative measures that have struck at dissent and diversity — as well as for facing police and mob backlashes to such resistance. Students and teachers at these institutions described to The Telegraph how they had negotiated the minefield of public activism while being attacked by the government and maligned by the media and the Right-wing ecosystem. This, they said, was the sort of pressure that a BJP government at Nabanna could exert on student activists in Bengal, where they said campuses like Jadavpur University can even now host free discussions on topics like Kashmir or Hindutva that are taboo in Delhi. Kanhaiya Kumar was JNU students’ union president in 2016 when he was arrested with two other students on sedition charges for their presence at an event where slogans for Kashmir’s independence were allegedly chanted. Now a CPI national council member, Kanhaiya told this newspaper about the lessons he had picked up from the movement for free speech that the 2016 arrests had launched and in which he participated after his release. He had learnt that student activists cannot divorce themselves from the reality of the society around them, and must be able to publicise their point of view independently of mainstream media. “Anyone who values free speech, multiculturalism and debate must realise they stand to lose all this if the BJP wins. Who the police in your state reports to makes a huge difference in the matter of how repression can be aggravated,” he said. “Student activists must be able to dilute the boundary of a university and connect with the local people — at businesses like tea shops or booksellers that exist because of a university. We also need to engage with the Right-wing paradigm of nationalism, Hindutva and the armed forces and reconstruct the discourse with a new understanding.” He added: “Ignoring the discourse of our opponents or believing that students alone can resist goons works against us. Traditional activists also need to understand the dynamics of the digital media and create their own tools for communication, for we cannot depend on the mainstream media for fairness.” Kanhaiya said JNU was able to protect itself better against mob violence because it is an entirely residential, walled campus — an advantage that most student activists elsewhere do not enjoy. Ayesha Kidwai had become the JNU teachers’ association president in 2016 and spearheaded the movement by teachers and students against seat cuts. “The unity of teachers, students and (other varsity) employees is important.... Differences exist in every university and governments exacerbate these by patronising one group to finish off the conversation. Be prepared for violence, disappointment and division. There should be no violence initiated from your side,” was her advice. Delhi police had gone on the rampage at Jamia on December 15, 2019, after buses were burnt in the neighbourhood during a rally against the Citizenship Amendment Act. However, the movement against the new citizenship matrix continued to thrive on the campus and at nearby Shaheen Bagh, inspiring similar protests across India. Akhtarista Ansari was then a final-year BA sociology student and vice-president of the campus unit of the CPIML Liberation’s All India Students Association. She became one of the faces of the agitation after photos of her chanting slogans and protecting a student from being beaten by the police appeared in the media. Now an MA student at JNU, she told this newspaper that asserting one’s identity on the side of the oppressed was a legitimate and effective way of standing up to repression. “One may not be religious, but when a minority institution is specifically targeted and its students attacked and abused with religious slurs, we need to assert our identity,” she said. “As a Muslim, when you protest against the government or the Sangh parivar, you are asked to go to Pakistan. We heard these slurs while being hit by the cops. Being vocal against targeted communal violence is the first step.” She added: “Jamia doesn’t have a students’ union, perhaps because the powers that be do not want an outspoken leadership of Muslims. And that’s why it was all the more important for us to do our duty as a privileged class that has received higher education and speak out against injustice.” A student leader who was active during the 2016 JNU movement played down the possibility of Delhi campuses holding too many lessons for Bengal’s students, saying the protests in the capital were overhyped. “It’s naive optimism to think that students are the epicentre of change. Our impact was overestimated,” said the former student who now works as a researcher elsewhere and did not want to be named. However, the former JNU student said Bengal might become the “new epicentre of the student movement” if the state’s students have to face a more hostile government than the ones they have experienced so far. “Bengal’s campuses are unlikely to give in without a fight,” the former student said. Bikramaditya Choudhary, who was the JNU teachers’ association secretary during the 2016 arrests, said the defence of academic freedom cannot be an isolated one. “The problem is not with the university per se but (with the authorities’ attitude towards) the larger democratic principles such as the functioning of institutions and discussions, and (their tendency to take) every word of criticism as a personal insult,” he said. “A fight for the freedom of speech is not just a fight for one university but reflects respect for every voice across the country. JNU did not speak out at the volume required when school education was destroyed (with thousands of state government schools closed down across the country over the past decade or so). When the assault on higher education came, it (JNU) woke up.” Majid Jamil, president of the teachers’ association at Jamia, said that good relations with the university administration and not being linked to any political party had helped the teachers take up the cause of the brutalised students more effectively. “But today an atmosphere exists where we feel the presence of the Sangh parivar even within Jamia. It’s getting harder to get approvals (within the teachers’ body) even to express solidarity with the farmers’ movement,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Resistors of CAA are back to fight fascist forces||Salman Rushdie finds “hope in the determination of India’s women and college students to resist” sectarianism and “dismiss the darkness”. Since Parliament passed the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act on December 11, 2019, protests led by the young and the women have been held across the country. Calcutta emerged as one of the epicentres of that rallying cry against the new citizenship thrust. The Telegraph tracks the journey of some of the protesters who had been at the forefront of the movement a year ago and whose struggles have found their way into the electoral battle of Bengal. Many of them are back to doing their bit in resisting an “autocratic and majoritarian regime”. Here’s how On March 16, 2021, Sabyasachi turned 23. March 16 was also the second day of a two-day nationwide strike called by an umbrella body of nine bank unions to condemn the Centre’s proposal to privatise public sector banks. The birthday boy spent the first half of the day in front of a government bank in the Dalhousie area, where students, rights activists and self-help group members joined bank officers to protest against a common adversary — the “anti-people” central government. At the demonstration, Sabyasachi represented “No Vote to BJP”, a campaign that aims to “warn” people about the “dangers” posed by the Right-wing ecosystem. In the afternoon, Sabyasachi joined hundreds of other people in front of the Indian Coffee House at College Street. A street-corner meeting was held in protest against the alleged defacing of “No Vote to BJP” posters by party supporters at the Coffee House the day before. Later in the evening, Sabyasachi’s friends arranged for a cake, which he cut at the Coffee House. “Resisting fascist forces is much more important than celebrating my birthday. The BJP sees Bengal as its final frontier. But we will do everything that we can to resist them from conquering Bengal,” Sabyasachi told this newspaper. Sabyasachi, a chemistry graduate from Dinabandhu Andrews College, is gearing up for a three-year LLB course. He is inspired by Sudha Bharadwaj, a lawyer and rights activist who has been in custody since her arrest in the Bhima Koregaon case in 2018. “I want to build a lawyers’ collective that will stand against oppressors. The way activists are being hounded in our country does not befit a democracy,” he said. Sabyasachi grew up in Burdwan and studied at the Burdwan Municipality High School. “My classmates came from different religious backgrounds. We grew up together. But post-2014 (when the Narendra Modi government came to power), many of them have been behaving strangely. They keep sharing communal posts on social media,” said Sabyasachi. He was “driven out” of a WhatsApp group of friends because of his criticism of the Modi government in the wake of demonetisation. “There comes a time when you can no longer be neutral. You have to pick a side. I have picked mine,” he said. Majumder is part of Janaganamana, an organisation formed by a group of theatre workers in 2019 to help marginalised people. Members of the troupe had visited villages in Malda and Murshidabad flooded by water released from the Farakka barrage. The villages are flooded almost every year. The controversy around the CAA triggered a new fear. Most of the families the group interacted with said their documents had been swept away, along with other belongings. “They never thought that not preserving, or not having, some document could make them termites and infiltrators in their own country. That was the time we decided to protest against the CAA-NRC-NPR in our own way — through songs and skits,” said Majumder, 36, a resident of New Barrackpore. A series of songs by the group — most of them tweaks of popular Bengali numbers — had become a hit in the rallies against the citizenship thrust last year. “Batashe bohichhe bish, bukete lagilo chot, raja je kohilo heshe NRC eshe gechhe (The air is filled with poison, the heart wounded. The king says smilingly that NRC is here),” said one song. The troupe members spent the lockdown months preparing a new play called Idurkol (rat trap). “The play has a message. If your neighbour is in trouble but you are not bothered because you think it is not your problem, think again. Tomorrow, you might be in the same trouble and there will be no one to help you,” said Majumder. On March 27, the troupe members were allegedly attacked by BJP supporters while staging the play at Basanti in South 24 Parganas. “I think the CAA-NRC-NPR is a ploy to turn citizens into cheap labourers. Protesting against discrimination is not unusual, sitting idle is,” said Majumder. Roy is one of the founders of the No NRC movement, a joint platform of 21 organisations that had been campaigning vigorously against the citizenship thrust. From August 2020, Roy and her colleagues have been touring districts to make people aware of the “discriminatory nature” of the new citizenship matrix. “We have been organising workshops, many of them focused on women,” said Roy, who lives and runs a clinic at Tagore Park near the Ruby intersection. In January, Roy visited Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas, a Matua bastion where a section of the residents is said to be in favour of the CAA. “Why do you want citizenship when you are already citizens? You have voter cards, ration cards. The moment you seek citizenship, you admit you are not one,” Roy, 48, told the audience. At a tribal village in Bankura, Roy warned residents, most of who do not have documents, that “big corporates have been eying your land, which is rich in minerals”. She told them that they were the original inhabitants of the country, having resided on this land for centuries. While campaigning against the CAA-NRC-NPR combine, Roy realised how fissures were created in everyday lives by communal forces. In a slum area in Tangra, she had come across a middle-aged woman who had been deserted by her husband. The woman worked as an ayah to make ends meet. The contractor who gave her work is an active member of a political party. He is said to have promised the woman a decent living space in return for her support for his party. “Where would the space come from?” the woman asked the contractor. He said the “Bangladeshis will be driven out very soon and their homes would be free for local people”. Nousheen, who teaches political science at a city college, was among a handful of women who started the demonstration against the citizenship matrix at the Park Circus Maidan on January 7. By the time the pandemic forced the organisers to call off the siege on March 23, the protests, led by women, had become a mini Shaheen Bagh, inspiring similar demonstrations at several parts of Calcutta. Confined, Nousheen started a virtual campaign called “I resist from home”. She engaged in virtual conversations with many people — from Bengal to Kashmir and Uttar Pradesh — to call out the “majoritarian and autocratic nature” of the BJP regime. “The passage of the CAA was the turning point in my life. It marked a paradigm shift in the politics of the country. At the same time, I was also overwhelmed to see women lead a mass movement. It was a moment of liberation for many Muslim women. The protests needed to continue, even if not in the physical form,” Nousheen told this newspaper. During the sessions, Nousheen showed her home, decked up with anti-CAA posters, and encouraged others to do the same. A Kashmir-based activist spoke of “a perpetual lockdown in the Valley because of the Internet siege and stifling of the slightest hint of dissent”. From January 3 this year, Nousheen started another sit-in protest against the farm laws along with representatives of the Sikh community near the intersection of Chakraberia Road and Sarat Bose Road. The sit-in lasted for over two weeks. “The BJP regime gives one reason after another for people to rise in protest. The CAA, the labour and farm laws, the crackdown on students — all of these are different manifestations of the government’s fascist nature,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||I respect Mamata as a woman, says Rajnath ||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Tuesday said he respected chief minister Mamata Banerjee even though she belonged to his rival camp, a comment which was in sharp contrast to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s controversial “Didi O Didi” jibe at poll rallies. Speaking at a public meeting at Swarupnagar in North 24-Parganas in support of BJP candidate Brindavan Sarkar, Singh said: “You are a chief minister, you too are an institution. I have never spoken foul language against you. You may belong to a rival party, but I have always respected you a lot.” “You are a woman and deserve respect. Respecting women is the tradition of India,” he added, while urging BJP supporters to respect women as an incarnation of “power”. “I respect women and will never tolerate any insult to the woman community,” he added. The defence minister, however, criticised Mamata for alleged corruption and nepotism. “I oppose you because your party has cheated and deprived people of their rights…but never used any bad language,” he added. Singh, however, said he expected that Mamata would also reciprocate the same gesture whenever she spoke. “Using foul terms like Dushasana against the Prime Minister does not suit a chief minister.” He urged Mamata to avoid using slanderous words against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The Prime Minister is an institution, not an individual. You too are an institution …Using foul language does not suit a leader,” he added. On Monday, Mamata had accused Modi of mocking her with “Didi, O Didi” chants and termed it as disrespectful to women. She alleged the way Modi had been mocking her was “below the standard” and did not suit a Prime Minister. She also said the Prime Minister should speak in a dignified language, behave properly and respect women. “But the way he is taunting and mocking me is a matter of shame,” she said. A Trinamul leader in North 24-Parganas praised Singh for his comments. “Ideologically, as a BJP leader, Rajnath is no different than Narendra Modi. But he marked his difference in culture by showing respect to the chief minister who is a woman,” the leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Covid vaccination overdrive plan in Calcutta||The Bengal government has decided to undertake a week-long vaccination drive from April 16 in Calcutta following a sudden spurt in Covid-19 positive cases in the city. “We have decided to start the vaccination drive in coordination with the CMC (Calcutta Municipal Corporation) to send a message to people at large that vaccines are safe and it is required to prevent the spread of the virus. We will try to administer vaccines to 35,000 to 40,000 people everyday in the city during this period,” said a senior health department official. According to sources, right now, about 25,000 people are inoculated every day in the city while the figure is about 2.5 lakh to 3 lakh in the state everyday. Before launching the drive, the state government has ensured a steady supply of vaccines in the state. A source said, because of irregularity in supply of vaccines for the past few days, the number of jabs could not cross 2.5 lakh on Monday. “The chief secretary has written to the Union health secretary urging him to keep a steady supply of vaccines in the state as Bengal is one of the few states where wastage of vaccines is almost nil and coverage is very high,” said an official. After about 4 lakh Covishield vaccines were supplied on Monday, the state received 2 lakh Covaxin vaccines on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the state would get another 3 lakh doses of Covaxin. “The state has been assured that there will be a steady supply of vaccines. After securing the assurance, the plan to take up the vaccination drive in Calcutta has been framed,” said another official. According to the plan, all eligible people would be given vaccines from the health units of all 144 wards of the CMC. “People can visit the health units with valid documents like Aadhaar and register their names. They will be given vaccines on the same day. The walk-in mode would be initiated to ensure that a maximum number of people can be covered during the period,” said a source. The plan to start the vaccination drive in Calcutta was initiated considering that about 1,200 cases were being reported from the city everyday and elections were being held in the city. “The vaccination drive would also help generate awareness among the people. This is the need of the hour, particularly when no restrictions could be imposed in the city as elections are yet to be completed here,” said another official. The state government also urged large housing complexes to arrange on-site vaccination programmes as this was allowed by the Centre recently. “Housing complexes can contact private hospitals or the health department if they can arrange at least 100 eligible persons willing to get the jabs,” said an official. The chief secretary, Alapan Bandyopadhyay, on Tuesday held a meeting with all chambers of commerce in the city at Nabanna where the state government urged them to ensure that private companies followed the Covid-19 protocols. “Maintaining physical distancing, sanitisation of offices, staggered attendance of employees, encouraging employees to work from home and taking initiatives to conduct on-site vaccination programmes are the few initiatives the private companies take to prevent the spread of the virus,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Bar on Mamata campaign should have been longer, says Dilip ||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh said on Tuesday that the Election Commission should have banned chief minister Mamata Banerjee from campaigning for longer duration “given the way she is fanning communal sentiments”. On Monday, the EC had banned the chief minister from the campaign for 24 hours for her call to minorities not to divide their votes and women to gherao central force personnel if they created problems during polls. Ghosh claimed on Tuesday that the EC had taken the action in cognisance of his complaint. “I am the one who complained to them... But they should have banned her for longer given the way she is fanning communal sentiments,” he said at a media interaction in Behrampore on Tuesday morning. “She is the cause for the deaths in Sitalkuchi because she has blatantly been disregarding the EC and central forces. So naturally, people will follow in her stead,” Ghosh said. A group of BJP workers taking part in a road show led by Dilip Ghosh allegedly ransacked a Trinamul Congress office at Rashikpur in Burdwan town on Tuesday evening. Sources said Ghosh was leading the road show on the 2km-stretch from Power House More to Curzon Gate on Tuesday evening. When the road show reached Rashikpur, a group of BJP workers was involved in an altercation with Trinamul supporters. “They suddenly ransacked our office with bamboo sticks as police stood mute spectators. They hurled hundreds of brickbats at our office without any provocation,” said Abdur Rob, a Trinamul district secretary in East Burdwan. But a senior BJP leader said the attack was the result of instigation by Trinamul workers. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Dilip Ghosh gets notice, Rahul Sinha ban||The Election Commission on Tuesday issued a notice to Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and banned the party’s Habra candidate Rahul Sinha from campaigning for 48 hours for their inflammatory remarks in support of the CISF firing in Cooch Behar’s Sitalkuchi on Saturday that had killed four voters. The action took place on Sushil Chandra’s first day as the Chief Election Commissioner. Sinha had not been given notice to defend himself. However, another BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari — who contested against Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram — was let off with a warning for his communal remarks. On Monday, Mamata was banned from campaigning for a day for her calls to minorities not to divide their votes and to women to gherao central force personnel if they intimidated them. Monday was the last day of Chandra’s predecessor Sunil Arora in office. The order to Adhikari was yet to be uploaded on the EC’s website when this report was filed, while Tuesday’s orders to Ghosh and Sinha have already come up. A top EC official told this paper that he would check why the Adhikari order had not been uploaded. The official added: “The nature of violation, the reply of the candidate, the frequency of statement, as well as gravity of the statement was considered. Only after ascertaining various factors, the decision is taken by the Commission in the most objective and neutral manner.” In a speech telecast on a private Bengali news channel on Monday, Sinha was quoted by the EC saying: “....The central forces should have killed eight persons instead of four in Sitalkuchi. The central forces should be issued a showcause notice as to why they have killed only four of them.” The EC found Sinha’s remarks violative of the Model Code of Conduct and various provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Indian Penal Code. Sinha has been banned from campaigning for the next 48 hours commencing from noon on Tuesday. Ghosh was sent a notice for his speech in Baranagar on Sunday, on a complaint of Trinamul Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’ Brien. The EC quoted him saying: “Those naughty boys were shot at yesterday (Saturday) in Sitalkuchi. These naughty boys will not be there in Bengal This is just the beginning... There will be Sitalkuchi in several places.” The EC found Ghosh’s speech violated the same sections as Sinha’s speech and asked him to respond by 10am on Wednesday. The panel is yet to respond to CPIML-Liberation politburo member Kavita Krishnan’s complaint that included Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP’s Bengal general secretary Sayantan Basu’s provocative remarks over the killings. Adhikari had been served a notice for his speech on April 3 saying that “if you vote for Begum (referring to Mamata) there will be mini-Pakistan”. The EC said in its order on Monday that Adhikari had denied the charges and claimed “he will be more careful in future...” The Birbhum district magistrate and district election officer, Deviprasad Karanam, on Tuesday showcaused Trinamul’s Birbhum president Anubrata Mondal for his speech to drive out BJP workers by beating them up. Mondal — who is known for his inflammatory speeches — had recently asked Trinamul workers whether they could drive BJP activists out of the boundary by beating them up. Sources said Mondal had been showcaused after a complaint had been lodged against him through the commission’s online portal. The complainant said such remarks would increase violence in the district. “We have served a showcause on Mondal and given him 24 hours to reply following a complaint lodged by a person with us,” said Karanam, the district magistrate. Mondal did not respond to several phone calls made by The Telegraph but a senior Trinamul leader said he would answer to the notice of commission properly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Sitalkuchi: Autopsy reports say bullets hit chests, say cops ||The four youths of Jorpatki village, who died in a firing by CISF jawans posted at Amtali MSK (booth number 5/126), had bullet wounds in their upper torso, a source in district police said on Tuesday quoting post-mortem reports. “They were hit by bullets in their neck and chest. I don’t know the other details like how many bullets had hit each one of them,” said the source. After the incident on Saturday, Trinamul supremo Mamata Banerjee had claimed that the central forces had fired at the youths to kill and not to injure them. On Sunday morning, as she spoke with the families through video calling, the chief minister had shown some photographs claiming them to be those of the deceased and said the central forces had fired to kill them. “I have seen the gory photos of their bodies and it’s clear from the pictures that the bullets hit their chest and neck.. It is evident that the CISF men did not fire at their legs, as is the usual practice, but had fired to kill them,” she had said. On Monday, Abdul Gani, a local panchayat member who also filed a complaint at Mathabhanga police station over the incident, had also made a similar claim. He had mentioned how a CISF man had shot Samiul Haque, one of the deceased, as he tried to dissuade the former from beating Sahidul, his brother. The delay on the part of the police to hand over the post mortem reports left the families and their neighbours disgruntled. Once again, they asked the Election Commission and the administration what steps had been taken against the CISF men after the incident that claimed four lives. The villagers mentioned that unlike another incident — the death of Ananda Burman, another youth who died at another booth (5/285), also under Sitalkuchi Assembly seat, as he was hit by bullet during a clash among Trinamul and BJP supporters — none of the CISF men who opened fire in their place have been taken into custody. “In the other case, the police acted proactively and have arrested the principal accused, who had purportedly fired at the youth. But in our case, we have not heard about arrest or detention of any of the CISF men or seizure of their firearms. Such differences have made us ponder as to whether both the incidents are being treated with equal importance and in a neutral manner,” said Ershad Hossain, a resident of Jorpatki. So far, officers of Mathabhanga police station have been to the village and have spoken with some of the injured persons. “We don’t have any information that they have spoken with the families…. We really don’t know where the investigation is heading to,” said Haider Ali Mian, the brother of Hamidul, who has also lost his life in the firing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Only Mamata can give justice, says Sitalkuchi victims’ kin ||The bereaved families of four CISF firing victims at Jorpatki village in Cooch Behar district have said only the chief minister could give them justice as they are eagerly waiting to meet Mamata Banerjee at Mathabhanga on Wednesday. Mamata will reach Mathabhanga on Wednesday morning and meet the families at a ground next to the subdivisional hospital at the town, 20km from the village. “It seems the Election Commission has forgotten us.... Only Didi can give us justice,” Jobed Ali, the father of Nur Alam Mian — one of the four deceased youths — said on Tuesday evening as local Trinamul Congress leaders were busy making arrangements so that representatives of the deceased families could reach Mathabhanga. “We have collected five names from each families and submitted the same to police and other agencies concerned. Tomorrow, all arrangements would be made for them so that they do not face any inconvenience,” said Alizar Rehman, a Trinamul leader in Mathabhanga. After the firing outside a polling booth at Jorpatki in the Sitalkuchi Assembly segment on Saturday, Mamata had announced that she would reach the village the very following day. However, the Election Commission issued a 72-hour ban on the entry of political leaders in Cooch Behar. The ban ended on Tuesday. Jobed Ali said Mamata was their only hope. “She reacted immediately after our sons were gunned down by the central forces and vowed to stand by us. She has also promised to a CID investigation and we believe it is only Mamata Banerjee who can help us get justice. We will meet and urge her to see that justice is delivered to us,” said Ali, who is yet to recover from the shock. The aggrieved residents also pointed out that none from the BJP had spent a word for them so far. “Instead, some BJP leaders came up with intemperate remarks which have only hurt us. Aren’t we residents of this state and country? Considering the present situation, we can only depend on Mamata who had risen on such occasions earlier,” said Sahidul Haque, the brother of Samiul who lost his life in the firing. Family members of Ananda Burman, a youth from Pathakuli, another village in Sitalkuchi, who died after suffering bullet injuries, were brought to the district BJP office in Cooch Behar on Tuesday. Burman had suffered the gunshots during a clash between Trinamul and BJP supporters near his booth on Saturday. Jagadish Burman, Ananda’s father, trained guns at Trinamul and said his son had been killed purposefully. “He did not die by accident. Ahead of the elections, we were threatened time and again by a section of Trinamul supporters. As my son went out to vote, they killed him,” said Jagadish. He said in the past couple of days, some Trinamul leaders had contacted them and wanted to take them to Mathabhanga so that they could meet Mamata. “We will not meet her…. we will not take any assistance from the state either,” the father added. Malati Rava, the district BJP president, said the party was with the family. “We have provided them with some assistance. Our party will extend all possible help to them so that they can fight the legal battle to get justice for their son’s death,” she said. Such moves by Trinamul and the BJP hint that both sides are trying to drum up support by highlighting the incidents which claimed five lives, opined observers. “It is evident that both the parties want to galvanize support as elections would be held in four more phases by referring to the incidents. Also, they are desperate to prove that they are with the affected families by playing cards in their own way,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Shah iterates promises, but hills raise doubts||On a sunny Tuesday afternoon in Darjeeling, there was a heavy downpour of electoral promises from Union home minister Amit Shah but many have complained about the poor track record of the BJP in fulfilling its assurances for Gorkhas. Shah sounded well versed with the problems of the Darjeeling hills and his speech touched on a range of issues, right from the NRC to civic amenities of Darjeeling town. “Give your mandate to Narendra Modi, all of Darjeeling’s problems will be solved within five years,” Shah assured the hill people at Gorkha Stadium in Lebong, Darjeeling. The Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, which had been with the BJP for 12 years but dumped the party recently to join hands with the Trianmul Congress, has been repeating that the BJP is not interested in solving issues of the hill people. Gurung said that was the primary reason behind him severing ties with the BJP. The BJP had mentioned two issues in its 2019 Lok Sabha election, “a permanent political solution” and granting tribal status to 11 hill communities. Shah, who had skipped talking on the core issue of “permanent political solution” at his road show in Kalimpong on Monday, did speak about it at Lebong. “Our Constitution is vast and there is a solution to all problems,” Shah said, while referring to the “permanent political solution”. The BJP leader also made a commitment to grant tribal status to the 11 communities. Apart from these two core issues, Shah promised to start “withdrawing (statehood agitation) cases within one week of coming to power.” This promise, many observers believe, is probably an attempt to get Gorkhaland activists on his side. The Mamata Banerjee government has already started withdrawing cases related to the Gorkhaland movement. Shah also reiterated that Gorkhas would not be displaced by the NRC. For the past few days, the BJP has been trying to drive home the point that even if the NRC is implemented in the state, Gorkhas will not face any problem. The assurance has, however, drawn flak from the community, particularly because over one lakh Gorkhas in the neighbouring state of Assam have not made it to the NRC. “The NRC has not been implemented in Bengal…. Some people are spreading lies. Even if it is implemented, not a single Gorkha needs to be bothered about it,” Shah said. In the course of his speech, the Union home minister promised land rights to tea garden workers within six months of the BJP coming to power in Bengal, a Rs 600 crore package to solve Darjeeling’s drinking water crisis, upgrade of Darjeeling municipality into a corporation, subsidised loan up to Rs 50 lakh to homestay owners, along with a threeyear tax exemption, a Gorkha TV channel and a central university in north Bengal. He also promised that the BJP government in the state would turn the cinchona plantation into a medicinal hub, conduct panchayat elections (in the hills) within six months of coming to power, make Darjeeling an educational hub and introduce Buddhist, Queens of Hills and Rajbanshi tourism circuits. Shah said the BJP government would discard the present Gorkhaland Territorial Administration. The panchayat elections had last been held in the hills in 2000. On hearing Shah’s speech, a voter in Darjeeling said: “To start with, we would be happy if only two issues, permanent political solution and granting tribal status, are first fulfilled.” After the meeting in the hills, Shah spoke at another public meeting in Nagrakata of Jalpaiguri and attended a road show in Islampur, North Dinajpur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-109
14-04-2021||West Bengal||Bengal polls 2021: Rahul Gandhi to begin campaigning in the state||Rahul Gandhi will on Wednesday begin campaigning in Bengal at a time the majority of Congress leaders are said to be praying that Mamata Banerjee succeeds in warding off the stiff challenge posed to her by the BJP. Rahul will address rallies at Matigara-Naxalbari in Darjeeling and Goalpokhar in North Dinajpur. Most Congress leaders view Rahul’s intervention as a mere formality, given that secular forces all over the country don’t want to harm Mamata’s chances. Although many Congress leaders see the Trinamul Congress emerging as a strong contender for leadership in the Opposition camp if she wins a third term, they believe dealing with her is significantly better than the BJP in Bengal. Top Congress functionaries privately admit that the limited involvement of the central leadership in Bengal is a calculated political strategy. It is indisputable that Sonia Gandhi considers Mamata an important ally in the larger battle against Narendra Modi in national politics. Sonia’s bonhomie with the Bengal chief minister had been evident at a meeting to discuss Covid-19 strategy with Opposition leaders earlier this year. A senior Congress office-bearer told The Telegraph: “We certainly don’t want to disturb Mamata at this juncture. We have our differences and our local unit is fighting her but that doesn’t affect the national perspective. Mamata remains a valuable asset for the 2024 battle and you should not be surprised if Rahul’s attack is concentrated on the BJP.” All senior Congress leaders have avoided attacking Mamata in the last couple of months. While most leaders have been critical of the BJP’s polarising tactics in Bengal and the exceptional involvement of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah in the Assembly elections, Former finance minister P. Chidambaram’s tweets a few days ago clearly revealed the Congress’s mind. “The polarisation of society that is taking place in Bengal, thanks to the BJP, is the gravest tragedy that has befallen that state. I cannot believe that the land of Ramakrishna, Vivekananda, Raja Rammohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Rabindranath Tagore, Subhas Chandra Bose, Satyajit Ray and Dr B.C. Roy can fall prey to the virus of communalism. Anyone who claims the legacy of these great leaders — as I proudly do — should shun and fight communalism,” Chidambaram had said. EC ‘bias’ Trinamul leader and former BJP finance minister Yashwant Sinha has said the Election Commission’s impartiality has been compromised. In an article in a news portal, Sinha wrote: “…The words she (Mamata) spoke are far less objectionable than the utterances of the Prime Minister and the Home Minister. What happens when the Prime Minister goes to the neighbouring country of Bangladesh in the midst of elections and visits a shrine and temple of a certain community, returns to India, and openly tells that community in Bengal of his exploits in Bangladesh? Is he not openly and unabashedly asking for their votes on the basis of caste?” Sinha added: “The ‘Jai Sri Ram’ invocation is a purely religious slogan which is freely used in election rallies by the BJP leaders to rouse the masses in order to garner their votes. Does it not amount to inciting religious sentiment?… The Prime Minister and Home Minister openly incite the people to punish the TMC because it is encouraging minority communalism. “Are they not, by making this charge, openly asking the majority community to vote for it? “In the road shows of the Home Minister and other BJP leaders, people dressed as Hindu gods and goddesses can be clearly seen. Is that not asking for votes in the name of a particular religion? Or is it that these people are too high and mighty for the Election Commission to even consider suitable action against them?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-110
